@@682020

txt The diplomatic rather than the military side of the situation was the subject of Sir Edward Grey 's eagerly awaited statement relative to the Balkan situation which he delivered yesterday to a crowded House of Commons . I propose to confine myself , " the British Foreign Secretary said , " to a r  --  sum ? of our diplomatic objects since the war . At the outset We desired that the war should not-spread , and in common with our allies we assured Turkey that if she remained neutral Turkey and Turkey 's territory should not Suffer . This situation was completely changed by the entrance of Turkey into the war , and all obligations on the part of the Allies then ceased . " We and our allies then concentrated upon securing an agreement among tt e Balkan States , and we used all our influence to secure an accord . Unfortunately the feeling in the Balkans .3 not one of union , but of division . It was clear nothing but a decisive , preponderating aavantage for the Allies would have enabled use to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bulgaria ; " We were given to understand in the course of the negotiations that except with regard to Thrace the Central Fow1 ere had offered to Bulgaria more to secure her neutrality than the Allies could in fairness offer . The promises which induced Bulgaria to declare war were given by the Central Powers at I the expense of her neighbors and without any cerrespcnding advantage to them . " We have remained throughout on friendly relations witn Rumania , who has favored the policy of a Balkan union . " It is the policy of bringing about a Balkan war that the sovereigns and Governments of Germany , Austria-Hungary , and Bulgaria  --  the sovereigns and the Governments  --  have succeeded in carrying into effect . We were given to understand that in order to secure a Balkan union there were certain concessions Bulgaria would require , especially in Thrace and Macedonia , " The Allies were ready to do all in their . power to secure these for Bulgaria , but to obtain the consent of Serbia and Greece it was an essential preliminary that Bulgaria take sides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if Bulgaria was to realize her hopes and aspirations she must cooperate in a common cause in which the hopes and aspirations of other neighboring States were engaged . " It will be enough to say that these reasonable . hopes and aspirations were , in the main , founded upon opportunity to peoples of the same race , the same sentiments and the same religion to join themselves to a State under a Government most akin to them . " Sir Edward praised the skill and courage with which Serbia had turned upon her foes and driven them out of her country , as one of the outstanding features of the war . Once again , he said , the crisis was upon Serbia and she was meeting it with the same splendid courage . The entry of Bulgaria made a great difference in the situation and raised the question of treaty obligations between Greece and Serbia . Regarding the attitude of Greece , Sir Edward Grey referred to the statements made by former Premier Venizelos and the new Grecian Premier , M. Zairnis , and said it must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now one . In the long run , he said , they must stand or fall together . ' Through Greek territory alone could assistance be sent to Serbia , and that this - assistance was welcome was sufficiently proved . by the reception accorded the allied troops . Great Britain was givine Serbia ail the help in hor power freely and unconditionally . " In view of the treaty between Greece and Serbia , " continued the Foreign Secretary , " how can there be any other attitude on the part of Greece toward the assistance offered through her to Serbia ? In the steps taken we acted In the closest co-operation with France , and the co-operation of Russian troops is promised as soon as they can be made available . " Serbia is fighting for ner national existence , and with her the struggle is just now intense and acute , but the struggle is one and the issue is one , in whatever theatre of war fighting is taking place . All the Allies are fighting for national existence and for all who are fighting the same issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live not under the shadow of Prussian militarism , which does not observe the ordinary rules of humanity in war , and to leave us free from the menace of oppression . " In the Douse of Lords the Marquis of Crewe made a statement similar to that of the Foreign Secretary and con-cluded : " This attack on Serbia will only make sterner and fiercer the determination of the Allies to carry the war through to a definite victory at whatever cost . Nothing has occurred in any part of the world to weaken that resolution , and we will maintain it . " During the discussion which followed . Viscount Milner suggested the withdrawal of the troops from Gallipoli and their transfer to some other theatre of the war . " How about the enterprise at the Dardanelles ? " he asked . " I should have thought that whatever evils had resulted from the disastrous developments in the Balkans there was at least this advantage , that it might have given us an opportunity which may never recur for withdrawing from an enterprise the successful completion of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admit , reasons known only to his Majesty 's Government why that course should not be Pursued . I do not want to press for those reasons , but when I hear statements that it would be a. terrible thing to abandon our Dardanelles adventure because this would have so bad an effect in Egypt , in India , and upon our Prestige in the East I can not help asking myself whether it will not have a worse effect if we persist in that enterprise and it ends in complete disaster . " Lord Lansdowne , in reply , said it was impossible for any member of the Government to give an undertaking that the troops would continue in the Dardanelles operations or would be withdrawn from them . It would be unto , - triotio and improper , he said. , to force the Government to make a fuller disclosure of the operations in which the country was engaged .                     