@@684201

txt N. ? Owing to a filibuster of the suffrage supporters , the Senate today failed to reach a vote on the Susan B. Anthony Amendment to the Constitution . All day the debate went - on , with the anti-suffrage Senators eagerly awaiting the vote , quite confident that they would be able to win . Toward the end of the day , Senator Wadsworth of New York , an ' ardent opponent of woman suffrage , demanded to know of Senator Jones of New Mexico , Chairman of the Woman Suffrage Committee , if the suffrage advocates were not trying to hold back a vote until Saturday in the hope of mustering enough support to save themselves from defeat . Senator Jones- avoided making a direct reply . Later the Senate abruptly adjourned until tomorrow , when the suffrage fight will come up again . Tonight suffrage leaders in the Senate are hoping for the return to the Capital of Senator Johnson of California and Senator La Follette of Wisconsin , whose votes they need to help put the amendment through . But even with these two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not pass . Senator Martin of Virginia and Senator Underwood of Alabama , Democrats , with Senator Lodge of Massachusetts , and Senator Wadsworth of New York , Re , publicans , who are leading the opposition , confidently claim at least thirtythree Senators will vote against the amendment . If they do , the resolution ig'doomed . The suffrage leaders engaged themselves at intervals during the day in making frantic polls of the Senate . Senators Shaffroth . Democrat , of Colorado , and Smoot , Republican , of Utah sat in a corner of the Senate chamber every hour or so making up a list . But they were never quite able to count the necessary two-third required to adopt the amendment . Drew Surprimes Suffragist* . One shock to the suffrage supporters was the announcement of Senator Drew of New Hampshire , successor to the late Senator Gallinger , that he would vote with the opponents of the resolu4 tion . He had been counted upon to vote - in favor of it Senator Gore of Oklahoma made a hurried trip from ' the West to . vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bitter anti-suffragist , spread gloom among the suffragists by appearing at the Capitol for the first time in weeks . The energetic suffrage leaders kept the telephone and telegraph wires activo curing the day trying to get supporters back to the capital . While all this was going on , the foes of the measure sat back , calmly awaiting the vote that never came . As the situation stands to-night , the anti-suffrage leaders believe that , if the vote is taken on Saturday , the amendment will be defeated . The suffrage proponents , however , Insist that when their full strength is in the Senate they will have the master hand . Pressure from the White House . it was said ton18ht , might be sought to win over recalcitrant Democrats . The .... enate galleries were jammed throughout the day by women , the majority ti ; whom were suffragists . They brought . their luncheon and knitting with them . The suffragists were North , I say you do not quite understand what it means when you vote to give the franchise to the negro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negro question in this country is going to be one of the most difficult ones . You will have colored soldiers coming from Prance , where they have been fighting and you will want them to have the vote . v Column 2 . " Either you hybridize the South or you must maintain a system such as we have there now . The facts must be plainly stated and squarely faced . It is in the hysteria of war that this suffrage amendment has been forced upon us . In other times it would be quickly voted down . Now men are afraid to do it . " The Georgian insisted that States ' rights would be trampled by giving the suffrage to colored women of the South . The privilege of States defining what are to be the qualifications of voters for State or municipal offices , he said , ought not be taken away . Senator Shaffroth interrupted to say that the Democratic Party had not pledged itself to oppose Niuoman suffrage . Senator Hardwick ( thereupon read from the platforms of both parties to show , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conic out unequivocally for States ' rights . " Senator Hardwick declared that , " no matter if the President himself has abandoned the pledge of the Democratic Party . I will not do it myself . " Senator Frelinghuysen , Republican of New Jersey , in announcing himself in favor of the amendment , said that it had been unfortunately phrased . " While I shall vote for it , I want to say that , as drawn , it is a sinister menace to the country . " said the New Jersey Senator . " It violates our naturalization laws . " If adopted as phrased , the Senator said , the amendment would automatically naturalize any alien who married an American citizen . He offered an amendment to provide that " no person , male or female , shall exercise the suffrage unless he or she has acquired citizenship by birth or the naturalization laws . " Senator Pornerole , Democrat ' , of Ohio , said he would vote against the suffrage amendment because the people of his State had voted against giving the franchise to women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " unalterably oosed to having the suffrage question settled by Federal legislation . " Senator Fletcher , Democrat , of Florclustered in galleries by themselves and were easily distinguished by the yellow colors they wore , while the antisuffragists sat in opposite galleries , wearing their red badges . The debate ran along for five hours . It started when Senator Jones called up the amendment , the same one , as to phraseology , that was drawn up by Miss Susan B. Anthony in 1875 . It reads : " The right of citizens of the ' Unitea States to vote shall not be denied ei abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex . " This amendment was adopted by the House of Representatives on . Tan . 10 of this year and has been in the Senate ever since . The debate was focused chiefly upon an amendment to insert the ' word " white " before the word " citizens . " This was offered by Senator John Sharp Williams of Mississippi , to prevent colored women from voting in the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico charged that two amendment had been offered to block a vote . Race Question Raised . Senator Vardaman of Mississippi took the floor at once , to support the Williams amendment . While he favored the vote to women , the Mississippian said . he knew " only too well , " the danger there would come in the South if negro women obtained suffrage . Senator Vardaman deprecated what he called " the timidity of white men of the South to make a political issue of the negro question in suffrage . " However , he said , he would vote for the Susan B. Anthony amendment , regardless of whether the franchise was to go to the colored women . Senator McCumber . ? Republican , of North Dakota , said that in view of the fact his State had gone on record for suffrage for women , he would yield his vote , even though he opposed lt . Senator Hardwick of Georgia spoke earnestly for the Williams amendment . lie said the South had one difficult problem with its negro vote and did not want it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South . " said Senator Ha rdwick . " With all clue deference to the men of the ida , was opposed to the amendment , he said , because it was " all against the spirit of the Constitution , " in guaranteeing State 's rights . The Florida Senator offered a substitute reading " the right of citizens of . the United States to vote shall not be abridged by the United States on account of sex . " That , he said , would preserve the right of the States to determine the suffrage qualifications of its voters . " And that , " he said , " is as far as I will go . " Senators of Tennessee , Wilfley. of Missouri , and Thompson of Kansas , Democrats , all supported the amendment . Votes on the amendments offered by Senators Williams and Fletcher will be taken either tomorrow or Saturday .                     