@@680151

txt . FOOL . diasi-r , EMPIRE IN GERMANY- I The advancing cost of food of all sorts in Germany may lead to marked changes in the tariff policy of that country in the near ' future , and may deeply affect the politics of the empire . The tariff policy is at present dictated by the Agrarian Party , which includes at once the landowners and most of the nobility , holds many of the chief offices , and has been the main reliance of the Kaiser and his Ministers . Heretofore , by ingenious combinations , and by appeals from time to time to the military and patriotic sentiment ot the country , the Government has been able to keep control in the Reichstag without any serious concession of the privileges enjoyed by the Agrarians . But this process has become increasingly difficult , until in the present session Herr BEBEL , the leader of the Social-Democrat Opposition , came within a very few votes of an election to the Presidency of the body . The Social Democrats are far more democratic than socialistic . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the working class , and they have steadily increased their strength until now their representatives are 110 , the most numerous single group in the National Assembly . Inevitably they feel most keenly the rise in the cost of living , and they charge the greater part of it , quite justly . to the fines placed on the importation of food products for the , profit of the landowners . But the acute discontent with the selfish , exactions- of the Agrarians is not confined to the laboring class . It is shared more and more by the industrial employers , to whom high cost of living means in the long run higher cost of labor , higher cost of production , and a progressive disadvantage in foreign markets as against their chief competitors , the English . This feeling lies at the base of the as yet loosely organized " Hansa Bund , " formed to promote the interests of the export trade in the great shipping centres of the old Hanseatic League . As the body of German exports is made up of manufactures , the fetters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exporters . The policy of the Agrarians and of the Government that depends on them has been , so far as possible , to keep the tariff issue out of imperial politics . To do this , they have , as we have intimated , made periodic appeals to the patriotic and military spirit of the people , We do not wish to intimate that In these appeals they have been . insincere , still less that the response of the German people has not been sincere ; but the fact remains that the effect of this policy has been to keep the Agrarians in practical control and to occupy the Reichstag with matters other than the tariff and its mischievous effects . The rise in the cost of living , in its influence , on the working class , the industrials , and the shipping interests is , however , making this ' task harder and harder . The irresponsibility of the Ministers to the Parliament has been practically indispensable to the success of the Government and the Agrarians thus far . It is still more nearly so mow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the Reichstag being elected by manhood suffrage , that body is the only one in which the democratic Opposition can show its growing strength . This strength will steadily be directed toward the gradual introduction of the principle of Ministerial responsibility to the representative body . It will , in some degree , and probably progressively , be reinforced by the support of . the industrials . If we judge by the past , not only of Germany , but of all Europe , the democratic tendency will in the end prevail                     