@@682463

txt The great modification in the regulations of martial law gave the people of Dublin today a freedom of movement strongly contrasting with the restrictions imposed since the rebellion . All may now come and go as they wish between the hours of 4 in the morning and midnight . During the remaining four hours they must keep within doors . It is generally understood that Premier Asquith is responsitle for this relaxation . The Premier 's study of conditions and the sentiments of the people apparently convinced him that there was no great element of rebellious spirit remaining . Mr. Asquith 's chief occupation since his arrival in Dublin has consisted in seeking a method for the adjustment of the Irish crisis and in ascertaining whether it would be advisable to return to the former system of government or adopt a change of rule more In accordance with the wishes of the people . The Premier has also given some attention to minor factors , these having to do with the disposal of the remaining rebel prisoners and compensation for the material damage done in Dublin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Asquith had an opportunity to see and question a number of rebels in the detention barracks , and today again visited the ruins of the buildings destroyed in various sections of the city . The Information he thus obtained may be of great service to him when the subject is brought before the Cabinet on his return to London , which is expected at an early date . " Is Ireland 's salvation to be the outcome of the recent blood-letting ? " is the question occupying the thoughts of most Irishmen today . Nationalist and Unionist circles animatedly discussed tentative suggestions respecting the future government of the country , with hope . hut without certainty , that a change for the better would be brought about . Mr. Asquith 's presence here has lent color to the belief that the Prime Minister had some project In mind and that his study of conditions on the spot would help him formulate a definite plan to place before Parliament . The view widely prevails that Mr. Asquith will propose to Incorporate the Nationalist and Unionist forces of armed volunteers into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the admittedly perilous ' problem of disarming everybody in Ireland not belonging to recognized military organizations . At the same time , the opinion grows apace in favor of a real Irish executive council , formed of Irishmen entirely conversant with the people and their aspirations and needs . All the newspapers , whatever their politics , express the desire that the best should be made out of the situation , and call for concessions by the extremists of both sides , who , they declare , do not represent the true feelings of the Irish people . ? The vast majority of Irishmen , in conversing on the present condition , avoid any wild talk and appear anxious to appease the differences existing between the various parties by agreeing on any plan which offers a fair chance of a ' stable government in which all could have confidence . Deep sorrow prevails among the people ? of Dublin , many of whom lost relatives either among the rebels or troops during the fighting , or among the civilians who suffered death from stray shots . Many reports are current concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as can be learned these appear to have arisen from exaggerated stories passing from mouth to mouth .                     