@@684551

txt The resuryptieg.iof work in the mills of several cities of New England marks the teribination of a group of labor troubles , : ; Including the strike that has disturbed Lawrence since February , The , workers get both shorter hours affil higher pay , and gel their by agreement -- with- the - employers in all good-will except in Lawrence . There , there was a strike which for a time threatened to take the course of the strike there in 1912 . In that year the I. W. W. directed events , and there were riots and killings on a lamentable scale . This year , too , there were disorders , but the authorities had learned their lesson as well as the strikers , or rather better . As in Seattle , It was seen in time that the preservation of order is more important than the winning of any strike , and order was maintained as ruthlessly . . as it was . assailed by those who care more for the overthrow of government than for the we7fare of labor . Since 1912 sentiment in Lawrence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strikers as there was in that year . Neither was theLawrence strike supported by any melon in good standing . The United Textile Workers called the strike , but disavo4ed it when it took the form of an attack on . American institutions , and the American Federation of Labor joined in the disavowal . The collapse of the strike , therefore , is a triumph for the good sort of unionism as well as a defeat for the bad sort . The cause of the strike was that the Lawrence mills refused to concede the demand for a forty-eight-hour week with fifty-four hours ' pay . The shorter hours were conceded readily enough , for the cancellatien of war orders , and the lack of civilian orders , had left half the machinery without anything to do . The manufacturea4 explained this , and the workers did not even ask for the increased pay at first . Only in Lawrence : was this position taken under the stimulation of outside agitators . Some of them were characterized by one of the Lawrence Judges in a disorder case as - " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of several denominations , and an actor in religious as well as labor troubles . And there was an irruption of " sociologists , " eager to distribute prosperity with other - people 's property , The disorders became so serious - that the Massachusetts Board of Conciliation made an inquiry into the situation , and reported that the strike was subversive of the rights of individuals and of private property , and ? Tyelutionary in tendencies , creating tel. - rorism , preventing the resumption of work , disturbing the ordinary business relations of the community , and destructive to orderly government . A strike of that sort deserves to fail , for it is rather a political than a labor strike . The failure is worth insisting upon , for two reasons , Firstly , the lesson is that when strikes are of that sort they should be met with firmness rather than sympathy ; for the general interest suffers more than labor can profit . And , secondly , the result of this strike should teach labor that it can gain more by peaceful than by forceful methods . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under the conditions . of that time , it is now possible , , under better business conditions , to'give freely to Dover , Lowell , Fall River , New Bedford , and , in . fact , the whole industry of New England . The I. ' W. W. will be weakened and the American Federation of Labor will he strengthened by the failure of the attempt to set unionists against ' both other unionists and capital . The moral is , as OLE HANSON says , , that " labor will form qwq that the I. W. W. hated GO3iPERS more than it hates him . The Seattle and Lawrence precedents of how to meet strikes against community interests may be commended to Canadian observation , where the method of conciliation which is such a credit to the goodwill of the Canadian Government seems to be useless . Unemployment is the- greatest danger of the world under present conditions , and there is too much of it here , where . there is least excuse for it . According to the report of . the New York Industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,519,884 days , forty-eight centuries , of strike idleness . It is easier to say what labor lost than what labor gained by it , and it is agreeable to add that the latest reports are the most reassuring that such danger is no longer to be feared . Ihe decline in number of workers , according to the commission , has been " halted , " and the volume of employment is now 45 per cent . above the pre-war level .                     