@@679492

txt News from both the , City of Mexico and Ague . Prieta to-day brought decided relief to President Taft and the Administration over the Mexican situation , although it is recognized that the relief may be of only a temporary character . The State Department received from Ambassador ? Wilson a. dispatch saying that President Diaz , in response to the representations which had been made to him by direction of this Government , had definitely promised a distinct restrictive policy hereafter for the zone of hostilities along the international border . The promise of President Diaz both recognized the obligation of the Mexican Government regarding such a situation as that at Agua Prieta and furnished ground for hoping that there ' would be no recurrence of - it . It establishes in advance the justice of the claims that are sure to come up for reparation for those Americans in Douglas . Ariz. , who have been damaged in person or property by the fighting around Agua Prieta . It also offers a reason for hoping that there will be no ? similar situation at Juarez , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tho character of the assurances Prom PPresidentDiaz led to the suggestion at e State Department this afternoon that a way out of similar trouble hereafter . might be found in the establishment of a reutral zone of five or ten miles , in width from the . international boundary . There seems to be no doubt that the Mexican Government will be willing to enter Into such an agreement , but the question is whither the insurgents can be persuaded to agree to lt . The insurgents have derived considerable advantage from their ability to menace such important border places as Agua Prieta and Juarez , and are not likely to give It up cheerfully without some pressure . But some such way may be . found for avoiding a repetion of the Ague , Prieta situation . So far as this kind of situation is concerned it is now pretty clear that it will not be regarded by either the Administration or by Congress as sufficient warrant for armed- intervention by the United States . It will , be treated rather as an incident than as the continued existence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Taft sent to the Governor of Arizona last night fully described the attitude of the President ; - It has been understood all along by those who have been familiar with the White House views that the President would never order any American troops across the border without the direction of Congress . The President himself has said so several times , although not before this in a public manner . The publication of this telegram to Gov . Sloan brought a prompt response this morning from Senator Cullom and Representative Sulzer , the respective heads of the Senate and House Committees of Foreign Affairs . Both Chairmen were at the White House this morning and conferred with the President . When they left each made a statement . The two declarations are in entire accord , and disclose plainly the attitude that Congress may be expected to take . Senator Cullom said that no meeting of his committee to consider the Mexican situation was contemplated at this time . According to the Senator , the President was quite optimistic to-day , and apparently believed the situation at Douglas would improve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervention at this time . Mr. Sulzer announced that Congress would not act hastily . He was , he said , of the opinion that thus far there had been no overt act in Mexico sufficient bp warrant intervention . He intimated , however , that a plan was being considered to relieve the danger to Americans near the border . This contemplated an agreement for a neutral zone from five to ten miles wide along the boundary line . Congress , Mr. Sulzer said , would not act under any circumstances without a. special message from the President . There is a very clear sentiment in both houses of Congress , as well as in the Administration , against any hasty or ill-considered action regarding Mexico . It is recognized everywhere that the situation is very delicate and that intervention , which has always been a possibility , may become an unpleasant necessity . But there is every disposition to display just as much pr fence as possible ; in the hope that some way of settling the trouble may be found by the Mexicans themselves . Thus far there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most pronounced jingoes would justify intervention . The chief danger lies in the evident inability of the Diaz Government to put down ' the insurrection and the apparent unwillingness of its head to recognize that inability . It is clear that the lawless elements in Mexico are recognizing that inability and taking advantage of it in the organization of bands of plunderers , who recognize no authority , either insurgent or Federal . Thus far the Federals and the insurgents have recognized their obligation to protect the lives and property of neutral foreigners , and thus the situation which would most demand intervention lies been avoided . But unless the Diaz Government discloses an unexpected ability to grapple with this danger it is expected here that the situatfori will become materially worse . Tillie far there has been no sign of jingoism in Congress . On the contrary , both Democrats and Republicans are disposed to let things run along and to suppress , anything that looks like troublemaking . Representative Flood of Virginia let it  --  be known this afternoon that he in- ? tended to introduce a resolution- recognizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic , leaders , who have kept their organization very well in hand so far , that . they , would not do anything to help the manufacture cf war capital for anybody . ? In the House to-day Representative Garrett of Tennessee offered a resolution directing the Committee on Foreign Affairs to investigate the Mexican situation , with especial reference to conditions along the border . Senator Stone of Missouri has . offered a , resolution of similar nature in the Senate , empowering the Committee ? on Foreign Relations to cone , duct such an investigation , and he proposes , to speak in support of It on Friday . Senator ** of Georgia . ranking minority member of the Foreign Relations Committee , ' epitomized the sentiment in Congress to-day when he said : ' An invasion of Mexico , designed for a limited and temporary purpose , might be like touching a match to a tinder box . " " Under existing and threatened conditions , ' he continued , " very great caution is necessary to prevent embroiling this Government in a - conflict with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that anything - less ' than the most extreme necessity would justify an invadion. - The consequences ' would be far-reaching in Imany respects . and : the end no one could foresee . ' In my opinion every possible expedient . should be employed to protect our People without= resorting to such an extreme measure . " 