@@680581

txt TAX REFORM . Secretary Pleydell Points to a Long Record of Achievement . The following paragraph appears in an interview with State Tax Commissioner Schwab in your columns this morning : Mr. Schwab was asked whether his remarks applied to the so-called New York Tax Reform Association , which he had previously attacked . The implication conveyed by this use of the term " so-called " is an injustice to the association , and to its seven hundred members , among whom are many of the leading professional and business men and firms of this city and State . The New York Tax Reform Association was incorporated in 1891 and since that time has been actively and publicly advocating changes in the tax law along lines then laid down in its platform . Among the principal laws advocated by this association and enacted are : ( 1 ) The special franchise tax law : ( 2 ) Abolition of imprisonment for non-payment of taxes ; ( 3 ) The flat 1 per cent , tax on banks and trust companies in lien . of the old personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land and buildings , and ( 1 ) The publication of real estate lists in the City of New York ; ( 6 ) The mortgage recording tax , first introduced by us in 1904 : ( 7 ) The amendments of hill to the inheritance tax law , which established reasonable graded rates , increasing the revenue , and abolished double taxation ; and ( 6 ) The secured-debt tax , now under discussion and which was first proposed by us in a bill introduced in 1904 . We have secured also a number of administrative changes in the law beneficial to taxpayers as well as the public treasury . Our association has steadfastly maintained since its organization that the main burden of taxation should be borne by real estate , believing that such taxes are the fairest , most equitably distributed throughout the community , and the simplest and cheapest to administer and collect . No economist now seriously disputes this . We have opposed the farce and injustice of the ordinary personal property tax , and hold that the burden of taxation on capital and trade should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we have led in advocating the adoption of reasonable specific taxes , which are yielding a large revenue collected in a far more equitable manner than is possible under the ordinary personal property tax . NEW YORK TAX REFORM ASSOCIATION . A. C. PLEYPELL , Secretary . 