@@681033

txt By his insistence upon what practically amounts to recognition of the Constitutionalists as belligerents , Gen. Carranza has heightened the seriousness of an international situation already rendered sufficiently grave through the cynical . indifference of Gen. Villa to this Government 's requests for information regarding the manner of William S. Ben- ! ton 's death . He has refused to permit the investigationinto the British ranchman 's fate to proceed unless the British orj American Government applies directly to him , taking the attitude that all dealings between the Constitutionalist authorities and foreign Governments must be through him as " Supreme Chief . " Heretofore the United States Government , in taking measures concerning Americans and other foreigners in Constitutionalist territory , has dealt with the local Constitutionalist commanders in each case . Carranza now holds that the local commanders must hereafter be ignored and all such cases discussed with the central authority , of which he is the recognized head . Compliance with Carranza 's demands would give great moral support to the revolutionary cause , but it probably would mean also that if Huerta should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain would be able to claim damages for the heirs of their nationals killed in Constitutionalist territory or for injury to their property . Therefore both Governments hesitate to recognize the Constitutionalists as having belligerent rights . Heretofore all the negotiations concerning the Benton case ? have been conducted by American consular officers with Gen. Villa . It was Villa who granted permission for the BritishAmerican commission to proceed to Chihuahua for the purpose of viewing the body . Villa has now recognized Carranza as having superior rights in the matter and has thrown the responsibility of the settlement of the case upon the latter . " Watchful Waiting " to Continue . President Wilson , while greatly worried over the new turn given to the situation , declared to-day that there would- be no change in his policy of " watchful waiting . " He told callers that it would be well for those who are clamoring for armed intervention not to forget that what they wanted done must be done by themselves and at a sacrifice , and urged them to reflect what such action would mean to brothers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a continuation of his policy would ultimately bring about the deposition of Gen. Huerta front power , and generally he showed that the Administration would resist to the utmost any effort to force it to adopt drastic measures toward ending the Mexican disorders . In the President 's opinion this Government is big enough and powerful enough to wait as long as it pleases . President Wilson . according to statements made at the White House to-day , reearde Ca rranza s position as " academic " and based upon nothing more than a desire to have his vanity tickled by the recognition of his supreme authority in the Constitutionalist movement . But this view is not shared by many outside the White House . Carranza ? s attitude is construed by them to be a clever move to force two great Governments to recognize the Constitutionalist movement and thus strengthen it materially and morally . The White House to-day adopted a policy of frankness concerning the Benton incident , telling what had occurred to postpone the trip of the British-American Commission from Juarez to Chihuahua . Last night Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the commission other than to say that additional instructions had been sent to it , and that it would start for Chihuahua when certain details had been arranged . Mr. Bryan was no more comunicative to-day , but it was explained at the White House , on the authority of President Wilson , that Gen. Carranza insisted that his superior rights in the matter should be recognized by the British Government hefora he would grant permission to carry out the arrangements made by Gen. Villa for the commission 's trip to Chihuahua . Carranza 's action probably meant , it Was explained , that he regarded himself entitled to recognition as a belligerent by the British Government . It was admitted that if the proper British authorities entered into negotiations with Carranza , this would constitute recognition of the belligerent rights of the . Constitutionalists br Great Britain . It was explained further that as the United States would be a party to any arrangements made , there would he a virtual recognition of the belligerent rights of the Constitutionalists by the United States as well . Cnrranzn 's Act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " If Carranza insists on that , it seems to me that they have us , " which was taken by some persons to mean that the Government might accord the recognition which Carranza claimed as his right . President Wilson counseled patience in his talks with those who went to him to-day to obtain information about the Mexican situation . He showed very plainly that if the nation was forced to intervention in Mexico he would place the responsibility upon those who had brought it about . It was clear that his own attitude was to continue the policy of attempting to adjust the Benton incident and Mexican affairs generally through patient negotiations . Piecing together the information obtained at the White House with facts obtained elsewhere , it is possible to give a coherent account of the circumstances leading up to the present embarrassing situation . After Villa , last Friday , had finally conesented to arrangements for the exhumation and examination of Benton 's body by a commisison Jointly representing the American and British Governments , Carranza communicated to the American Consul at Juarez his unwillingness to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the joint commission to proceed to Chihuahua should be made directly to himself by the British Government . The Administration apparently attached little iportance to Carranza 's remonstrance and proceeded to carry out the programme which had been arranged with Villa 's approval . Last evening the six members of the joint commission went from El Paso to Juarez , just across the river , to take the special train which . Villa had promised he would furnish to carry them to Chihuahua . When the commission reached the railroad station at Juarez it found that no special train was waiting . It was then decided by the Commissioners that they would take the regular train for Chihuahua . They were about to board the regular train when Col. Avila. of the Constitutionalist forces appeared and informed them that they could not proceed to Chihuahua without permission from Gen. Carranza . The commission telegraphed to Gen. Villa at Chihuahua , asking that he grant the required permission . No answer to this telegram was received , and while the commission was waiting at the Juae rez station it was recalled to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had learned of Carranza 's attitude on his return to Washington yesterday from Richmond , Va . After consulting with President Wilson and Sir Cecil Spring-Rice , the British Ambassador , he telegraphed last night to the American Consul at Nogales to ask Gen. Carranza to sanction the arrangement which Villa had made . Care was taken not to communicate with Carranza directly . To-day , at President Wilson 's direction , the State Department sent a dispatch to Gen. Carranza informing him that this Government regarded his objections to an American inquiry into the Benton affair as entirely technical . The British Embassy learned indirectly to-night of the course taken by Gen. Carranza to bring about direct dealings between the British Foreign Office and the Constitutionalist Party by appointing Miguel Covarrubias his confidential agent in London . No official information of this action had yet reached the embassy , and no comment upon it was offered . The news , however , brought a smile to the face of Ambassador Sir Cecil Spring-Rice . That the British Government would at this time shift the conduct of its inquiry into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambassador in Washington to an agent of Carranza in London is held to be inconceivable from any standpoint of international common sense . As stated yesterday , the Britsh Government has outlined its course clearly to its Ambassador here , and this is to have the Benton case take the regular course , with all regard to reserved rights . Why Committee Was Revised . Gradually the facts concerning the arrangements made for the examination of Benton 's body are coming to light . The sudden change made in the composition or the commission last Saturday was due to the fear that if any American Consular officer was included in its membership , this would be interpreted as a recognition of the belligerent rights of the Constitutionalist cause by the United States . It had been the original intention to appoint the American Consul at Juarez and the American Consular Agent at Torreon as members of the commission . But on Saturday , after the point had been raised that the presence of these two Consular officers on the commission would furnish the basis for the contention that the Constitutionalists had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stead two American citizens , who had no official connection with the Government . If the Constitutionalists are playing for delay in the Benton case , the elements seem to be on their side . Sir Ccil Spring-Rice sent the Foreign Office a wireless message to-night , advising it that owing to the disorganization of the land telegraph lines by the storm . he would be unable to cornmunicate with his Government for several days . This assures the postponement of British action . A conference held at the State Department to-day has been followed by reports that the Spanish Government is insisting that it shall not be compelled to deal directly with Carranza in attempting to obtain redress for the killing of Spanish subjects in Constitutionalist territory . Those who attended the conference were Secretary Bryan , Counsellor Moore , the British Ambassador , and Senor Riano , the Spanish Ambassador . Meanwhile the body of Benton is supposedly lying in a grave at Chihuahua . It will be two weeks to-morrow since he was killed . Secretary Bryan said to-day that the effort to have the body exhumed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had decided that the note which Huerta had addressed several days ago to all foreign Governments , protesting against the raising of the arms embargo , was designed for home and foreign consumption without presentation to the United States , the belated document was handed to Secretary Bryan by Seilor Algara , the Mexican Federal representative in Washington . It is not considered likely that any answer will be returned to the communication . 