@@678937

txt Those who proposed the income tax amendment in its present form are re- . sPensible for the existing situation in which the majority of the Legislature are reluctant to cast their votes according to their political sympathies . It is idle now to inquire whether a Federal income tax could be proposed in a manner to command a Majority on the merits , for that is not the question pending . Congress is taking power to tax sources of revenue which the States have the right and need to control for their own uses . There is no higher legal authority for that state , went than the declaration addressed to the Legislature by Messrs . CHOATE . GUTHRIE , MILBURN , MonA.wETz , Fox , and STETSON . Yet there is also authority for the contention that the proposition is too absurd for acceptance . It can not be true , Senator ROOT argues , that Congress should take such extravagant authority because it never has taken it heretofore and because the idea is too preposterous to be entertained Whatever anybody may think about these opposite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choose between them . that , is between President TAFT and Gas- . HuonEs . It certainly is bad politics to produce such a situation , regardless of the merits of the proposal . It is not strange that the Assembly dodged the vote , and whatever the Assembly may do it remains to consider what the Senate ought to do . Enough States have acted regarding the orOposal to enable New York to judge what company it will be keeping if it should finally approve the proposal . It has been ratified by Alabama , Illinois , South Carolina , Oklahoma , Mississippi . and Maryland . A Republican reading that list might develop reluctance to go In swimming where the Democrats find the water so fine . Virginia has plumply rejected it . for although the income tax may De Democratic enough when unobjectionably proposed it is not consistent with primary Democratic doctrine when proposed in a form offensive to State rights . In Massachusetts an adverse report is awaiting adoption . Kentucky is on both sides of the question . It has approved the proposal in a form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendment , which seems too nlain for argument , but which is argued about nevertheless . As the case stands the proposal ought to be negatived even by those who favor an income tax pure and simple . No law should he enacted whose mean ing is disauted before enactment , for , whatever construction finally comes to be placed upon it , there is ground for disappointment and ill feeling .                     