@@681877

txt The lescenS to be derived from the destruction of the Leyland liner Armenian off the English coast are expected to have a most important bearing upon the diplomatic controversy between Germany and the United States over the safety of human life in the submarine warfare . It is believed here that the Armenian affair demonstrates that it is possible for German submarines of the latest types , when equipped with outside rapid fire guns , to Comply with the demand of President Wilson that the belligerent right of visit and search must be corn ! plied with before merchantmen and Pas , senger ships are torpedoed . Ambassador Page has not yet communicated to the State Department the facts regarding the Armenian , and Washington is holding judgment until his report has been received . There is , however , a strong opinion that the report will show that the loss of life was directly attributable to the efforts made by Captain Trickey of the Armenian to escape , Whatever the facts as to minor detail , the outstanding lesson of the affair is that a merchantman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and surrender by a pursuing submarine , and the destruction of the liner by torpedo was not attempted until after those on board who survived the chase had an opportunity to take to the boats . It is evident that if the Armenian 's Captain had heeded the warning shots of the submarine and halted the steamer he could have submitted to visit and search and in all probability the destruction of the Armenian could have been effected without loss of life . All international law experts agree that a vessel that refuses to halt when challenged by warning shots from a properly commissioned belligerent war vessel proceeds at her own peril . In its broader aspects , the Armenian incident presents the most important lesson that has come out of the German undersea campaign for consideration by those engaged in the diplomatic controversy over the various acts of the German submarines  --  and the lesson is considered etxremely vital in its hearing On the pending negotiations , because , if it is at all possible for submarines to exercise the right of visit and search and they actually proceed In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their warfare against merchantmen carrying contraband without running counter to the expectations of the United States Government . Occasional merchantmen may try to escape capture or destruction by disregarding warning shots , but that will be their affair and the responsibility for loss of life due to efforts to elude submarines , and caused during the period of continued efforts to escape , would not then rest upon the submarines . Value of the Guns . The effective use of rapid-fire guns mounted on submarines in bona fide efforts to halt merchant steamers for purpose of visit and search is the important factor in the situation . A submarine not so equipped would find It difficult , if not impossible , to apply the rule of visit and search . Without the outside guns such a submarine would Possess no , other effective weapon than the torpedo . The submarine that carried no exterior armament could not compel obedience to its mandate for the merchant Captain to stop without firing . a torpedo and thus risking the destruction of life with the sinking of the steamer , and a submarine with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contended by the German Admiralty , of bomb attack from the rails of the merchant steamer when going alongside of such a vessel . A submarine like the U which sank the Armenian , carrying one or more outside guns , capable of discharging various kinds of shell , from blank // NEW WAR LESSON IN ARMENIAN CASE // shots to shrapnel , represents an important evolution in the development of marine warfare . Such a craft has the - quipment to enable her to visit and search a passing merchantman , and to provide for the safe removal of officers . rew or passengers from a challenged steamer , before the destruction of the ? . - essel . It is only necessary for such a submarine to fire her torpedoes as a Last resort for the destruction of the steamer . With her exterior guns a submarine like the U : IS. upon meeting a merchant vessel , may fire one or more arning shots , as Captain Trickey of the Armenian says the L : ab did . The ' raider , he said , fired two warning shots , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speed , the submarine 's guns ' opened tire on him with shrapnel . It was asserted in a high official circle today that it was not necessary , under accepted rules of international law , for the commander of a warship to serve ! notice by megaphone , or word of mouth , ' in order to compel a passing merchantman to stop for visit and search . The warning shot fired by the war vessel I is sufficient notice for the merchantman to stop . The practice is to fire first a blank shot , and , If the steamer fails I to heed this notification , the warship may fire a solid shot across the bows of the steamer . The idea of these two ! preliminary shots is to assure the commander of the merchant vessel that the warship means business . If the merchant captain fails , or refuses to heed the two preliminary shots , then Lire warship may aim her shots at the steamer and . fire just as many as are ; necessary to overhaul the escaping mer-chant ship to compel her surrender @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrative of Captain Tricksy --  ; this is exactly what the commander of the U-38 did . Han the Armenian halted , ! , hen the without standing in close enough to have been damaged by any dropping of bombs . might have given orders by signal , for the Captain of the Armenian to send rn officer to the sub- I marine with the papers of the Armenian. ! These could have teen examined on the submarine to enabie the commander of the U-38 to determine the nationality , port or orgin , and destination and char- I after of the cargo of the steamer , and ; whether the manifest showed she was 1 carrying contraband or engaged in a ho le mission . If satisfied from such ! an examination that the Armenian wars not a British vessel , but a neutral one , and not carrying contraband or engaged in any hostile mission , . the U-PS 's Captain could have permitted the steamer ' to proceed . But if the papers showed that the steamer was British owned , ' that fact alone would entitle the submarine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safety of officers and crew , by giving them time to take to the boats , or otherwise , or he could have ordered the mules to be thrown overboard as contraband , and after the human lives on board had been saved ; the submarine Captain could have destroyed the steamer on the plea of military necessity . Way to Settle Mistakes . If any mistakes were made in the destruction of ship or cargo that mistake could then become the subject of diplomatic negotiations , but the human lives would have been saved . If desirable , the commander of the submarine could have called for a boat , once the Armenian had halted , and sent an officer on board the Armenian to make an extended search to wipe out all doubt as to the character of the Armenian 's mission or cargo . Under such a procedure the sulenarine would not be in jeopardy because she could stand far enough r.way from the ship not to be the victim of bombs , and if the merchantman should have attempted to move away or escape while being visited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submarine could have been tired to bring the steamer to a halt . The more the Armenian case was studied in official circles today the more some high authorities in the Government were inclined to believe that the efforts of the merchantman to escape , and the conduct of the submarine Captain carried a lesson which should be most seriously studied in connection with the efforts to adjust the issue growing out of the submarine warfare . It affords the German Government an excellent argument for use in its response to the President 's note of June 9 . " Nothing , " said . he President in that note . " but actual forcible resistance or continued efforts to escape by flight when ordered to ** for the purpose of visit and search on the part of the nmrchantman has ever been held to forfeit the lives of her passengers . On the basis of the Armenian incident the German Government might suggest that merchantmen could avoid loss of human life by halting when summoned , in which event submarines might be used to attack merchant vessels only in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the note of Feb. 20 last from Secretary Br an to the American Ambassadors at London and Berlin . pro posing a modus vivendi agreement between Germany and England , those Governments were asked to agree : 1 . That neither would sow floating mines . 2 . That neither would use submarines to attack merchant vessels of any nationality except to enforce the right of visit and search . a . That each would require their respective merchant vessels not to use neutral flags for the purpose of disguise or ruse de guerre . With respect to the second of these psung , sgdestions the German Government re- ? The German Government would undertake not to use their submarines to attack mercantile of any flag except when necessary to enforce the right of visit and search . Should the enemy nationality of the vessel or the presence of contraband be ascertained the submarine would proceed in accordance with the general rules of international law . As provided in the American note , this restriction of the use of submarines is contingent on the fact that enemy mercantile abstain from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It would appear to be a matter of course that such mercantile also abstain from arming themselves and from all resistance by force , since such procedure contrary to international law would render impossible any action of the submarines in accordance with international law . Chnnee for an Agreement . In the note of May 23 the German Government , replying preliminarily to the first Lusitania ote said : " The Imperial Government ? ? ? believes that it should recall here that it took note with satisfaction of the proposals of good offices submitted by the American Government in Berlin and London with a view to paving the way for a modus vivendi for the conduct of maritime war between Germany and Great Britain . The imperial Government furnished at that time ample evidence of its good will by its willingness to consider these proposals . The realization of these proposals failed , as is1 known , on account of their rejection by the Government of Great Britain . " In his note of June 9 President Wilson paved the we : " for a counter proposal from Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the lessons derived from the attempt of the Armenian to escape from the U-38 . After observing that the German note of May 28 closed with the intimation that Germany was willing to accept the good offices of the United States in an attempt to come to an understanding with Great Britain by which the character and conditions of the war upon the sea might he changed , the .. inerican note of June 9 said : The Government of the United States would consider it privilege thus to serve its friends and the world . It stands ready at any time to convey to either Government any intimation or suggestion the other may be willing to have it convey , and cordially invites the Imperial German Government to make use of its services in this way at its convenience . The whole world is concerned in anything that may bring falai t even a partial accommodation of interest or in any way mitigate the terrors of the present dis ' . ressing conIf the German Government should agree to adhere to the rule of visit and search , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halt when summoned by submarines , and not to indulge in forcible resistance or continued efforts to escape , such a suggestion , undoubtedly , would be submitted to the allied Governments by the United States , regardless of whether the German Government takes advantage of the Armenian incident as the basis for a suggestion or counterproposal , it is believed here that the Armenian affair can be made the basis of a proposal or suggestion by the United States to the belligerents that in every case German submarines can follow the course pursued by the Captain of the U-28 , and give lawful warning to merchant ships . The 1.1-38 may have been capable of greater speed , but in the chase of the Armenian her greatest speed would appear to have been about seventeen knots . Several of the submarines built at the Dantsic Dockyard have a displacement when submerged of 800 tons , with a surface speed of seventeen knots . Vessels of this type were fitted with 75 millimeter ( 2.95 inch ) disappearing guns . When not in use the gun is stowed in the space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submarine , and in which it is laid down backward . The space is closed by a cover , and there is only a slightly raised portion which offers practically no re- , sistance to the water . When the gun is I to be raised it turns on a pivot placed near the front edge of the fixed base . and after the cover has been lifted there is only one bolt to he released , and the gun is automatically raised into the vertical firing position by springs . It is arrested in that position until the spring catches are released , and the gun can . then be lowered to the horizontal position . The whole of the operations from opening the cover , which conceals ' and protects the gun when the sub-1 marine is submerged , to getting the gun ! in firing position and including the attachment of the finder and shoulder support only requires twenty seconds . The stowing of the gun , including the removal of the two parts just mentioned , can be done in like time . The gun itself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonrusting nickel steel , so that no harm comes to it when the vessel is running submerged . Consul Armstrong at Bristol , England , today cabled the State Department the following information about Americans who Were on the Armenian : " The following white muleteer foremen are among the survivors : Hart , Cox , Osborne , Taylor , Cline , Driver , McCool and Baez- . " In hospitals . slightly wounded : Pond and Brennick . Williamson , Granberry , and Stone. ; wounded by shells , taken in boats . The ; latter succumbed and ' was buried at sea . I Brooke was killed by a shell when corning from the cabin . "                     