@@680854

txt A high-powered touring car driven by Miss Elsie Faas of the Hotel Cecil , at St. Nicholas Avenue and 113th Street , turned turtle on the Mamaroneck Road a mile south of White Plains at 4 o'clock yesterday afternoon , tossing Its occupants , four women and a negro chauffeur. into the roadway . The negro , Arnold Taylor of 194 West 134th Street , Manhattan , sustained injuries of which he died a few hours later in the White Plains Hospital . The four women were badly hurt , but all will recover . According to the story obtained at the hospital Miss Faas invited her chum , Miss Marie Straub of East Amherst , L. I. , her mother , Mrs. Sophia Faas , and Mrs. Henrietta Fairchild , who lives at the Cecil , to go for a ride after luncheon yesterday in her automobile . They went as far as Greenwich , Conn. , and on the return trip Miss Faas took the wheel and the chauffeur sat in the other seat in front . As they reached the strip of hard roadway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the old Mamaroneck Road Miss Faas sent the car along at a high speed . The turn in the old road is a sharp one , and as she reached it Miss Faas , instead of shutting off the power bore down hard on the feed pedal while turning the wheel . The heavy machine swung around the curve with the wheels on one side lifting clear of the ground . The machine swung across the road , running off the edge , and turned completely over between the roadway and a stone wall . The machine was badly wrecked . Miss Faas and Taylor were hurled over the wind shield , landing on their heads . Mrs. Faas landed on her head and shoulder . She and her daughter were badly bruised . Mrs. Fairchild 's left arm was fractured and her nose was broken . Miss Straub landed on her back on a rock , causing a severe strain . It is also feared that she may have sustained internal injuries . Taylor 's liver was ruptured , and it was that injury which caused his death . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found it difficult to tell how it occurred . Nathaniel C. Reynal , who lives near the scene of the accident , said that he had heard the crash when the accident occurred and ran to giva assistance . Coroner W. H. Livingston of New Rochelle happened to come along at that time , and he summoned Drs . C. 0 . Zacharie and R. B. Hammond of White Plains . An ambulance was also summoned from the hospital and the women and the negro were taken there . The wrecked automobile was taken to the Tri-State Garage at White Plains . The windshield was broken off , the tires torn to shreds , the front wheels crushed , and the steering gear twisted and broken . All information about the automobile party was refused at the Hotel Cecil last night . L. F. Faas is the manager of the hotel .. RICHARDS AUTO UPSET . Justice and Wife Injured Returning from Hunting Trip . Municipal Court Justice Richards of Brooklyn and Mrs. Richards were brought to their home , at 147 Barbey Street , East New York , yesterday from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I. , still weak from injuries they sustained on Sunday afternoon in an automobile accident . Their automobile skidded and overturned on a steep hill I between Wading River and Shoreham while they were on their way back to Brooklyn after a week 's hunting trip on Shelter Island . Mrs. Richards was pinned under the car and sustained a fracture of the right wrist , many bruises , and a severe shaking up . Justice Richards fractured his collarbone , and received many painful bruises . WANTS FAST MAIL WAGONS . Stewart Opposes Plan to Check Speed in City Streets . The Aldermen decided yesterday to hold a public hearing on Friday morning at 10 o'clock on the resolution to amend the speed ordinance and prohibit United States mail wagons from going through the city streets at reckless speed . James Stewart , Second Assistant Postmaster General , sent a letter to the Board of Aldermen opposing the plan to have the mall wagons conform to the regular traffic rules and asking that a public hearing be held on the matter . Mr. Stewart wrote that all transportation schedules had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; that a reasonable running time to the the railroad terminals had been established , and that as a. rule the running time aid not exceed nine miles an hour . He wrote : " It would he impossible to maintain these schedules if the mail wagons are subjected to the resolution in all respects applying to ordinary traffic . Any material change in the schedules would necessarily result in an impaired mail service for New York City and the patrons of the mails generally , as mail would be dela , yed in the delivery and also in its dispatch . " The hearing will be held In the Aldermanic chamber at the City Hall .                     