@@682376

txt In a dispatch received by Secretary of War Baker today , Brigadier Gen. John J. Pershing stated that he had had a very satisfactory conference with the Carranza General , Herrera , and that he expected today to have a conference with General Luis Gutierrez. commanding the Carranza garrison at Chihuahua City . General Pershing sent messages to General Gutierrez by aeroplane , and the aviator brought back word front General Gutierrez to General Pershing offering full co-operation with the American forces . As General Gutierrez is the ranking Carranza General in supreme command ? of the Carranza forces throughout the State of Chihuahua , the assurances given by him of co-operation are considered very Important as well as gratifying in high official . circles in Washington . On the basis of General Pershing 's message Secretary of War Baker today I issued this statement : " The latest dispatch from General , Pershing , dated April 8. explains the infrequency of communication by saying that the wireless has not been able to work , and aeroplane communication has been difficult because of lack of suitable landing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Villa being wounded In the right knee . Pershing ! Meets Herrera . " General Pershing reports that he has had a very satisfactory conference with General Herrera. and expects today to meet General Gutierrez , to whom he sent messages by aeroplane to Chihuahua and received back replies offering full co-operation . General Pershing 's comment is that every indication shows the desire of the troops of the de facto Government to aid to the extent of their ability . " General Pershing further reports that one aeroplane was badly disabled in landing on the 6th , leaving only five out of the original eight note in serviceable condition , but it Is evident that the aeroplanes in use are performing valuable if not , indispensable service and that great reliance is placed on them. : ' Denial was made in high official quarters here today that there had been any agreement reached between the United States and the de facto Government of Mexico by which any " dead line " had been established beyond which the America.n punitive expeditionary forces would not penetrate into Mexico in pursuit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been such an agreement were discredited at the State Department as were reports from the interior of Mexico that do facto authorities felt the time had about come when the expedition should be withdrawn as having accomplished all that It could under existing circum- I stances . While it is true that reports to the State Department indicated that some minor officials In Mexico were viewing the continued pr : : : sertne of the American forces in Mexico with anxiety , other official reports Indicated that the Carranza military authorities were co-operating to the extent of their ability with the American expedition . Border Conditions Improve . Such a marked improvement in ? conditions along the Mexican border has been reported by General Funston that the War Department now is considering drawing on Some .. of the troops stationed in Texas to strengthen-the everlengthening lines of communication of the expedition seeking Villa . Many alarming rumors have been disposed of and - the border situation generally is said to be quieter than heretofore , but ' ' the plan is not to disturb the garrisons or patrol in New Mexico or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from now on infantry would be used to reinforce the communication the cavalry being kept at the front for the actual work of running down the outlaws . Evidence continued to accumulate today to refute rumors of an impending withdrawal of the American expedition . boon after it became known that additional troops wore to . he sent across the border the War Department announced the purchase of six large tank motor trucks to replace similar machines now rented to carry gasoline for General Pershing:a supply motors and aeroplanes . Regarding a letter from Senator Fall , in which he declared he had been reliably informed that unless the American Army got fun control of the Mexico North Western Railroad within -a week from the date of his letter , April 4 , the expedition would have to-be withdrawn . officials pointed out that tomorrow was the day fixed for withdrawal by the Senator 's informant and that Secretary Lansing had formally announced that the railroad question no longer was a factor in the situation . A full report on the Columbus raid has been ordered . and will he made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , returns from Mexico . Navy Department dispatches reported conditions quiet at Vera Cruz , Tampico , and Puerto Mexico . The strike of oil laborers at Tampico was reported settied , with the arrest of two strike leaders . The strike was ' called because a Carranza decree required the laborers ' to accept de facto currency as wages . Secretary Baker left Washington tonight for Ohio . He will return here late Wednesday . In his absence Major Gen. Scott . Chief of Staff , will be Acting Secretary of War .                     