@@680469

txt The Department of Agriculture has made a ho. - 7c , to-house canvass through thirteen Stoles and has learned that 40 per cent . of the farmers visited took no stock in farmers ' institute demonstration agents , farm papers or Department of Agriculture publications as aids in helping to make the soil more productive . Of the farmers who got Department of Agriculture bulletins , S4 per cent . read them and 4S per cent . followed the suggestions contained therein . Of those who attended farmers ' institutes , it was learned that 54 per cent . practiced the methods advocated there . It is discouraging to learn that so many turn their backs on the learning brought to their doors regarding the betterment of their profits from the land . Even more surprising is the statement that only half of those who have the learning use it . What can be the explanation ? The reason is twofold . The influx of cheap labor from other lands is discouraged by law inspired by union fear of competition , although the unions themselves will not work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as there is is hired away from the land abnormally . For example , In the letter of the President of the New York Central Railway regarding " the full crew " law , we read : The most discouraging obstacle in the , way of agricultural improvement is the absolute inability to secure help . Dairy farmers are selling their cows , producers of cereals , vegetables , and fruit are having their operations curtailed every year on account of the inability to obtain efficient help . This bill if it becomes a law will draw from the present inadequate equipment of help on the farms of New York approximately 2,000 men . This is the reason why New York imports farm products to the value of millions annually , although it has the land to raise a great deal more than the $300,000,000 which it does produce . This Is the reason why the State is now cultivating one million fewer acres at the end a a decade 's cry of " back to the land . " During this same decade the production of New York butter fell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this explains also much that is happening in the Nation 's agriculture . There Is no reason , in theory , why more bushels to the acre ' cannot-be qwq to the teachings of ' farmers like Mr. HiLL . It would be a good thing for the eaters of farm products , for the carriers of them , and , in short , for everybody . Why , then , does the reform which everybody favors lag in its application ? It Is the question of labor . The foreigners who raise more than Americans are favored both by cheaper labor and by higher prices for what the cheap labor raises . Under similar conditions it is possible to believe that Americans would raise as much . How dissimilar conditions are appears from the Government 's statement that in Germany there are 107 agricultural laborers to each thousand acres , against 25 in the United States . Each German cultivates ten acres , but in the United States there are forty acres to each person engaged in agriculture . Considering the present state of the labor market , how could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price , or even perhaps at any price ? Our farmers are not so blind to where dollars grow as many think . Doubtless education would do much to increase the yield per acre . There Is no possible reason why the good work should not be helped along , but with enthusiasm tempered by the limitations of the case . Even Mr. HILL 'S marked success as a farmer did not tempt him from the railroad back to the land . For a like reason , although in less degree , many find that they can make more money in other ways than by agriculture , or find farming too laborious compared with working eight hours for a wage higher than the market rate . The low rate of production per acre is not altogether a matter of too little fertilizer and too much stupidity '                     