@@680691

txt Dr. William 0 . of this ell , will sail for Europe on the George Washington on Saturday to represent tills State , by appointment of the Governor , at the peace meeting and dedication of the Temple of Peace at The Hague in August and in the World 's Peace Congress , which is to assemble at The Hague in September . Dr. will take with him this invitation to the representatives of the nations there assembled , signed by the Governor , to attend a peace meeting in this city in 1915 : To the Representatives of All Nations at the Dedication of the Peace Palace at The Hague : Greeting : The dedication of the Peace Palace at The Hague is the greatest and by far the most Important meeting that has been held In the world 's history . and am proud of the fact that the United States will be represented at the ceremonies which mean so much to all nations . On behalf of the representatives of the United States who are attending the dedication I extend a cordial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International meeting to be held in the interests of peace and for the good will of all people of the City of New York , U. S. A .. in the year of our Lord 1915 . WILLIAM suLzER , Governor , NO AUDUBON BANK RECEIVER Judge Mayer Denying Application Praises Liquidating Committee . Judge Mayer of the Federal District Court denied yesterday the application of Charles P. Davidson for the appointment of receivers for the Audu. bon National Bank . Davidson , one of the stockholders , asked ttat the custody of the assets of the institution be taken from the Liquidating Committee , alleging that the members of the committee knew of the bank 's precarious condition , but concealed their information from depositors . The bank 's President , David S. Mills , was sentenced recently by Judge Hunt to seven years in the Atlanta Penitentiary for misapplication of 850,000 of the bank 's funds . The Liquidating Committee , through its counsel , stated yesterday to Judge Mayer that it had paid off all of the $370,000 deposits , and had liquidat4d the stock to the extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the application for a receiver Judge Mayer spoke in high terms of the work done by the Liquidating Committee , which consists of Peter Condon , John J. Healy , John F. 011ie-me , William Reimers , Wright Gilliet , George W. Kavanaugh , Francis Sinclair , and Louis Annin . PENSION TOM AND JERRY . Electrified Delancey St. Remembers " Driver Pat " as Well as Horses . The East Side Business Men 's and Property Owners ' Committee , headed by Jacob Katz , which vigorously has urged the installation of electric instead of horse cars on Delancey Street , heard yesterday that the New York Railways Company would have all electric service on that street by the end of the month . Already ten electric cars have been placed In operation , and fifty more , it is understood , soon are to be put into service . Immediately upon receipt of the welcome news , the committee held a meeting at 114 East Broadway and passed resolutions that Tom and Jerry , the oldest horses in the Delancey Street service , be retired to green pastures for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be raised for " Pat the Driver " Connell , aged GO . of 3:10 Greene Street , who has driven horse cars on Delancey Street for thirty-one years . The committee will seek to have Connell employed In some other capacity by the New York Railways Company . DEFENDS INSURANCE POOL . Stimulates Competition , New Jersey Rate Compiler Tells Investigators . Atlee Brown , who , it Is declared , fixes fire insurance rates for New JerSey , was called as a witness by the legislative committee investigating insurance matters in its first session at the City Hall in Newark yesterday . J. Emil Walschied , counsel for the committee , had prepared a line of examination designed to get at the facts as to whether a combination existed for making rates . Mr. Brown said he was the head of the Underwriter 's Association of Philadelphia when called here . Several of the largest companies doing business in this State had gotten together and decided that it was necessary to have a single expert to fix a basic schedule of rates in compliance with Chapter 85 of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Since then 165 companies doing business in the State had accepted the rates submitted and filed them . To prepare those schedules , the witness said , the companies had been put to an expense of $150,000 , whereas , if each company had fixed its own schedule , the total cost would have been $3,000,000 , and the cost of insurance to the people would have to advance about ZO per cent . Mr. Brown insisted that the law was a benefit to the insured . and would stimulate instead of killing competition .                     