@@682005

txt In behalf of the managers of the underwriting syndicate of the Anglo-French external loan , J. P. Morgan &; Co. announced that subscriptions to the underwriting will be closed at 10 o'clock this morning . No statement will be given out by Morgan &; Co. , at least for the present , announcing the amount of over subscription to the underwriting of the loan or any particulars relating to individual subscriptions . So far as assurance of the success of the loan was concerned the books might have been closed last week , but it was the policy of the managers of the syndicate to give all possible opportunity for a participation in all parts of the country , and for that reason the books were kept open long enough to receive reports from everywhere in the United States . In apportioning the underwriting subscriptions , the smaller amounts will be accepted in full and the necessary cutting down will be made in the case of the largest subscriptions . Renorts are current in the financial district that the loan has already been oversubscribed to the extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning the additions to the list will not substantially alter the figure as the larger subscribers have mostly all been heard from and only applications of the small banks and investors are now ccming in . : Maintaining that the existing state banking law which prohibits savings banks from investing in the obligation. , of foreign government ... , thus precluding them from participating in the Anglo-French Loan . is. " deceptive and misleading-inasmuch a- . savings bunks have large sums on deposit with national and state bank. - which intend to participate in the loan . Bernard II . Raider , chairman of the American Truth Society Depositor , ' Committee , has addressed a letter to all , using . in this city asking to be furnished ith the names of the bunks in which the savings banks have nicine:ks deposited . In the event of tali- information being refused , it is stated that a committee of one hundred will cal : upon the recalcitrant savings bank in person , after which a full and complete report of the result will be made not only to the depositors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee , but al-n to the public . - The Ridder letter calls attention to a resolution which was passed by the American Truth Society . This resolution . in effect , points out that J. P. Morgan &; Co- , " rho agents of the British government in the United States are arranging , for large profits to themselves , an unparalleled unsecured loan to foreign belligerent nations which are on the verge of bankruptcy and revolution , " and that " the financial transactions of said firm , notably in the mergers of the New York : New Haven Hartford Railroad Co- , manipulated in the interest of immediate commissions by said firm , have resulted in great losses to investors and criminal proceedings . " Part of the Ridder letter addressed to the savings banks is as follows : " The plans of the loan have been announced and certain national banks and trust companies have publicly announneed their participation . We , are receipt of than3 ands of letters requesting informon , and having been vested with authority by thousands of depositors we take this means of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end we ask you the following question : ' What are the names of the banks in which you have moneys deposited , according to your official statement ? " We have received reports from our depositors who have gone to practically all the savings banks in the city in which it has been stated that savings banks can not invest in foreign bonds under the law . The depositors have disposed of these replies in their resolution which characterizes them as deceptive and misleading . The fact of the matter is that the money of savings banks is on deposit to the extent of millions of dollars with national banks , state banks and trust companies , by permission granted by law . When the next session of the legislature convenes , our depositors will present a memorial to the legislature asking it to amend this provision of the law . In the meantime , basing our action upon the whole object of the s : wings bank law , we appeal to you to co-operate with as in confining the moneys of savings bank depositors which are placed without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smallest possible amount . We realize that savings banks for convenience have check accounts like private individuals , but we can not understand how those accounts should run into such sums as two and four millions CO dollars . This is a state of affairs which we propose to . all to the attention of the banking department at Albany . " In addressing this communication to you we desire to say that in the event that you refuse to give us th " information we ask , our Committee of One Hundred shall call upon you personally for the same , after which a full and complete report will be made not only to the depositors mho have placed their protest in our hands , but also to the public and to thousands of other depositors who are awaiting results of our investigation . " 