@@682980

txt ITALY 'S SHARE . Realization of Her War Aims as the Bar to German Domination Plans . By . Dr. VITTORIO RACCA , of the university of Rome and New York University . New York , Feb. 3 , 1917 . To the Editor of The New York Times : The friends that Italy has in this country have seen with great surprise and greater satisfaction the epochmaking answer of the Allies to the peace proposals of President Wilson , solemnly announcing that the complete realization of Italy 's aspirations will be one of the essential conditions of the future European peace . On the other hand , this acknowledgment of Italy 's rights and of her Invaluable co-operation with her Allies in the conduct of the war has come like a blow , and has caused the most painful impression upon those few Americans who hate Italy , believe that she has done nothing In the present war , and affirm that she is not entitled to territorial expansion . However , what has been officially ' announced now was long ago well known abroad . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the natural consequence of what she has done and of the extremely important role that she has played and that site is expected to play in the European war . Italy , by daring to declare war against Turkey in 1911 , at a moment when a wave of pacifism , regardless of the causes at issue , was sweeping over the world , gave the first blow to the German domination of the universe . By her occupation of the last two Turkish Provinces of Northern Africa Italy achieved the following important alms ; Sho protected her present and future life in the Mediterranean ; aho prevented Germany from seizing those provinces , as she was on the point of doing , and thus kept Prusslanism out of the Mediterranean , anti shut the first door to German world domination ; she gave the first substantial coup to Turkey , kept alive only by the cowardice of the world and by the Pan German aspirations ; by her victory in Tripoli she revealed the Instability of the Ottoman Empire , and prompted the Balkan States to unite for the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the sordid meddling of Austria-Hungary in the territorial readjustment among those States after the first Balkan war that brought about the Serajevo murder and the European war . In 1913 Italy sternly refused to co-operate with Austria or to allow her to throttle Serbia . Had Italy accepted the Austrian proposition  --  which , be it . remembered , implied a divisien of the spoils  --  Serbia would have been sacrificed , the Pan German dream of Mitteleuropa would have been realized , and not a European nation would have raised a finger to stop the thieves . In 1914 , when Italy refused to associate herself with Germany and Austria in their unwarranted and treacherous war of aggression , she helped powerfully to save France . France was spared the burden of facing the Italian army and navy along her southeastern frontier , and , on the contrary , was peredited to withdraw every man of her force from the Italian frontier aed to launch all her resources against the Germans . The result was  --  the Marhe . The help of Italy to the Allies was greatly increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on their side . Since May of that year she has unceasingly end vietot fetish , fought against the main part of the Austrian army , thus relievlog the French and Russian fronts . By taking more than 80,000 prisoners , by putting out of the fight a third of a million Austrian and Hungarian soldiers , by continuously harassing a million soldiers of the Deal Monarchy , and by bottling the Austrian fleet into the Adriatic Italy has rendered a %31ibstantlal , though not showy . aid to her allies . When Italy occupied Vs Iona , et A I , and later sent there and to Salonikt two powerful expeditionary corps co-operating with the army of General Sarrall , she again rendered a very great service to her sister nations by shutting the Adriatic , and in that manner closing the socond door to the Germanic invasion of the Mediterranean . Moreover , Italy fortified the position of the antenna army and cut all territorial communication between unsafe Greece and the Teutonic Powers , thus making the complete surrender and neutralization of Greece a mere question of time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she did not bargain her support , she did not sell herself for the sake of territorial or other compensation . But later , at the time of the Conference of London , when the different allies discussed mutual questions and talked over the future readjustment of Europe , Italy very frankly stated her particular aims . At that time she secured the promise of what she desired . However , it is perfectly true that she did not find the task easy . Only at the Conference of Rome did Italy succeed in winning the complete approval of the other allies for all of her points of view . Only then did the Allies fully admit that what the Italians ' requested was totally right , that what Italy had continually stated about the Near East was altogether correct , and that only the solutions proposed by her meant the effective and complete destruction of Prussianism as a world menace . At the beginning of the war England and France would have considered the aims of the present struggle realized if Prussianism had been snore or less crushed in Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practically the status quo ante helium . Eng-land and France bolleted that the existence of Austria-Hungary was indispensable because it was supposed to diminish the " SchreCklichkeit " of Germany , and had always opposed and distrusted Italy 's efforts to minimize the Austrian ( and German ) peril in the Balkans . Therefore , it was difficult to convince them that Italy did not ask too much in demanding all the Italian provinces of Austria-Hungary and in stipulating that the Adriatic become an Italian sea . " But then , " came the objectdon , " You are going to dismember Austria-Hungary " " Exactly so , " replied Italy ? " exactly so . We can not feel safe at home , we can not co-operate with the Allies in a lasting and peaconil work of restoration and civilization if we are obliged to direct nil out ' thoughts and energies to time defense against an enemy that threa lona its with invasion and destruction , " Only the Alps and the Adi iatie can protect By exacting thee natural boundaries she Is not only pursuing national aims , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Flume , which made the ' Adriatic in the past and would make it In the future one of the main channels of Invasion of the Mediterranean , equally harmful to Italy as to England , France , and Russia . Moreover , by thus forcing the dismemberment of Austria - Hungary , Italy cauees the abotitien of Slavery for 40,00(),000 of her non-German subjects , who , through the omnipotence of Germany and the evil policy of the 1 ( 000,000 Germans of Austria , were compelled to he blind tools of Prussianlent . In other words , with the policy long cherished by London and Paris , all the a0,000,000 of Austria-Hungary 's subjects were put at tho disposal of Germany ; while with the solution insisted upon by Italy , only 10,000,000 Austrian subjects of purely German blood will be in a position to do so . It is not absolutely sure that the Germans of Austria will become satellites of Germany . But , oven if they did , this would not moan an increase of power for future Germany . If all the program of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her non-German subjects . Therefore , even nhe gained the 10,000,000 Germans of Austria , Germany would consist , after the war , of at most 70,000,000 people -- exactly as she was before the present war . The dismemberment of Austria-Hungary means something further , It means the formation of a number of small but powerful states , founded on the principle of nationality , utterly anti-German at heart , and profoundly devoted to the Allies , because it Will be from the Allies that they receive liberty and independence . The benevolent protection of the Allies and a possible league among them will insure a permanent and indestructible barrier against any further peril of Germanic expansion toward the East . The Greek problem has been one of the many deplorable results of the blind policy of years past , when Germany and Austria-Hungary , France and England distrusted Italy and helped Pan Hellenism as a spoke in the wheels of the Italian chariot . The behavior of the King and the people of Greece in the present war has caused the last thick end sticky scales to fall from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Rome finally prompted them to realize that what Italy had nl ? ways told 1110111 was too true . Greer ! has forfeited her right to territorial expansion . While part of what she would have received , had she been proAlly , will be lost to Italy , ( the vilayet of Smyrna , ) Saloniki , which is no more Greek than Buigar , Serbian , Turkish , or Hebrew , must go to Serbia , and thus afford her ( besides the commercial ports of lower Dalmatia that she will get at the end of the war ) the full-fledged commercial and military port which she needs for the important role that she is entitled to play in the Balkans . This is another evidence of wise and right Italian policy , and another lie given to those who have proclaimed to the world that . Italian expansion means the slavery of the Serbian people . The German Foreign Minister , Dr. Zimmermann , is quite right : the expulsion of Turkey from Europe means its dismemberment . When chased from Europe , where she Is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any other part of the world . Turkey is a hollow name , like Austria and Hungary ; there is a Turkish tyrannical and criminal Government , in the hands of a minority of dishonest people of various extractions , who , through force and by means of misery , superstition , and ignorance , impose their hateful rule on the most ** mix titre of different nationalities . Hut there is practically no Turkish nationality . Nowhere is the Turk in his own territory ; nowhere is he liked . When European Turkey , Armenia , and Central and Northern Asia Minor become Russian , when Mesopotamia becomes English , Syria French , and Western and Southern Asia Minor Italian , there is no more room for the Turkish band of criminals , unless they prefer to fall from the frying pan of a . European protectorate into the fire of tlee armed and centuries old hostility of the Arabs . When the war is over Italy will be one of the moat important powers of Europe , strong with her prestige , greater with her increased territory , 11101T @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and , through her possession of Tripoli , Rhodes , and Western and Southern Asia Minor one of the most commanding factors . In the destinies of the Eastern Mediterranean , Italy will come out of the war poorer , but not more so than the rest of the belligerents ; and , moreover , she will be far richer in that good which will have the highest price when the carnage is finished  --  manhood . Through the prohibition of emigration and through the return of hundreds of thousands of her sons from abroad to help her defend her rights and civilization , Italy will have more population than when the war began , however great the losses caused by the war may prove . And the Italians one and all will be inflamed by the joy of victory and by the recognition which the world gives them et het . VITTORIO RACCA.                     