@@681097

txt Senator Albert B. Cummins of Iowa last night in a Chicago speech attacked President Wilson as a usurper of the legislative functions of the national government . He said he thought the president had the welfare of the people at heart , but he charged that the Democratic members of congress had surrendered their prerogatives to the strong man in the White House . Thirty-five hundred men and women at . tended the meeting , at which Senator Cummins spoke  --  a harmony dinner given by the Hamilton club at the diedinah temple . Opens 1918 G. O. P. Campaign . The dinner was in effect the opening of the 1916 Republican campaign , with the additional aim of " bringing the Progressives back into the fold . " There , were , however . no Progressive leaders present . Senator Cummins , as well as the other speakers , Charles S. Whitman . district attorney of New York ; Congressman James Manahan of Minnesota , and Congressman Simeon D. Fess. of Ohio pleaded for a united effort of the Republicans and Progressives to overthrow Democratic rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declare himself a tan , - didate for the presidency in 1916. but beyond saying that he wished he might " speak his heart out " he kept close to his prepared speech . Ile made no reference to his personal ambitions . He prophesied that the Republican party , with its amended rules and a new progressive leadership , would win back the power lost through the " steam roller " convention of 1912 . LeMocratic Legislation Condemned . Ali the other speakers , with the exception of Mrs. Grace Wilbur Trout , president of the Illinois Equal Suffrage association , attacked the administration policy on the canal tolls. the tariff , and the currency legislation . They agreed the president is " powerful but mistaken . " Each speaker asked why business and labor conditions have been so uneasy since the Democratic legislation . Mr. Whitman referred to the president in this phrase : " As fine a type of patriot and . Christian gentleman as has ever lived in White House responsibility and solitude . " " President Obliterates Congress . " Senator Cummins devoted one section of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the national Democratic administration . " In dealing with this subject , " he said , " it is unnecessary to speak of congress , for the president has for the time being obliterated that ancient and once powerful department of the government . " It can not be truthfully said that the judicial branch of public authority has become obsolete , but it is the only relic or survivor of our time honored system . " In every other field of power the president reigns supreme . When , therefore , I speak of the Democratic administration , I mean Woodrow Wilson , for he is all there le of it . Wilson Policy " Full of Peril . " " I do not conceal my apprehensions of the dangers that are involved in the complete subordination of the legislative to the executive power . It is full of peril . The overthrow of representative government does not seem to have excited alarm , but the day Will come when the people of this country will understand better than they do now how vital it is to preserve independence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the desire to disparage the president . He is a strong , determined man . and I believe that he has at heart the welfare of the people , but unfortunately he seems to be of the opinion that he alone is competent to promote the public interest , and that therefore he must exercise all the prerogatives of organised society . ' Says Senators Surrendered . " If mistakes have been made they are his mistakes , and when the voters are reckoning this year with Democratic senators and members of the house , they should remember these senators and representatives are not responsible for the laws they have passed . " Their only responsibility Ilea in their abject surrender of the powers and privileges which the constitution , they have sworn to observe , bestowed upon them and their unpatriotic and indefensible evasion of the duties they have sworn to perform . " The president passed the tariff law . It has been in operation for nearly a year . You know , as well as I , what its effect has been . The Republican tariff of 1909 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We did not and are now suffering the consequences of our folly . " However , the fact that our tariff was much too high furnishes no defense for the extraordinary compound of ignorance and indifference which this administration has fastened upon the country . It acknowledges no economic principle . It contains many duties that are abundantly high , many duties that are confessedly too low , but its crowning injustice is In its rank , deliberate discriminations . Wilson 's Tolls Policy to Win . " The administration , that is to say , Woodrow Wlleon. is now summoning all his power to compel congress to repeal so much of the Panama act as exempts our coastwise shipping from the payment of tolls for passage through the canal . It is highly probable he isstinesfucceed , for width there is some spirit left in the Democratic majority , it is iiiot strong enough to resist the power of the presidential office . " ft is impossible for me to understand ithe intellectual processes of those who insist ' Gut ? contract with Great Britain denies no the essential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of the iourse that will best promote the public wetka re . " If the president is right then we would be obliged to pass a Japanese warship 4hrotteh the canal to bombard our coasts . " 1-Cummins Foresees Party Restored . The senator in considering the causes of the Republican collapse of 1912 said in part : " Of the 25,000,000 of people who make tie the voting population of the United States there are , I believe , more men and women Who would like to march under the RepubBean flag than can be gathered around the banner of any other political organization . These men and women will restore the party if they are given a fair chance to /stake their wishes known and a free opportunity to say what this government should be and what it ought to do ; a fair chance and a free opportunity to declare the principlea that should guide it , the policies that should control it , and to establish a leadership In full sympathy with their high and Goble purposes . Cites People 's Wants . ? " They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which will pursue a sound economic course , but they want more than that  - -  they want a government that not only unsileretands the importance of a well adjusted tariff ; of an efficient financial system ; of an effectively regulated industrial and transportation system ; but a government which understands the economy of human life , of Hound minds , sound morals , and sound bodies ; a government whose especial wards are the weak and the helpless ; that will be most deeply concerned in the rights of men , and in the comfort and happiness of the hundred millions of men , women , and children whose welfare is committed to its care ; a government that will administer justice in like measure to the high and low , rich and Poor , to the least as to the greatest . Favors Old Organization . " So long as the primary voters of the party are true to the finish it is infinitely easier for them to accomplish their desires through the old organization than through a new one . " Ilow absurd it would be for the clean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honest business and accumulated good will behind It to dissolve , simply be-Cause a president.or a cashier has been found wanting in ability or integrity . I , for one , am not willing to lose the traditions and inspirations coming down to this generation from the founders of the Republican party . " Without intending to disparage the members of any other political organization , 1 Venture to say that when the Chicago convention in 1912 assembled the men through-Out the country who acknowledged allegiance to the Republican party were the most progressive , the most intelligent , the most Patriotic , the most humane , the most capable body of citizens who ever associated themselves together for the purposes of government , and that their composite will , car-lied into constitutions and laws , would adtsance civilization to the highest point which this generation can attain . Blames Republican Leaders . 1 . " If , then , the itepublicart constituency was sound and true , why were we buried in the avalanche of 1912 ? We suffered disaster be-Cause some of the man who had been clothed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with which the times and conditions confronted them . " They shook and shivered and did nothing . ? Iietey were the standard bearers and they would not bring the colors - up to the line of The overwhelming majority of Republicans wanted a downward revision of the tariff , preserving protection and reducing duties . They did not get it at the hands of our party and they took a downward , although destructive revision at the hands of the Democrats . Get " False Reconstruction . " They wanted a revision of the banking and currency laws with government control from their own party . They did not get it and took false reconstruction at the hands off the Democrats . They wanted better and surer regulation of corporntions and more effective aid against trusts and monopolies . We did nothing , and they are about to get . I fear ? a mere shadow of relief from the Democrats . " They wanted action in the whole field of humanitarian endeavor and when they saw . their representatives so enamored of the past that the duties of the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firmly we may be convinced of the wisdom of district representation , no matter how strongly we may think the methods of selecting delegates to a national convention should be uniform , it was Idle then , and Is idle now , to oppose the march of the primary system . " The Republican party must either recognize the outcome of such elections without Question and receive the delegates who are chosen through the operation of state law  --  or be without a following in those states in which the primary system is established . " The unfair , unjust representation of the south and the overthrow of primary laws were two of the great factors which brought about the disintegration which followed . " There may have been some apathy and indifference in times past and some fault may be laid at the door of the primary voter ; but if there ever was this apathy and indifference they have now given place to energy and determation , and when we again meet in national council to determine the future course of the party and to select candidates who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predict the declaration will ring with the sound , wholesome , and progressive doctrines of good government and will be in full and complete accord with the highest ideals of human civilization . " Whitman Urges Unity . Mr. Whitman opened his address with a complimentary reference to the enfranchisement of women in Illinois and a forecast of woman 's suf. rage for the nation . " A Progressive in this country is bound , It seems to mile , to work with the Republican party , unless he is willing to be ineffectual , " said Mr. Whitman . " In a scheme of government by majorities there is no way to put an idea into operation without getting a majority in favor of it , and if it is a really serviceable idea , its enactment into a law that stands the test of judicial scrutiny and practical operation is not to be accomplished by splitting up the Republican party . " It has been the glory of our party , and no leas the secret of its success , that Its statesmen have been able in moments of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrifice of principle as humiliates any of its sincerely thinking leaders . No Monopoly on judgment . " The universal good will with which the American people acclaim a president as he takes the oath of office is not and is never intended to be a promise that the full aria , final determination of public issues is left to his sole judgment , or even that his own Party will blindly follow where he leads . It is not even an assurance , as Mr. Cleveland in his second term , as Mr. ' raft discovered , to go no further back in our history , that lie may not leave office with a. party torn , perplexed , and beaten . " " For effect on the country of domestic policies in tariff and currency legislation which Mr. Wilson 's authority has enforced we must wait , " Mr. Whitman remarked . He cited many figures on railway retrenchment , reduced customs receipts , and lower manufacturing output . " This bald contrast is presented , " Mr. Whitman continued . " The country always has responded to Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is now responding to Democratic tariff legislation wills hesitation and distrust . ? " Coming hard upon this is another occasion of widespread anxiety : President Wilson 's foreign policy , in each of its exposed phases , is one which few heartily approve , many openly oppose and many more distrust . A situation is.already sesoduced that worries the country and is hardly to be solved by the reflection of any single mind . Attacks Mexican Policy . " For example , we do not escape our responsibility for the fearful conditions in Mexico by a shrug of the shoulders and the remark ' Am I my brother 's keeper ? ' We do not escape it by charging that a dagger and not a vote was the certificate of Huerta 's title . " For another example , we did build the Panama canal . You , I , every American citizen , paid each his part of the $400,000,000 that have built the canal and the $22,000,000 that rent of the tolls charged to ships of other gave us the land through which it flows . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tolls , is at least ambiguous , so ambiguous that nobody is entitled to say that it clearly forecloses our right to exempt our coastwise ships from the payment of tolls . " Mrs. Trout Speaks . Congressman Manahan , in an address marked by attack on the Democratic party , declared the function to be the rebirth of the Republican party . Mrs. Grace Wilbur Trout represented the women voters at the dinner . Oily Guernsey . president of the Hamilton club , presided . REPUBLICAN 'S URGE REFORMS . Augusta , Me. , April 9 . ? A move to have the Republican state convention today recommend the nomination of Theodore Roosevelt as a candidate for president in 1910 met with failure . A resolution to that end adopted by the Republican caucus of the town of Yarmouth was . offered as an amendment to the platform . but was declared out of order . The platform as adopted condemns the national Democratic administration for what is declared to be its " hurried surrender to Great Britain in the matter of the Panama canal . " " its violation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy In dealing with conditions in Mexico . " National prohibition is favored . A workmen 's compensation law ; a law limiting the work of women and children In factories to fifty-four hours a week ; woman suffrage : ballot reform and a presidential preferenc ? primary are advocated .                     