@@684516

txt J. Leonard Replogle , who was Director of Steel Supply at Washington during the war , asked for his opinion regarding the Redfield plan for stabilizing steel prices and the situation in the steel industry that has resulted from the refusal of the Railroad Administration to accept the prices agreed on under the plan , made it plain that he was entirely opposed to artificial restraints on the laws of supply and demand , and that , in his opinion , an open market in steel would , in a short time , result in a higher level of prices and greater activity . He said : " Business was showing a slight but consistent improvement at the time the Redfield Committee was organized , and while buying was far below normal , operations at the mills were on a fairly satisfactory basis , many of the non-war industries , whose steel requirements were curtailed on account of the necessities of war , had reached the point where their stocks were depleted and they felt the necessity of buying at the best prices obtainable . Business was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artificially regulate prices immediately caused cessation in the buying movement which had started . About three months have elapsed since it was announced that it was the intention of the Redfield Committee to help stabilize business , but the only effect of this announcement and the deliberations since that time , has been to retard the development of business generally . The law of supply and demand is a natural process which can not be helped by artificial methods or by any number of committees , regardless of how capable they may be . " As I understand it the Attorney-General has not yet passed on the legality of the plan , which of itself is bound to create additional uncertainties even if the authorized buying agencies of the Government and the manufacturers are in complete accord as to the basis of prices . There are many high cost producers of many commodities who , on the basis of supply and demand , might be temporarily forced to suspend operations until improvement in volume of tonnage and values resulted in such conditions as to enable them to operate at a profit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or trade committees have the right to create artificial prices or conditions which make it impossible for a large percentage of manufacturers to operate at a profit , necessitating a shutdown of many industries and unemployment of labor . " As I understand it the agreements entered into are conditional on the maintenance of present wage schedules . There may be many plants in this country where employes , after a full recognition of the situation , would glady accept a slight revision in the wage schedule rather than be thrown out of employment and have their revenues entirely cut off . " In any event this should be a matter as between the employer and the employee , and while there is a general recognition that until living costs are materially reduced , no radical revisions in wage schedules are possible , we do not fee that it is proper to make agreements of this kind , certainly without the consent of the employees themselves . I believe that the schedule of prices announced is fair and reasonable , and at least so far as rails are concerned that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The modern heavy high speed train demands a rail of very high standard , necessitating the very best of materials and extreme care in manufacture . Specifications arc difficult and inspection in the last four or five years unusually severe , resulting in a comparatively small yield from the ingot . The old thirty , dollar price on open hearth steel rails has netted the manufacturers a lower margin profit than the average yield from other steel products  --  the steel mills specializing in rail realized very little profit , some of them having been unable to pay any dividends to the stockholders for many years prior to the war . " Judge Gary , has shown-that the labor increase alone ' on rails is now $19.48 per ton in excess of pre-var costs ; without taking many other factors of increased costs into consideration it would appear that the prices of $45 per gross ton for Bessemer rails and $47 for open hearth rails are as low as should reasonably be expected . I personally know that the costs of several of the mills are in excess cf the prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Director-General of Railroads is correct in his opinion that open market conditions should prevail . The rather general opinion that un6er open market conditions prices for steel products would sag to a considerable extent , is , I believe , a fallacy which would be very quickly dissipated , as the prevailing CO:t4 of the steel manufacturers , large and small , are such that this would not be possible . As a matter of fact , under the law of supply and demand it is quite probable that the price of many commodities would shortly be considerably in excess of the schedule now under discussion . " If anything will prevent an early expansion of the steel business and business generally , it is continued artificial restrictions of this character , and when President Wilson announced in his message to Congress ' thus the war comes to an end ' , it was time for paternalism to cease and the law of supply and demand to take effect . " If steel prices are to be artificially regulated it is reasonable and proper to assume that hundreds of other commodity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ copper , lead , lumber , leather , cotton , wheat , corn and other materials of this kind , and if it takes three months of negotiations on steel to reach the point we have ? today , how long will it take and how long will general business be deferred by similar negotiations on other commodities ? If the industrial committees were composed of , a thousand of the most capable men in this country , it would take six months to a year to work out all of these problems and in the interim business chaos will result . " I have the greatest possible admiration for the committees of steel manufacturers and also the Industrial hoard of the Department of Commerce , ? all men of great ability who have contributed wonderful service throughout the war period , but if they now disband and go home , I believe the best interests of the country will be served , as even those who were favorable to the plan originally now rcognize that whatever merit it had , if all Governmental agencies had promptly enclori.ed the plan , @ @ @ @ @ 