@@684401

txt The money committee ' has issued the following statement : Last December , when the arrangement Ithereby the New York banks have been furnishing funds to stabilize rates on loans on Stock Exchange collateral , was about to expire , the committee inquired whether the Treasury Department wished an extension of the arrangement then in force , and were requested ' by it to continue their operations in aid of the Government 's financial requirements . Acting in accordance with the wish of the Treasury thus expressed , the sub-committee on money arranged with the New York banks to continue the arrangement then existing until after the next Government loan , and with the authorities of the Stock Exchange Co continue exercising control of the loan account to prevent its expansion is the aggregate . ' . This week , however , the officials of the Stock Ex -- change , in a written communication to the money committee , having stated conditions had so changed that " there is nothing to indicate the probability of a speculative movement which would absorb large amounts of money . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to thi 'S statement and after consultation with , and the approval of , the Treasury Department reached the following conclusions : 1 . That control by the Stock Exchange Committee may for the present be suspended . 2 . That the Stock Exchange authorities be requested to continue to receive from members of the exchange daily . reports of their borrowings until after the next Liberty Loan is placed . 3 . That the definite arrangements made with the large group of New York banks to furnish funds for Stock Exchange loans , if and as required , should new be terminated . The money committee desires to acknowledge its ap . preciation of the hearty co-operation which the members of the Stock Exchange and the New . York banks havi given it during the past month , and feels confident that should it hereafter become necessary in the intereit of . Government:financing , to re-establish the control of money for Stock Exchange loans and for the stabilization of money rates , the Stock Exchange authorities and the New , York banks will again unite with a patriotic purpose to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 