@@682565

txt Francis J. Heney of San Francisco has sent a telegram from Los Angeles to President Wilson pledging to support him for re-election . . The telegram , which is most sensational , not only announces the determination of Mr. Heney to work " earnestly and actively " for Mr. Wilson 's re-election , but in refusing to follow Theodore Roosevelt back into the Republican fold or to support Charles E. Hughes as the Republican standard bearer , Mr. Heney assails the action of the Republican Convention and condemns Mr. Hughes for accepting the nomination . Mr. Heney was one of the delegates who left the Republican Convention at Chicago in 1912 and helped form the Progressive Party . The telegram from Mr. Haney pledging his support to the President fell like a bombshell in Republican political circles here tonight . It will be used by the Democratic National Committee as an Important political document and widely circulated In the campaign . The Haney telegram was given out for publication this afternoon by the Democratic Committee . In Democratic circles It Is interpreted as the forerunner of other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Progressive leaders who refuse to follow Colonel Roosevelt back into the Republican Party . Mr. Heney 's telegram sets forth fully his reasons for leaving the Republican and Progressive ranks and aligning himself on the side of the Democratic Administration . He indorses in words of highest praise the record of President Wilson , including his German and Mexican policies . " To my mind , " says Mr. ITeney , " the nomination of Mr. Hughes represents the fruition of the political corruption which was also successfully practiced by the Republican National Committee four years ago , under the guidance of the men I have named . " The menOnatned by Mr. Heney as having deprived Roosevelt of the Republican nomination four years ago and who are alleged by Mr. Heney to have prolonged " their power again to defeat the will of the majority of the Republican voters " are Senator Penrose of Pennsylvania , ex-Senator W. Murray Crane of Massachusetts , William Barnes , Jr. , and Ellhu Root of New York . " I do not question the personal integrity or character of Mr. Hughes , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for permitting professional political tricksters to make a nation-wide canvass for his nomination while he was a member of the Supreme Court of the United States , under an appointment for life , with the vast potential power which accompanies that position . " Some striking sentences in Mr. Heney 's telegram say : " It is now my intention earnestly and actively to work for your re-election as President . " " I can not follow Theodore Roosevelt back into the Republican Party , while it is still controlled by these same men . " " Hughes represents merely the consent of Penrose , Crane , and Barnes to permit the Republican Party to have as its candidate a man selected by themselves , who , therefore , if elected President , would be disinclined to attempt to destroy the continuance of their control of the nominating machinery . " I can not vote for or support him ( Hughes ) . " " Personally I shall not vote for any Republican candidate for President here- , after , as long as the corrupt control of the nominating machine of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence . " " Through your personal efforts as President most of the other important planks of the National Progressive platform of four years ago have already been enacted into law by Congress . " Mr. Heney , who is a native of New York . was a practicing lawyer in San I Francisco when he was urged by Philander C. Knox , Attorney General during the Roosevelt Administration , to undertake the prosecution of the famous land fraud cages in Portland , Ore . He obtained the indictment , among others , of the late Senator Mitchell of Oregon . He has been a stanch personal friend , admirer , andtfollower of Colonel Roosevelt , and asserts in his telegram that he would loyally and vigorously have supported Roosevelt if he had accepted the Progressive nomination . Mr. Heney 's telegram gives his reason for refusing to support Mr. Hughes in part as follows : " Four years ago , were representatives of a mere handful of office-holders in the Southern States , had been perpetrated against them , a.majority of the Republican delegates who had been legally elected from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and organized the National Progressive Party . The primary and paramount purpose of the organization of the National Progressive Party was to place in the bands of the voters of , each and every political party , through ' the instrumentality of a national direct Presidential preference-primary law , the power for a majority of the voters of each political party to nominate its candidate for the Presidency . All thoughtful men among the Republican delegates who organized that Progressive move- , ment realized that the manipulation of national political conventions by corrupt ' methods of invisible Government through political bosses constitutes an ever-continuing menace to the cry existence of T he Republic itself . Every seriousminded person must realize that a RePublican Government in fact can not continue to exist under such political conditions . Politleal freedom is a mockery under a system which permits a few unscrupulous manipulators and colt- , rupteis to defeat the will of millions of voters in any political party by substituting the will of those few for the will of the voters . To continue such a political system means to invite and promote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt of the Republican nomination four years ago. : Senator Boise Penrose of Pennsylvania . Murray Crane . then Senator of Massachusetts , and William Barnes of New York , with the aid of such men as Elihu Root , who was the permanent Chairman of the convention , continued their control of their Republican National Committee and thus prolonged their power again to defeat the twill of the majority of the Republican voters . And they have now once more insured their control of the Republican National Committee for another four years . with the continuance of their present power again to defeat the will of the Republican voters in 1920 and thereafter indefinitely so long as we are without a Presidential preference primary law . Under the circumstances . I can not follow Theodore Roosevelt back into the Republican Party , while it is still controlled by those same men . If he had accented the nomination of the Progressive Party at Chicago this year , I would hate loyally and vigorously supported him . because he then would have represented the basic principle upon which the Prom essive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the majority of voters or eacn political party to nominate its , , , vn candidate for President . without any few men possessing the power to prevent it . "                     