@@681213

txt The American delegates to the peace conference tonight gave out for publication a summary of their rejoinder to the statement issued last night by the Mexican delegates . The American statement is as follows : . The American representatives do not think it is conducive to the interests of mediation to publish during its pendency the various plans or the contentions of the parties ; but as the Mexican representatives have given out a formal statement of their objections to the appointment of a Constitutionalist as Provisional President because , among other things , an election conducted by such a Provisional Government would not represent the will of the Mexican people , it has been thought necessary to give a part of the answer to the letter written by Mr. Rabasa . In that answer the representatives utterly repudiate any suggestions that the American President has any intent of destroying the electoral liberty of Mexico and insist that the Mexican representatives " entirely misunderstand the motives and objects of the President , who recognizes the facts and sees in the past success of the Constitutional army indisputable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he also sees that the full triumph of that army means an indefinite continuance of the war , with the suffering and bloodshed and death which every war involves . These consequences the President seeks to prevent through mediation , but we greatly fear that the language of the Mexican note implies that his efforts may be thwarted because of unwillingness to have a Constitutionalist as provisional President , even though that promises the only practicable means by which the horrors of war can be prevented . Hope is expressed that the Mexican representatives will not further oppose the only plan which promises peace , when its rejection means suffering and death to so many . We are convinced that your objections to the plan itself and your fear of the ill-consequences that may follow its adoption are not well founded , and that in attacking the details you lose sight of the large and controlling motive which from the beginning of this trouble has been in the mind of the President , and which has influenced the American representatives in all that they have said or proposed to the mediators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pacification of Mexico , it has no special interest in the method or in the person by which that great end Is to be accomplished ; and if it presses for any particular method , or for the selection of a particular type of men , it is only because it believes them to be the only means to the desired end . American objections to the plan approved by the Mexican representatives have been based on the profound conviction that the adoption of that plan would not stop the progress of the victorious army nor bring that speedy peace which the American Government so sincerely desires . It would be easy at this conference to write an agreement which many would consider desirable ; but unless the most excellent of plans and the most excellent of men are accepted by the Constitutionalists we would only have a paper plan perfect in form and just in expression but wholly ineffective to secure peace in war-worn Mexico . To bring that war to a close , to ? restore peace and constitutional government , is the aim of the President , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just wish of the Constitutionalists , who are not only in numerical majority , but are now the dominant force in the country . Most of those in that party will necessarily be long ignorant of the terms agreed on at Niagara Falls , but they know men , and they do know for what men stand . And if the right man is selected for provisional President , they can , and we hope will , accept his appointment as concrete and satisfactory evidence that the provisional Government is not intended to prevent the adoption of the reforms to secure which the Mexican people have risen in arms . If those selected by the mediators to administer the provisional Government have the confidence of the Constitutionalists , a long step will have been taken toward the pacification of Mexico without furnishing any occasion for alarm to those Mr. Rabasa represents ; for if the plan is accepted both by Gen. Huerta. and Gen. Carranza , the cessation of arms follows , and provisional Government is established to maintain order , to protect life and property , to call an election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President of his choice ; while if the plan indorsed by the Mexican representatives should be adopted , and a neutral should be chosen as provisional President , we would have secured no practical results , but would still be confronted with the insurmountable fact that the Constitutionalists , now almost completely triumphant , would reject the plan , repudiate the man and press forward with renewed zeal to Mexico City , with all the loss of blood and life that may involve . In reference to the suggestion that the provisional President should be a . neutral , it is said that " it is manifest that , in such a contest as that which has been waged in Mexico for years , it is not only fair , but necessary to assume that every intelligent man of any prominence is at heart on one side or the other , and the country might well question the patriotism of any Mexican who has been colorless in such a contest ; and , as the provisional President must be to some extent identified with one Party or the other , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present situation his sympathies , which really mark the man , must be with the dominant element . The effort , therefore , should be , not to find a neutral , but one whose attitude on the controlling issues would make him acceptable to the Constitutionalists , while his character , standing and conduct would make him acceptable to the other party . Such a man , and only such a man , can reasonably be expected to have the confidence and respect of the entire country . If those discussed do not possess the requisite qualifications it is only because we have not succeeded in finding what we sought . You can quite well appreciate hew difficult it is for us , under the circumstances , to do more than we have ) and to further promise diligently and earnestly to continue the search . In answer to the contention that there could be no fair elections conducted by a provisional Government of which a Constitutionalist was provisional President , the answer of the Americans calls attention to the fact that in the past the elections in Mexico " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representing the dominant party . By analogy the next election should be supervised by only one officer , representing the dominant Constitutionalist party . The American plan seeks to avoid the just criticism against that method , and contemplates that this , the most important election in the history of Mexico , shall be supervised by the representatives of both parties . It is wholly incorrect to assume that , thus supervised , it would be unfairly conducted , and you may rest assured that all the influence the United States can legitimately use will be exerted to secure an honest election . Indeed , it is the earnest desire of our Government that the permanent President shall be chosen in a manner so free from objection that his title to that high office and the confidence and respect of his people will be strengthened by their knowledge that he represents their free and unfettered choice at an election held not by one party , as in the past , but by representatives of both factions . It is true that the American plan proposes ' that a majority of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now represent the sentiment of the majority of the people of Mexico . That , however , does not mean , nor should it be construed to mean , that thereby the American Government seeks , as you say , to force an election in favor of the Constitutionalists . So far from that being true , our experience in this country with bipartisan boards leads us to believe that this is the most efficient method that can be devised to secure a fair election and a true count of the ballot . A matter not directly or indirectly referred to In the Mexican statement is omitted . The letter concludes with the statement : We are happy at the opportunity your note gives us to repeat that the United States wants nothing except the good of her sister republic . The United States is a party to the mediation in  --  the hope that it might- lead to peace and that the peace would lead to prosperity . The plan which the American representatives propose , and on which we must insist , will be formulated solely with that end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel that we may appeal to you , and through you to the other Mexican representatives , to read again our plan in the light of these words . 