@@680068

txt Following a remarkable outburst of enthusiasm for Gov . Wilson in the Democratic convention to-night , the delegates voted , 5651/2 to 4911-3 against the unit rule . This was a. victory for the Wilson supporters , - and led to another demonstration for the New Jersey Governor . The Committee on Rules rePirteid substance that the instructed delegation from any State should be bound by its Instructions so long as the majority of the delegation decided to stand by the candidate for whom they were instructed . A minority report was presented by the Wilson-Bryan members of the committee , which provided that the delegation from any particular State should not be so bound , but that the individual members of any delegation could be released from Instructions as soon as they individually saw fit to change their votes after the first ballot . The effect of this can directly be seen in the State of Ohio . where the majority of the delegates are Harmon men and are seeking to bind a Wilson minority of about nineteen delegates under the unit rule . This will mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State and a probable gain of nineteen for Wilson . In view of this it was stated to-night on excellent authority that the Harmon men in the Ohio delegation are to confer with a view of advising the Governor not to permit his name to ge/before the convention . An Ovation for Bryan . When Mr. Bryan reached his hotel tonight after the spectacular scene in the convention he was caught by a crowd of enthusiasts who almost carried him to the elevator , cheering and yelling like madmen . In his room , Mr. Bryan would only say for publication : " I am very much gratified at the result of the vote in the convention . " To Ills friends he explained the situation by saying : " The election of Parker to make the keynote speech in the convention has been resented by nine-tenths of the Democrats in the country , and they have been letting the delegates know how they feel . " A nomination aoes not seem to be possible on the first ballot , as the delegations are divided to-night . Unless a deal is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidates before the roll call the result , as closely as it can be estimated to-night , reducing the claims of all candidates to bedrock , will be about ' as follows : Harmon Wilson Underwood Clark 108 840 464 Marshall 80 Baldwin ... 14 This makes a total of 1,004 votes out of the 1,094 delegates in the convention . The difference of 90 votes represents the exact strength of the New York State delegation . Charles F. Murphy controls the 90 votes , and , with the largest force of Wall Street lawyers ever seen in one city behind him , it does not seem likely that he will throw that vote where it is not likely to do him the most good . But the power of Murphy to make or break the chance of any candidate for the Presidential nomination does not rest alone in those 00 united-by-the-unit-rule delegates from New York State . It is an open secret here that standing with Murphy is Taggart of Indiana , with 80 delegates , Sullivan of Illinois with 58 delegates , Smith of New Jersey with 4 delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thomas P. Ryan of Virginia with 14 delegates , and National Committeeman of West Virginia with 9 delegates . - Here , then , is an element of 225 votes in the convention which can not be placed as a certain factor . They may control the result . They may not . But they are banded together for that purpose . The one vote in the convention that stands out , clean cut , not to be dealt with except on the basis of the candidate 's nomination , is the vote for Gov . Wilson . His 840 men are all for him and for nobody else . Under the decision of the convention to-night they may number 359 , gaining 19 in Ohio . They will stand together , and If after the first ballot there is a desertion of other candidates by instructed delegates they hope that the tide will turn in their direction . The friends of Bryan , they believe , will turn to Wilson sooner than to any other candidate . It is to be remembered that Bryan had 510 votes in his fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bigger vote than Wilson in sight . His boom is the " big noise " of the show at present , and , on the assumption that the Murphy-TaggartSullivan combine is going to give him votes in return for the votes the Clark men gave them in the Parker fight , he seems to have the best chance . But there seems to be a weakening in the Clark line to-night , and a suspicion that they sold their votes for Parker , without the usual Missouri guarantee . To-morrow will tell the tale , but even if Murphy delivers , Clark 's nomination is an uncertainty on the first ballot and would have to be cinched by deliveries from other members of the combine . The weak showing that is being made by the Gaynor boom here should not be taken as any measure of the strength which the Mayor of New York City would develop as a candidate if his own State delegation had given the slightest evidence of being behind him . The fact of the matter is that Mr. Murphy to-day told some of his few confidants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the word among the Tammany shouters to keep quiet about candidates until Murphy makes his wishes known . That the Bryan spirit in the party is not dead , but , only sleeping , has been made evident to-day by every move made by those who would only be too glad to sit as a Coroner 's jury on the cause of the Commoner . They made a concession to him , for the sake of harmony , by offering him the Chairmanship of the Committee on Resolutions , ' but he declined it and put up his good friend John W. Kern there . They agreed to make his old friend Senator-elect 011ie James of Kentucky Permanent Chairman . They also conceded his demand that the usual procedure of making the platform and then naming the candidates to stand upon it should be reversed . At this convention the candidates will be named first and the platform made to suit them . itYan* purpose is evident . He wants to be free to do as he pleases after this convention gets through its work . Not that he has any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his course so that he can disclaim responsibility for the result , and maintain that he did his best to avert it if the people of the country reject it . Up to this point nobody can accuse him of refusing to play his hand out when he has apparently lost the game , but he has not committed himself so that he can not call for a new deal of the cards in any other game in which he chooses to sit . Talking of Bryan Again . In view of the general tendency of the day 's developments in the direction of the Progressive element of the party there is a disposition around the hotels at midnight to suggest that matters may so shape themselves as to bring Bryan himself before the convention as a candidate for the nomination . Bryan could not allow himself to be put in that position without opening himself bto the charge of placing his personal amition above party success . He would split the party in two . His declaration that he was not a candidate , made long ago , followed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was only fighting to .. keep the Democratic shit , on an even keel , fighting to make this convention , its candidates , and its platform such as he believed the majority of the Democrats of the country demand ; would seem to make it incumbent upon him to pick another standard bearer than himself for tile fight . All that he has said about Woodrow Wilson and all that Woodrow Wilson and Wilson 's supporters have done to uphold Bryan 's hands in the progressive fight would seem to make it certain that Bryan to-morrow will do everything he can to put Wilson at the head of the ticket . How the Vote Slay Shift . With a nomination on the first ballot seemingly impossible , although a deal may be made at any hour before morning that will settle the matter , the question arises as to the subsequent line-up . Whether the delegates instructed for Clark would fall away from him heavily after the , first ballot and to whom they would go are the uncertain factors . How many of the instructed delegates for other candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the first ballot is also a matter of pure guess work at this time . Then , like a shadow over the whole situation , is the question of where the 225 votes of the Murphy-Taggart-Sullivan combine are going to land . They might be used as the neucles of a movement for Harmon , Underwood , Marshall , Gaynor , Baldwin , or Foss . The whole battery of brains behind what Bryan calls the " predatory interests , " but what might better be called the anti-progressives , would like to bring out of this muddle a conservative ticket , and to-night they are talking of Underwood for President and Congressman Redfield of Brooklyn for Vice President . They also put out a feeler for Gov . Marshall of Indiana to-day , but it did not arouse much enthusiasm . Underwood 's candidacy did receive one rousing cheer in the convention hall . Wilson developed strength in the convention to-night , and Harmon lost votes by the change in the application of the unit rule , the details of which are told in the story of the convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one this afternoon and one - to- night . The - first was devoted entirely to stump speeches , the tone of which was almost entirely progressive . - The night session cleared the way for to-morrows nomination speeches . The convention had been until to-night remarkably devoid of the scenes ' of wild enthusiasm and excitement that usually mark National Conventions . This does not mean that there is not enthusiasm here , but it has not been prolonged and boisterous , as usual , which is due in part to the fact that it is insufferably hot , and the real battle /s not being fought on the convention floor , but in the rooms of the leaders of the different factions . Tomorrow the fight will be in the open , and the convention crowd will have a chance to break loose . 