@@681494

txt The United States Government today directed Henry Morgenthau , Ambasqador at Constantinople , to ask the Ottoman Government for an explanation of the action of the Turkish land forces in firing at a launch from the cruiser Tennessee in the harbor at Smyrna , . The incident was confirmed by a report from Capt . B. C. Decker of the Tennessee today . By direction of President Wilson Secretary Daniels cabled to the commanders of the Tennessee and the North Carolina to do nothing that might embarrass this Government and to await . further instructions from Washington . The messages to the commanders were sent by every available route to make certain their prompt delivery . The Navy Department announced the messages to the two commanders in this statement ; Secretary Daniels sent a message to the Captains of the Tennessee and North Carolina , both of which are in the Mediterranean , to take no action which could involve this Government without specific instructions from the Navy Department . While officials of the Navy Department still hope that further details may explain the incident as of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the official report saying that the American Consul at Smyrna was anxious for the fate of the Consulato . This sentence was a part of the report which said that a launch from the Tennessee had been fired at as it proceeded from Vourlah across the bay to Smyrna . Another serious aspect is put upon the situation by the fact that at the request of the American . Ambassador , who first suggested that the Tennessee go to Vourlah , the Tennessee has left Vourlah , withdrawing altogether from Turkish waters , and is now lying in the harbor of Chios , capital of the island of the same name , which since the Balkan war ' has been Under the clomin ion of Greece . The Navy Department 's official statement on the subject , which largely embodies the text of the report . of Capt . Decker of the Tennessee , Is as follows : Capt . B. C. Decker , in command of the-Tennessee , wired . Secretary . Daniels this morning that while proceeding . from Vourlah to Smyrna to make Official calls the boat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rem ) . - sulate . Tennessee proceeded to . and left Vourlah at request of AmbaSsador , and is now anchored - in the harbor of Selo , ( Chios. ) from which Capt . Decker 's telegram was sent . Secretary Daniels wired for fuller information . Daniels Is Anxious . Mr. Daniels remained late at the department today in the hope of news that would clear up points left uncovered by Capt . Decker 's report and show that there was no intentional act of hostiPty against the American flag committed by Turkish officials . His hope is that it will be learned that Smyrna , without the knowledge of this Government , had been declared a closed ? port on account of Turkey 's entrance into the European war , and that when the Tennessee 's launch tried to enter a shot was simply fired over the launch 's bow . The language of Capt . Decker 's report , however , which says that the boat was " fired at. ? hardly lends itself to this interpretation . The State Department has heard nothing from Ambassador Morgenthau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last dispatch from Mr. Morgenthau I was dated Nov. 12 and had just been received , and if there was the same tardiness of communication it would be Nov. 24 before a further report , would be received from him . Acting Secretary of State Lansing today cabled Mr. Morgenthau for a full report on the incident . The deepest interest existed today ' as I to whether the American Consul 's alarm for the safety , of his- Consulate arose prior to the firing at the Tennessee 's launch or after it . If before , that might explain Capt . Decker 's trip In the launch to Smyrna , although his report gave " official calls " as the explanation . If his anxiety arose after the incident his alarm would suggest the very serious thought that the firing was intentional , and that either the Turkish officials later threatened steps against the Consulate , or , what would seem more likely , that a mob beyond control ' of the authorities had become threatening . It does not seem , however , that ? in a strongly fortified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , a- mob could make much headway without the sympathy of the military . An unexplained phase of the references to the part played in the ' incident by Mr. ' Morgenthau and Consul General Horton is that , according to both the State and Navy Departments , there has been nothing- recently to suggest any particular need for the presence of an American - warship at ' Smyrna . Mr. Lansing said this afternoon that several months ago . there were ' rumors of trouble there , but . that was before the war began . Naturally , since the war in Turkey has assumed some of the aspects or a " holy war " there is uneasiness as to outbreaks against Christians of all nationalities , although there has been no reason to localize the uneasier as to S-nyrna Evan before Turkey entered the war this uneasiness gave rise to an . inciden ? tat takes on ' the apeance of e'reaterh importance now handt did at the time . That was the incident that culminated in the retirement from hi post of Rustem Bet , the newly appoint-nted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer American Publications about the ' danger of atrocities in Turkey by publicly calling attention to Ainer'ean lynchings and suggesting that his neople were as civilized as the Americans . Received Prompt Rebuke . His utterances ' received a . severe rebuke from the American Government in the form of . a letter from Secretary Bryan asking him to refrain from further disparaging comment on the country to which beicas accredited . Rustem Bey formally acknowledged responsibility for his remarks , refused to retract them , and left his past and this country practically under compulsion . The embassy is now in the hands of Hussein Bey Charge d'Affaires , as Rustem Bey 's successor has not been appointed . When the Tennessee and the North Carolina visited Europe early In the war to carry gold for the relief of stranded American tourists , It was suggested that the presence of war craft at certain Turkish ports might excite the populace . Afterward , as the Navy Department explained today , Smyrna was avoided because of a report that it was threatened by an epidemic of the I bubonic plague . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inside the main harbor of Smyrna , while the isl1 and of Chios , or Solo , to which the Tennessee repaired after the firing , is just off shore . Some of the preliminary facts regarding the cruise of the North Carolina and the Tennessee were thus set forth in a statement from the Navy Depat tment today : " In September the Navy Department was informed that Smyrna was threatened with quarantine for bubonic plague , and the North Carolina was notified to pass cut to the mouth of the Dardanelles where the Scorpion would meet her to receive gold . She was afterward to go to Beirut in the distribution of money to Americans and to leave the distribution at Smyrna to the last If necessary . As a matter of fact , the North Carolina did not go to Smyrna at all because of the information that this port was threatened with bubonic plague. ? ? Capt . Oman of the North Carolina Is senior to Capt . Decker , and would command in any joint action . But at present the North Carolina is at Beirut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nor Indeed have any orders been sent to Capt . Oman . Capt . Decker has had wide experience in the kind of work he is now doing , and is familiar with Mediterranean 1 conditions . As a sign of confidence in ' his handling of any situation that might have arisen the department this afternoon issued the following statement : " Capt . Benton C. Decker . now coat- ' manding the U. S. S. Tennessee in Turkish waters , is an officer with an excellent record during his service of twenty-seven years , since graduation from lac Nava/ Academy to which he was appointed from Tilinois in 18 . C3 . " He has had considerable experience in duty similar to that which he is now performing in Turkish waters . He was in command of the S S. Chester during the war between Italy and Turkey . During this war the Chester spent ' considerable time in Tripolitan waters looking out for the interests of Ameriduties were well performed by Capt . Decker , who had similar duties White in command of the Chester in San @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Decker was promoted to Captain on July 1 . and was ordered to duty on the staff at the Navel War College . from which duty he was detached to command the Tennessee in August last when that vessel was sent to Europe for the relief of distressed Americans in the war zone . " Like Tampico Incident . As the facts now stand before the department they bear some resemblance to the details of the Tampico incident .. There a boat 's crew of American sailors was arrested as the boat came alongside the docks , taken from under the protection of the American flag which was flying from the boat 's stern , paraded through the streets , and detained for several hours . In the present instance the Turks did not wait for the heat to approach the shore , but fired at it while it was still under way . Unofficial diepatches say three shots were fired and that the American flag was flying , as it certainly was , from -- the boat 's stern . The North Carolina ann the Tennessee have for some time been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Navy Department today that under the regulations , at the request of the Ambassador or local Consul , or at his own discretion , the commander of an American w.lrrthio would be justified in using force if necessary to the preservation of American lives on shore . In general , the regulations allow wide discretionary powers to the commanding officer , but expressly declare that , whether he act on his own initiative or on the direction of the Ambassador or Consular officers , full responsibility shall remain with the commanding officer , who is answerable only to his immediate superior . The regulaticns direct that official calls shall be made upon the proper local authorities . After directing that conferences be held , when possible , with diplomatic or Consular representatives in cases where injury is threatened to the United States or its citizens , the regulations make it plain that self-preservation or the preservation of the lives of American citizens or the American honor is a natural right vested in the commander in chief of the local naval force . " The conditions calling for the application @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regmiation , " can not be defined . beforehand , but must be left to . the sound judgment of the responsible officers , who are to perfor mtheir duties in this respect with all possible care and forbearance . "                     