@@683628

txt There is a certain flavor of the expected in the disclosure that the sinister M. CAILLAUX included among his seditious activities an attempt to stir up ill-feeling between France and America , and there is a great deal of it in the disclosure that his argument was based on economic considerations : In his ' conversation M. CAILLAUX had also expressed opinions hostile to the United States , represented by him as ? an economic adversary and a competitor against Central Europe . If there is absolutely - nothing on which hatred between nations can be based ; if your most earnest researches fail to di7over anything but perfect good-will fall back on economic determinism . It is a witch-word , a cabalistic symbol , at the sound of which men lose their reason , fall on their faces , and grovel . It is one of those magic words in the fairy tales which instantly struck the hearer dumb . In this war - it has been a factor'of incalculable force . The theory that all wars are simply clashes between rival economic needs means that all men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there is no such thing as a soul . It is implicitly accepted by Germany . ' It is believed as a creed by millions who do not know the name of it . Thus we have seen German writers accounting for America 's entrance into the war by such explanations as that our object is to destroy Europe by exhaustion . Most Socialists who oppose the defense of the nations against German aggression believe wholly in this superstition , for Socialists are the most superstitious of all men . The Crusaders did not go to the Holy Land impelled by economic determinism , by a necessity of finding markets in the Near East . The Crescent was not carried into Byzantium and Spain by economic determinism . But ' the slaves of this more than usually ugly and repellent superstition tell you that in an industrial society there ' can be no other kind of war than a stomach-filling one . The American Revolution was not fought for liberty , the soul had nothing to do with it ; it was purely a matter of the belly . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belief that all men 's actions are determined by the question of material advantage , advantage to the individual or the group of individuals . In an age which , as fast as it dethrones the old gods , falls more abjectr ly at the feet'of the squalid superstitions it creates for itself , the scientist is the Druid . The comparison is a. little unfair , for the objects of Druidic worship were infinitely nobler than the miserable fetiches which man makes in a commercial age . Even Odin was a grander god than the gastric juices . Man must worship , and if he is deprived of GOD he worships Science with a far fiercer and more unreasoning bigotry . Since Science can map the stars and string telephone wires , of course it must be able to do everything , ariU can probe the soul of man . It - codify . the ? soul 's laws just as it can survey a railroad . But the new god has its limitations . It can map what can be mapped , diagnose what can be diagnosed . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is only one error in its mapping of man , and that is in treating him solely as a machine . A machine will always do what you expect of it , and if it does not you can ascertain the reasoti . But if man is a'machine , he differs from all other machines in a certain something which Science refuses to call the soul , but which it has never succeeded in-:calling anything else . Since it can not explain , or even define or understand , this thing , it ignores . it and proceeds to account for man 's actions by those of his parts which it can explain , define , and understand . This is fine and easy and comfortable ; but suppose ft should be that in the very things you are interpreting his actions are dictated , - not by the parts you can explain and define , but by the one thing which has always eluded you ? -                     