@@684793

txt ARTICLE X. AND POINT XIV . This Country Morally Bound to Accept " Heart of the Treaty . " To the Editor of The New York Times : . The reservations to the treaty of Versailles adopted by the majority of the Senate have been the subject of widespread discussion , but apparently one point has been entirely Ignored . As this point involves the honor of the American people , the writer ventures to bring it to your attention . . Much might profitably be written about other phases of the question , but hero the purpose is to concentrate on one point only . Article X. of the covenant provides that " the members of the League undertake to respect and preserve as against external aggression the territorial integrity and existing politica  --  Kindependence of all members of the League . " The reservation adopted by the majority of the Senate , whatever way its delphic meaning ho construed , emasculates this article of the covenant to the verge of extinction . As is well known , Article X- of the covenant is of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world order . In the opinion of the Writer , it is not sufficiently realized to what extent this policy is already binding in a moral sense upon the American people . In the negotiations that led to the armistice of Nov. 11 , 1918 , it was agreed that the future peace should be concluded on the basis of President Wilson 's address to Congress of Jan. 8 , 1918 , and the principles subsequently enunciated by him . The last of the Fourteen Points provides that " a general association of nations must be formed under specific covenants for the purpose of affording mutual guarantees of political inctependence and territorial integrity to ' great and small States alike . " This is virtually identical with Article X. of the treaty except that the guarantee stipulated here is a more definite obligation than is the mere undertaking to respect and preserve as against external aggression of the covenant . It is well known that there was considerable opposition on tile part of the Governments associated with the United States to accepting the Fourteen Points as the basis of the peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward them and toward the enemy Governments an unquestionable obligation to carry into effect the Fourteenth Point . As soon as this point was by definite agreement accepted as one of the bases of the peace , Article X. of the covenant , or one with a more definite guarantee , became morally binding upon the United States . Any attempt to evade this obligation after it had served its purpose in securing the cessation of hostilities and in determining the funda ? mental terms of the settlement will inevitably lay the United States open to the charge of bad faith . It can not be maintained that President Wilson was exceeding the powers conferred upon him by the Constitution when this obligation was incurred . The principles that he advocated as the basis of the settlement were , in general , enthusiastically acclaimed by the American people . When he announced them to the preceding Congress there was manifest no opposition and no hostile action was attempted . No candid student of affairs can contend that the Fourteenth Point played a - part in the elections which brought into being the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to disavow this obligation , despite the fact that it was incurred in the normal course of ) international relations with the acquiescence of the American people and Congress , but it can do so only at the cost of national honor . HISTORICUS . New York , Nov. 29 , 1919 . Gas in Warfare . To the Editor of Teti : New York Timep : Your editorial article under the above heading quotes General March as saying that gas on the front in Prance was , after all , a humane weapon of war . The use of gas was damnable and diabolical . In April , 1915 , at the second battle of Ilpres , where the Germans used it for IV first time , tho British and French forcer were literally murdered . They were without any protection whatsoever . You say that-against the Sudanese or any wild people it would have to be regarded as cruel and abhorrent . The Turcos , poor patriotic French colonial native troops of North Africa , were In this battle and many died , groaning and choking , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and possessed excellent counterprotection ; but no one but a Hun would have used it in 1915 . " ONE OF THE OLD CONTEMPTIBLES . " Newark , N. J .. Nov. 27 , 1919. 