@@684442

txt THE LEAGUE AND THE OPPOSITION . Views of Readers on the Arguments in the Senate Against the Proposed Constitution . A ' good party slogan is always a desideratum in American politics , and if the present attitude of a group ofleading . Republicans , such Borah , Lodge , Poindexter , and Fess , is going finally to dominate the party as a whole , the fitting slogan is easily found . Mr. Lodge has only to turn three or four pages in his doubtless well-thumbed copy of the fourth book of " Paradise Lost , " and the words will stare him in the face : " - Evil , be thou my good ! " Of- course it was . Satan into whose mouth Milton puts these striking words , but they are rather more than less ap  --  ropriate on that account . Satan had looked the ground over and was satisfied that he had no chance at beating good at its own game . The only thing left was to substitute something else for the good , and he had no confidence even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , be thou my good ! " and has Possibly rested content ever since , that it is " better to reign in hell , than serve in heaven . " No prominent Republican comes out as an opponent of the President 's peace policies , including especially the League of Nations , without thinking it necessary to assail the President 's idealism , and to insist that neither the American soldiers who fought in the war nor the American millions who supported them were actuated by any motive extending beyond the shadow of their own vines end fig trees , personal or national . For any thought that those hundred thousand boys who are here no more felt any stirring of the heart for the broader ' good of humanity , they have only the sneer of contempt . I submit in all seriousness that Satan 's words , " Evil , be thou my good ! " ' fit such an attitude of mind as nicely as the best made shell ever fitted the most accurately bored cannon . But I question whether they fit a very large portion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Within a very short time I have heard three great religious leaders , all Republican by tradition and practice , all of nation-wide renown , publicly thanking God for what President Wilson is and Is doing . And what these three men were so publicly doing , thousands of other Republican religious and moral leaders arc doing all over the land . There is a belt of States reaching from ocean to ocean in which the Republican Party still contains a very heavy measure of the moral element which went into it as a result of the vicissitudes of the anti-slavery discussion and the civil war . No considerable part of that element will join the men who think it good politics to sneer at the idea that America was actuated largely by altruistic motives , vague though in many cases they may have been , in entering the great war . Nor are the sons of the fathers who were willing to see all necessary constitutional readjustments in order to do our national duty in the eradication of domestic slavery likely to be thrown into a shiver of cowardice at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for our international duty in eradicating , so far as possible , the curse of war . If Senator Lodge and Representative Fess imagine that they can safely throw this element of their party overboard and compensate for it by taking on the Reeds and Vardamans of the opposition , their political sagacity is somewhat at fault . If " Evil , be thou my good ! " - is to be virtually their motto , they may as well " go the whole hog , " with the illustrious author of that motto , and prepare an easier transition to their . assured future by making up their minds from the outset that it is " better to reign in hell than serve in heaven . " For the path upon which they are setting their feet does not lead even to the political heaven at Washington , much tees to : say bleteer , W. H. JOHNSON . Granville , Ohio , Feb. 27 , 1019 . A Moral Question . To the Editor of The New York Times : Those Senators who assert that the League of Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Constitution succeed only in proving their own misunderstanding of the true nature of national sovereignty , and likewise of the conditions in which the American Constitution itself came into existence . In the light of then pre-existent and therefore determining law , that Constitution was the most unconstitutional document ever established . It would never have been established at all had it been considered as a legal document merely . But fortunately for us all , it was not so considered . The American Constitution represented not a justifiable legal thesis , but a vital moral victory . Its original establishment , and its subsequent virtue and authority , derive from that moral element  --  that ability of cur ancestors to conceive their political problem in moral terms . To confine the League of Nations to the limits of legal formula or crystallized social habit is to betray the tremendous moral problem , and consequently the tremendous moral opportunity , now confronting the world . In considering the League as primarily moral in cause , though essentially political in effect , let us meet those Senators on their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral foundation , let us concede the fact that the League will have many political effects , among which the chief will concern our attitude toward the idea of national sovereignty . It is important , first , that American citizens realize why the League of Nations can only be understood as a moral victory , and why it will be betrayed if confined within political limits , whether so confined unconsciously by its friends or consciously by its foes . Take the case of a burglar and a mechanic . Both use the same tools and both depend upon the same technical skill . Should we permit any one to judge between them by comparing merely the degree of skill or the completeness of mechanical equipment the two happened to possess ? It might be easy enough to find a burglar having better tools and more skill ' than the average mechanic , yet what an absurdity to set up a claim of superiority for the burglar on that account ! Granted the preliminary resolution  --  whether a man sets out to become a burglar or an honest mechanic  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in either case . As even a child ' would appreciate , the point to strike at in arriving at judgment between burglar and mechanic is not the difference or lack of difference in mechanical equipment , but in the quantity and quality of preliminary resolution . In like manner the true difference between those who advocate the League of Nations and those who oppose it consists in an opposition between two kinds of preliminary resolutions which Can not be estimated nor even perceived if the point of view be confined to the legal equipment involved . The question peace-loving Americans should be asking Messrs . Borah et al . is simply this : Have you resolved that America , in association with other responsible and sovereign nations , shall play the part of honest mechanic or have you resolved that America shall play the part of the burglar ? The question is by no means unjust . It searches to the heart of the opposition they raise -- the insistence that the League of Nations will limit unjustifiably our national sovereignty . To the , ordinary mists the issue is clear . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a new political instrument , flexible enough to undergo continual development , which serves the new suffering and the new faith of mankind . It does not resist the American Constitution nor the American spirit . On the contrary , it gives them further scope and stronger guarantee by extending them around the entire world . Must Washington himself come in person to assure these Senators that peace on earth is not un-American ? Or what other proof do they require , and what other positive contribution do they bring to mankind in its hour of need ? HORACE HOLLEY . New York , March 1 , 1919 . A French View of a Century Ago . To the Editor of The New York Times : Today while reading an analytica study of the human species by the distinguished French zoologist , M. Le Baron Cuvier , ( 1769-1832 , ) in his essay " Les Bimanes ou L'Homme , " I came across a passage apropos to the subject foremost in the minds of thinking people everywhere : " Un mal plus irremediable est rebus de la force : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ est aussi la seule espece qui soft continuellement en guerre avec elle-mime . Les sauvages se disputent leurs forets , les nomades leurs paturages ; its font aussi souvent qu'ils le peuvent des irruptions chez les agriculteurs pour s'emparer sans peine des resultats de longs travaux . Lee peuples civilises eux-memes , loin d ' ? tre satisfaits de leurs jouissances , combattent pour les prerogatives de l'orgueil ou pour le monopole du commerce . De ls la necessity des gouvernements pour diriger les guerres nationales , et pour reprimer ou reduire k des formes reglees les querelles particulieres . " The great naturalist thus affirmed as an innate peculiarity of the genus homo the more or less constant disposition of peoples or nations , whether savage or civilized , to make war on one another . He also recognized the necessity of the organization of influences sufficiently powerful either to control national quarrels or to repress wars altogether . With a God-like perception of our true nature , combined with a knowledge of what was ' best for the human race , thus Cuvier more than one hundred years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevention of wars . RICHARD H. GAINES . New York , March 3 , 1919 . The Founders . To the Editor of The New York Times : Founders and confounders of the League of Nations are engaging in bitter controversy . Political partisans are afraid that its establishment may glorify their political opponents ; timid , suspicious and selfish people fear that it may some time in the future cost us something in treasure or in blood , or that we may have to give up something of our national independence or sovereignty for the good of the world . Some seem to think we can be in the world and not of the world , a sort of hermit nation , reaping benefits but escaping world responsibilities and duties . They forget that , under the old system , although with the best will possible to keep out on the part of some of our national leaders , it was not possible to keep out . In a recent issue of the Stars and Stripes there is a cartoon representing EL section of the torn and devastated country known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ row of crosses on little mounds . The cartoon is named : " The Real Founders of the League of Nations . " Perhaps this carries no message to the politicans who are doing their utmost to undo what those who lie underneath the crosses did , but to us whose nearest and dearest gave their lives those crosses make a most solemn and imperative appeal . Their outstretched arms cry out to us : " Have we died in vain ? " What answer shall their country give ? R. M. G. New York , March 1 , 1919 . A Latin-American Possibility . To the Editor of The New York Times : Has it ever occurred to the gentlemen in Congress who are so opposed to the United States joining the League on account of its being an imaginary infringement of the Monroe Doctrine , that in case they succeed something like this is liable to happen : that England , France , Italy . and Japan . together with Argentina , Chile , and Brazil , in South America , and many other countries in Europe , can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League . and that in such case the Monroe Doctrine would have very little value , especially if Latin America is a recognized part of it ? To think that Latin America will be willing to remain isolated forever , relying solely upon the protection of the United States , without making alliances with other powers that will guarantee the territorial integrity of our republics . ( not only against Europe and Asia , but against this country itself , as witnessed by the taking of the Panama zone from Colombia , ) is to deny us our sovereign power to associate with whomever we please . Let us have the League of Nations or Latin America will probably form a league of its own in combination with other friendly and powerful States . ; R. MUNOZ TEBAR , New York , March 1 , 1919 . Senator Lodge 's Past Opinions . To the Editor of The New York Times : In view of Senator Lodge 's unvarying opposition to the League of Nations , it is perhaps not unfair to recall that in 1906 it was the Senator who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan to have the United States represented - at the Algeciras Conference to settle the affairs of Morocco , affairs in which the United States had little direct interest . This conference was one of the first attempts to secure international control of situations which might well lead to war , and apparently , in spite of the Monroe Doctrine , the Senator highly approved of it at the time . The fact that the United States ' invitation was due to Kaiser Wilhelm is perhaps irrelevant . Also irrelevant . perhaps , that the plan had the approval of a Republican Prpsident and Secretary of State . ROBERT E. ROGERS , Massachusetts Institute or Technology , March 1 , 1919.                     