@@682664

txt Twenty-two thousand French civilians , men , women , youths and young girls have been evicted to date from Lille , Roubaix and Tourcoing , I am told . The greater part have been distributed over the rich agricultural sections of France in German hands . The balance have been distributed among industrial centres . Returning from the Somme front I availed myself of the opportunity of spending a day visiting the evicted civilians in Sedan and thirteen surrounding hamlets and villages . And while the lack of time prevented checking up the . truth of the statements made to me by the civilians and consequently forming a final verdict of this German military measure , enough concrete material was obtained to serve as an incentive and a working basis for some official neutral commission of investigation . My impression gained after seeing and talking with the male evicted civilians in Sedan was unfavorable if their statements were true . The impression made upon me by the men , women , girls and youths in the country district around Sedan was very favorable . To understand the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinction is made between " conscripts " of military age and the other evicted persons , women and males of non-military age . Most or the civilians appear to have been taken from Lille , Roubaix , and Tourcoing in April or ' May . An officer of the General Staff , who spoke with authority , told me that of the 22,000 civilians 2,000 had been sent back to their homes either because they had been sent away by mistake , as in the case of those of higher social status , because they were physically incapable of working , because they were single women without near relatives , or for other valid reasons . The officer added that quite a number of those who returned to Lille had asked to be brought back to Sedan because living conditions were better for them here . He further stated that the difficulties of feeding the masses in Lille , Roubaix , and Tourcoing , particularly the unemployed , had forced ' the German military authorities to resort to the policy of evicting the inhabitants . Reasons for Banishment . I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nonmilitary pressure from important strategic railroads by reducing the amount of food necessary to be brought to Lille . Roubaix. and Toucoing for the civilian populations and even a certain degree of altruism influenced the military authorities to take this measure , the permanent evicting of 20,000 natives could not seem sufficient to relieve the economic pressure in these cities alone to Justify the step . It seems probable that theprimary motive of the military authorities was the necessity of obtaining agricultural workers to get in the bountiful harvest in northern France , and . in the second place , for the purpose of rotting out the evils resulting from ? nemployment in the big cities , and the resultant , difficulties of food distribution in the thirdplace . The status of the men who have been transferred here , as well as the local conscripts , men of military age , appears to be that of interned enemy civilians with approximately the same restrictions and treatment . This treatment , however , in some respects is more liberal , notably in the way of correspondence privileges and payment for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been transferred here is less clear . They are allowed larger privileges with comparativelY mild restrictions . They , too , receive wages , and particularly in the country districts their living conditions could not be better . Cottage System Introduced . The conditions in the district about Sedan are stamped by the character of its military commander , an invalided active Major , humane and personally solicitous for the welfare of his charges . He told of the many difficulties he was suddenly called upon to solve when he had 700 civilians thrust upon him , mostly with little baggage except what they had on their backs . He solved the problem by introducing the cottage system , twelve to sixteen individuals in a house , according to its size , separate houses for men and women , except for married couples and relatives , who were permitted to have a separate household establishment . Girls and young women without responsible relatives he placed in the care of married couples . Marital morality is strictly enforced by him . He told how three couples from the western cities in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all . They were promptly separated when he discovered it . The first village I visited was Francheval , typical of the living conditions of the evicted civilians . Thirty-six per- , sons , including eight women , are quartered in two large houses in which immaculate cleanliness reigns . Each household has two members to cook , two to clean , and a responsible head of the household to act as general housekeeper who is held strictly accountable by the German military authorities for the cleanliness and good order of the house . These persons are not permitted on the streets of the village after 10 o'clock at night ; otherwise they are not watched . They hav2 laissez passers and are permitted to visit around in the neighboring villages . Their work is truck gardening and farming , their payment being according to the kind of work and their individual efficiency . Heads of households get extra pay . No Punishments Inflicted . The major has had no case as yet requiring punishment or penalty in his district . There was much dissatisfaction among the evicted civilians at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were mostly socialistically inclined , could not get used to country life for some time ; to the change from loafing in Lille to tilling the soil . All these persons that I saw looked browned and healthy , well fed land many even happy . Others obviously still chafed under the simple country life and longed for metropolitan high living . The further difficulty here was that the city people were neither clothed nor equipped for agricultural pursuits . None knew anything about farming . Each household has a list of Its members pasted in the hallway . On one list I noted the ( following occupations : Raker , chauffeur , laborer , fisher , mechanic , printer . These persons quartered here have the right to write one postal a month to French prisoners in Germany , the same as the ordinary inhabitants . In addition to the regular inspection rounds by the military commander of the district and the inspection by the sergeant majors in charge locally a German military staff doctor visits each village twice a. month . He visits each household occupied by evicted civilians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In cases when he is summoned by telephone from Sedan the medical attention is free . The enforced visitors as well as the natives in addition to the required work in the fields may till truck gardens of their own , both seeds and potatoes being supplied by the German Government , which pays the dwellers and the owners of the land a lease for the use of It . The rent is paid when the harvest is in . Fermented Flour Supplied . The new residents In this neighborhood have not availed themselves of gardening privileges in large numbers , however . They are not required to work on Sundays . They are fed by the American Relief Commission , and receive bread , potatoes , and meat free , also what vegetables they raise . From their earnings they may buy vegetables and other foodstuffs . Their food , which i tasted , was nourishing and good except for the present bread . Complaint was made here about the bread , which was made of fermented flour supplied by the American Commission . Apparently one entire flour shipment has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ household heads . M. Louis Legarde , who owns a bakery in Roubaix , where he has a mother of 80 years . He said : " It does n't go as well as in peace times , but we understand . C'est la guerre . " He had no complaint to snake except about the fermented flour . I also talked with Adele Csyet , a laundress of Lille , whose only regret was that she was not dressed up in her Lille finery for photographing . At Villers  --  Cernay , I saw fifty banished civilians , all men . Conditions here are equally good . The same is true of Illy . Here in the living room of a banished family the German Major had permitted them to hang up a small French flag , the first tricolor I had seen within the German lines except on a French aeroplane which had been shot down . Why not ? " the Major philosophized . " It makes them happy . " The work in the fields varies according to the weather and the time of year . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The factory workers . " the Major said , " grew very tired at first from the work in the fresh air . One of our principal difficulties , however , was getting these people accustomed to German cleanliness and German punctuality . It is interesting that the natives have implicit trust in the German officers . They know they are just and they insist on telling their troubles to the commandant . They always insist on seeing me . A Sergeant is not good enough for them . " And the Major smiled . At Daigny fifty-six males are living in a large abandoned chateau , the glass conservatory serving for a dining hall . The chief of the chateau colony is a Fleming , Louis Fay , Secretary General of the Mayor 's office at Roubaix . These were the best quarters I had seen . At Illy sixty-seven conscripts from the evacuated territory , sturdy young fellows of military age , are lodged in a Summer hotel turned into a barracks . They are treated differently from the others , receiving no laissez passers . They are under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courtyard , except on Sundays , when the Corporal , in peace times a teacher , who is in charge of the hotel camp , takes them for educational and recreational tramps across the country as in the case of German recruits . The American Committoe gives the food , except the vegetables , which the conscripts raise in their own garden . Meat 15 furnished by the German Army authorities . There is a canteen on the premises where chocolate , cigars , cigarettes . and lemonade , &c.,; are sold slightly above cost , the canteen profits being divided as bonuses among the best workers . Their occupation during the week Is woodchopping . This conscript barraks made the best impression of any similar institution I had seen . The Germans had set up football goalposts in the exercise yard and had built a bathing pavilion at a small lake near the house . The conscripts eagerly avail themselves of the opportunity of bathing . At St. Menges eleven men and fifteen women from the evacuated territory are quartered under good sanitary living conditions . At Nouvion Mme. Jeanne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the German officers . Mme. Brouck said : " Tres ' Wen . " Vrigne , Meuse and other villages visited showed similar conditions . The unfavorable side of the picture was in the industrial and roadworker barracks in Sedan . The barracks themselves were models for internment camps , clean , airy , whitewashed factory buildings . Soup and the other foods served were good except the bread , which again was bad . Some of the inmates would like a little more change of diet . They complained of getting too much rice . The men are under surveillance , are restricted in their liberties , and subject to discipline as ' n the case of the conscripts I had seen in the country districts . They work eight hours a day and receive 80 centimes ( 16 cents ) a day as wages .                     