@@683165

txt There has been no great attack or counterattack today . East of Arras , after three days of battle , the British hold good lines , with almost all the high and commanding positions south of Scarpe , and the enemy so far has made no further effort to recapture ground . by sending out masses of men behind heavy curtain fire . He has paid a heavy Price already in these endeavors , and is reorganizing and replacing his shattered divisions and carrying back his wounded to join that vast army of cripples , blind Men , and nerve-broken men who in Ger : - many are hideously eloquent of the truth and reveal the Mockery of official history . And there are other men in the German ranks like the old Hanoverian gentleman I mentioned yesterday , who sits sucking his pipe and saying : " War is mad . It is all mad . lt is mad  --  madmad . " I do not think that we have seen the last of these German counterattacks between Ga ! vrelle , north of the Scarpe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are signs that the enemy is Withdrawing his heavy guns further back while he Still has time , and is now firing at longer ' range . One thing seems certain to me . He must regain some of his lost positions or get back another three miles or so to the Hindenburg line . if he wishes to escape from enormous losses under the constant British gunfire , directed by complete observation of his present position . Deeds of the Airmen . ? In the daily official reports a brief picture has been given of the battle which has raged in the skies While the earthmen have been struggling below . Truly during these last few days the air service has fought wonderfully , and some day one of these young men who go flying out to engage the enemy in the clouds or to search out and signal hostile batteries or to swoop low and scatter infantry and machine gunners with a shower of bullets , must write the tale of it all . There have been hours when I have overheard the cont.nual tattoo of the Lewis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been tracked out with white shrapnel clouds , following the British flying squadrons , engaged hotly with hostile machines . One can not follow the progress of these aerial battles . It is only rarely that one can distinguish the German machine from the British except by the cloudlets of the British anti-aircraft barrage , but far and high one sees daring specks chasing through the blue cf the sky , touched sometimes by sunlight so that for a moment they are all golden or glistening Or white as snowflakes , and down to one comes the loud drone of the engines and the little hammerlocks of the Lewis guns . British soldiers on the march stare up at war above their leads , so aloof from them and so dreamlike , and men on the supply columns get their glasses out and laugh When one of the British kite balloons is hauled down suddenly with great haste . " Old Rupert has got the wind up , " they say ; " . a Boche plane must be sneaking round . " It is no joke when . a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a battery , signaling back to his guns . i was in such a situation the other day and had to . crouch with the gunners below the bank while shrapnel bullets from the British " Archies " whipped the ground about . . Red Wings have come into the sky , for titenew German . fighting machines have crimson planes , .00 that they look like butterflies when the , sun is on them . The enemy airmen have been trying to compete with the . Britilh by swooping low above marching troops and gun teams and using their machine guns in a way which adds new perils to . war . Brutish Darling in Raids . But though they fight behind their own lines with great skill and courage , they do not come over the British country in any such numbers as the British invade theirs . ' The British airmen go daily far back across the German lines , taking thousands of . photos , engaging enemy squadrons so that they are held back from the line of battle , and dropping . tens of ' explosives'upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( for they are absurdly young in average age ) take all these deadly risks and do all this . work of terror with the same spirit as did the young gentlemen of England who rode out with . Sir John Chandos and Sir Walter Manny to seek combat with the French knights many hundred years ago along roads where the modern . British men at arms go marching today . . During this recent ? fighting one of them challenged a German ' albatross , who accepted fight , - and .. for . an hour . 41ey. did every trick ksfowir to ' flying , stallir.g , banking , sideslipping , and looping in order to get in the . first shot . It was the German who tired first , " though he showed himself master of his ma chine . There are boys in the British air service who have killed six or seven Germans in single combat and a few who have accounted for many more and go off again for rim-pings , hunting men as if on a good adventure . Yet they know the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have all the luck all the time . When their turn comes , it is quick to the end , or if hit and left alive they do amazing things up there in the high skies to save the final crash . A few evenings ago two of the young British officers were attacked by five hostile aircraft and both were wounded , one in seven places , but they destroyed one of the German airplanes and ? landed safely , though their own machine was pierced by in any bullets . On another evening of the . battle of Arras two German aircraft were engaged by one of the British and were forced to land , though one of the BritWI officers had his collarbone broken by a machine gun bullet . Day after ( lay these episodes are reported and the machines of the officers do not come home . But when another dawn comes the British air squadrons rise again and fly over the storm of the battlefield , as 1 see them on the wing over Arras , and away . There is no romance except when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exultant joy in struggling through the snowstorm to drop high explosives on a distant town . During this battle of Arras the British airmen have made thousands of flights over the German lines , have engaged . in hundreds of combats with hostile squadrons , and at the cost of their own lives in many cases have saved the British infantry great losses by keeping down the fire of the German batteries , destroying their kite balloons , signaling preparations for the German counterattacks , photographing the enemy 's trenches and positions , and blinding his own power of observation to some extent , at least , by chasing hfs aeroplanes away from the lines on a day when the British infantry is not hard pressed . It is good to pay this tribute to the flying men , whose exploits are not much recorded , though they are always overhead and though the droning song of their engines is always the accompaniment of battle down below . Downed 100 German Machines . By The Associated Press . BRITISH HEADQUARTERS ' IN FRANCE , April ** overcast skies are giving the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enabling them to male efforts to reorganize their badly damaged squadrons ; for in four days ' fighting the British have accounted for nearly 100 enemy mach ines . The British airmen were praying for continuance of clear weather , as their worrying tactics had provoked the Germans into heavy fighting , but ' clouds gathered yesterday , and today also the skies were overcast . In consequence , the airplane hunt was restricted . Owing to the heavy inroads made by British airmen , the German kite balloons are extremely timid these days , although the Germans depend mostly on them for artillery observation . They seldom attempt overhead observation with airplanes . The only aircraft seen on this side of the line are fast fighting scouts , which attempt raids and scurry home again in the clouds .                     