@@680736

txt H. W. Bel- ; kna.p , Chief Inspector of the Division of Safety Appliances of the United States Interstate Commerce Commission , left Washington this afternoon for New Haven with instructions to make an examination into all the circumstances connected with the wreck on the New York , New- Haven &; Hartford Railroad this morning . Local Inspectors of the commission ' have also been ordered to the scene of the wreck . Charles C. McChord , the member of the commission in charge of wreck investigations , will probably leave here for New Raven to-morrow to conduct an inquiry into the wreck in behalf of the United States Government . Immediately after the Interstate Commerce Commission heard of the wreck Commissioner McChord telegraphed to General Manager Woodward of the New Haven system , demanding that none of the debris of the wreck be destroyed . This action of Mr. McChord was the outcome of the fact that at the time of the Stamford wreck on the New Haven in June the damaged cars were immediately destroyed by order of the railroad company . The commission believes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Commissioner McChord was not disposed to discuss to-day 's wreck for the reason that he might ultimately have to pass upon the reports to the commission concerning it . All he cared to say was that the commission would make a thorough and efficient probe of this latest disaster on the New Haven line . Mr. McChord called attention , however , to the report of the Interstate Commerce Commission on the Stamford wreck on Tune 12 , and marked the following paragraphs of that report : Modern steel equipment for high-speed passenger trains should be installed at the earliest possible time , as recommended in previous reports of this commission , and legislation fixing such a time should be enacted without delay . In its twenty-fifth annual report to Congress the commission called particular attention to the desirability of all cars used in passenger train service being constructed of steel . The . New Haven Railroad , however , is among those railroads which have made comparatively slow progress in the matter of steel car construction . Establishment of safer and more efficient operation of this railroad is immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of roads is not to be called for and jilstified in the interest of public safety . Commissioner MeChord made it evident through this means that he was inclined to attribute the great loss of life in to-day 's wreck to the fact that the coaches in which most of those weft killed were made of wood . Bills Pending for Steel Cars . In pointing to what the committee had to say about the Stamford wreck , he emphasized the commission 's recommendation in its last annual report , that legislation should be enacted requiring railroads to substitute steel for wooden cars . This recommendation was a repetition of what had been said by the commission , in Its annual report for 1911 . While that recommendation has not been followed by Congress , bills are pending in the House of Representatives to carry it into effect . After considerable effort the commission procured the enactment of a law requiring railroads to furnish steel mail coaches , a certain percentage to be substituted annually for wooden coaches until the steel equipment was complete . But the commission 's recommendation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on by the National Legislature . A good many railroads , however , have voluntarily begun to build steel passenger coaches . The New Haven Road is one of these , but according to the Interstate Commerce Commission it has been slower than others of the big railroad companies . Representative Talcott of New York . who introduced the bill in the present Congress to compel all railroads to use steel cars for passenger , baggage . express and mail purposes , said to-day that Congress must take measures to prevent such disastrous wrecks as occurred this morning by enacting a law prohibiting the use of wooden cars by railroad companies . " My bill , " said Mr. Talcott , " is not an emergency measure , but I intend to press it for passage more vigorously than ever . It is indorsed by the Interstate Commerce Commission . The wreck in Connecticut to-day was a wooden affair . If all the cars in that train bad been of steel the telescoping would have been almost nothing and many lives would have been saved . The use of wooden cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negligence . ' Investigation Called For . Representative Britten of Illinois of ' fered a resolution in the House this afternoon calling upon the Interstate Commerce Commission to institute a thorough investigation of the latest New Haven wreck and report its findings to Congress with recommendations . Mr. Britten expected that the commission would make such an investigation on its own initiative . However , he introduced the resolution to emphasize the interest of Congress in ' the matter , and in order to have a special report frern the commission submitted to the legislative branch of the Government for consideration . The text of the Britten resolution follows : Whereas , Another wreck has occurred on the New York , New Haven &; Hartford Railroad , in which it is reported that about sixteen persons were killed and some thirty persons were more or less seriously injured ; and , Whereas , This is the fourteenth serious wreck which has occurred on this railroad during the last two years , wherein a total of some 420 persons have been killed or tutored . indicating one of three things ? either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and officials of the railroad company , or that the equipment of the railroad is obsolete , unsafe , and inadequate , or that the desire for dividends Is paramount to the proper protection of the traveling public ; therefore , be it Resolved , That the Interstate Commerce Commission be directed to make an immediate and thorough investigation as to the cause of accidents on the New York , New Haven &; Hartford Railroad , and report its findings to the Congress of the United States , with such recommendations for remedial legislation as to properly safeguard the traveling public on this railroad . Representative Levy of New York today introduced a bill , as a result of the latest New Haven wreck , for the prevention of railway accidents . It provides that the Interstate Commerce Commission shall test all automatic train stops that inventors may wish to install , and determine which are reliable and safe , and effective for use by interstate railways . Under the Levy plan any person found and convicted of molesting or tampering with safety a , ..  - -  pliances on interstate railways shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Levy bill provides also that all railroads engaged in Interstate traffic shall begin the permanent installation within six months of automatic stops of the type which the Interstate Commerce Commission May approve as reliable , and that railroads refusing to do so shall be fined $50 a mile for each mile not so equipped . 