@@678816

txt At the Macbeth Galleries until Feb. 16 two exhibitions are presenting vividly contrasting types of art for consideration by the public . F. Ballard Williams is represented both by his landscapes and by his figure subjects with landscape settings . The eighteen examples comprising the collection provide ' s &; sense of variety in subject and unity in point of view which calls for  --  admiration . The individual pictures are , however , by no means equally interesting , the landscapes rather pushing to the wall the more ambitious figure compositions . The latter suggest that in trying to achieve a greater realism and modernity in his ladies of romance Mr. Williams has fallen into a habit of overemphasis upon their presence in the picture . They are so human , so big , so insistent in their beauty that they monopolize the interest of the picture , and , handsome as they are , they are insignificant in comparison with the beauties of the landscapes surrounding them . No doubt we should have escaped this feeling of faint resentment that the figures should get between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnished us with a touchstone for his accomplishment in one picture in which he attains his highwater mark . This Voture , which he calls " 9n the Mountain , " is also a landscape with figures , but the latter are flung like a handful of gleaming jewels in the foreground of , a wonderful vista of hilltops , receding toward a far-distant horizon , their contours modeled with simplicity and grandeur in spite of the analytic method of representing the color gradations . The figures in this instance are small and exist as accents in the majestic scene , not as the principal elements of the composition , and the dainty fervor of their gestures and the brilliancy of their coloring emphasizes the lofty charms of the landscape , the enchanting qualities of which the artist distilled from nature . Decidedly , unless the human significance absorbs the painter , as was the case with Millet , or the figures and the landscape are painted equally in the spirit of dream as was the case with Watteau and , differently , with Giorgione , a painter who is possessed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his best to let his landscapes play the leading part in his compositions . The picture gains by it on every side . The Spanish paintings by F. Luis Mora in the outer gallery are strong in color and flooded for the most part with sunlight " The Torero , ' El Inmediato ' " is a well-drawn figure in the picturesque costume of the Spanish bullfighter , and the costume is painted with a lively sense of . color values , the variegated patch of canvas telling as a unity across the gal , lery . The gardens and courts of Granada , with their blue and green tiles , their gleaming mat bles , their splashing fountains , their bright flowers , their languid visitors in drooping , shawls , and their opulent sunshine , are not less interesting than the fiery Spanish dancers with their sympathetic audiences , each line a symbol of movement  --  altogether the collection is well worth visiting . ? ? At the Ralston Gallery is a group of paintings by Thomas S. Noble , who died in 1t107 at the age of 72 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after his period of study under Couture. at just the time when war subjects and subjects inspired by incidents of slavery were prominent in American art . One of the pictures on view is thus inspired . One shows John Brown blessing the negro child held up to him by it mother as he is coming out of prison . The soldier of the State Guard who attends him is in the Continental uniform , a characteristic bit of accuracy on the part of the artist , as that uniform was still worn by the State Guard at that time . Other pictures show German types , " A Resident of Munich " and " Dachau Peasant . " One in which a delightful dog is introduced is a portrait of a blind beggar of Paris ; a subject called " Rebellion " shows a man in the motley of a harlequin coaxing a rebellious monkey behind the scenes of a circus to do his part in rehearsal , - while a little girl looks on ; an early canvas , " The Salem Martyr , " has for its gloomy subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wicked little town , and the other canvases show an equal variety of subject . The technique Is that which pupils more docile than Manet , who left Couture 's studio the year Noble entered it , drew from Couture 's instruction , but the later pictures show a sturdier conception of character than the feeble old Frenchman ever managed to grasp . ? . ? Until the dates of sale , Thursday and Friday evenings , Feb. 10 and 11 , the Anderson Art Galleries will have on exhibition the fine collection of sporting prints and original drawings gathered by the late Oliver H. P. Belmont . These include among many interesting items some of the beautiful little water-color drawings by Thomas Rowlandson , whose genius in this class of work has never been appreciated for its best qualities .                     