@@684801

txt After hearing in Germany nothing but suggestions as to how much might be raised by America for use in regeneration after the war , it was a relief to bear talk of a very different character from an English banker . He is one of the heads of a great joint-stock combination which is not afraid to compare its deposits . with our twelve Federal Reserve centers . When Governor Strong of that system wig in England this Summer , this , English banker said how important he felt it to be to take lin hand at the earliest moment the paying off of Britain 's indebtedness to the United States . Mr. , Strong politely ( and truthfully ) remarked that America was not worrying about that . " No , " said the English banker , " but we are . In a sense we attach more importance to the comparatively small part of our indebtedness we owe ! abroad than to all we owe at home . " Over the afternoon cup of tea fn a private office which was once part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out to me that , so far from desiring credits in America , England should study how to do without them and how to pay off what she owed abroad . He said he was well convinced that the five great banking combinations of England , to say nothing of the others , were in a position so strong that they could handle all the needs of British business , including the utmost presently possible expansion of foreign trade . WAS'IT ; Br THE POLITICIANS This is not the way the politicians here talk , or even some rather second-rate bankers . They are making the fatal mistake of measuring by their wants rather than by their needs This is the secret of the extravagance of the British Government . Five months after a budget anticipating a deficits for the current government year of ? 300,000,000 , the Chancellor of the Exchequer cheerfully adds another 40,000,000 , and sends Ole House of Commons home happy , and not even a trifle suspicious , when he says ' that this further deficit is estimated on the assumption that the House itself will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House itself is in the mood to spend money  --  to increase old-age pensions and doles of all sorts ; to embark on costly experiments in the way of housing ; and to retain expensive armaments apparently for sentiment 's sake . ? A FADDISTS HEAVEN Who is to know what , is such a temper , it will vote next ? Every faddist , who can not see how things small in themselves multiply into wasteful millions , has some scheme for spending money . For instance , one dear lady not only considers that the feeding and dental care , and attendance previously derived from the mother of the home , shall be given to the children of the public schools ( called county council schools here , for the English " public school " is something quite different to ours ) , but believes it would be a beautiful idea to present every school child with a proper supply of pocket handkeschiefs , in order that they shall give the proper sanitary care to their dear little noses . A dozen handkerchiefs for five million children at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? of washing and renewals , might be undertaken at an initial expense of $12,500,000 ; with a . " department for the suppression of sniff " , headed by a peer . A luxury like this , Providing employment for a few thousand - further idlers on the government payroll , opens up enticing possibilities . EN GL AND NEEDS NO AMERICAN CREDITS This is , of course , an extreme instance , ' but it is to be r9mernbered that there were in Washington a year after the signing of the armistice over 90,000 superfluous clerical employes who were still drawing salaries . That number can be multiplied at least twice in London alone today , and even the salaried munitions workers here , ** three months ago , are 22,000 even now  --  all experienced barnacles clinging like grim death to the Ship of State . But England does not need credits in the United States . There are doubtless plenty of people , including some bankers , who would be willing ' to go further into debt . But the best bankers believe that with common sense and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with something like reasonableness in labor and conscience in production , it would be an excellent thing even if an emphatic and somewhat curt refusal of the United States brought the debt expanders to-their senses . EXTERNAL DEBT A moors LIEN One banker , a partner in one of the most highly honored private banking houses of London , whose head is a peer and a Hebrew of that aristocratic type which is seen at its best in England , pointed out to the writer the essential difference between the money Britain owes abroad and what is included in government indebtedness to her people . Even taking the proportions at eleven to one and allowing for what is owed to England by France , Italy and other countries as ultimately sound assets , he says that the debt to America is in a sense a mortgage , whereas the internal debt is merely an evidence of partnership . Obviously to a man of honor , and the English banker is above all things that , the external debt is the prior lien . Not only must its service be met first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the internal debt . DANGEROUS FATEBNAL I STU- LEG1SL.ATI ON This is sound sense , and more than one banker has talked in the strongest terms of the humiliating comparison between the great self-supporting British Empire , capable of producing , independently of Argentina , Brazil , or even the United States , everything its people really need , if not everything they think they want , and the spendthrift politician who is afraid to preach industry to labor , who encourages the extension of time-wasting amusements , who teaches that government may properly do for a people without debilitating them what they should far better do for them ; elves . It is to he feared that so far as the British Empire is run in London , this paternalistic point of view is at least dangerously in evidence , if not yet dominant This question of government regulation , government in the place of private charity , government to do those things which were formerly done by personal sacrifice and modest private endeavor , raises u problem which is far wider than the present opportunist government in England , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in power . ' Fur MOLLY or Ili POSSI .1 : mom sus In fact , the Socialists and their kindred by all sorts of names have been telling the iyorkers how much they are worth ( inflated ) , and how much can be done for them by act of Parliament or bureaucratic decree . There is , for instance , a government in Berlin with a cabinet of thirteen , mostly Socialists of various kinds and seven of them actually labor leaders . The chief embarrassment of the German Government at present is perhaps less the overwhelming indebtedness of Germany or the depression of the mark than the fending off of the forces of further revolution by frantic efforts to make good the impossible promises of the past .                     