@@683754

txt Upon the suggestion and counsel of Mr. LEOPOLD FREDERICK of the American Smelting Company , Chile has formally adopted the dollar for settlements in trade between Chile and the United States . Within the last year or two American companies , including the one above named , have sold fifty millions of dollars of drafts upon New York . The war has increased the volume of our trade with Chile , our imports of nitrate of soda alone in 1917 having trebled to a total of $60,000 , - 000 . There are export duties on nitrates , so necessary to farmers and munition makers , and hitherto they have been paid in pounds sterling drawn on London . The bankers ' commission on such business is the least of the objections to retaining the old exchange method . Pounds sterling no longer are of universal equal value . There is a different discount on the pound in every world centre , and there are bargains in pounds which oppress and bewilder traders . Pounds are not sent direct for the payments of bills even under normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the highest bid for them , and they reach London only after indirections of routing like those known to our bankers in domestic exchange operations . We have stopped that in domestic trade by par exchange within the Federal Reserve system , and telegraphic settlements of balances with the aid- of a gold fund in Washington . The ar rangement with Chile is similar in principle , however different in detail . One of the most important and significant effects is the equalization of the dollar and the pound in an international market . Under the plan now adopted , payments due in Chile may be made by drafts on the United States in dollars or on London in pounds . Their values are not decreed alike , but there can not be two values for the same weight of gold in the same market at the same time . Whatever small differences may exist for obscure causes will be minimized , and the values of the two coins of account be stabilized with benefit to both . The United States and Chile are now good friends , and are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this is a war measure in the sense that It grew out of the conditions of war which have made a plaything of sterling exchange , and have disturbed even the value of the dollar , which of all coins has adhered most nearly to gold . The world wants goods , not gold . Gold is discriminated against in several markets . In some countries banks will not pay it out , in others they are reluctant to receive it . There are even legal discriminations against gold , and general banking- practice against taking too much of it or parting with too much of it . To the extent that the facilitation of exchanges of goods promotes trade , goods . are cheapened to buyers and the price increased to sellers by the same operation . The best time for fixing the value of whatever is paid for goods is the time of making the bargain . Where time passes between sale and payment there is introduced an opportunity for speculation in the fluctuations which are as inevitable as the waves of the sea . This is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drafts will realize when they arrive in New York . Such drafts will come for payment by the shortest route , and not travel around the globe seeking a market at the most favorable price when sent for delivery at still another market . At the present time the trade of Spain is disadvantaged by the vagaries of pounds . Their values vary not with gold , which , theoretically , is invariable , but with balances of trade . The short-circuiting of exchange between the United States and Chile delivers their trade from these influences , so difficult to calculate or even understand . It is important even between these two countries . It opens a door to a Pan American exchange system on a sounder and more Intimate basis than otherwise could be established . It may even be said to bring nearer financial changes of worldwide significance . BAGEHOT dreamed of a universal coin . He was keen and far of sight beyond his time , but even he did not dream of a world credit system , with exchanges balanced by pen strokes and offsets as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a continental scale at Washington. , There is no insuperable obstacle in principle to establishing it on the scale of the globe , with settlements from a gold fund arranged by cable as they are arranged by telegraph at Washington . Exchanges of money and of goods would then be simplified and promoted as would be possible in no other way . The Chilean arrangement is the seed of future fruit , not for two nations , nor of Pan America , but of the world .                     