@@683663

txt There is an old jealousy , conscious and subconscious , between Massachusetts and its sometime possession , Province or District of Maine . The Bay State Puritans grabbed and annexed parts of Maine in the time of the English Commonwealth . The Maine secessionists were disgruntled even before the close of the Revolutionary War . Mostly Democrats , they were particularly sore on the Massachusetts Federalists in the War of 1812 , when they got scant protection . Nearly sixty years after Maine became a State , Mr. BLAINE , presenting the statue of a Maine worthy , poured out some amusing bile and truth in the Senate , to its amusement and the consternation and wrath of GEORGE F. HoAR . Even now the waggish , wicked Dingoes delight to pain their ancient stepmother . No sooner does the Massachusetts Constitutional Convention bestow upon the people , subject to their approval , the priceless blessing of the initiative and referendum than the sons of Belial in Maine , which enjoys that blessing , are hard at work to throw bricks at it . In 1916 the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great pith and moment . Lewiston , the Down East Babylon , was to be purified , a State journal was to be set up , a board of .. three Commissioners of Fisheries was to be created , a single Commissioner of Inland Fish and Game was to take the place of the present three Commissioners . What good man could object to any of these measures ? The lustration of Lewiston would be a work of virtue for the common good . A State paper , if a luxury , would be an amusing creation . With mere trifling details of the regulation of the game and salt and fresh water fish , what citizen that wishes to live up to the initiative and referendum would quarrel ? Behold what happened among envious souls bound to gibe the dear old stepmother ! Divers sinners began circulating petitions for a referendum on the four laws . This was a legitimate , it might even be called a necessary , proceeding , the main object of the referendum being to postpone the going into effect of a law or to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some parochial matter in which they have no interest . Maine , alas ! is to have no referendum . The curiosity of the Governor and the Attorney General led them to order an investigation of the petition-makers . The Governor proclaims that their industry and zeal will - not be rewarded . There are coarse accusations of perjury , forgery , and so on . If true , they are but ordinary incidents of the business . Surely a little negligence may be pardoned to gentlemen whose main object must have been to show the Massachusetts folks what a means of political salvation the I. and R. is . If they failed to get the referendum , at least they suspended the operation of four laws for a year , and not even the purification of Lewiston is so momentous as work for the referendum . When a State has the boon of boons ; why should n't it he used ?                     