@@680965

txt Chairman McCall and Commissioner Williams of the Public Service Commission announced yesterday that they were in favor of an express station on the B. H. T. line at Times Square , even though altering the tentative plan of the commission would mean a delay in opening the new Subway system . They made this statement at a meeting of the Brooklyn Transit Conference held at the Hotel Bossert . A resolution proposed by Thomas E. Clark , favoring the express station , was passed by the conference . Complaints against . the slow progress of subway construction , in Brooklyn had been received by the conference , and Chairman McCall and Commissioner Williams were invited to explain what was being done . Their statements were said by those who attended the conference to answer all the charges satisfactorily . In discussing the 13 . IL . T. line in Broadway , between Twenty-sixth and Fifty-ninth Streets , for which none of the construction contracts has been let so far , Chairman McCall said : " Plans are completed and ready for advertising on this part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stations . Should the comniii:simi , hoWever , change the Times Square Station to all express station , a delay of several months will ensue on account of such a change of plan . 1L , the report made by Alfred ( ' ravel chief engineer of the commission . en which the answers of the chairman were based , IL was pointed out that unless a number of the Brooklyn Ranid Transit lines , including the Broadway line , was completed by Jan. 1 . 1917 , the operating contract could nut come into force then , and this would mean an extension of it so that it might run Its full forty-nine years . The construction of the Broadway line , said Mr. Craven , as for north as Seventh Avenue , would have been put under contract by this time , " except for the controversy which has arisen with respect to the Times Square station . " Chairman McCall referred jestingly to the fact that those attending a conference to accelerate the construction of the subways had gone on record as favoring a change which would cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinion that so great would be the advantage of the express station at Times Square to Brooklynitcs that plans of the commission should be modified . Commissioner Williams took the same view . It was learned yesterday that although the protest of the Broadway- Association and the Times Square Association against putting only a local station at Times Square was made many months ago , and although these associations have been pressing their views on the commission ever since , the engineers of the commission have drawn plans for the construction in accordance with the tentative list of ' stations drawn up by the commission . It was said yesterday that if the commission decided in the end . notwithstanding tee opposition which has been aroused , Li favor of an express station at Fortyeighth Street it would he possible to advertise some of the other sections of the Broadway line for bids immediate : : . It will take two or three months at least to prepare the new construction plans , as the Times Square Station is one of the most difficult problems wMi which the engineers have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ putting at this point a local or an express station , it is said to be essential that construction should begin here at the earliest possible moment in order to provide the connection which will enable the old and new lines to be joined and to put the dual system in operation . The Broadway Association will meet this afternoon at the Hotel Martinique and will pass a resolution requesting the Public Service Commission to decide the Times Square question at the earliest possible moment . TO BEGIN RIVER TUBES SOON . Negotiations with Washington Hold Up B. R. T. Contracts . Alfred Craven , Chief Engineer of the Public Service Commission , said ? esterday he hoped to have the contracts for the construction of the two subway tunnels under the East River from the lower part of Manhattan ready for advertising by the middle of next month . One reason for the delay , he said , was the difficulty of dealing with the Federal authorities . The Government has control of the river bed , and has under consideration a plan to deepen the channel and to remove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Secretary of War , at Washington , and to the Chief of Engineers of the United States Army , asking permission to build these tunnels . In September Secretary Garrison sent to the commission the draft of an instrument authorizing their construction , which contained a clause holding the city responsible for damages due to the Government 's operations . The commission suggested a clause by which the city undertook to hold the United States ' free from any or all responsibility for any loss or damage from the proximity of the tunnel to age resulting from the proximity of the tunnel to the subway work , but which exempted the city from all other liability . This suggestion was sent to the Secretary of War on Dec. 12 , and on Jan. 16 Col. W. M. Black , Chief of Engineers , replied that , after careful consideration , he could not advise Secretary Garrison to accept it . There the discussion rests , and there is no chance of beginning the construction of the tunnels until it is settled or Until the House of Representatives adopts the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , that the Got. - srnment should , in its work of deepening the East River , begin with Coenties Reef . It could cut that down to the level it wished before the subway constructors came along . FEAR PARK AVE . CONNECTION . 4th Ave . Association Calls Attention to Dangerous Nature of Rock There . A protest against the adoption of any plan for the Grand Central connection tif the new Lexington Avenue subway and the old Park Avenue line , which would be likely to cut through the soft rock in that vicinity , was adopted yesterday by the Fourth Avenue Association at a meeting in the Park Avenue Hotel . The protest will be forwarded to the members , of the Board of Estimate . Lloyd Collis , consulting engineer of the association , called attention to the Many accidents which occurred In the construction of the present Park Avenue subway . He said : The rock throughout Oda section is notoriously unstable . It was originally shaken by blasting when the street car tunnel was constructed , ' again when the Subway tubes were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cave-in of March 21 , 1902 . All the routes so far planned by a majority of the Public Service Commissioners contemplate a connection where these conditions exist , where the concrete lining must be pierced . ( blasting occur , the centre webb between the two tubes removed in order to deploy the tracks to the east , and during the entire operation the Subway must be operated , carrying its em000 passengers a day , trains passim a &ren; point on one of the four tracks every 25 seconds , with the consequent vibration . The Fourth Avenue Association is in favor of carrying . the , Lexington Avenue subway as far south as Thirty-fourth Street , and , making the connection with Park Avenue under , . tile old car . bin property .                     