@@773825

txt THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE ceases . The highly-developed eyes of the cuttlefish only superficially resemble those of a vertebrate . They lie on the outside of the head instead of being braineyes , the rods are turned toward the eye-opening rather than away from it , and there are other fundamental differences in structure . Passing to the question of the origin of species , we speak a different language today from the science of a generation ago . A new era has been opened by the work of Batteson and de Vries . There is not yet the same unanimity as in the new physics , and all statements and conclusions are subject to change without notice . Variation now stands out as the most prominent factor in the evolution of species . Darwin , and especially his successors the strict " Darwinians " , put the emphasis upon minute differences in size , color , etc. , and the evolution of species was conceived as a summation of such minute individual differences during a long period . That such variations exist is very evident ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in parthenogenesis . These fluctuations have been studied in recent years by statistical methods . They are found to occur according to the law of chance , and there always tends to be retrogression toward the mean of the race . The more we know about fluctuations , the less it seems possible for species to originate in this way . The old " Darwinism " has been discarded by the majority of progressive scientists . Footnote 90 THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE On the other hand , increasing emphasis has been put on sudden , discontinuous variations , formerly known as " sports , " and now generally termed " mutations . " These may be large or small , do not follow the law of chance , are of rare occurrence ( though in any given case the same or similar modifications are often exhibited by a number of individuals ) , display a new character or characters , and breed true . It is these mutations which give rise to " elementary species " without transitional links . A new position of organic equilibrium has been reached at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " says de Vries , " a new species is already in existence , and will remain in existence , unless all the progeny of the mutation are destroyed . " In the classical example , de Vries found an evening primrose in a new environment that seemed to be in a variable mood , producing seven distinct new species in a few years , the new individuals breeding true . In seven generations , from seeds of the original species , about 50,000 plants were obtained , of which about eight hundred were mutations , the seven new species claiming from one to three hundred and fifty each . There were a few other variants that were either inconstant or sterile . Each form differed from the others in a large number of particulars . Mutations occurred as freely in the wild forms as in those under cultivation. * Footnote 91 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE have arisen by mutation , and further study is increasing the number of plants where this is known to take place . Further examples are needed , and expected with some confidence . Probably the mutation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That mutations can avoid being swamped by crossbreeding and so give rise to new species is due to what is known as Mendel 's law . When organisms of two distinct elementary species ? for example , tall and dwarf varieties ? are crossed , one character is likely to prove dominant , the other recessive . In the first generation , the progeny will all apparently be of the dominant type ? that is , in this case , they will all be tall . If allowed to fertilize themselves , however , the two original types emerge again in the second generation , in the proportion of three dominants to one recessive , or three tall to one dwarf . The recessives and onethird of the dominants are pure ? that is , they breed true in subsequent generations . The other dominants are in reality mixed , giving rise to the same proportion , three dominants to one recessive , and so on indefinitely . If one of the organisms ? for example , the dwarf ? is a mutation , the result is the establishment of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of a single mutation or sport which for some reason does not fertilize its own offspring , but crosses with the old type . We will suppose that the mutation and the old type have antagonistic characters . Experiment shows that the strain of the new character can not be lost , as long as normal reproduction continues . A pure 92 ) THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE specimen of the new type is likely to appear in the third generation of offspring . Since species usually differ in more than one character , the effects of crossing will generally be much more complicated than in the example given . Mendel 's law has been strikingly confirmed with a considerable number of animals and plants . ' We may say further , in interpretation of the law , that hybrids act as they would if the germ-cells of each species contained a number of distinct and often antagonistic unit-characters , such as tallness and dwarfness , capable of being segregated , as in the germ-cells of the pure dominants and recessives , but not actually blended . The list of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not yet been extended successfully to man and to some of the higher domestic animals . In many species ? for example , different races of men ? crossing produces a blend , such as mulatto or quadroon , which breeds true in color , though probably following Mendel 's law as to physiognomy . Natural selection is now considered to be jiat ? ix was for Darwin himself , the mechanical weeding-out oforganismsand-species unada.ted ' . than others to their environment . But this means that " the theory of natural selection has nothing to do with the origin of species , but with the survival of already formed species . " The factor of struggle was probably exaggerated by Darwin , and we now know that it is not absolutely necessary for a variation to be useFootnote 93 I THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE ful in order to survive . As Morgan says : " If we suppose that new mutations and definitely ' inherited variations suddenly appear , some of which will find an environment to which they are more or less well fitted , we can see how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been formed through a process of competition . Nature 's supreme test is survival . She makes new forms to bring them tthis test throug mutation , and does not remodel old orms t roug a process ividua'l selection . " * A11 ? rhat is necessary is Lhat-organs showing mutation should be , as a whole , " sufficiently adapted to get a foothold . " The question of the origin of species is resolving itself into the question of the origin of mutations . No satisfactory answer has yet been given . Nagel 's theory of a natural tendency in the organism toward progress must be looked on with suspicion . It is even doubtful whether there is any inherent tendency toward variation . Ordinary fluctuating variations seem to be due to slight differences in the life-history of the different germ-cells ; it is possible that mutations merely represent more or greater differences in this life-history . There are many indications that mutations are connected with a change in the environment of the organism . The difficulty with this is that the origin of a mutation must be found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no way by which environment can definitely affect the germ-cell . Luther Burbank Footnote 94 THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE considers that mutations occur chiefly under the stimulus of new conditions of nutrition . " These variations are the effect of past environment , . . . having remained latent until opportunity for their development occurs . Starvation causes reversions , but reversions can also be produced by unusually rich nutrition . New variations are developed most often , as far as environmental influences go , by rich soil and generally favorable conditions . " Crossing also tends to produce ( or release ) mutations . Further discussion of this subject may be postponed until the next chapter . The origin of variation is to be learned , if at all , through a study of the cell . Given one-celled organisms , given also an environment partly constant , partly changing , and a sufficient time , and the evolution of the higher mammals is easily conceivable , on the mutation theory . On the whole , with many a back current , the movement of evolution has been upward . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specialized . Not only do we have special adaptations to special conditions , but there has been a gradual perfection of bodily structure , as well as intelligence , along a number of different lines . Thus the molluscs ended in the cephalopods , the reptiles in the saurians , and the mammals in man . Specialization , however , is usually carried too far and leads to extinction . With the restriction of natural selection to the function of weeding out the unfit , a good deal of the " blood " has been taken from our picture of the Footnote THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE evolutionary process . Bitter struggle for existence , especially within the same species , is not a necessary factor . Does the evolution of species lead us to assume an intelligent direction of the process ? Not necessarily . The only external factor for which we have any evidence is the passive factor of environment . If there was any directing , it was with a very loose rein . Organisms , or at least mutating organisms , were apparently given the chance to see what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been a kind of laissez faire on a grand scale . The presence of organic and especially plant life during a long period has resulted in striking physical changes on this planet . Our present atmosphere is probably quite different in its proportions of oxygen and carbon dioxide , on account of the absorption of the former and discharge of the latter by all known organisms . The land surface is largely covered with green plants , whose leaves on the one hand prevent erosion , . and whose roots on the other hand tend to break up physical masses and even molecules . Organisms have transferred and deposited vast amounts of inorganic material . Through their refuse and their own decomposition they have originated the long series of limestone rocks , the carbonaceous formations , the phosphate and nitrate beds , the corals and fossils , as well as the countless new acids and other compounds of organic chemistry . Great is the transforming power of organisms , even before the appearance of man . 96 CHAPTER VII THE CELL , F VERY living being is made up of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " These cells are microscopic in size , except in the case of some egg-cells , which grow to large proportions . The human ovum , a typical cell , is about 1/125 of an inch ( z mm. ) in diameter . Although cells differ widely in structure and behavior , even to the extent of showing " individuality " , all cells are of one general type , whether animal or vegetable , whether constituting the whole of a one-celled cre , tture or making any one of the millions of specialized cells in the human body , whether body-cells , entering into the composition of some tissue , nerve , organ or fluid , or germ-cells from which complex organisms may in time develop . The cell consists essentially of a cell-body and a nucleue material of the cell-b , known collettively as cytoplasm , contains most . of the chemical elements included in protoplasm ? carbon , oxygen , nitrogen , hydrogen and sulphur ? which are present in elaborate and somewhat unstable compounds , showing wide variation. * The cell-body often contains smaller Footnote 97 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in substance , but capable in many cases of independent growth and division . These seem to be centers of chemical activity , especially in plants . Various lifeless bodies are also carried in suspension , such as food granules , sand , drops of oil or water , and waste . A great mass of reserve food is often accumulated , as in the yolk of the hen 's egg . Portions of the cell-body deprived of a nucleus will , in many cases , survive for a time , moving about and rejecting waste , but they are incapable of . either secretion , digestion or reproduction . The nucleus is generally a distinct region of the cell , though in some cases the characteristic nuclear materials are scattered through the cell-body in the form of minute granules . The typical nucleus consists of a network made up of two constituents ? linin , related chemically to the substances found in the cell-body , and a substance known as chromatin or nuclein ? with a ground-substance or sap filling the interstices . The chromatin , which appears to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determine the character of all the rest , is usually , during the resting stage of the cell , suspended as granules in the linin network . During the ripening of the cell it forms a number of masses called chromosomes . " Nuclein " , which reaches its greatest purity in chromosomes , has a very distinct chemical composition , rich in phosphorus and with practically no sulphur . During the resting stage the chromatin increases greatly in bulk , through the combination of nucleinic acid with 98 THE CELL albuminous matter . As the growth of cytoplasm is especially active during this stage , the nucleinic acid evidently plays a leading role in the metabolism of the cell . The nucleus is undoubtedly the center for con-structive as the cytoplasm is the center for destructive metabolism . Not only is constructive metabolism im-possible without a nucleus , but in some cases ( for example , the growth of cell walls in plants ) the nucleus moves to the point where growth is to be most active . The differentiation of the cell into nucleus and cyto-plasm is evidently , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physiological division of labor in the cell . " Another cell organ or cell region , the centrosome , has aroused a good deal of controversy . It has impor-tant functions in cell-division , and is found in the cyto-plasm not far from the nucleus , into which it migrates during division . Like the plastids and chromosomes , the centrosomes appear to be capable of independent assimilation , growth and division . Boveri 's theory that the centrosome was a permanent cell organ , the " dy-namic center " of the cell , can not be held in its original form . In many of the higher plants no centrosomes have been found , and in other cases they disappear at the close of cell-division , to be formed again later , per-haps at the same point . They are evidently more or less persistent centers of chemical activity . Centro-somes have been artificially developed in the cell by treatment with sea water or other solutions . THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE The cell multiplies by division , and every cell is derived from some pre-existing cell . In normal divi-sion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the region hitherto known as the nucleus . The chro-matin decreases rapidly in bulk and increases in chem-ical strength ( especially in the amount of phosphorus ) and changes from a network into one or more threads . These in turn break up into the chromosomes . Each species has a definite and apparently arbitrary number of these , practically always even , ranging from two to one hundred and sixty-eight . They are remarkably persistent , both in number and substance . Each chro-mosome now splits lengthwise into exactly similar halves . The two groups of halves aggregate into new nuclei , and the entire cell divides into two new cells like unto the first . The essence of the process is the receiving by the daughter nuclei of exactly similar por-tions of chromatin . Artificial mitosis has been pro-duced by chemical stimulation . Passing to the germ-cells , we find that here division is associated with an exactly opposite process ? conjuga-tion . In some of the lowest forms ordinary mitosis may be sufficient for the perpetuation of the species , though even this is not certain . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the series of cell divi-sions tends to run in cycles , in each of which the energy of division finally comes to an end and is only restored by an admixture of living matter derived from another cell . " * I00 THE CELL We may quote a further summary from Prof. Wilson : " In the lowest forms , such as the unicellular algae , the conjugating cells are , in a morphological sense , precisely equivalent , and conjugation takes place between corresponding elements , nucleus uniting with nucleus , cell-body with cell-body , and even , in some cases , plastid with plastid . . . . As we rise in the scale , the conjugating cells diverge more and more , until in the higher plants and animals they differ widely not only in form and size , but also in their internal structure , and to such an extent that they are no longer equivalent either morphologically or physiologically . Both in animals and in plants the paternal germ-cell loses most of its cytoplasm , the main bulk of which , and hence the main @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ egg ; and in the higher plants the egg alone supplies the plastids , which are thus supplied by the mother alone . On the other hand , the paternal germ cell is the carrier of something which incites the egg to development , and thus constitutes the fertilizing element in the narrower sense . There is strong ground for the conclusion that in the animal spermatozoon this element is , if not an actual centrosome , a body or a substance directly derived from a centrosome of the parent body and contained in the middle piece . . . . Like mitosis , fertilization is perhaps at bottom a chemical process , the stimulus to development being given by a specific chemical substance carried in some cases by an individualized centrosome or one of its morphological products , in other cases by less definitely formed ioi THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE material . . . . Through the differentiation between the paternal and germ-cells in the higher forms indicated above , their original morphological equivalence is lost and only the nuclei remain of exactly the same value . This is shown by their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of chromosomes exactly similar in form , size , and staining-reactions , equally distributed by cleavage to the daughter-cells , and probably to all the cells of the body . We thus find the essential fact of fertilization and sexual reproduction to be a union of equivalent nuclei , and to this all other processes are tributary . " The ripening of the germ-cells preparatory to conjugation is of great interest . In both the maternal and the paternal cells the number of chromosomes is reduced to one-half the typical number , as a preparation for their future union , in order to hold the number constant . In the case of the paternal cell , this reduction is effected by two divisions , through which the nuclear material is distributed among four spermatozoa , only one of which is to take part in fertilization . Each has one-half the typical number of chromosomes . In the egg-cell there is a parallel process by which three of the four cells are discarded , though persisting for a time as " polar bodies . " In many cases , with both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cleavage into four , in preparation for the two maturation divisions of the cell . The first cleavage is lengthwise , as in the usual mitosis . Some students of the Footnote 102 THE CELL subject ? for example , Weismann ? have claimed that the second cleavage is crosswise , and so preserves ( in the egg-cell or successful spermatozoon ) or rejects ( in the polar bodies ) any particular region of the chromatin-thread . On this Weismann 's theory of heredity was largely based . To a certain extent the facts bear out this theory , but there is not as yet evi-dence for the universality either of tetrad formation or of this transverse cleavage . Experiments by Delage show that fertilization may take place between a spermatozoon and a fragment of an ovum which contains a nucleus . Loeb has demon-strated the converse , that a sperm-nucleus may be dis-pensed with , by inducing artificial parthenogenesis through chemical treatment . In other words , both the paternal and the maternal germ-cells of early forms arc completely equipped for reproducing the organism . In natural parthenogenesis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the germ-cell ripens , in the same individual , in one of two ways . Either one polar body is formed and discarded without reduction of the chromosomes , or a second polar body is formed , accompanied by reduction , and , remaining in the egg , plays the part of a sperm-nucleus . The typical cell has the power of producing , by divi-sion , other cells like itself. * On the other hand , the fertilized egg ( however fertilization may have taken place ) by an exactly similar process of division gives THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE rise to cells showing progressive differentiation , and the division of labor necessary to the organism . This distinction between body- and germ-cells is itself division of labor . In some of the colony-cells of the protozoa two kinds of cells are already found ? a fern large germ-cells , and a large number of smaller cells used for metabolism and locomotion , which are comparatively short-lived . Weismann has emphasized th ( continuity of the germ-plasm , and the general truth o : his position is fairly well established . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or which remain unspecialized ) continue to produce other germ-cells of the same sort until fertilization occurs They then give rise to body-cells , but there is no knowr way by which the body-cells in their turn can affeci the germ-cells . There seems to be no machiner3 through which characters acquired by the organiser can be transmitted , unless in a general way through good or bad nutrition . But this apparent negativt may be due to our imperfect knowledge of tht subject . We as yet know little of the mechanism of inheri tance , in spite of the many theories on the subject . It the early cleavages of the fertilized egg , the size am position of each cell is directly related to the par of the body to which it gives rise . In fact , the egi itself in many cases shows indications of future line . of cleavage . Cleavages continue to follow one anothe with great rapidity until the plant or animal ap proaches its hereditary limit of growth . C 104 THE CELL In some animals , as high in the scale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for several divi-sions to be " toti-potent " ? able by rearrangement to produce a relatively complete organism from any one of the dividing cells . Thus , if one of the first two cells of the amphioxus is isolated , it will give rise to a regular amphioxus of reduced size . In experiments on frogs in the two-celled stage it was found that one of the cells will give rise to a half-embryo , if left in its normal position . If inverted , it will give rise either to a half-embryo or to a whole dwarf . Almost all sim-ple animal organisms have this power , as seen not only in regeneration of lost parts but in frequent reproduc-tion by budding . Many of the higher plants retain the power of total regeneration , but in animals it is soon lost . This , in turn , might be due to the gradual differentiation of the cell-nuclei ? that is , to a distribution of the various modifications present in the chro-matin of the fertilized egg ( Weismann 's determinants , Driesch 's ferments ) . But such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been much study and much controversy over the question of biological units . Are there units intervening between molecules and cells ? We can not give such a character to the chromosomes , for these appear to fuse during the resting stage . Nor are we justified in treating the chromatin granules as per-sistent individuals . In unicellular organisms with a distributed nucleus these granules seem to persist , and divide to form new granules . But in higher forms , 105 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE although division may take place , the granules fuse and their number is not constant . In the cytoplasm , dis-tinct granules are often present , but there is no evidence that they are individual units . The persistence and division of plastids and centrosomes is suggestive but no more . If smaller biological units exist , they must be below the limit of microscopic vision . Many facts ? for example , Mendel 's law ? point toward such a theory , which would clear up the biological field as electrons have cleared up the physical , but it has as yet no solid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has its basis chiefly in imagination . In the case of unicellular organisms , and also of the germ-cells , at least in certain stages , the cell is an inde-pendent living being , carrying on the several co-opera-tive activities which are necessary to life . All cells have a certain amount of independence , more or less according to their place and function in the body . But the trend of biological opinion is against treating the organism as a colony or republic of co-operating units , and toward the view " that life can only be properly regarded as a property of the cell-system as a whole . " Even the independent functions of the different cells ? metabolism , regeneration , etc. ? are definitely cor-related with the organization and condition of the body . Apart from the whole a cell soon dies , unless , in some cases , grafted on another whole , or , in other cases , becoming itself a new organism . This question will be discussed more fully in Chapter IX , Io6 THE CELL A subject of great interest and importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the different cells are connected with each other and so coordinated to form a complete organism . Protoplasmic bridges are known to connect the cells of nearly all plant and many animal tissues . It has been shown that the membrane-forming power of certain plant-cells , when deprived of a nucleus , is due to connection by protoplasmic strands with a nucleated fragment . There is some evidence that cell-bridges may be formed and re-formed with great freedom . Cells when studied in section under the microscope are necessarily solid . The living cell is partially liquid . It is not only surrounded but permeated by water ( protoplasm contains about eighty per cent ) and the jelly of the cytoplasm liquifies at death . The reactions of physiological chemistry may be said to be reactions in solution . Such complicated changes and exchanges could not take place in any other state . The molecules held in solution and taking part in these reactions are classified as either colloids or crystalloids . Colloids may be defined as non-conducting , asymmetrical , jelly-like molecules , of great molecular weight , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' principal and distinctive material of protoplasm . The important thing to remember about colloids is their great bulk . They are very unstable , constantly passing into new combinations . They do not leave the cell , or their department of the cell , unless broken up into smaller molecules . I07 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE Crystalloids , on the other hand , * are small symmet-rical molecules which diffuse rapidly in solution , even through a colloidal membrane . Diffusion through a membrane of some sort is known as osmosis . The solutions on either side of the semi-permeable wall seek to reach an equilibrium . The rate of diffusion and the " osmotic pressure " vary , in a rough proportion , directly with the number of molecules ( concentration of the solution ) and their velocity ( temperature ) and in-versely with their size . In general , it is the crystalloid molecules present in the fluid surrounding the cell which take part in osmosis , through the cell wall or boundary . They then diffuse through the cytoplasm and nucleus , and act upon or combine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way in and out of the cell , according to the pressure . The same result may be reached by filtration through minute tubes , as in the capillaries of the blood vessels . The energy transformations involved in all these processes ( consid-ered by themselves , without reference to what initiates or controls the transformation ) are as purely physical as if we were dealing with solutions of mineral salts.t These statements may be illustrated by a brief out-line of the process of metabolism , through which the cell is able to continue its life . Taking first the case of plants , we find that the necessary carbon is obtained 108 THE CELL from the air , where small quantities are present in combination with oxygen in the form of carbonic acid gas ( COi ) . The carbon is extracted by means of . the chlorophyll grains or bands found in the plant cell or in the outer cells of the leaves . Practically all active plant organisms are provided with chlorophyll , unless depending on food previously stored , or , in the case of parasites , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( among the plastids to which we have already referred in our description of the cytoplasm ) develop only in the presence of light , and only when iron is present in the cell . Their peculiar chemical properties appear to reside in the green pigment . Under the action of sunlight , particularly the red and yellow rays , chlorophyll is able to break up the molecule of carbon dioxide , retaining the carbon and giving off free oxygen . A small amount of carbon dioxide is also absorbed by the roots and carried to the chlorophyll bodies . The other chemical elements necessary for the growth of the plant are absorbed in the form of water , either as aqueous solutions or as solids . In one-celled and aquatic plants the absorption takes place at the surface of the cell ; in the higher land-plants through the root-hairs attached to the roots . These root-hairs contain acids which aid in the solution of certain solids . The carbon absorbed by the chlorophyll bodies is combined with oxygen and hydrogen to form the colloid known as starch , which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the molecule , however , being compound and extremely bulky . A combination of this type is generally known as a carbohydrate . Certain ferments produced by the protoplasm break up the starch molecules and change them into one of the simpler sugars with the formula C6H1200 . These molecules in turn are transformed into proteids , the principal factor in protoplasm , by the addition of nitrogen and sulphur , aided by the presence of minute quantities of potassium , magnesium and probably iron . For the nucleo-proteids phosphorus is necessary . Fats are also present in the cell , derived from starch and containing the same elements , but in very different proportions ; the process of formation is still a matter of debate . Various ferments may assist in the elaboration of these different elements . Carbohydrate molecules may be held in reserve as such , or used in the formation of fibres , gums , etc . The plant seed is especially rich in reserve material ; even before germination this reserve is being slowly drawn on to continue the activities of the cell . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution the minerals derived from the soil and certain sugars drawn from the reserve material in the cells . On reaching the leaves , carbon is added in the form of starch or one of its derivatives and the elaborated sap diffuses from cell to cell throughout the organism , apparently through the cell walls . Out of the materials thus derived each cell forms the necessary proteids , carbohydrates and fats . Surplus water is exhaled from the leaves , and this evapI IO TH.E CELL oration , rendering the substance of the outer cells less fluid , causes fluid to diffuse to them from the neighboring cells . This process of osmosis , continuing from cell to cell as far as the roots of the plant , represents the upward movement of the sap . The higher temperature of the leaves assists the process , chiefly by increasing the evaporation . The sap rises with considerable force . The upward movement takes place chiefly during the first warm months and in the daytime . Besides water-vapor , much oxygen is given out from the leaves , and small quantities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received is assimilated , and plant metabolism is thus essentially constructive . Animal metabolism is both constructive and destructive . As chlorophyll or an equivalent pigment is not found in any animal organisms ( except some of the flagellata ) , they are dependent for their supply of carbon on that gathered by plants and already elaborated into carbohydrates , proteids and fats . For purposes of digestion it is necessary for the animal to break up these different food elements . This is accomplished by means of ferments , chiefly enzymes , which will be discussed in the next chapter . A one-celled organism , such as the amoeba , captures and then engulfs its food . Fat , starch and other material that can not be utilized is ejected without change . Proteids are acted on by a digestive fluid resembling pepsin . The materials thus obtained are used for the growth of the cell and the repair of any of the protoplasm used up in its movements or other life processes . 11III THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE The chief source of energy is the carbon , which is oxidized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off by the cell in the form of carbon dioxide . The general process is the same in the higher animals , with their marvellous specialization of organs and cells . The molecules of food elements and mineral salts taken into the body are broken up in their passage by the aid of secretions furnished by various organs , glands and cells . The simpler molecules thus formed and held in solution are absorbed by the blood , through the walls of the alimentary canal . The blood conveys these molecules , together with the oxygen molecules supplied it by the lungs , to each cell in the body . ( Water and salts are also furnished . ) The behavior of the cell then resembles that of the amoeba . The cell-substance is repaired through the oxidation of the carbon , and the resulting carbon dioxide is carried back by the blood to the lungs , or to the pores , and exhaled . Similarly , other waste , chiefly water and nitrogen , is returned by the blood and lymph to the kidneys or the alimentary canal , whence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food material not absorbed by the system . One of the latest students of the subject states that " a cell can not control the diffusion of substances into itself , nor can it choose from its surroundings any one substance and leave another . Even at the expense of its life , a cell is bound to absorb from its surroundings any substance which may be present ; and this absorption depends entirely upon certain chemical and physical // factors . " * The protoplasm of the different cells , how-ever , acts differently upon the substance absorbed , so that each cell normally receives the quantity and pro-portion of the various food elements necessary for its functions . The calcium and other elements present in the bony skeleton are deposited in a similar way through adjoining cells serving this special purpose . In the absence of food , the cells are able for a certain period to draw on their reserve material or that of cells especially rich in carbon . Very little oxygen is held in reserve . When life ceases in the organism , whether plant or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by other animals for food , tend to be broken up into simpler forms . The process is assisted by various micro-organ-isms . Some of these are present in different organs of the body ; they are held in check by the cells or secre-tions of the living organism , but develop unchecked when life ceases . Of the resulting elements , the oxygen and hydrogen tend to escape in the form of gas , often in combination with carbon . Water is also formed , and some carbohydrates are found in the form of fluids . Most of the carbon , however , as well as the nitrogen , sulphur , phosphorus and mineral salts , return to the soil in a more or less impure state . There , with the exception of carbon , they are again available for plant food , as is the case with animal waste . Some reference should be made to the subject of organic heat , as it has important bearings on the relaTHE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE tion between biology and physics . No organisms are active except within a certain specific range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the chemical changes on which life depends . Heat is ultimately derived from the sun . It may come to the organism directly , less directly through surrounding objects or the atmosphere , or through chemical changes in other organic matter . A certain amount of solar heat , as well as light , is necessary for the decomposition of carbon dioxide and the formation of new carbon compounds . This heat energy , derived from the radiant energy of the sun 's rays , has been transformed into chemical ( electrical ) energy , or is represented by heat energy in another form , the increased kinetic energy of the atoms making up the new molecule . When these carbon compounds are broken up and the carbon is again combined with oxygen , processes for which additional heat is necessary , the total increase of energy is given off . It may be given off as heat , partly radiated , partly used for new chemical processes . I t may be converted into molar motion ? of the cell , of some of its parts , or of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cell 's life-functions or for its work . The process is somewhat similar to the oxidation of carbon in the fire-pot of an engine . I n muscular work , about one-fifth of the heat generated is available for mechanical work , the other four-fifths being required to start the necessary chemical changes in the cells . A man of average weight , doing a moderate amount // of light muscular work , requires about one hundred grams of proteids , one hundred grams of fats , and two hundred and forty grams of carbohydrates , or a total of two hundred and thirty-five grams of carbon per day , with a fuel value in metabolism of 2324 kilogram calories . The fuel value is measured in a calorimeter , and is the amount of heat which would be radiated on the complete oxidation of the carbon available in the food elements given . Approximately the same results have been obtained by measuring the radiation from the body during twenty-four hours . Hard muscular work must be compensated by additional carbon . Organic chemistry , from this point of view , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medium for heat exchanges , not because of the ease with which it is obtained ? it must be separated by chlorophyll from the .03 per cent of CO2 in the atmosphere ? but because of the readiness with which it combines with and separates from oxygen , a principal constituent of both atmosphere and hydrosphere . All the carbon compounds used by us as fuel have been derived ultimately from carbon dioxide , and the energy stored in them has come from the sun 's rays . The quantity of heat given off when wood is burned is supposed to be the equivalent of the heat required for its formation . Plants and animals , through their elaboration of reserve carbon material , are " storehouses of energy " . For the decomposition of the dead organism a certain amount of heat is required . A very much larger 115 11 // amount is given off , for the most part in the form of radiation , as the various compound molecules are broken up . From another viewpoint , biological chemistry is the study of nitrogen compounds . Nitrogen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all cells , and hence necessary for cell food in the form of proteids . Though a common element , making seventy-seven per cent of the atmosphere , nitrogen is very inert and combines only with great difficulty . Just why it should be fundamental in protoplasm we do not know . One way in which the nitrogen in the air is rendered available for organic life is through electric discharges in moist air , forming ammonium nitrite , which is carried by rains into the soil . Nitrogen is also secured directly from the atmosphere by certain nitrogen-gathering bacteria , which are parasitic to leguminous plants . Other bacteria , not parasitic , have been discovered in the soil , which in one case oxidize ammonia and in the other oxidize nitrites . These two classes of bacteria are of special interest from the fact that they are the only organisms thus far known which are able to utilize carbon dioxide directly , without the aid of chlorophyll . They build proteid molecules simply from inorganic salts . The energy necessary for this process appears to be supplied by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some bacteria . A certain amount of plant energy is derived from the ultra-red rays of the spectrum . I 16 THE CELL The albumins are so complex , and in many cases so fleeting , that analysis has been difficult . Considerable progress , however , has been made along this line , chiefly through the brilliant work of Emil Fischer of Berlin . Various albuminous substances have been broken up into derivatives of ammonia , known as amino-acids , and into other nitrogen compounds . After the composition of these derivatives had been thoroughly studied , the attempt was made to put them together again . Fischer has succeeded in preparing an artificial peptide with a molecular weight of 1213 ; natural peptides weigh between 2,000 and 3,000 . Probably in time we shall be able to build peptides into the more complex peptones , and these in turn into albumins proper . The latter are considered by some authorities to have a molecular weight as high as I 5,000. u7 CHAPTER VIII HOW FIR DOES CHEMISTRY Cf1RRY USA THE preceding story could not have been told without frequent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more chemistry is likely to prove the pass-key to biological problems . In the present chapter I propose to carry this subject further , taking up a series of recent experiments , from widely differ-ent fields , bearing on the way in which chemical changes in the surrounding fluid affect the behavior of the cell . Mention has already been made of artificial mito-sis , fertilization and the development of centrosomes . The leader in such work has been Professor Jacques Loeb of the University of California . To refer to some of his later work , in 1903 he succeeded in fertiliz-ing the egg of a sea urchin with the sperm of a star-fish . It could not be done in normal sea water , but was possible in a number of solutions . These solutions prevented or made difficult the fertilization of the sea urchin by the sperm of its own species . In 1905 par-thenogenesis was induced in the sea-urchin 's egg by increasing the osmotic pressure of the surrounding medium . This caused the loss of water by the egg and the formation of a membrane , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and development re 118 HOW FAR DOES CHEMISTRY CARRY US quire the presence of free oxygen and are primarily oxidative processes. * Loeb has also done distinguished service in the inves-tigation of the various tropisms , or " turnings , " which are the basis of many of the commoner instincts . They might be enumerated as follows : thermotropism , or response to a change of temperature , considered as a stimulus ; thigmotropism , or response to mechanical stimulation ; chemicotropism , or response to chemical stimulation ; geotropism , or response to the force of gravity ; and heliotropism , positive and negative , the tendency of an organism to turn toward or away from light . These tropisms have been proved to be identical for plants and animals . They are undoubtedly phy-sico-chemical phenomena . Their exact nature is in most cases unknown , but the tropic tendencies of the organism may be modified by changes in the medium . For example , heliotropic reactions in fresh-water crus-taceans have been modified by various chemicals , especially CO2.t Tropisms depend , first , " upon the specific irritability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , upon the relations of symmetry of the body . Symmetrical elements at the surface of the body have the same irritability ; unsymmetrical ele-ments have a different irritability . Those nearer the oral pole toward the mouth possess an irritability greater than that of those near the aboral pole . These circumstances force an animal to orient itself toward a 119 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE source of stimulation in such a way that symmetrical points on the surface of the body are stimulated equally . In this way the animals are led without will of their own either toward the source of the stimulus or away from it . " * A fairly strong case has been made out for the chem-ical explanation of rhythmical movements . Loeb con-siders these to be due to the exchange of sodium or potassium atoms for those of calcium or magnesium , or vice versa . The former increase the rate of contrac-tion in a muscle cell ; the latter diminish it . The cen-ter of one of the medus2e , when isolated , was able to beat rhythmically in a pure solution of sodium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more rapid the movements , within certain limits . Movements , however , were slowed down or inhibited or magnesium chloride . Again , if too many sodium ions enter the tissues of the center , it will lose its irrita-bility ; this may be restored by adding a trace of cal-cium chloride to the solution.t " The peculiar qualities ei each tissue are partly due to the fact that it con-tains ions ( sodium , potassium , calcium and others ) in definite proportions . By changing these proportions , we can import to a tissue properties which it does not ordinarily possess . If in the muscles of the skeleton the sodium ions be increased and the calcium ions be reduced , the muscles are able to contract rhythmically , like the heart . It is only the presence of calcium ions 120 HOW FAR DOES CHEMISTRY CARRY US in the blood which prevents the muscles of our skele-tons from beating rhythmically in our body . " The part of an organ which contracts with the greatest frequency forces the other parts to contract in the same rhythm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work done recently by Carrel and Burrows at the Rockefeller Institute , New York , in the cultivation of adult tissues and organs outside of the body . Frag-ments of animal tissues were placed in a plasmatic medium taken from the same animal and kept at nor-mal temperature . Many of the specimens grew nor-mally . Glands were cultivated in the same way , and also kidneys , proving that adult tissues may be grown outside of the body as easily as many microbes . The following summary may be given of some of their later work : " It is concluded by Carrel and Burrows that the degree of dilution of the culture medium has a marked influence on the rate of growth of splenic tissue . The maximum acceleration was obtained in a medium com-posed of three volumes of normal plasma and two volumes of distilled water . The growth in this hypo-tonic plasma was very much larger than in normal plasma . On the contrary , the growth of the spleen in hypertonic plasma was always less than in normal plasma . In other experiments , they found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the growth of the skin , the heart , and the liver of chickens . The skin of adult frogs also grew more actively in 121 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE this plasma . The optimum degree of dilution varied according to the nature of the tissues and to the species of the animals . While the plasma containing two-fifths distilled water produced the largest growth of splenic tissue , a slightly less diluted medium was more favorable for the liver and the heart , and generally for the skin also . " The third series of discoveries to which I refer are the microscopic studies of the living cell by Dr. Hugh Campbell Ross of the Royal Southern Hospital , Liver-pool . Heretofore only sections of dead cells could be stained to bring out their various parts under the mi-croscope . It is by such means that material has been gathered for the general theory of the cell given in Chapter VII . Dr. Ross has discovered a method of staining living cells and keeping them alive for a few hours , so that they can be examined and photographed while being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems likely to modify many of our views as to cell-structure , and revolutionize our views as to cell-behavior . Among the facts already proved by Dr. Ross is the chemical basis for ordinary mitosis . The division of the cell is not due to an inward propensity , but to the presence in the surrounding medium of some one of a group of substances , among which kreatin , xanthin and globin have been identified . These chemical 122 HOW FAR DOES CHEMISTRY CARRY US agents , to which Ross has given the name " auxetics , " " are contained in the remains of dead tissues . When a tissue is damaged anywhere , cell-death is occasioned , and the dead cells liquify . The products of this death have as constituents the extractives kreatin and xanthin , and we know that the neighboring living cells must absorb the liquified remains of their dead neighbors , for it has been shown that the diffusion of substances into living cells is a physical process over which the cells themselves can exercise no control . When a tissue is damaged , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make the neighboring living cells reproduce themselves in response to kreatin and xanthin and bring about the cell-proliferation of healing . " Can-cer is shown to be an exuberant growth caused by the action of " a normal auxetic plus an alkeloid of putre-faction and decomposition . " The lack of mitosis in the colorless cells of the blood and lymph is undoubtedly due to a power which the blood possesses of restraining the action of globin and other auxetics contained in it . Reference should also be made to the series of dis-coveries which form the basis for the modern science of therapeutics , as distinguished from the empirical use of drugs . We have learned that when certain substances known as antigens ? present in bacteria or other cells , or in fluids ? enter the general circulation of an animal organism , they lead to the production of specific " anti-bodies " corresponding . That is , the particular anti-body , if present in some group of cells , is called out in THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE increased quantity by this new need . ( The reaction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-body or of anti-body-forming cells often disturbing the other processes of metabolism . ) The anti-body , whether remaining in the cell which produced it or passing out into the plasma , acts as a receptor for the antigen . It either combines with it , thus neutralizing its action , or combines with a third substance present in normal plasma to cause the dissolution of the antigen molecules , or the death of the bacteria carrying them . After developing such an anti-body , the animal is likely to be immune . Immunity may also be secured either by inoculating with a toxin whose virulence has been diminished , the organism developing the necessary anti-body gradually and safely , or by borrowing the antitoxin developed by another organism . The pioneer in this field , Ehrlich of Frankfort , after long experimentation , has now succeeded in manufacturing a drug , salvarsan , which acts as an anti-body to the syphilis bacillus , combining with and destroying it , while leaving the other tissues of the animal unaffected . The discovery was recently made that many , perhaps all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which take part in digestion , discharge into the blood other secretions known as " hormones . " These reach and affect all parts of the body , causing other glands to secrete , and thus bringing about the correlation of organic processes . I understand that if some of the blood from the after-birth of a rabbit is injected into a virgin doe it will cause the secretion of I24 HOW FAR DOES CHEMISTRY CARRY US milk . The normal secretion of the pancreas is stimulated chiefly by a secretion from the duodenum , which is absorbed by the blood and carried around to the pancreas through the general circulation . The velocity of reactions in organic chemistry is affected in a remarkable way by the presence of enzymes , or unorganized ferments . Recent study has shown that there are no organized ferments . The yeast cell , for example , is not itself a ferment , but elaborates zymase as its principal enzyme . Enzymes of some sort or several sorts appear to be elaborated by all animal and many plant cells . They are " catalysts " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accelerating certain chemical reactions without being themselves altered or becoming part of the resulting product . In other words , they form unstable intermediary compounds . Two substances capable of combination may remain side by side in solution without combining , until an enzyme is added which brings about a new equilibrium in the solution . The action of each enzyme is specific . It affects in a definite way a substance or group of substances and ( in most cases ) no others . The action is usually destructive . Some instances of " reverse " action are known , however . Thus maltase changes maltose into the simpler molecule , glucose . When applied to a very concentrated solution of glucose it causes the formation of a substance similar to maltose . The concentration of the solution has increased the molecular energy , represented by cohesion , surface tension , molecular veloc-125 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE ity , or whatever force hinders chemical reaction . This increased molecular energy is capable of transformation into chemical energy on the addition of the proper transformer. * Thus far it has proved impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their chemical composition . They are colloids , and somewhat resemble the proteins , with which they are closely associated . They are elab-orated only by living cells , but , once formed , are las gely independent of life . The cell first produces a mother-ferment , which becomes active through contact with certain specific excitors . Up to a certain maxi-mum , the activity of an enzyme is , in general , propor-tional to its concentration . Action is inhibited by lowering the temperature , and the activity of the enzyme , when in solution , is destroyed by too ? C or less ; also by certain poisons . In this it resembles the living cell . Enzymes in a dried condition , like dried bacteria , can be heated considerably above the boiling point . Some enzymes are destroyed by sunlight , like bacteria . Chlorophyll and other plant plastids are not enzymes , though they serve much the same purpose . The various inorganic catalysts , such as acids , alkalies and mineral salts , are crystalloids . They are more HOW FAR DOES CHEMISTRY CARRY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ molecule , and less easily destroyed . The cell itself , while using various catalysts , is itself an energy-transformer with greatly enlarged powers . To quote from Professor Moore : " 1 . The action of the soluble or unorganized catalyst or enzyme may consist ( a ) in commencing a reaction which does not proceed at all in its absence ; ( b ) in altering the velocity of a reaction which does proceed in its absence , and such action may be positive , increasing the speed of the reaction , or negative , diminishing the speed of the reaction ; but ( c ) the direction of reaction must always be toward the point of equilibrium , because the enzyme does not yield energy itself , and is unable to act as a transformer to external energy , or to link two chemical reactions so as to obtain energy from one for the performance of the other . " 2 . The living cell as an energy-transformer , in addition to the actions ( a ) and ( b ) of the enzyme , can store up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and converting it into chemical energy , or by linking several reactions together and transforming the chemical energy obtained from some back to chemical energy which is stored up in others . Finally , the cell can modify its activities , and alter in its action as a transformer , changing entirely the course of the reactions it induces and the products obtained , while the type of action of the enzyme is simple , selective , and entirely fixed . There is no doubt whatever that the cell makes use of the action of many intracellular en 127 7 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE zymes for the chemical transformations it induces , but in all cases the action of such enzymes is adapted , con-trolled , and coordinated by the cell . " ' What is life ? What is this something which com-pels us to add to the merely physical sciences the sci-ence of biology ? Our answer must be inductive , and the question should first be put in the simpler , more concrete form : " What is organism ? " Life on this planet , as we know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized ; it has a definite physical basis . What then distinguishes a living organism , plant or animal , lower or higher , from the same aggregation of atoms before life is present , or after life has ceased ? We find , in every case , three and probably four principal character-istics , which we might term the categories of biology . First , movement . In physical masses there is a pas-sive , mechanical response to external stimuli . Certain chemical ' substances will affect the atoms of a body ; a rise of temperature will increase the velocity of its molecules . Decrease of pressure in the medium will cause the body to rise . A piece of iron , floating on a cork , will move toward a magnet . There is no reason to suppose that a dead organism would show energy-phenomena of a higher order . The death-test of cells under a microscope is the lack of " amoeba-like " move-ments , when stimulated by an alkali . The response of the living organism to the same stimuli is of an entirely different character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an energy-transformer . Take HOW FAR DOES CHEMISTRY CARRY US the " irritability " of the simplest organism , as shown by its various tropisms . The cell is stimulated by some chemical substance or by light . Not only is there a chemical or molecular response , as in the case of the physical mass , but the stimulus when received is trans-mitted through the organism ( conductivity ) , some of the carbon of the cell is oxidized to convert heat energy into molar motion ? of the cilia or other parts ? and the cell moves in a direction determined by the charac-ter of the stimulus and the chemical and physical sym-metry of the organism . Each unicellar shows most of the tropisms which I have before enumerated . The resulting movements may not be of any special advan-tage , * but they constitute a response to the environ-ment . How far the movements of higher organisms are to be considered tropisms we need not discuss at this point . The adjustment to environment becomes very complex . The animal moves freely : in search of food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lay its eggs , to secure a more favorable habitat . Even in plants which have lost the power of free movement , the leaves and flowers are more or less heliotropic and the root-hairs are constantly seeking out new sources of moisture . The development of each cell and of each organism shows a constant and active adjustment be-tween internal and external relations . Countless exam-ples of the same power could be given from the survival of mutations and the evolution of species and organs . The striking thing about the various movements of THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE this organic adjustment is that they represent the initia tion of molar energy on the part of the living creature The organism and its parts follow the familiar law governing kinetic energy . To this extent the organism is like any other physical machine . But the living ma chine has , to a large extent , the power of starting and stopping its own machinery-that is , of changing molecular into molar energy . It is an active ( though not necessarily " conscious " or " voluntary " ) energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fluid within the organism , though largely mechanical , is also subject to vital control . One of the best examples i the diffusion through organic membranes , such as the air-cells of the lungs and the cellular walls of blood and lymph vessels . Instead of following the ordinary phys ical law of osmosis , where the diffusion is from the region of greater to the region of less pressure , th cells cause carbon dioxide and other fluids to pass in a reverse direction and increase the molecular pressure of the fluid . This is brought about through a trans formation of some of the energy of the cell itself . In the kidneys , the concentration of the urea solution i increased from less than four-hundredths per cent in the blood to two per cent in the urine . The action o the cell in these cases is selective and varies according to the nature and concentration of the solution. * The distribution of blood and the rate of secretion of vari ous fluids are regulated by the organism as a whole or HOW FAR DOES CHEMISTRY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nervous inhibitions the creature is able , to a limited extent , to control its own pumps and valves . The adjustment of organisms to environment is physics and something more . Second , metabolism , the control of the chemical changes necessary for life . Every cell is a minute chemical laboratory , breaking up bulky food molecules into simpler forms . Various enzymes and other catalysts are necessary for destructive metabolism . By the use of these catalysts , at the proper temperature , some of the digestive processes of the cell may be duplicated by us in the laboratory . But the cell not only manages these chemical reactions , automatically selecting the proper material ; it also supplies the enzymes for the purpose , which are found nowhere else , sometimes elaborating one enzyme rather than another , according to its needs . The living cell , as we have seen , also uses heat energy derived from some of its material , chiefly carbon , to build up compound molecules of a size and complexity unknown to inorganic chemistry . To a very limited extent enzymes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only when the solution acted on is below the normal equilibrium . But a cell , to select one of the simplest instances , is able to absorb a soluble carbohydrate , oxidize part of the substance to yield energy , and use this energy to build up the remainder into molecules of fat , the new molecules being of very much greater bulk and possessing vastly greater chemical and atomic energy than the molecules // of the carbohydrate . ' Substantially this process is go-ing on in every active cell of every organism in the world of biology . Metabolism appears to represent the initiation of chemical changes . Physical and chem-ical laws go on unaltered . The conservation of energy is not affected . But organisms have the power to transform heat energy into chemical energy , or vice versa , and so perpetuate their life . Third , regeneration . We have seen that all plants , the lower- animals and even the germs of higher ani-mals in the first cleavages of development , are toti-potent ? that is , they are able to restore a complete individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as in all higher animal forms , the power of generating a new organism like the parent also resides in the germ-cells . This is simply a division of func-tion ; fundamentally the process is the same in both cases . We no more understand how the larva of a salamander , after the lens of the eye has been removed , can restore a perfect lens from the posterior layer of the iris , t than we understand why the organism devel-oped from a fertilized mammalian ovum will turn into an almost exact reproduction of one or both par-ents . The mechanism of the process is entirely beyond our present knowledge . But all normal organisms have this power of regeneration , to which the physical world offers no analogy . The two facts to be noted are : First , the fact of re-generation ? the fact that all life comes from some HOW FAR DOES CHEMISTRY CARRY US previous life and seems destined to the production of new life in its turn . Every cell comes from the division of some pre-existing cell . Second , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aptly calls " biological memory . " That is , in its growth into a complete organism it repeats the developmental process of its parents , and to some extent of the species and of the living race . Past experiences are in some way impressed upon the " germ-plasm " , the continuous cellsubstance . One of the most interesting examples of this is the preparation of both maternal and paternal germ-cells for conjugation . Normally the nuner of chromosomes is reduced one-half , in order that , when union of the cells takes place , there may be the typical number of chromosomes in the united cell . Conjugation may not take place , but the germ cells have " remembered " their proper function . Fourth , variation , a factor as yet little understood . It may be merely a failure of the organism completely to reproduce its ancestral life , and this failure may be due to the action of physical or chemical causes during the process of development . In that case variation would not strictly be a category of biology . On the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself , as the recent study of discontinuous variation by de Vries and others appears to indicate . This power , however , is shown only by a certain proportion of the organisms in a group , the others breeding true . Are we to suppose that many organisms lack this power altogether , or that it is in some way latent in all ? 1331 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE Philosophy can ask a great many questions that biology is still unable to answer . We may now define life provisionally as ; that which , added to the elements known collectively as protoplasm and having purely physical attributes , organizes those elements into a machine which has the power of movement , metabolism , regeneration , and probably variationI mean this to be merely an empirical definition , whic will not commit us to either mechanism or vitalism. r34 ) CHAPTER IX THE ORIGIN OF LIFE LEAVING for the present the further study of life itself , we may turn to the question of its source . Most writers on this subject have ignored the extreme complexity of even the simplest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in any real sense , an organism requires the assembling in appropriate quan-tities of at least nine chemical elements. * These must J ) e built up into large molecules of peculiar composi-tion and structure . Further , the cell must be organ-ized into nuclear material , cytoplasm , centrosomes or their equivalent , and plastids . Since animals depend on plants for their supply of carbon , the earliest organ-isms would appear to have been plants equipped with chlorophyll grains for decomposing carbon dioxide.t No simpler forms of life have survived , or , as far as we can see , would have been able to carry on vital functions . Such complex energy-transformations re-quire a complex machine . It is in the light of these 135 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE facts that we must approach the question of the source of terrestrial life . Spontaneous generation has been a favorite hypothe7sis . But the experiments of Pasteur and Tyndall have proved that , on our present earth , when germs of previous life are rigidly excluded , there is no spontaneous generation of life , at least " under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there is no evidence for spontaneous generation and considerable evidence against it . The " radiobes " discovered by Burke a few years ago , in sterilized bouillon subject to the action of radium , were claimed as occupying a position between crystals and bacteria . They probably are to be explained as mere coagulations ; radium is known to be destructive of all forms of life . Enzymes , though subject to some of the same conditions as living cells , are merely chemical compounds ; they can not be considered as simpler forms of cells . They are not living creatures any more than are proteids or carbohydrates . Centrosomes , plastids , etc. , have a more or less independent existence , but only as parts of the living cell . " Experimental abiogenesis , " says Loeb , " is the goal of biology . " The majority of present-day scientists are working on the assumption that , when we have learned enough about the chemistry and behavior of the cell , it will be possible to build up a living cell artificially in the laboratory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as constructing a simple colloid . If Fischer or his son or his grandson succeeds in building peptides 136 THE ORIGIN OF LIFE into peptones , and peptones into albumins , and albumins into cells , it is by no means certain that the cellmachine so constructed would show the characteristics of a living organism . To this question I shall return a little later . My present point is that the casual assema bling , even of the materials necessary for an albumin , molecule , is almost inconceivable . Once assembled , the possibility of their happening to fall into the proper arrangement is cut off by the doctrine of chances . In the albumin molecule . we probably have to do with nearly a thousand atoms . The science of stereo-chemistry shows that these are arranged in definite groupings , not merely mixed like grains of sand . Any one with a mathematical bent and unlimited blackboard facilities may figure out the chance of an adequate supply of five kinds of atoms falling into the arrangement C23 , H3s6N58S207s ( egg-albumin . ) The physical world never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amines . We must conclude , therefore , that the first organization , on this planet , of inorganic material into living cells , is explicable only on the supposition that life was , in some sense , already present in the universe . It has been suggested that life may have reached us from some other planet , through the meteorites continually falling on the earth . Doubtless certain organisms might have survived the cold of such a transit . But , to qupte from Chamberlin and Salisbury : " There is nothing in known meteorites , save perhaps the existence of hydrocarbons equally assignable to inorganic 137 1 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE sources , to indicate that they came from worlds with atmospheres and hydrospheres suited to maintain such life as the problem presents . On the contrary , there are the best of grounds for believing that meteorites came from bodies in which the essential conditions of life were wanting ; for , besides the absence of free oxygen and water , there is an absence of the products assignable to weathering and to those rock-changes that spring from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of the existence of life on other heav-enly bodies is essentially a biological one , and the best answer has been given by a biologist , the late Alfred Russell Wallace . The physical conditions necessary for metabolism he states as follows : " I. Regularity of heat-supply , resulting in a limited range of tempera-ture. 2 . A sufficient amount of solar light and heat . 3 . Water in great abundance , and universally distrib-uted. 4 . An atmosphere of sufficient density , and con-sisting of the gases which are essential for vegetable and animal life . These are Oxygen , Carbonic-acid gas , Aqueous vapor , Nitrogen , and Ammonia . These must all be present in suitable proportions . 5 . Alternations of day and night . " 1 ' These conditions the earth appears to have fulfilled throughout geologic times , thus allowing the chemical processes of metabolism to go on as at present . No other planet in the solar system fulfills these conditions , 138 THE ORIGIN OF LIFE according to Wallace . Only Venus has the proper mass to retain an atmosphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably always presents the same face to the sun , which means a great excess of heat on its face and a deficiency ? on its back . The larger planets , with their low densities , probably consist of permanent gases and do not have a solid surface . As to Mars , the planet of strife , Wallace 's statements must be revised in the light of recent evidence . Campbell has computed the density of the Martian atmosphere at less than one-fourth that of the earth , but Lowell questions the methods used . The Flagstaff Observatory claims to have found the spectroscopic line of water vapor , and the snow of the polar caps is now considered by most scientists to be frozen water rather than carbonic acid . As to temperature , earlier estimates neglected the blanketing effect of the atmosphere . Lowell computes the mean temperature as high as 48 ? F. Through most of the year intense cold undoubtedly prevails in all but the equatorial regions , and the alternations of day and night are more severe than on the earth . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regions must be desert , except for possible irrigation . Scientists are not agreed as to whether the oblique rays of the sun would be able to melt the polar caps , or whether the snow , under such a low atmospheric pressure , would not evaporate rather than turn to water . It is by no means certain that the " canals " represent belts of vegetation bordering on channels through which this polar water flows . The 1391 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE canals are straight and follow great circles . But even if the surface of Mars should prove to be perfcctlr level , it is hard to see why water should flow from the poles to the equator . As to the further step in Percival Lowell 's argument , that these canals must be artificial , the work of intelligent inhabitants , a scientific man should keep his imagination under full control . There is not the slightest evidence that the temperature , density , etc. , of Mars were ever more favorable to life than they are at present . The planet has never had a larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the planet as it is now , and presumably always has been , the extremes of temperature are too great , the atmosphere too rare , and water too scarce for a free development of animal life such as we see on the earth , with constant mutation resulting at last in the evolution of ' capable engineers . Such an organic development on Mars is simply out of the question . Earthly evolution did not take place , and could not have taken place , on the Sahara or its oases . All we could expect on Mars would he some low vegetable forms . And plants do not build canals . As to the habitability of planets outside the solar system , we have no evidence that such planets exist . Thus far our system is unique in astronomy . Central suns would also be required , stable enough for a sufficiently long period to furnish light and heat for planetary life-development . We must rule out the stars in or near the crowded Milky ' Way , where the average his // of a star would be too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in process of formation or rapid condensa-tion , others as binary or multiple systems subject to intense tides . " In those remaining , " as Wallace puts it , " whether they may be reckoned by tens or by hundreds we can not say , the chances against the same com-plex combination of conditions as those which we find on the earth occurring on any planet of any other sun are enormously great . " * Wallace 's argument against the habitability of any other heavenly body seems to me unanswerable , if we grant his assumption that the laws of biology are uni-form and that life on other planets must necessarily conform to the conditions of life on the earth . These conditions appear to be partly physical and partly chem-ical . Only a certain planetary mass and temperature-range will retain the fundamental chemical elements and enable them to enter freely into combination . On other heavenly bodies there might be organisms made up of other elements and subject to other conditions . But then that would not be protoplasm . It would be something else , about which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Here and in other parts of our inductive philosophy , a confession of ignorance must not be mistaken for a negation . We have no basis for a denial of other life-plasms any more than we have for an affirmation . We are simply beyond our depth . Coming to solid ground again , it is clear that proto-plasm on this planet ? the only life-plasm we know THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE conforms to physical laws and conditions . It makes part of the physical universe as at present constituted . More and more , organic processes are coming to be recognized as chemical in their nature . The cell is an energy-transformer . It is a physical machine , and as such is subject to physical ( physico-chemical ) stimulus and control . The same is true , to a certain extent , of the complex molecules out of which the cell is built . Protoplasmic molecules are essentially mechanisms . The total quantity of protoplasm varies with the number of cell-machines ; it has greatly increased during biologic history and doubtless is still increasing . We now return to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current theories , only three are in any sense inductive and worthy of serious consideration . The first theory is that life is a form of energy , or , as one writer puts it , " the form of energy peculiar to living matter . " Solar heat is transformed into electrical and atomic energy , and this into the " biotic " energy of the cell . This theory appears to me to be bad biology and worse physics . Life is quite distinct from kinetic energy , whose transformations it seems able to control . In these transformations , the total of the five physical energies is always constant . This has been repeatedly tested in the calorimeter . The life or death of the organism maks no difference in the total . A generally level-headed scientist says , however : " It is no argument against the existence of a discrete form of energy that it is only produced from other forms of energy and 142 THE ORIGIN OF LIFE passes back again into other forms . In fact , it must be so produced and so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conservation is the expression would be upset . " * This line of reasoning is like that of the man who pretends to transfer a coin from a cup to his mouth and back . We have not seen the coin mean-while , but he picks up the cup and sure enough there it it is back again ! Any of the five forms of physical energy may be added to or subtracted from the total , and so detected . Why does not biotic energy give some evidence of a separate existence ? Life is not a form of energy , any more than it is a substance possessing mass and weight . A second theory , now widely current , is that life is merely the sum total of the physical processes which go on in the cell , just as oxidation , for instance , is the act of union between atoms of oxygen and the atoms of some other element . If there is no such union of atoms , there is no oxidation . If the organic processes cease , there is no life . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no evi-dence for life . This theory commends itself at first by its simplicity . But it is too simple : it is a label for certain processes , not an explanation of them . It offers no clue to the origin of life on this planet . All organic phenomena depend on " that which " organizes inorganic elements into the complex machine known as the living cell . One such machine seems capable of perpetuating itself in an unlimited THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE number of similar machines . But the chance aggregation of atoms and molecules into one such machine we have found to be unthinkable . The most hopeful prospect is afforded by a closer study of the living cell as an energy transformer . When a plant cell , by means of its chlorophyll grains , under the stimulus of the sun 's rays , breaks up a molecule of CO2 , rejecting one or both of the oxygen atoms and building the carbon atom into new combinations , the action of the cell resembles that of a physical force . That is , the cell appears able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction of physical energy . The process is very similar to that where the gravitation pull , with the help of a water wheel , transforms the energy of a stream into that of a mill ; or where the electric force , by means of a carbon or metal filament , converts some of the kinetic energy of the electrons into the radiant energy of an electric light . Life resembles a physical force . It is not identical with any one of the physical forces ; in fact it controls forces as well as energies . According to the third theory , therefore , ( life is that which is able to organize inorganic material into a cellmachine , and , through a number of such organic machines , of constantly increasing complexity , to exercise further control over physical energies and forces . Life , as Sir Oliver Lodge expresses it , is " a guiding an controlling entity which reacts upon our world according to laws so partially known that we have to say they are practically unknown , and therefore appear in some 144 TILE ORIGIN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nature of life is the one suggested by the facts themselves , we may take it as a working hypothesis , to be confirmed or disproved by such further evidence as we may be able to glean . The energies and forces controlled by life , through the machinery of protoplasm , are those which in their totality make up the physical universe . Life is evi-dently part of the same universe , so that we must now use that term in a larger sense , as embracing both energy and life . Whatever the exact source of life on this planet , there is life in the universe , interwoven in some way with the physical . The wider universe is able to produce or manifest the biological phenomena with which we are familiar . Since spontaneous generation is unknown and life always comes from some previous life , there is a strong presumption that life exists else-where in the universe , under different forms . " What-ever life may be , it is something which can begin to interact with the atoms of terrestrial matter at some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ? a condition which may perhaps be rather definite , if only we were aware of what it was . " This is another quotation from Lodge in his answer to Haeckel.t But Haeckel 's monism seems to me to aim for this same point , though he blunders upon many dogmatic and foolish statements by the way . It is in order now to call for the question laid on the table THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE earlier in the chapter ? whether an artificial cell , if we ever succeed in assembling one , would show the characteristics of a living cell . In other words , would it live ? Is life constantly passing through our world like a series of electric waves , ready to set in vibration any instrument that is tuned to receive them ? ' We do not know . We can only answer : " Try it and see . " The general question , how far life , as distinct from protoplasm , is subject to the physical categories , is too abstract to discuss here . On one point , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In default of any knowledge of smaller units , we may take the cell as the biological unit of number . But the unit of life is not the cell but the individual organism . In some cases the two are identical . A protozoan cell , for example , is one unit of protoplasm ; it is also one organism , one life . When it divides , it becomes two units of protoplasm and two organisms . So with the ovum and spermatazoon of a higher animal , which are two cells and two organisms , until they coalesce to form one cell , one organism . Every individual organism comes from some previous individual , just as every cell comes from some preexisting cell . When the fertilized eggcell divides , however , we have two cells , two units of protoplasm , but only one organism . The two together form a unity , as will be described more fully at a later point . However much the cells may multiply by division , or change the material of which they are composed , the organism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OF LIFE continues apparently to be the same . It remembers , in a biological sense , its own previous life , as well as that of its ancestors . When the individual organism dies , it apparently ceases to be , as suddenly and completely as it began to be in the fertilization of the germ . This appearance and disappearance may conceivably be merely apparent . Many questions might be raised in this connection . Even in the higher organisms the individual cell main-tains a certain independence . After the death of the organism many of these cells persist for a limited time before dying , that is turning to water and breaking up into simpler elements . During this temporary persist-ence should the cells be termed organisms ? At the Rockefeller Institute , Carrel and Burrows have succeeded in taking out one of the kidneys of a dog , treat-ing it , and replacing it after an interval of fifty minutes . They have proved that a segment of artery can be kept in cold storage in a condition of latent life , and then successfully transplanted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that fifty min-utes or during that cold storage process , were the kid-ney and the artery individual organisms ? They have been part of an organism , and may be again , just as a piston-rod temporarily removed from an engine is part of an engine . But a specialized animal cell or tissue is not able to perpetuate its life for an indefinite peiod , either through metabolism or through reproduction . On the other hand , any toti-potent cell detached from THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE a plant may , under proper conditions , become an independent organism . Without stopping longer on these rather academic problems , it seems safe to conclude that , in addition to the category of number , and the general category of unity ( as making part of the universe , ) all normal living creatures are characterized by individuality , a sort of " dynamic unity " of the individual organism . This should be included with the four biological categories given at the close of the last chapter . By life , to analyze this concept in its turn , we mean the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth , and the life or lives which may exist in the universe under other forms . What life is in itself , apart from organism , we do not know . Biology , as the science of organism , can never tell us . Does the gradual perfecting of species imply plan and- purpose in the universe ? It might imply that ; such a view would be entirely consistent with the facts . On the other hand , the perfecting of species might be due to the normal action of organisms , especially under the categories of variation and regeneration . We may expect to learn considerably more about these factors . But an answer to the question of purpose is beyond the scope of biology today , and probably always will he . It is hard to see what extension of our present biological knowledge would lift us from our position of agnosticism . What then is the contribution of biology to philosophy ? The universe is not merely physical ; it includes 148 THE ORIGIN OF LIFE the phenomena of life . And since life is able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and forces , without altering their quantities or the laws of their behavior , we have clear evidence that there is some such control of the physical side of the universe . The psychical sphere of phenomena may give us further light . The interpretation of life , like life itself , is inseparably connected with mind , which is its other phase or its accompanying factor . 149 CHAPTER X THE EVOLUTION OF MAN M ENTAL phenomena are not , strictly speaking , supernatural to biology . The distinction between life and mind is largely for convenience . No settled boundary line can be drawn between the biological and the psychological group of sciences . On entering the broad field of psychology , our first task is to complete the story of organic evolution . Thus lar we have referred to man only incidentally . Four lines of evidence teach us that the human species has evolved from lower forms of life . ( a ) Comparative Anatomy . In anatomical structure man belongs to the animal kingdom , to the branch vertebrates , to the class of placental mammals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anthropoidea . That is , man not only resembles in structure and organs all vertebrate animals and especially all mammals ( so much so that one of the best ways of studying the human body is by dissecting a cat or a rabbit ) but he shows an unmistakable connection also with the lower and higher apes . The most important characteristics of the primates are the well-developed pelvis and rear limbs , enlarged big toes , nails instead of claws , a complete collar-bone , a disk-like placenta , enamelled teeth of all four kinds , 1531 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE whose number and arrangement are almost invariable , and special developments or tendencies of brain and skull . The anthropoidea are characterized by the size and . " convolution of the cerebral hemispheres and by the sin- ' . gle pear-shaped womb . Of the members of this order , ' the catarrhine ( narrow-nosed ) apes of the Old World , have nostrils resembling those of man , and the sam. , ' dentition , twenty milk teeth and thirty-two permanen ' . teeth . The New World apes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extin member of the catarrhine branch . The living forms o the latter are divided into tailed and tailless apes . Th tailless apes of the present day , such as the oran outang of Asia and the gorilla and chimpanzee . Africa , resemble man in minor points of structure , I size , in brain-development , and in the tendency to wa erect . It is hard to say which of the apes mention is nearest to man . Each shows special points of rese blance . The structural and organic differences ? tween man and what we might term the composi tailless ape are slight , aside from features which . apparently connected with higher brain developmen Huxley 's statement has never been seriously dispute . " The structural differences which separate Man fro ' : the Gorilla and the Chimpanzee are not so great those which separate the Gorilla from the lowapes. " ( b ) Embryology . The human embryo , as it . ? T. H. Huxley , Place of Man in Nature , : 863 , Americ ed. p. 123. 154 THE EVOLUTION OF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inch in diameter into the complex organism which we see in the babe , repeats , like other animals , some of the embryonic history of its ancestors . It first appears in a form resembling the protozoan amoeba . This , by repeated subdivision , becomes in turn a " mulberry , " a single cell-wall enclosing a fluid , and a gastrula or two-layered stomach-pouch much like the hydra . All metazoa pass through these stages , and while doing so are practically indistinguishable from each other . " The human embryo from now on might properly be classed , at successive stages , with the embryonic or typical forms of the vermes , the tunicates , the primitive vertebrates such as the amphioxus , the primitive fish forms , the amphibians , the primitive or typical mammals , the tailed catarrhine apes and the tailless catarrhines . The evidence should be studied in the laboratory . In its details the recapitulation is abbreviated and foreshortened ; the evolutionary history is often obscured by features due to the adaptation of the foetus to the conditions of its own embryonic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the development of some useless ' features , such as hair-coat and tail , which must be eliminated before birth . ( c ) Rudimentary Organs . Survivals are found in man , as ' in all higher animals . Examples are the vermiform appendix , of positive harm to man but useful to many herbiverous animals , where it is of large size ; muscles for twitching various parts of the skin , still used by man for drawing up the eyebrows , butrudi-155 r THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE mentary in other parts of the body , except with cert ' individuals ; similar muscles for twitching the extern ear ; a small blunt point on the edge of the ear-fo which represents the point of a primitive pointed e from three to five bones of a rudimentary tail , a occasionally rudimentary muscles for moving it ; t grasping power of a new-born babe and the angle which the soles are set , resembling characteristics of arboreal apes ; the semi-lunar fold of a third eyel ' found , in use among many animals , even some m : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer of . value to man , and the direction of the hairs toward elbow on both the upper and lower arm , an arra ment found only in the higher apes and a few Amer ' = monkeys . The list of rudiments might be greatly tended , especially if we included abnormal human tures , which are generally reversions to ancestral ty ( d ) Comparative Psychology . It is often tho that there is a break between the mental develop of man and that of the higher animals . This is only in the same sense that there is a break be the development of an adult and that of a child . In the first place , man is a true anthropoidea ; brain and nervous system , as in the other points of anatomy . The resemblance extends even to co lotions and fissures , and to the localization of func Our knowledge of the human nervous system has gained largely through experiments on monkeys . is simply the culmination of a long evolution , begins with the protozoan cell , sensitive as a who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimuli , passes through the rudimentary ner-vous systems of invertebrates , already in many cases showing specialization into sensory and motor centers , and finally reaches the segmented nervous system characteristic of all vertebrates . In the second place , the psychological evolution cor-responds with that of the nervous system , and man is a true anthropoidea in his mental processes , as far as a comparison is possible . This subject has already been touched on in a crude way in our first chapter. * The best recent work has been along the line of a more care-ful observation of the behavior of animals . Earlier students , like Romanes , relied largely on random anec-dotes , and even in their interpretations of these they were often led into anthropomorphism . Special reference should be made to the comparative psychology of lower forms of life , a subject on which there has been a good deal of careless observation and less reasoning . Some writers have attributed to micro-organisms a mental life that is astonishingly advanced ? almost human . But Professor H. S. Jennings has made a very thorough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the paramecium , and finds no actions that can not be classed as merely organic . The taking of food is automatic , being due to the water currents set up by the cilia . There is no selection of food material by the organisms . They are repelled by alkalies , cold , or great heat , and attracted by certain acids , especially by carbon dioxide . Since the parame-1571 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE cia , like all animals , excrete C08 , which finds its w i into the water , the more paramecia massed togeth .. the more CO2 and the more attraction . This undoubtedly the explanation of the so-called social ph nomena of these animals . They do not profit by rience . There is no choice in the matter of their o ' movements . For all classes of stimuli , they first verse the cilia and swim backward , then turn and s forward . The turning is always toward the side op site the mouth opening. * Probably the psychological development of the p . mecium would be typical of the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a simple nerv ? l system . The only psychic life is that represented by processes which I have given as characteristic of organisms.t The value of nerves , as Professor says , " lies in the fact that they are quicker and m ' , sensitive conductors than undifferentiated protopla Because of these qualities of the nerves , an animal better able to adapt itself to changing conditions t it possibly could do if it had no nerves . Such power adaptation is absolutely necessary for free animals . For the higher stages of psychic evolution I , quote Professor Thorndike 's summary of his o studies . " Experiments have been made on fishes , r tiles , birds and various mammals , notably dogs , ctt id kththld td THE EVOLUTION OF MAN tain simple things in order to get food . All these animals manifest fundamentally the same sort of intellectual life . Their learning is after the same general type . What that type is can be seen best from a concrete instance . A monkey was kept in a large cage . Into the cage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held closed by a wire fastened to a nail which was inserted in a hole in the top of the box . If the nail was pulled up out of the hole , the door could be pulled open . In this box was a piece of banana . The monkey , attracted by the new object , came down from the top of the cage and fussed over the box . He pulled at the wire , at the door , and at the bars in the front , of the box . He pushed the box about and tipped it up and down . He played with the nail and finally pulled it out . When he happened to pull the door again , of course it opened . He reached in and got the food inside . It had taken him 36 minutes to get in . Another piece of food being put in and the door closed , the occurrences of the first trial were repeated , but there was less of the profitless pulling and tipping . He got in this time in 2 minutes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to drop entirely the profitless acts and to take the nail out and open the door as soon as the box was put in the cage . He had , we should say , learned to get in . " The process involved in the learning was evidently a process of selection . The animal is confronted by a state of affairs or , as we may call it , a situation . ' He reacts in the way that he is moved by his innate nature X1591 ' THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE or previous training to do , by a number of acts . These acts include the particular act that is appropriate and he succeeds . In later trials the impulse to this one act is more and more stamped in , this one act is more and more associated with that situation , is selected from amongst the others by reason of the pleasure it brings ; the animal . The profitless acts are stamped out ; the ' impulses to perform them in that situation are weak- ' ened by reason of the positive discomfort or the absence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : , , performs in that situation only the fitting act . " Here we have the simplest and at the same time ' ' the most widespread sort of intellect or learning in the , world . There is no reasoning , no process of inference : or comparison ; there is no thinking about things , nFF putting two and two together ; there are no ideas ? th ; animal does not think of the box of the food or of t act he is to perform . He simply comes after the learn " ing to feel like doing a certain thing under certai circumstances which before the learning he did no feel like doing . Human beings are accustomed to thin of intellect as the power of having and controllin ideas and of ability to learn as synonymous with abil ' ; ity to have ideas . But learning by having ideas i really one of the rare and isolated events in nature There may be a few scattered ideas possessed by th higher animals , but the common form of intelligen ? with them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquisition of ideas ( but by the selection o impulses. 16o THE EVOLUTION OF MAN " Indeed this same type of learning is found in man . When we learn to drive a golf ball or play tennis or billiards , when we learn to tell the price of tea by tasting it or to strike a certain note exactly with the voice , we do not learn in the main by virtue of any ideas that are explained to us , by any inferences that we reason out . We learn by the gradual selection of the appropriate act or judgment , by its association with the circumstances or situation requiring it , in just the way that the animals do . " From the lowest animals of which we can affirm intelligence up to man this type of intellect is found . With it there are in the mammals obscure traces of the ideas which come in the mental life of man to outweigh and hide it . But it is the basal fact . As we follow the development of animals in time , we find the capacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made between situation and act growing in number , being formed more quickly , lasting longer and becoming more complex and more delicate . The fish can learn to go to certain places , to take certain paths , to bite at certain things and refuse others , but not much more . It is an arduous proceeding for him to learn to get out of a small pen by swimming up through a hole in a screen . The monkey can learn to do all sorts of things . It is a comparatively short and easy task for him to learn to get into a box by unhooking a hook , pushing a bar around and pulling out a plug . He learns quickly to climb down to a certain place when he sees a letter T on a card and to stay i6i THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE still when he sees a K. He performs the proper acts nearly as well after 50 days as he did when they were fresh in his mind . This growth in the number , speed of formation , permanence , delicacy and complexity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case of man . " * Some further discussion of these subjects will be ' given later . The present chapter is intended to bet largely in the nature of a summary . What really distinguishes man from his cousins o the higher anthropoidea ? Physiologically the differ ences are slight . Every bone and organ could be di : tinguished from the corresponding bone or organ of gorilla , but the same is true of a gorilla as compare ! ! with a chimpanzee . The individuals of a species ar specifically different in practically all details from th individuals of every other species . The distinguishing differences between man and th , higher apes may be enumerated as follows : ( a ) immense increase in intelligence . Among the m. striking manifestations of this are the power of acquir ing language , and the power of using tools , fire and : clothes . ( b ) Increased size of the brain . In a health human adult the brain never weighs less than thirty-one or thirty-two ounces , the average is about forty. , eight among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brain never weighs more than twenty ounces ' although the total weight of the gorilla is very much THE EVOLUTION OF MAN greater than that of man . " An average European child of four years old has a brain twice as large as that of an adult gorilla . " The increase is chiefly in the cerebral hemispheres , which also show greater num-ber and irregularity of convolutions . It should be stated , however , that there is no direct connection be-tween brain-weight and mental capacity. * ( c ) A pro-longed period of helpless infancy in the human species . ( d ) Man stands and walks erect , with flat soles and the legs longer than the arms . ( e ) Increased control of the voice , which makes possible the articulate speech so characteristic of the species . This power may be connected with the upright head . ( f ) Man is com-paratively hairless . It is not easy to determine the relation between these factors . In the present state of our knowledge , we must consider the various physical factors ? brain-weight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hair ? not as characteristics acquired and transmit-ted , but as a series of mutations . We have analogies from zoology to show that such mutations ( each of them involving several physical factors ) must have occurred at irregular intervals , along with countless other mutations that have not survived . Of the factors named , only the power of speech would appear to be at all fundamental . Whether this was primary and the increased intelligence secondary or vice versa , is at present a matter of mere speculation . The origin of human intelligence is only another side THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE of the problem of increased intelligence in other species . In the later stages of evolution , wits proved them-selves of more value than strength . A specialization of wits once started , each mutation that was of any possi-ble service along this line would at once gain a foothold and tend to become permanent . With a more complex nervous system , a prolongation of infancy became nec-essary . This in its turn reacted in various ways ? physical , mental and social ? but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The social instinct has undoubtedly been a powerful factor in animal evolution . Cooperating animals were able to secure a better food supply and better pro-tection . Association developed intelligence in the individuals . Among the higher animals , the most intelligent are those especially social , such as the ants , parrots , and monkeys ; the only striking exception is the carnivora . The higher apes are exceedingly grega-rious . They hunt and fight together , communicating rit by rude sounds . They have begun to acquire such habits as using sticks and stones and building sl ( ( elters . Probably Professor Giddings does not overstate the fact when he says that " association , more extended , more intimate , more varied in its phases , than the asso-ciation practised by inferior species ; was the chief cause of the mental and moral development , and of the ana-tomical modifications that transformed a sub-human t species into man . " The expenditure of surplus energy in play has been carried farthest among the primates . THE EVOLUTION OF MEIN Among even the most primitive men play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of association in intimacy , and above all , the develop-ment of festivity , converted the elementary language of animals into speech , which was thenceforward the foundation of human progress . " Let us glance next at the question of the antiquity of the human species . The fullest evidence is that from Europe , where recent years have seen a great advance in both the material and the methods of pre-historic anthropology . It is now customary to divide the Stone Age into the Eolithic , the Paleolithic , and the Neolithic Periods . Let us consider these periods in reverse order . The Neolithic may be defined as that section of the Stone Age which overlaps the present geological period . Cli-mate , fauna and flora were practically what we know today , and the surface of the earth up to the Arctic Circle was open to man 's habitation . Greater skill is shown in the shaping of tools and weapons , which are frequently polished . Arrowheads indicate the general use of the bow and arrow . Pottery and weaving are known ; also agriculture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of comparatively short duration . In Switzerland , for example , it covers ap-proximately from 5,000 B. C. to 1,500 B. C. , when the Bronze Age reaches the Alps. * 165 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE as co-extensive with the middle and upper levels of the Pleistocene ( Quarternary ) . Arctic conditions prevailed in Europe , alternating with periods of less severe climate . Men were present in this epoch , spreading northward after each withdrawal of the ice and leaving evidence of their culture in caves and valley deposits . ( The current sub-divisions of the Paleolithic can not be discussed here . ) They were contemporaries of extinct or migrated animals , such as the bison , cavebear , mammoth , reindeer and rhinoceros . Fire was known . Pieces of flint were chipped into tools and weapons , and others were ground from bone or horn . Skins were rudely stitched together for clothing . The art-work of Paleolithic man , as found in cave dwellings , especially in Spain and Southern France , is one of the wonders of History . Some of the sculpture is promising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of form and a freedom of execution that would have been creditable in any age . The Eolithic Period ( if such exists ) covers geologically the lower Pleistocene , the Pliocene and the upper Miocene . The evidence is still in dispute . The question hinges almost wholly on the question of whether the chipped flints found in these levels are human manufactures or whether they are due to natural causes . I am inclined to feel that the supporters of the Eolithic theory are making good . Such a period seems to be demanded by the relatively high culture of the lowest Paleolithic levels . The natives of Tasmania are shown to have been on what is practically an Eolithic stage . 66 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN And Verworn has given figures to show that the chip-ping of the flints follows a definite purpose in too large a proportion of cases to be the result of accident. * With the present uncertainty as to the duration of the geological periods , any figures given for the anti-quity of man must be largely guesswork . If we accept Dana 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the arbitrary assumption that it is sub-divided into five equal periods , of 600,000 years each , ' the Paleolithic Age , covering about two-thirds of the Pleistocene , begins 400,000 years ago . An Eolithic Age , covering the upper third of the Miocene , would carry the antiquity of man back to 1,400,000 years . There is the same uncertainty as to the period when we should look for the series of mutations resulting in the human species . During the Pleiocene , Northern Europe was still covered by water and Central Europe was becoming too cold for the primates . During most of the time from the Eocene to the Miocene Period , the slowly-evolving anthropoidean hordes might have had for their range a tropical or semi-tropical belt stretching across Europe and Asia from England to 1671 THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE Java , and sometimes including parts of Africa north of the Sahara . It is to this region that we should look for possible links between man and lower forms . Only three links have thus far been discovered . The first is the pithecanthropos erectus ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Java in 1890 in Pleiocene ( Volz and other authorities say Pleistocene ) deposits . The brain is about two-thirds as large as that of the average man . This species resembles man more closely than the apes , though it is probably not directly in the line of human ancestry . The second is the transitional skull from Piltdown , Sussex ( 1912 , probably Pleistocene . ) The other is the jaw discovered in the Mauer sands near Heidelberg , which seems more nearly in the human line . No human remains from the Eolithic Period have yet been found . The famous Neanderthal skull , discovered near Dusseldorf in 1856 , comes from the Paleolithic period . Many other skulls and skeletons are now known from this age . The earlier of these differ considerably from European skulls of the present day , giving us in fact a distinct type , the homo primigenius . Although man constitutes one Linna:an species , there appears to have been constant mutation in his case as in that of other animals , producing many elementary species which have crossed and recrossed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of skull , facial angle , cranial capacity , stature , comparative length of arms and legs , shape of nose , color of skin and of eyes , and color and texture of hair . All X168 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN these points appear to be mutationary rather than acquired , except that stature and other elements of size are liable to increase with better nourishment . Let us take Europe as an example . Scientists now distinguish three races , which overlap ( because they long antedate ) the present political and linguistic boundaries . These are the Teutonic , which is characterized by long heads , long faces , very light hair , blue eyes , tall stature , and narrow aquiline noses ; the Alpine ( Celtic ) , with round heads , broad faces , light chestnut hair , hazel-gray eyes , medium stocky stature , and variable , rather broad , heavy noses ; and the Mediterranean , with long heads , long faces , dark brown or black hair , dark ' eyes , medium , slender stature , and rather broad noses . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the measurements of 25 , - 000,000 soldiers and school children . Anthropologists are fairly well agreed as to the histcry of these three races . The earliest people of Europe were extremely long-headed and were probably related to the African negroes . They are best represented today by the Mediterranean race . The Teutonic race appears to be merely a variation of this , its blondness , etc. , having been acquired in the comparative isolation of the Scandinavian peninsula . Toward the close of the Stone Age , Europe was invaded by a broad-headed race of decidedly Asiatic affinities . They came by infiltration rather than by conquest . After overspreading most of Europe , this Alpine race was obliged in many places to recede . It is found most 169                     