@@774235

txt  | to put the province in a state of defence ; which committee holds till near nine , when I am at the Congress , and that sits till after four in the afternoon . In the period slightly exceeding a year previous to his departure for France , he served on innumerable committees of the Congress , was made Postmaster-General of the colonies , presided over the Constitutional Convention of Pennsylvania , was sent on a mission to Canada , assisted in drafting the Declaration of Independence , and signed it . In October , 1776 , he sailed for France on a commission of the Congress to negotiate a treaty of alliance , which was concluded in February , 1778 , after the surrender of Burgoyne had inspired confidence in the prospects of the American arms . In September , 1778 , he was appointed plenipotentiary to the Court of France . Clothed with large powers , he transacted in the next few years an almost incredible amount of difficult business for his country . He obtained from the French government the repeated loans which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he made contracts for clothing and ammunition ; he dissuaded or recommended to Congress foreign applicants for commissions in the colonial army ; he arranged exchanges of prisoners-of-war ; he equipped and to some extent directed the operations of privateers ; he supplied information to many Europeans emigrating to America ; he negotiated treaties of amity and commerce with Sweden and Prussia . With all this engrossing business on his hands , he found time to achieve an immense personal popularity . He was not merely respected as a masterly diplomat ; he was lionized and idolized as the great natural philosopher , the august champion of liberty , and the friend of humanity . In the press of public affairs , never losing interest in scientific matters , he served on a royal French commission to investigate Mesmerism ; sent to his foreign correspondents ingenious geological and meteorological conjectures ; and transmitted to the Royal Society reports on French experiments in aeronautics . He entertained with a certain lavishness at his house in Passy ; and he was a frequent dinerout , adored for his wit and good humour in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He set up for the amusement of himself and his friends a private press in Passy ,  | on which he printed a number of bagatelles of an accomplished and charming levity : The Ephemera ( 1778 ) , The Morals of Chess ( 1779 ) , The Whistle ( I 779 ) , The Dialogue between Franklin and the Gout ( 1780 . ) In 1784 he resumed work on his unfinished autobiography , and published Advice to such as would remove to America and Remarks Concerning the Savages of North America . In his residence in France he began seriously to feel the siege of gout , the stone , and old age . In 1781 , in reply to repeated supplications for leave to go home and die , Congress had appointed him a member of the commission to negotiate a treaty of peace between England and the United States . This last great task was completed in 1785 . In midsummer of that year he said a regretful farewell to his affectionate French friends , received the king 's portrait set in four hundred diamonds , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his point of embarkation at Havre de Grace . Franklin arrived in Philadelphia in September , 1785 , resolved to set his house in order . He was soon made aware that , like the hero in The Conquest of Granada , he had not " leisure yet to die . " He was overwhelmed with congratulations ; or , as he put it with characteristic modesty of phrase in a letter to his English friend Mrs. Hewson : " I had the happiness of finding my family well , and of being very kindly received by my Country folk . " In the month after his arrival lie was elected President of the State of Pennsylvania ; and the honour was thrust upon him again in 1786 and in 1787 . In a letter of 14 November , 1785 , he says : I had not firmness enough to resist the unanimous desire of my country folks ; and I find myself harnessed again in their service for another year . They engrossed the prime of my life . They have eaten my flesh , and seem resolved now to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegate to the convention to frame the Constitution of the United States ? an instrument which he deemed not perfect , yet as near perfection as the joint wisdom of any numerous body of men could bring it , handicapped by " their prejudices , their passions , their local interests , and their selfish views . " In 1789 , as President of the Abolition Society , Franklin signed a memorial against slavery which was laid before the House of Representatives ; and on 23 March , 1790 ,  | less than a month before his death , he wrote for The Federal Gazette an ironical justification of the enslaving of Christians by African Mohammedans ? quite in the vein of the celebrated Edict of the King of Prussia . As the shadows thickened about him , he settled his estate , paid his compliments to his friends , and departed , on the seventeenth day of April , 1790 , in his eighty-fifth year . In the matter of religion Franklin was distinctly a product of the eighteenth-century enlightenment . He took his direction in boyhood and early manhood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At various periods of his life he drew up articles of belief , which generally included recognition of one God , the providential government of the world , the immortality of the soul , and divine justice . To profess faith in as much religion as this he found emotionally gratifying , socially expedient , and conformable to the common sense of mankind . He would have subscribed without hesitation to both the positive and negative dogmas of the religion civile formulated by Rousseau in the Contrat Social . In his later years he was in sympathetic relations with Paine , Price , and Priestley . He was , however , of a fortunately earlier generation than these English " heretics , " and certain other circumstances enabled him to keep the temper of his heterodoxy sweet while theirs grew acidulous , and to walk serenely in ways which for them were embittered by the odium theologicum . His earlier advent upon the eighteenth-century scene made possible the unfolding and comfortable settlement of his religious ideas before deism had clearly allied itself with political radicalism and edged its sword for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with political orthodoxy in upholding the ancient regime . Among the diverse denominational bodies in Pennsylvania his perfectly genuine tolerance and his unfailing tact helped him to maintain a friendly neutrality between parties which were far from friendly . Like Lord Chesterfield , he sincerely believed in the decency and propriety of going to church ; and he went himself when he could endure the preachers . He advised his daughter to go constantly , " whoever preaches . " He made pecuniary contributions to all the leading denominations in Philadelphia ; respectfully acknowledged the good features of each ; and  | undertook to unite in his own creed the common and , as he thought , the essential features of all . Man of the world as he was , he enjoyed the warm friendship of good Quakers , good Presbyterians , Whitefield , the Bishop of St. Asaph , and his French abbes . His abstention from theological controversy was doubtless due in part to a shrewd regard for his own interest and influence as a business man and a public servant ; but it was due in perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to practical conduct . " Emancipated " in childhood and unmolested in the independence of his mind , he reached maturity without that acrimony of free thought incident to those who attain independence late and have revenges to take . He was consistently opposed to the imposition of religious tests by constitutional authority . But in the Constitutional Convention of 1787 he offered a motion in favour of holding daily prayers before the deliberations of the assembly , for , as he declared , " the longer I live , the more convincing proofs I see of this Truth , that God governs in the Affairs of Men . " With his progress in eminence and years , he seems to have been somewhat strengthened in Cicero 's conviction that so puissant a personality as his own could not utterly perish , and he derived a kind of classical satisfaction from the reflection that this feeling was in concurrence with the common opinions of mankind . A few weeks before his death he admitted , in a remarkable letter to Ezra Stiles , a doubt as to the divinity of Jesus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought it " needless to busy myself with it now , when I expect soon an Opportunity of knowing the Truth with less Trouble . " Not elate , like Emerson , yet quite unawed , this imitator of Jesus and Socrates walked in this world and prepared for his ease in Zion . Franklin set himself in youth to the study of " moral perfection , " and the work which only great public business prevented his leaving as his literary monument was to have been a treatise on the " art of virtue . " His merits , however , in both the theory and practice of the moral life have been seriously called in question . It is alleged that his standards were low and that he did not live up to them . It must be conceded on the one hand that he had a natural son who became governor of New Jersey , and on the other hand that industry and frugality ,  | which most of us place among the minor , he placed among the major virtues . When one has referred the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free thinking , " and bad company ; and when one has explained certain laxities of his maturity by alluding to the indulgent temper of the French society in which he then lived ; one may as well candidly admit that St. Francis made chastity a more conspicuous jewel in his crown of virtues than did Dr. Franklin . And when one has pointed out that the prudential philosophy of Poor Richard 's Almanac was rather a collection of popular wisdom than an original contribution ; and when one has called attention to the special reasons for magnifying economic virtues in a community of impecunious colonists and pioneers ; one may as well frankly acknowledge that there is nothing in the precepts of the great printer to shake a man 's egotism like the shattering paradoxes of the Beatitudes nor like the Christian Morals of Sir Thomas Browne to make his heart elate . Franklin had nothing of what pietists call a " realizing sense " of sin or of the need for mystical regeneration and justification ? faculties so richly present in his contemporary Jonathan Edwards . His cool calculating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscience , reported that things are properly forbidden because hurtful , not hurtful because forbidden . Guided by this utilitarian principle , he simplified his religion and elaborated his morality . His system included much more than maxims of thrift and prudent self-regard , and to insinuate that he set up wealth as the summum bonum is a sheer libel . He commended diligence in business as the means to a competency ; he commended a competency as a safeguard to virtue ; and he commended virtue as the prerequisite to happiness . The temple that he reared to Moral Perfection was built of thirteen stones : temperance , silence , order , resolution , frugality , industry , sincerity , justice , moderation , cleanliness , tranquillity , chastity , and humility ? the last added on the advice of a Quaker . He wrought upon the structure with the method of a monk and he recorded his progress with the regularity of a bookkeeper . The presiding spirit in the edifice , which made it something more than a private oratory , was a rational and active benevolence towards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide-reaching friendliness in Franklin may  | be distinguished in two ways from the roseate humanitarian enthusiasm in the Savoyard Vicar . It was not begotten by a theory of " natural goodness " nor fostered by millennial expectations , but was born of sober experience with the utility of good will in establishing satisfactory and fruitful relations among men . It found expression not in rhetorical periods but in numberless practical means and measures for ameliorating the human lot . By no mystical intuition but by the common light of reason the " prudential philosopher " discovered and acted upon the truth that the greatest happiness that can come to a man in this world is to devote the full strength of body and mind to the service of his fellow-men . Judged either by his principles or by his performance , Franklin 's moral breadth and moral elevation have been absurdly underestimated . It is perhaps in the field of politics that Franklin exhibits the most marked development of his power and his vision . A realistic inductive thinker , well versed in the rudiments of his subject long before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by any preconception of abstract rights indocile to the lessons of his immense political experience . He formulated his conceptions in the thick of existing conditions , and always with reference to what was expedient and possible as well as to what was desirable . He served his apprenticeship in the Philadelphia Junto Club , which at its inception was little more than a village improvement society , but which threw out branches till it became a power in the province , and a considerable factor in the affairs of the colonies . In this association he learned the importance of co-operation , mastered the tactics of organization , practised the art of getting propaganda afoot , and discovered the great secret of converting private desires into public demands . In proposing in 1754 his plan for a union of the colonies he was applying to larger units the principle of co-operative action by which he had built up what we might call to-day his " machine " in Pennsylvania . Writers like Milton and Algernon Sidney had reenforced his natural inclination towards liberal forms of government . But he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a leader , and he had too much experience with the conflicting prejudices and the resultant compromises of popular  | assemblies , to feel any profound reverence for the " collective wisdom " of the people . " If all officers appointed by governors were always men of merit , " he wrote in his Dialogue Concerning the Present State of Affairs in Pennsylvania , " it would be wrong ever to hazard a popular election . " That his belief in popular representation was due as much to his sense of its political expediency as to his sense of its political justice is suggested by a passage in his letter on the imposition of direct taxes addressed to Governor Shirley , 18 December , 1754 : " In matters of general concern to the people , and especially where burthens are to be laid upon them , it is of use to consider , as well what they will be apt to think and say , as what they ought to think . " His sojourn in England widened his horizons , but not beyond the bounds of his nationality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Englishman pleading for the extension of English laws to British subjects across the sea , and playing up to the Imperial policy of crushing out the colonizing and commercial rivalry of France . The ultimate failure of his mission of reconciliation effected no sudden transformation of his political ideas ; it rather overwhelmed him with disgust at the folly , the obstinacy , and the corruption rampant among English politicians of the period . He returned to the arms of the people because he had been hurled from the arms of the king ; and he embraced their new principles because he was sure that they could not be worse applied than his old ones . His respect for the popular will was inevitably heightened by his share in executing it in the thrilling days when he was helping his fellow-countrymen to declare their independence , and was earning the superb epigraph of Turgot : Eripuit fulmen coelo , sceptrumque tyrannis . His official residence in France completely dissolved his former antagonism to that country . In the early stages of the conflict his wrath was bitter enough towards England , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground of radical pacificism , reiterating his conviction that " there is no good war and no bad peace . " He who had financed the Revolution had seen too much non-productive expenditure of moral and physical capital to believe in the appeal to arms . If nations required enlargement of their territories , it was a mere matter of arithmetic , he contended , to show that the cheapest way was purchase . " Justice , " he  | declared , " is as strictly due between neighbour Nations as between neighbour Citizens , . . . and a Nation that makes an unjust War , is only a great Gang . " So far as he was able , he mitigated the afflictions of noncombatants . He proposed by international law to exempt from peril fishermen and farmers and the productive workers of the world . He ordered the privateersmen under his control to safeguard the lives and property of explorers and men of science belonging to the enemy country ; and he advocated for the future the abolition of the custom of commissioning privateers . In the treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an article so restricting the " zone of war " as to make a war between Prussia and the United States under its terms virtually impossible . His diplomatic intercourse in Europe and his association with the Physiocrats had opened his eyes to the common interests of all pacific peoples and to the inestimable advantages of a general amity among the nations . His ultimate political ideal included nothing short of the welfare and the commercial federation of the world . To that extent he was a believer in " majority interests . " It may be further said that his political development was marked by a growing mastery of the art of dealing with men and by a steady approximation of his political to his personal morality . For the broad humanity of Franklin 's political conceptions undoubtedly his interest in the extension of science was partly responsible . As a scientific investigator he had long been a citizen of the world ; and for him not the least bitter consequence of the war was that it made a break in the intellectual brotherhood of man . If he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with guns and ammunition , he might have been engaged in the far more congenial task of supplying the British Academy with food for philosophical discussion . He could not but resent the brutal antagonisms which had rendered intellectual co-operation with his English friends impossible , and which had frustrated his cherished hope of devoting his ripest years to philosophical researches . A natural endowment he certainly possessed which would have qualified him in happier circumstances for even more distinguished service than he actually performed in extending the frontiers of knowledge . He had the powerfully developed curiosity of the  | explorer and the inventor , ever busily prying into the causes of things , ever speculating upon the consequences of novel combinations . His native inquisitiveness had been stimulated by a young civilization 's manifold necessities , mothering manifold inventions , and had been supplemented by a certain moral and idealizing passion for improvement . The practical nature of many of his devices , his interest in agriculture and navigation , his preoccupation with stoves and chimneys , the image of him firing the gas of ditch water or pouring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kite incident , rather tend to fix an impression that he was but a tactful empiricist and a lucky dilettante of discovery . It is interesting in this connection to note that he confesses his lack of patience for verification . His prime scientific faculty , as he himself felt , was the imagination which bodies forth the shapes and relations of things unknown ? which constructs the theory and the hypothesis . His mind was a teeming warren of hints and suggestions . He loved rather to start than to pursue the hare . Happily what he deemed his excessive penchant for forming hypotheses was safeguarded by his perfect readiness to hear all that could be urged against them . He wished not his view but truth to prevail ? which explains the winsome cordiality of his demeanour towards other savants . His unflagging correspondence with investigators , his subscription to learned publications , his active membership in philosophical societies , and his enterprise in founding schools and academies all betoken his prescience of the wide domain which science had to conquer and of the necessity for co-operation in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baconian that he sought to avoid unfruitful speculation and to unite contemplation and action in a stricter embrace for the generation of knowledge useful to man . But in refutation of any charge that he was a narrowminded utilitarian and lacked the liberal views and long faith of the modern scientific spirit may be adduced his stunning retort to a query as to the usefulness of the balloons then on trial in France : " What is the use of a new-born baby ? " Of Franklin 's style the highest praise is to declare that it reveals the mental and moral qualities of the man himself . It is the flexible style of a writer who has learned the craft of expression by studying and imitating the virtues of many  | masters : the playful charm of Addison , the trenchancy of Swift , the concreteness of Defoe , the urbanity of Shaftesbury , the homely directness of Bunyan 's dialogue , the unadorned vigour of Tillotson , and the epigrammatic force of Pope . His mature manner , however , is imitative of nothing but the thoroughly disciplined movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of languor or a moment of uncontrollable excitement . Next to his omnipresent vitality , his most notable characteristic is the clearness which results from a complete preliminary vision of what is to be said , and which in a young hand demands deliberate preconsideration . To Franklin , the ordering of his matter must have become eventually a light task as , with incessant passing to and fro in his experience and with the daily habit of epistolary communication , he grew as familiar with his intellectual terrain as an old field marshal with the map of Europe . For the writing of his later years is marked not merely by clearness and force but also by the sovereign ease of a man who has long understood the interrelations of his ideas and has ceased to make revolutionary discoveries in any portion of his own nature . His occasional wrath does not fluster him but rather intensifies his lucidity , clarifies his logic , and brightens the ironical smile which accompanies the thrust of his wit . The " decent plainness and manly freedom " of his ordinary tone ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grandfather Peter Polger ? rise in parts of his official correspondence to a severity of decorum ; for there is a trace of the senatorial in the man , t he dignity of antique Rome . He is seldom too hurried , even in a private letter , to gratify the ear by the turning and cadence of sentence and phrase ; and one feels that the harmony of his periods is the right and predestined vesture of his essential blandness and suavity of temper . His stylistic drapery , however , is never so smoothed and adjusted as to obscure the : sinewy vigour of his thought . His manner is steadily in the service of his matter . He is adequate , not copious ; for his moral " frugality and industry " prompt him to eschew surplusage and to make his texture firm . His regard for purity of diction is classical ; he avoids vulgarity ; he despises the jargon of scientific pedants ; but like Montaigne he loves ' rank and masculine speech , and he likes to enrich the language  | of the well bred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , proverbial language of the people . Like Lord Bacon and like many other grave men among his fellow-countrymen , he found it difficult to avoid an opportunity for a jest even when the occasion was unpropitious ; and he never sat below the Attic salt . When his fortune was made , he put by the pewter spoon and bowl of his apprenticeship ; his biographers remind us that he kept a well stocked cellar at Passy and enjoyed the distinction of suffering from the gout . With affluence and years he acquired a " palate , " and gave a little play to the long repressed tastes of an Epicurean whom early destiny had cast upon a rock-bound coast . The literary expression of his autumnal festivity is to be found in the bagatelles . The Ephemera proves that this great eighteenthcentury rationalist had a fancy . It is no relative , indeed , of that romantic spirit which pipes to the whistling winds on the enchanted greens of Shakespeare . It is rather the classic Muse of eighteenth-century art which summons the rosy Loves and Desires to sport @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fete champetre or an Embarkment for Cythera of Watteau . The tallow chandler 's son who enters on the cycle of his development by cultivating thrift with Defoe , continues it by cultivating tolerance and philanthropy with Voltaire , and completes it with Lord Chesterfield by cultivating " the graces. "  | Colonial Newspapers and Magazines , 1704-1775 THE development of the colonial press coincides with a period often regarded as narrowly provincial in American literature . That spirit of adventure which enlivens the early historical narratives had settled into a thrifty concern with practical affairs , combined with an exaggerated interest in fine-spun doctrinal reasoning . The echoes of Spenser and other Elizabethans to be heard in some few Puritan elegies and in Anne Bradstreet 's quaint imagery , had died away . Knowledge of Europe had become so casual that the colonial newspaper often found it necessary to describe Dresden or Berlin as " a fair , large , and strong city of Germany , " and to insert other geographical notes of the simplest sort . These limitations in the colonial point of view , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 1750 , or thereabouts . The reader who examines the small , ill-printed , half illegible news sheets is surprised to find them more varied in many ways , and more distinctly literary than modern journalism aims to be . The simple fact of the matter is that the dearth of news at length forced the editorial mind to become inventive and even , in some instances , creative . When we remember that European news failed entirely during the long winters ; that intercolonial communication was irregular and unsystematic ; that criticism of the government in political editorials meant an official inquiry followed by the forced discontinuance of the paper , if not by a trial for libel ; that the public already had enough religious exhortation from the pulpit and from pam-  | phlets on The Fatal Consequences of Unscriptural Doctrine or Twenty Considerations against Sin , ? remembering these things it will not seem so extraordinary that the newspapers turned to the spectacle of the actual life about them , and , to convey it , sought their models in the world of letters so little known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Franklin 's older brother , who first made a news sheet something more than a garbled mass of stale items , " taken from the Gazetts and other Publick Prints of London " some six months late . Franklin , " encouraged by a number of respectable characters , who were desirous of having a paper of a different cast from those then published , . . . began the publication , at his own risk , of a third newspaper , entitled The New England Courant . " I These respectable characters were known as the Hell-Fire Club ; they succeeded in publishing a paper " of a different cast , " which , although it shocked New England orthodoxy pretty thoroughly , nevertheless proved vastly entertaining and established a kind of literary precedent . For instead of filling the first page of the Courant with the tedious conventionalities of governors ' addresses to provincial legislatures , James Franklin 's club wrote essays and satirical letters after the manner of The Spectator just ten years after the first appearance of The Spectator in London . How novel the whole method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that even the Harvard library had no copies of Addison or Steele at this period . Swift , Pope , Prior , and Dryden would also have been looked for in vain . Milton himself was little known in the stronghold of Puritanism . But the printing office of James Franklin had Shakespeare , Milton , Addison , Steele , Cowley , Butler 's Hudibras , and " The Tail of the Tub " 2 on its shelves . All these were read and used in the editor 's office , but The Spectator and its kind became the actual model for the new journalism . As a result , the very look of an ordinary first page of the Courant is like that of a Spectator page . After the more formal introductory paper on some general topic , such as zeal or footnote 2 Isaiah Thomas , History of Printing in America . In Transactions and Collections of the American Antiquarian Society , vol. v , p . Ito. 2 The spelling of the Courant.  | hypocrisy or honour or contentment , the facetious letters of imaginary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ page . Timothy Turnstone addresses flippant jibes to Justice Nicholas Clodpate in the first extant number of the Courant . Tom Pen-Shallow quickly follows , with his mischievous little postscript : " Pray inform me whether in your Province Criminals have the Privilege of a Jury . " Tom Tram writes from the moon about a certain " villainous Postmaster " he has heard rumours of . ( The Courant was always perilously close to legal difficulties and had , besides , a lasting feud with the town postmaster . ) Ichabod Henroost complains of a gadding wife . Abigail Afterwit would like to know when the editor of the rival paper , the Gazette , " intends to have done printing the Carolina Addresses to their Governour , and give his Readers Something in the Room of them , that will be more entertaining . " Homespun Jack deplores the fashions in general , and small waists in particular . Some of these papers represent native wit , with only a general approach to the model ; others are little more than paraphrases of The Spectator . And sometimes a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paraphrase whatever . Benjamin Franklin , a mere boy at this time , contributed to the Courant the first fruits of his days and nights with Addison . The fourteen little essays from Silence Dogood to the editor are among the most readable and charming of Franklin 's early imitations , clearly following The Spectator , yet at rather long range and with considerable adaptation to the New England environment . Silence rambles on amiably enough except for occasional slurs on the New England clergy , in regard to whom the Courant was always bitter , and often scurrilous . For the Hell-Fire Club never grasped the inner secret of Mr. Spectator , his urbane , imperturbable , impersonal kindliness of manner . Instead , they vented their hatred of dogmatism and intolerance in personalities so insolent as to become in themselves intolerant . Entertaining , however , the Courant is , from first to last , and full of a genuine humour and a shrewd satiric truth to life . Offensive as the Courant certainly was to New England orthodoxy , its literary method was seized upon and used in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clergymen Mather Byles and Thomas Prince . This was The New s  | England Weekly Journal , and Mather Byles , hailed at the time as " Harvard 's honour and New England 's hope , " who " bids fair to rise , and sing , and rival Pope ' contributed largely to the verse and prose on the first page of the paper . A series of " Speculations " is announced , in exact and close imitation of The Spectator ; even a fictitious author , Proteus Echo , appears as a new Spectator of men and manners , to banter a folly by representing it in a glass . He forms a club , and sketches the members for us in his second essay , which proceeds exactly as the second number of The Spectator . These characters of Proteus Echo 's " Society " show some good strokes . There is Mr. Timothy Blunt , an amusing New England version of Sir Roger de Coverley . He lives at some distance from the town of Boston , but rides in every week , often bringing his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defray his necessary Expenses . . . . His Periwigg has been out of the Curl ever since the Revolution and his Dagger and Doublet are supposed to be the rarest Pieces of Antiquity in the Country . " If it had not been for an unlucky stroke to his " Intellectuals " in his infancy , " he would have stood the fairest of any of his Contemporarys to have found out the Philosopher 's Stone . " The " wonderful Mr. Honeysuckle , the Blossom of our Society , and the beautiful Ornament of Litterature , " is nothing less than Will Honeycomb translated into a poet . On the whole , however , such work is rare in the Journal . Strictly moral essays , of which even The Spectator has its full share , soon follow the more creative touches , and we find the ordinary eighteenth-century treatment of merit , covetousness , idleness , the vapours , and so on . Such essays came to be the accepted " filling " for the first page of many newspapers up to 1740 and sometimes after that date @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , has a series of speculations rather above the common order , yet requiring no especial notice for their originality or their importance except as a type . Benjamin Franklin 's later journalism amply fulfilled the promise contained in the Silence Dogood papers . When he finally established himself in Philadelphia , shortly before footnote = See Book I , Chap . ix .  | 1730 , the town boasted two wretched little news sheets , Andrew Bradford 's American Mercury , and Keimer 's Universal Instructor in all Arts and Sciences , and Pennsylvania Gazette . This instruction in all arts and sciences consisted of weekly extracts from Chambers 's Universal Dictionary , actually commencing with A , and going steadily on towards Z , followed by instalments of Defoe 's Religious Courtship , called by the editor " a scarce and delightful piece of History . " Franklin quickly did away with all this when he took over the Instructor , and made it The Pennsylvania Gazette . The Gazette soon became Franklin 's characteristic organ , which he freely used for satire , for the play of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fun . From the first he had a way of adapting his models to his own uses . The series of essays called The Busy-Body , which he wrote for Bradford 's American Mercury in 1729 , followed the general Addisonian form , modified already to suit homelier conditions . The thrifty Patience , in her busy little shop , complaining of the useless visitors who waste her valuable time , is related to the ladies who address Mr. Spectator . The I3usy-Body himself is a true Censor Morum , as Isaac Bickerstaff had been in the Tatler . And a number of the fictitious characters , Ridentius , Eugenius , Cato , and Cretico , represent traditional eighteenth-century classicism . Even this Franklin could use for contemporary satire , since Cretico , the " sour I'hilosopher , " is evidently a portrait of Franklin 's rival , Samuel Keimer . As time went on , Franklin depended less on his literary conventions , and more on his own native humour . In this there is a new spirit , ? not suggested to him by the fine breeding of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stinging completeness of Pope . The brilliant little pieces Franklin wrote for his Pennsylvania Gazette have an imperishable place in American literature . It is none the less true that they belong to colonial journalism . The Pennsylvania Gazette , like most other newspapers of the period , was often poorly printed . Franklin was busy with a hundred matters outside of his printing office , and never seriously attempted to raise the standards of his trade . Nor did he ever properly edit or collate the chance medley of stale  | items which passed for news in the Gazette . His influence on the practical side of journalism was very small . On the other hand , his advertisements of books show his very great interest in popularizing secular literature . Undoubtedly his paper contributed to the broader culture which distinguished Pennsylvania from her neighbours before the Revolution . Starting with the custom of importing a stray volume or two along with stationer 's supplies , Franklin gradually developed a book shop in his printing office . There was nothing unusual in this fact , by itself . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the colonies had odd collections for sale . But while Bradford was advertising the Catechistical Guide to Sinners , or The Plain Man 's Path-way to Heaven , along with an occasional Spectator , Franklin 's importations , listed in the Gazette for sale , included works of Bacon , Dryden , Locke , Milton , Otway , Pope , Prior , Swift , Rowe , Defoe , Addison , Steele , Arbuthnot , Congreve , Rabelais , Seneca , Ovid , and various novels , all before 1740 . The first catalogue of his Library Company shows substantially the same list , with the addition of Don Quixote , and the works of Shaftesbury , of Gay , of Spenser , and of Voltaire . These latter were probably for sale in the printing office as well . Advertisements of merchandise in all the colonies throw a good deal of light on the customs of the time , and , incidentally , also on the popular taste in reading . We find that Peter Turner has " Superfine Scarlet Cloth , Hat Linings , Tatlers , Spectators , and Barclay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Flowers in Boxes , Laces and Edgings , Psalm-books , Play-books , the Guardians in 2 vol. , Women 's Short Cloaks , Men 's Scarlet Great Coats " 2 and other apparel . The ship Samuel , from London , brings over " sundry goods , particularly a very choice collection of printed Books , Pictures , Maps and Pickles , to be Sold very reasonable by Robert Pringle . " 3 Franklin 's influence in journalism was not confined to Pennsylvania . He often assisted young journeymen in the establishment of newspapers in distant towns . Thomas Whitemarsh , for instance , went to Charleston , South Carolina , footnote ' See The American Mercury , No . Toro , 3 May , 1739 . ' See The South Carolina Gazette , February , 1734. 3lbfd. , No. 511 , 9 January , 1744.  | in 1731 , as Franklin 's partner in a new enterprise , which soon included a new paper , The South Carolina Gazette . Naturally , Whitemarsh filled his front page with essays , sometimes reprinted from The Spectator , but often original , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as the papers of a certain Meddlers ' Club are little better than nonsense , rarely enlivened by a flash of wit . Once we find an odd bit of local colour , when a member of this club criticizes the fair ones of Charleston for promenading too much along the bay . " I have heard , " he says , " that in Great Britain the Ladies and Gentlemen choose the Parks and such like Places to walk and take the Air in , but I never heard of any Places making use of the Wharfs for such Purpose except this . " Essays of one sort or another were always popular in The South Carolina Gazette . Here may be found interesting notices of the various performances ( probably professional ) of Otway 's Orphan , Farquhar 's Recruiting Officer , and other popular plays of the period which were given at the Charleston theatres for twenty or thirty years before the first wandering professional companies began to play in the Northern colonies . Here , too , we find in the issue of 8 February , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the colonies . Early theatrical notices may also be followed in The Virginia Gazette , a paper of unusual excellence , edited by William Parks in Williamsburg , the old capital of Virginia . Here The BusyBody , The Recruiting Officer , and The Beaux-Stratagem were all performed , often by amateurs , though professionals were known as early as 1716 in Williamsburg . Life in Williamsburg in 1736 had a more cosmopolitan quality than in other towns . A sprightly essay-serial called The Monitor , which fills the first rage of The Virginia Gazette for twenty-two numbers , probably reflects not only the social life of the capital , but also the newer fashion in such periodical work . It is dramatic in method , with vividly realized characters who gossip and chat over games of piquet or at the theatre . The Beaux-Stratagem , which had been played in Williamsburg three weeks before , is mentioned as delightful enough to make one of the ladies commit the indiscretion of giggling . The Monitor represents a kind of light social satire unusual in the colonies . Satire of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long sustained above mere invective , though it sometimes began with tolerable Hudibrastic or Popean couplets . The Dunciad and Hudibras were well known and often quoted in such bitter controversies as the famous Whitefield warfare in Charleston between 1740 and 1745 . A Tale of a Tub and Gulliver 's Travels also furnished admirable epithets for one 's foes . Occasionally some journalist tried to moderate the heat of battle by recurring to the dignity of Addison . In political controversy , especially if he happened to be a liberal , he preferred Cato 's Letters , ' Locke , or Algernon Sidney , throughout the early period . Thus it was that the colonists from Boston to Savannah were constantly imbibing advanced British constitutional theories . After 1750 , general news became accessible , and the newspapers show more and more interest in public affairs . The literary first page was no longer necessary , though occasionally used to cover a dull period . A new type of vigorous polemic gradually superseded the older essay . A few of the well-known conventions were retained , however . We still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or a series of papers under a common title , such as The Virginia-Centinel , or Livingston 's Watch-Tower . The former is a flaming appeal to arms , running through The Virginia Gazette in 1756 , and copied into Northern papers to rouse patriotism against the French enemy . The expression of the sentiment , even thus early , seems national . This whole series , though somewhat florid in style , shows the familiarity of the cultivated Southerner with his favourite English poets , ? Young , Pope , Shakespeare . Livingston 's wellknown Watch-Tower , z a continuation of his pamphlet-magazine The Independent Reflector , has already the keen edge of the Revolutionary writings of fifteen and twenty years later . The fifty-second number even has one of the popular phrases of the Revolution : " Had I not sounded the Alarm , Bigotry would e'er now have triumphed over the natural Rights of British Subjects . " 3 This expression " natural rights , " occurring so early as 1755 footnote ' Cato 's Letters or The British Cato , a series of political papers by Thomas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 1723 . ' Appearing in Gaine 's Mercury in 1754-1755. 3 The italics are not in the original .  | in Livingston 's paper , is probably accidental or vague , but the Cull political theory of Rousseau , with all its abstractions regarding mankind in general , was soon added to the definite and always cherished belief in the constitutional privileges of Englishmen . The ideas of the French philosophers were in the ir , and there is plenty of evidence in the colonial newspapers for i Cteen or twenty years before the Revolution that the French influence was increasing . Even during the French and Indian %var , booksellers advertised French texts , grammars , and dictionaries in the papers , while courses in French were often ; iunounced . Before the close of the war , we find The Boston Gazette printing extracts from Montesquieu 's Spirit of Laws , with an apology and the expressed hope that it may not be " political Heresey " to suppose that " a Frenchman may have i aster Notions of Civil Liberty than some among ourselves . " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the popular note . After 176o all the important works of Rousseau , Montesquieu , and the Encyclopedists as well as many other French hooks were advertised for sale in the colonial press . Such lvertisements indicate the taste of the reading public more ; ? curately than do catalogues of private libraries , which n ? present individual preferences . Voltaire had long been known in the colonies . Rousseau 's Social Contract was advert iced as a Treatise on the Social Compact , or The Principles of Political Law . He himself is referred to again and again as " the , ingenious Rousseau , " or " the celebrated Rousseau . " And Emile and La Nouvelle Heloise were evidently in demand . The famous Letters of a Farmer in Pennsylvania by John Dickinson belong to the colonial press in a very special way , since not only did they first appear in The Pennsylvania Chronicle , The Pennsylvania Journal , and The Pennsylvania Gazette almost t.iinultaneously in the winter of 1767-1768 , but they were reprinted in nearly every newspaper on the continent , from Nova Scotia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France , here they were translated by Jacques Barbeu Dubourg , with n preface of glowing compliment . Reports of French interest in America inclined the colonists still more to the French philosophy of government . As a footnote ' See also Book I , Chap . viii .  | matter of fact , from the time of the Stamp Act , political essays of every description filled the newspapers , and what one paper published was soon reprinted in others . Thus the influence of the press in this critical period can hardly be overrated . If the " pumpkin Gentry " of New England ( to use a tory phrase ) took offence at some encroachment , gentlemen planters of the South were sure to read the whole case in a few weeks and , in spite of their differing civilization , to sympathize with the Northern firebrands . When Dr. Arthur Lee sent home to The Virginia Gazette his Monitor , a series of essays describing hostile conditions in London , and urging his countrymen to non-importation , it was not by any means his countrymen of Virginia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the distinguished style of the Farmer , and it is natural that the two should have been published together in a Williamsburg edition . Revolutionary Virginia burgesses always toasted the Farmer 's and Monitor 's letters together . But essays of an entirely different type also appeared constantly . Republicans and Loyalists fought violent battles under assumed classical names . Constitutionalis , Massachusettensis , Senex , Novanglus , Pacificus , Caesariensis , Amicus Publico , Cunctator , Virginius , Mucius Scaevola , Cato , Scipio , Leonidas , Brutus , and many more argued hotly and often powerfully the whole question of allegiance , on abstract grounds . Isaiah Thomas 's Massachusetts Spy shows the course of this long battle . Constantly on the verge of being suppressed , from its establishment in 1770 to the Revolution , it carried radicalism to its logical conclusion . When the Spy began to be reprinted in other papers , as " the most daring production ever published in America , " the country as a whole was ready for Tom Paine 's Common Sense . In regard to other forms of periodical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draw precise distinctions . ' Newspapers are easily enough distinguished in general by the attempt to give items of current news . Outside the regular news sheets , there is a strange assortment of colonial productions usually classed as magazines , but in many cases hardly footnote Mr. Albert Matthews notes this difficulty in his bibliography of New England magazines . See his Lists of New England Magazines , in Publications of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts , vol. xni , pp. 69-74.  | recognizable as such . For instance , William Livingston 's Independent Reflector , or Weekly Essays and also Andrew Oliver 's Censor , are nothing more than single essays published serially . The Censor was published in weekly reply to " Mucius Scaevola " and other writers of the Spy . The very meaning of the word " magazine " in the eighteenth century makes classification difficult . It was literally a " storehouse , " being applied to literature as a " collection " ; almost any assemblage of writings , especially if published serially , could be referred to as a " magazine . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up largely of excerpts from weekly reviews and periodicals , along with a summary of the news of the month . A department called " Poetical Essays " was usually more original , but on the whole both The Gentleman 's Magazine and The London Magazine could be described fairly enough as collections of material from various sources . There were a few magazines of this standard English type in America before the Revolution . Franklin , as usual , led the way , though it happened that his rival Andrew Bradford actually published the first magazine in the colonies . Franklin 's soon followed , and these two little periodicals brought out the same month in Philadelphia , 1741 , clearly indicate the attempt to transplant the English type , with some adaptations , for colonial readers . Franklin 's title , The General Magazine and Historical Chronicle for all the British Plantations in America , shows his intention of giving a review of colonial news rather than of British . He did , as a matter of fact , use The Virginia Gazette and other weeklies for articles and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could get them . Both magazines were evidently premature , however , for Bradford 's existed only three months , and Franklin 's only six . The next attempt at this sort of periodical came from Boston two years later . Jeremy Gridley was the able editor of The American Magazine and Historical Chronicle . It is an excellent piece of work for that date , both in general arrangement and in details of printing . There is very little original material , however , since the editor not only imitated The London Magazine very closely in plan , but boldly copied most of the essays , articles , and verse from it or from The Gentleman 's Magazine . An occasional translation from the classics by a Harvard  | student , a burlesque by " Jonathan Weatherwise " on the absurd weather signs of the country folk , or perhaps a timely article from a " neighbouring colony " does not suffice to impart a native flavour to the magazine as a whole . It is distinctly " imported . " The attempt was nevertheless creditable , and certainly kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magazine continued for three years . A dozen years later The New England Magazine of Knowledge and Pleasure announced its motto , " Alluring Profit with Delight we blend , " but it confined itself to hackneyed essays on old models . In the same year , however , at Philadelphia , a magazine of decided originality and of genuine importance in colonial literature was coming out month by month with the first provost of the new college as its editor and guiding spirit . The Rev. William Smith , called to America from Aberdeen in 1752 , brought a great love of letters to his new work and soon succeeded in imparting his own literary enthusiasms to a group of young students . It is largely due to his constant encouragement that a strain of lyric poetry at length sounded in clear , welcome notes , a strain all too short and slight , but of real beauty . These young poets belonged to the generation after that of Franklin 's famous Junto , one of the college group being a son of Franklin 's friend Thomas Godfrey , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active help of the provost , since poetical gifts did not meet with favour in the Godfrey household . Francis Hopkinson , Joseph Shippen , and Nathaniel Evans were also introduced to the public by Smith . The interesting thing about William Smith 's own literary enthusiasms is his love of eighteenth-century romanticism . In a thoroughly romantic temper he made himself a retreat by the falls of the Schuylkill , which he describes under the guise of Theodore , the Hermit , in his American Magazine , noting " the singular gloom of its situation , " hidden by " a romantic tuft of trees , " and made more lonely by surrounding waters . He could soon announce in his magazine that he had almost too many poems to draw from . Practically all the verse in its thirteen numbers is original , although at times , especially in the long poems of James Sterling , the most conventional eighteenthcentury manner is amusingly evident . The essays , with very few exceptions , were not only written in the colonies but were  | often well adapted to the problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Indians , the public policies of the government . The pride in " this young country " is everywhere evident , combined with perfect loyalty to Great Britain . In this year 1758 the successor of The American Magazine , called The New American Magazine , continued the same general policy , without securing the same originality . William Smith had been called to England , and the new venture lacked his power . It had the honour of publishing Nathaniel Evans 's fine Ode on the late General Wolfe , however , in probably its earliest and simplest form . With the next magazines we are again on the eve of the revolution . " The town has met , " and we read instructions , articles , orations , odes , and satires on the situation , sometimes reprinted from the newspapers , sometimes written for the magazine , but always inflammatory , since the two noteworthy periodicals of this period , The Pennsylvania Magazine and The Royal American Magazine , were edited respectively by the two firebrands , Thomas Paine and Isaiah Thomas . Paine 's magazine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although for the more strictly literary sections both he and Isaiah Thomas drew freely on conventional English sources which , in theory , they should have rejected . Thomas 's Royal American Magazine is enlivened by the famous Paul Revere engravings and is otherwise interesting , particularly for its confident belief in the new country soon to be the United States .  | American Political Writing , 176o-1789 A MERICAN history between 176o and 1789 ? from the end , that is , so far as military operations were concerned , of the Seven Years ' War to the inauguration of the new government under the Federal Constitution ? falls naturally into three well-marked periods . The first , comprising the development of the constitutional struggle with Great Britain over taxation and imperial control , reaches its culmination in the armed collision between the British and the patriot forces at Lexington , 19 April , 1775 . The second period covers the eight years of war , ending with the peace treaty of September , 1783 ; while the third embraces the so-called " critical period " of the Confederation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such a time of storm and stress , of revolution and evolution , is pretty certain , especially in a new country , if it bring forth literature at all , to bring forth such as is predominantly political in content , style , and purpose . The Revolutionary leaders who have left a large and permanent impress upon American literature were concerned chiefly with such weighty matters as the nature of the British constitution , the formulation of colonial rights , and the elaboration of schemes of government and administration ; and it was of these things that they chiefly wrote . It is a striking tribute to the classical education of the age , to the moulding power of closely-reasoned theological and legal treatises on which ministers and lawyers fed , ' and to the subtle , pervasive influence of the English Bible , that the best political writing of the Revolutionary period attained a dignity and footnote See Book I , Chap . for evidence as to the knowledge of French radical books in the colonies after 1760.  | impressiveness of style , a noble power of rhetorical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the instant admiration of English critics , and which stamp the political literature of American national beginnings as superior to the similar literature of any other people anywhere . Of . the first notable contribution to the literary history of the Revolution we have , unfortunately , only a second-hand report . When , in 1761 , following the death of George II and the accession of George III , the surveyor-general of customs at Boston applied to the Superior Court of Massachusetts for the reissuance of writs of assistance , ' granting authority to search for and seize uncustomed goods , some merchants of Boston and others combined to oppose the application . James Otis the younger , for ten years past one of the leaders of the Massachusetts bar , and lately advocate-general , who , unable to support the application for the writs , had resigned his office , made the leading argument for the petitioners . In a great speech , the substance of which has survived only in notes taken at the time by John Adams , 2 then a young lawyer , and more fully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " the worst instrument of arbitrary power , the most destructive of English liberty and the fundamental principles of law , that ever was found in an English law-book . " At once general in its terms and perpetual in its operation , lacking the exact specification of place and circumstance which a search-warrant ought to contain , such a writ was on both accounts illegal . The freedom of one 's house was violated by it ; the only precedent for it belonged to the days of arbitrary power under Charles II . " No acts of Parliament can establish such a writ . . . . An act against the constitution is void . " Otis could impede , but he could not defeat , the application , and the writs were eventually issued . He had , however , raised the important question of the application of English law to the colonies , and the nature and extent of the " rights of Englishmen " which the colonial charters , in express terms , had guaranteed . Elected a member of the House of Representatives , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A form of writ is given in W. MacDonald , Select Charters , 259-261 . The best account of the subject is in Quincy , Massachusetts Reports , 395-540. 2 Works , 11 , 124 note , 521-525 ; X , 246-249,274-276.  | out an armed vessel without the approval of the House ; drafted a communication in which the governor was charged with " taking from the House their most darling privilege , the right of originating all taxes " ; and late in 1762 published his first political pamphlet , A Vindication of the Conduct of the Mouse of Representatives of the Province of the Massachusetts-Bay , in which , mixed with extreme praise of the King of Great Britain and denunciation of the King of France , and vague suggestions as to the nature of human rights , the privileges of the colonies under the British constitution were stoutly maintained . Neither historically nor legally was the argument beyond question , and the claim of right was a call to the future rather than an interpretation of the past . What was said , however , was said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audience carried weight . The treaty of Paris , ceding to Great Britain all the vast possessions of France on the mainland of North America , together with Florida and other Spanish territory east of the Mississippi , was concluded io February , 1763 . On the 23d of that month , Charles Townshend became first lord of trade , with the oversight of colonial administration , in the shortlived ministry of Bute , and some far-reaching changes in the colonial system were presently announced . The salaries of governors and judges , hitherto paid by the colonial assemblies , were now to be paid by the crown , thus insuring , it was believed , a better enforcement of the trade laws and a proper revenue from customs ; and a standing army of ten thousand men was to be maintained in America , in anticipation of an attempt by France to recover what it had lost , the expense of the troops to be met by parliamentary taxation of the colonies . Grenville , who became prime minister in June , supported the plan . In March , 1764 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duties ; laying the matter over for a year , however , in order that the colonies might be consulted . In April a Sugar Act imposed new colonial customs duties . The prospect of direct taxation by Parliament aroused widespread apprehension in America , and called forth in July the ablest and best-known of Otis 's pamphlets , The Rights of the British Colonies Asserted and Proved . With notable moderation and restraint , and in a tone pervadingly judicial rather than  | partisan , Otis argued the case for the colonies , appealing as before to the British constitution as he understood it , and to the logic of right , liberty , and justice . A colony being an integral part of the mother country , though territorially separated from it , its people are , " by the law of God and nature , by the common law , and by act of Parliament . . . entitled to all the natural , essential , inherent , and inseparable rights of our fellow-subjects in Great Britain . " Among these rights was that of freedom from taxation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the supreme or some subordinate legislature . Parliament admittedly possessed a general supervisory authority over the colonies , but if , under the guise of regulation , it were to infringe upon the right of taxation through duly elected representatives , it would be guilty of an arbitrary violation of the constitution . Forcible resistance , however , even to an unconstitutional act , was not to be thought of . There would be an end of all government , if one or a number of subjects or subordinate provinces should take upon them so far to judge of the justice of an act of Parliament , as to refuse obedience to it . . . . Therefore let the Parliament lay what burdens they please on us , we must , it is our duty to submit and patiently bear them , till they will be pleased to relieve us . Otis voiced effectively the first impulse of thoughtful , patriotic Americans as they contemplated the prospect of parliamentary taxation . The proposed act violated the constitution whose benefits the colonists claimed , but forcible resistance would be treason . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put , characterized Oxenbridge Thacher 's Sentiments of a British American ( 1764 ) . Thacher was a fellow townsman of Otis , and the two had been associated in the case of the writs of assistance . Like Otis , Thacher 's legal argument closes with a strong profession of loyalty to the crown , and there is no good ground for thinking that in either case the profession was insincere . Argument and dissent were an Englishman 's right , and the constitution had grown by protest against abuses . An even more effective statement of the American case is found in The Rights of Colonies Examined , a pamphlet written by Stephen Hopkins , governor of Rhode Island , and pub-  | lished at Providence in 1765 . Admitting the right of Parliament to regulate the affairs of the whole empire , Hopkins not only claims for the colonies " as much freedom as the mother state from which they went out , " but dwells forcibly upon the dangerous tendency of the new policy , the widespread apprehension which it has already aroused , and the absence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parliamentary fiat . What motive . . . can remain , to induce the parliament to abridge the privileges , and lessen the rights of the most loyal and dutiful subjects ; subjects justly intituled to ample freedom , who have long enjoyed , and not abused or forfeited their liberties , who have used them to their own advantage , in dutiful subserviency to the orders and interests of Great-Britain ? Such reasoning as that of Otis , Thacher , and Hopkins , however convincing to the popular mind , avoided , but did not settle , the important and difficult constitutional question of the ultimate authority of Parliament over the colonies . On that question the wisest were certain to differ , and a presentation of the other side of the case was speedily forthcoming . In February , 1765 , there appeared at Newport A Letter from a Gentleman at Halifax , to his Friend in Rhode-Island , published anonymously , but written by Martin Howard , a Newport lawyer of repute . In this temperate , logical , and readable pamphlet , the " Gentleman at Halifax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ piece , " puts his finger on the primary defect in the whole colonial argument , namely , the claim " that the colonies have rights independent of , and not controulable by the authority of parliament . " If they derived their political rights from Parliament , were not those rights subject to interpretation or abridgement by Parliament ? A lively controversy ensued . Hopkins defended himself in a series of articles in the Providence Gazette , while Otis , his zeal for debate knowing no provincial bounds , printed A Vindication of the British Colonies against the Aspersions of the Halifax Gentleman . Howard retorted with A Defence of the Letter from a Gentleman at Halifax , to his Friend in Rhode-Island , to which Otis responded with Brief Remarks on the Defence of the Halifax Libel on the BritishAmerican-Colonies . The tide of patriotism was rising , however ,  | and the populace presently took a hand . Before the summer was over Howard , after being hanged and burned in effigy at Newport , fled to England , and the " rights of the colonies " were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stamp tax having been agreed upon by the colonial assemblies , the Stamp Act became a law ( March , 1765 ) . In the interval between the approval of the act and the date ( 1 November ) at which it was to go into effect , disorderly bodies calling themselves " Sons of Liberty " organized a campaign of forcible resistance ; with the result that , when the first of November arrived , stamps and stamped paper were not to be had . Meantime , the newspaper and pamphlet controversy continued . To a pamphlet written by Soame Jenyns , a member of Parliament , published in 1765 , entitled The Objections to the Taxation of Our American Colonies , by the Legislature of Great Britain , Briefly Considered , Otis replied with Considerations on Behalf of the Colonies , in a Letter to a Noble Lord , the argument of which , save in its plea for leniency and consideration on the part of Great Britain in view of the extent and importance of the colonies , does not differ materially from that which the author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exception of Jefferson . . . the most readable of the statesmen of the Revolutionary period , " now entered the lists with a series of four essays , published anonymously and without title in the Boston Gazette in August , 1765 . Beginning with an examination of the " ecclesiatical and civil tyranny " which he found exemplified in the canon and feudal law , and of which the Stamp Act was held up as the consummate illustration , Adams traced the course of the historical struggle between corporate oppression and individual liberty and self-assertion . " Admitting we are children , have not children a right to complain when their parents are attempting to break their limbs , to administer poison , or to sell them to enemies for slaves ? " Adams had read his history with a Puritan obsession , and neither his interpretation of facts nor his reasoning did him here much credit . The essays had influence , however . Reprinted in The London Chronicle , they were finally published in 1768 , in revised form , under the misleading title of A Dissertation on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Works , III , 445-464.  | With the resolutions , ' memorials , and petitions of the Stamp Act Congress ( October , 1765 ) , we reach the first of the series of great state papers which , while of supreme value for the proper understanding of the constitutional position of the colonies , are also , in some respects , the most characteristic literary product of the Revolutionary period . Nowhere else in American literature does the peculiar gift of formal expression and logical exposition in politics show itself on so large a scale or in so great a cause , and in no country in the world has such expression moved so long and so consistently on a high plane , or voiced itself with so much dignity , condensed forcefulness , or formal beauty . For the most part the work of a few hands , and in some cases of composite authorship , the state papers of the American Revolution became , through their force of argument and sweep of phrase , the accepted statements of political faith , first for the patriot party , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed to by the Stamp Act Congress , two ? a declaration of rights and grievances and a petition to the king ? were mainly the work of John Dickinson of Pennsylvania , whose notable career as a political writer , already begun in the controversial atmosphere of his own colony , was to earn for him the title of " the penman of the Revolution . " At the end of the year 1765 Dickinson also published at Philadelphia a pamphlet entitled The Late Regulations respecting the British Colonies on the Continent of America Considered , in a Letter from a Gentleman in Philadelphia to his Friend in London , 2 which was reprinted in London and attracted favourable notice . A notable pamphlet , published anonymously , by Daniel Dulany of Maryland , one of the ablest of colonial lawyers , entitled Considerations on the Propriety of Imposing Taxes in the British Colonies , for the Purpose of Raising a Revenue , by Act of Parliament , in which the notion of the " virtual representation " of the colonies in Parliament was conclusively denied , appeared while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republished in London . The repeal of the Stamp Act ( March , 1766 ) caused a sudden cessation of the agitation in America ; and the ominous Declara- footnote Text in W. MacDonald , Select Charters , 314 , 315. 2 Writings , ed . Ford , 1 , 211-245.  | tory Act , asserting for the first time the right of Parliament " to bind the colonies and people of America , subjects of the crown of Great Britain , in all cases whatsoever , " received little attention . In June , 1767 , however , the New York assembly was suspended by act of Parliament for its refusal to comply with the requirements of an act for the quartering of troops ; while the Townshend acts , which followed immediately , laid duties upon a number of colonial imports , established resident customs commissioners in America , legalized writs of assistance , and readjusted the tea duties in the interest of the hard-pressed East India Company . The colonies , in resisting the Stamp Act , had dwelt upon the unconstitutionality of internal taxation by a Parliament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to turn the tables by imposing the external taxes which he professed to think the colonies , by inference , had conceded the right of Parliament to impose . The passage of the Townshend acts revived , though to a less wide extent , the controversy over colonial rights . Of the writings which attended this phase of the discussion , easily the most important is John Dickinson 's Letters from a Farmer in Pennsylvania to the Inhabitants of the British Colonies . ' First published in a Philadelphia newspaper in 1767-68,2 and reproduced from thence in most of the newspapers then issued in the colonies , they were in 1768 collected in a pamphlet , of which some eight editions appeared in America , two in London , one in Dublin , and a French version in Amsterdam . Without the legal mastery of Thacher or Dulany , but , fortunately , also without the discursiveness and extravagance of Otis or the intellectual and religious bias of John Adams , Dickinson reviewed , earnestly and directly , the colonial case ; warned the colonies of the grave danger of admitting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sustained the right of protest and petition , and urged economy , thrift , and the development of American industry . Forcible resistance , indeed , is with him not to be thought of , and the idea of independence is spurned ; yet at the same time Dickinson insists that we can not be happy , without being free ; that we can not be free , without being secure in our property ; that we can not be secure footnote ' Writings , ed . Ford , 1 , 307-406 . ' See also Book I , Chap . vtt.  | in our property , if , without our consent , others may , as by right , take it away ; that taxes imposed on us by parliament , do thus take it away . On the whole , it is the form rather than the substance of the Letters from a Farmer that is most original . Dickinson wrote as a cultivated , prosperous gentleman , addressing an audience of intelligent , but plain , people the soil of whose minds had been already somewhat prepared . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to present in attractive literary form the best of what had already been said and thought on behalf of the colonial claims , and to adapt the argument to the new crisis presented by the Townshend programme . Too patriotic to submit without a protest , and too thoughtful to rebel , he voiced more successfully , perhaps , than any other American publicist of his day , the sober second-thought of the great body of colonists who were ready to carry resistance to any point short of separation and war . The Massachusetts Circular Letter= ( 11 February , 1768 ) , prepared by Samuel Adams for a committee of the House of Representatives , and addressed to the speakers of other representative houses throughout the colonies , introduces to us the man who , more zealously and persistently than anyone else , devoted himself to achieving American independence . Holding the humble office of tax-collector in Boston , Adams 's devotion to public causes , joined to a rare talent for political organization , had already made him the master of the Boston townmeeting and the leading spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the bitter fight which he waged against Governor Bernard and Governor Hutchinson , and in furtherance of his relentless insistence upon the right of complete local self-government for the colonies , Adams drafted , in whole or in part , most of the resolutions and reports which made Massachusetts the leader in the constitutional struggle , and which also marked it for special punishment later at the hands of Parliament . The Circular Letter , studiously dignified and respectful in tone , is the best summary statement of the colonial argument which had thus far been put forward . Admitting the supreme footnote Text in W. MacDonald , Select Charters , 331-334.  | legislative authority of Parliament over the whole empire , it rests its case on the essential , unalterable right , in nature , engrafted into the British constitution , as a fundamental law , and ever held sacred and irrevocable by the subjects within the realm , that what a man has honestly acquired is absolutely his own , which he may freely give , but can not be taken from him without his consent . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " utter impracticability " of actually being represented in Parliament , that this House think that a taxation of their constituents , even without their consent , grievous as it is , would be preferable to any representation that could be admitted for them there . Devotion to naked principle could go no farther , nor indicate more clearly the desired goal of independence . The Townshend Revenue Act remained in force until April , 1770 . The act produced an inappreciable revenue , necessitated extraordinary expenditures for its enforcement , and had no other effect upon the situation in America than to reawaken and solidify the colonial opposition to parliamentary taxation , and stimulate interest in the development of colonial manufactures and in the concerted non-importation and non-consumption of British goods . One of the first steps of the North ministry was to repeal it ( 1770 ) , except the tax of three pence a pound on tea , retained to assert the principle of the Declaratory Act of 1766 . For the next two years and more the agitation was not actively kept up , and even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1770 ) and the burning of the revenue schooner Gaspee ( 1772 ) occasioned hardly more than local excitement . Colonial newspapers continued to print essays on American rights , and houses of assembly embodied their views in resolutions ; but these occasional writings , while doubtless not without their influence upon public opinion , hardly constitute a political literature of importance . To this early period of revolutionary agitation belong also the first two volumes of Thomas Hutchinson 's History of the Colony of Massachusetts Bay ( 1764 ? 67 ) = and the famous Hut- footnote See also Book I , Chap . u.  | chinson " Letters , " which , although not made public until 1773 , date from 1768-69 . Written by Hutchinson , previous to his governorship , to a friend in England , the " Letters " discuss events in Massachusetts from the point of view of a loyalist official who , deeply attached to the colony , was also deeply concerned at the grave course which affairs were taking , and who could honestly declare : I wish the good of the colony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than the connexion with the parent state should be broken ; for I am sure such a breach must prove the ruin of the colony . By means never divulged , Franklin , in 1773 , got possession of the letters and sent them to friends in Boston , where their publication greatly intensified the hostility to Hutchinson and precipitated his recall . With the destruction of the tea at Boston ( 16 December , 1773 ) , the controversy between the colonies and the mother country entered upon the stage which was to lead to a declaration of independence and to war . In February , 1774 , at a hearing before the Privy Council on a petition from Massachusetts for Hutchinson 's removal , Franklin was bitterly denounced for his connection with the Hutchinson letters , and was presently removed from his office of deputy postmastergeneral for North America . In March , the port of Boston was by statute closed to commerce , except in food , after 1 June , until compensation should be made to the East India Company for the loss of the tea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ altered by act of Parliament as largely to deprive the colony of self-government , while by another statute provision was made for the trial in England , or in another colony , of persons accused of murder or other capital offence because of anything done by them in suppressing riots or enforcing the revenue laws . In June , more stringent regulations were enacted for the quartering of troops . General Gage had already arrived at Boston as military governor , and the coercion of the colony began . The first Continental Congress , which met at Philadelphia 5 September , adopted a set of " Declarations and Resolves , " I footnote ' Text in W. MacDonald , Select Charters , 357-361.  | similar in tone and general argument to those of the Stamp Act Congress , but containing a significant admission of the right of Parliament to regulate the external trade of the colonies , provided the aim were regulation and not taxation . A petition to the king and an address to the inhabitants of Canada , both drafted by Dickinson , were also adopted , together with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Richard Henry Lee of Virginia , and an eloquent address to the people of Great Britain , the work of John Jay of New York , later the first chief-justice of the United States Supreme Court . An agreement known as the " Association " I pledged the people of the colonies to commercial non-intercourse with Great Britain , and to the encouragement of industry , economy , and neighbourly kindness . Copies of these various state papers were separately printed and widely circulated . The passage of the coercive acts , and the assembling of a Congress to consider plans of united resistance , stirred anew the fires of literary controversy . In May , 1774 , the same month that saw the arrival of Gage and the British troops at Boston , Josiah Quincy published at that place his Observations on the Act of Parliament , commonly called the Boston Port-Bill ; with Thoughts on Civil Society and Standing Armies . Quincy was a brilliant young lawyer , who , in company with John Adams , had chivalrously defended the British soldiers indicted for participation in the Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the larger part of the pamphlet , dealing with " civil society and standing armies , " had been carefully prepared some time before , advantage being taken of the Port Act to publish the work with an expanded title . Quincy 's pamphlet was shortly followed by James Wilson 's Considerations on the Nature and the Extent of the Legislative Authority of the British Parliament , an ingenious rejection of such authority in favour of allegiance to the king alone . The writer , a young lawyer of Philadelphia , was later to contribute powerfully to the acceptance of the Federal Constitution by Pennsylvania . Not all who entered the lists , however , agreed so unreservedly with the sentiments of Congress or of the patriot footnote I Text in W. MacDonald . Select Charters , 362-367 . ' Tyler , Literary History of the American Revolution , I , 272 note .  | leaders . A series of papers in The Pennsylvania Packet , reprinted in a pamphlet with the title A Few Political Reflections Submitted to the Consideration of the British Colonies , by a Citizen of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the tea and the abandonment of violent protest , at the same time arguing for united rejection of the claim to taxation on the ground that the colonies were too old and too strong to be kept in leading-strings . An anonymous Letter from a Virginian , addressed to the Congress at Philadelphia , went further and frankly questioned the constitutional soundness and political wisdom of the arguments put forth by the Congress . No history of the American Revolution , or of the political literature to which it gave birth , would be complete without consideration of the loyalists . That independence was in fact the work of a minority , and that the methods by which the loyal majority was overawed and , in part , expelled were as highhanded and cruel as they were active and vigorous , must be freely conceded . Weighty as was the colonial argument , force and violence were freely employed to give effect to it . But the great loyalist party , numbering among its leaders many of the ablest , most devoted , and wealthiest men in colonial life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with which its adherents defended their cause and sought to defeat that of their opponents were not less ably put or trenchantly phrased than those of the patriots themselves . Soon after the " Association " agreement of the Continental Congress was adopted ( October , 1774 ) , there was published in New York the first of four pamphlets by a " Westchester Farmer . " The author was the Rev. Samuel Seabury , then and for some time rector of St. Peter 's Church , Westchester , and later , by time 's curious working , first bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States . The four pamphlets , entitled respectively Free Thoughts on the Proceedings of the Continental Congress , The Congress Canvassed , A View of the Controversy between Great-Britain and her Colonies , and An Alarm to the Legislature of the Province of New-York , were a powerful attack upon the aims and policy of the Congress and the patriot leaders , and a plea for such adjustment as would assure to the colonies local self-government , on the one hand ,  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For writing the pamphlets Seabury was mobbed , imprisoned , and hounded until in 1776 he took refuge within the British lines . It was in reply to the first of Seabury 's pamphlets that Alexander Hamilton , then a college student of seventeen , made anonymously his first essay in authorship with A Full Vindication of the Measures of the Congress , from the Calumnies of their Enemies ( 1774 ) and A Farmer Refuted ( 1775 ) . None of the pamphleteers of the Revolutionary period excels Hamilton in the logical acumen and expository power which he here displays , and none approached him in his clear discernment of the theatre and character of the war , if war must be . Yet even Hamilton , with all his precocious intellectual power , failed to point out beyond peradventure how union with the Empire under allegiance to the king comported with a denial of the legislative power of Parliament . The only outcome for the colonies was independence , and independence was the word which , as yet , most colonial leaders appeared anxious to avoid . Before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Daniel Leonard , a Boston lawyer of social prominence , began the publication in a loyalist newspaper , over the pen-name of " Massachusettensis , " of a series of seventeen letters , To the Inhabitants of the Province of the Massachusetts-Bay ( 1774-75 ) . Scabury had emphasized the impracticability and political unwisdom of the recommendations of the Congress . Leonard assailed the unconstitutional arguments of the patriots , and the revolutionary character of their attacks upon parliamentary enactments and crown officers . The task of combating the influence of " Massachusettensis " was undertaken by John Adams , who , early in 1775 , published in the Boston Gazette , over the signature of " Novanglus , " a series of letters traversing Leonard 's argument . Twelve articles had appeared when the battle of Lexington ( 19 April , 1775 ) intervened . Adams did not lack legal knowledge or logical proficiency , but he was no match for Leonard in debate , nor could he keep to the point ; and although the republication of the letters in London , and a reprint many years later in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Novanglus , " the essays won no permanent distinction either  | for themselves or for their author . It was as a hard-working member of the Continental Congress , and not as a writer or political philosopher , that Adams made his worthiest contribution to the American cause . To a different class belong the numerous writings of Joseph Galloway , a delegate from Pennsylvania to the first Continental Congress . Already prominent in the politics of his colony , Galloway submitted to the Congress a Plan of a Proposed Union between Great Britain and the Colonies . Read in the light of the present day , the scheme seems like a suggestive anticipation of later British colonial policy ; but the Congress , after debating it at length , and rejecting it by the narrow majority of a single vote , trampled it under foot , and ordered all reference to it expunged from the printed journal . Galloway later published the plan in A Candid Examination of the Mutual Claims of Great Britain and the Colonies ( New York , 1775 ) . In 1778 , after two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England , where he was thought sufficiently important to be examined before the House of Commons , and where he continued to publish pamphlets on America until the end of the war . Another New York loyalist , President Myles Cooper of King 's College ( now Columbia ) , gifted with wit and sarcasm above most of his fellows , entered the lists in 1774 with two anonymous pamphlets ? The American Querist : or , Some Questions Proposed relative to the Present Disputes between Great Britain and her American Colonies , and A Friendly Address to all Reasonable Americans . In August , 1775 , a mob stripped and mutilated him , but he contrived to escape to a British ship-ofwar , and thence to England , where he obtained ecclesiastical preferment . Charles Lee , soon to be numbered among the renegades and traitors , but at the moment in the enjoyment of a repute as a military expert which he had done little to earn , replied to Cooper with some cleverness in Strictures on a Pamphlet , entitled a Friendly Address to all Reasonable Americans ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the patriot cause for which he may be appreciatively remembered . Although not published until 1797 , by which time the author had been for more than twenty years resident in England , Jonathan Boucher 's A View of the Causes and Consequences  | of the American Revolution may perhaps be included in our enumeration of loyalist writings . From 1762 to 1775 Boucher was rector of parishes in Maryland and Virginia , finding time , however , to take an active part in colonial politics . The volume referred to , dedicated to Washington and prefaced by an extended introduction , consists of thirteen sermons preached to his American congregations , and forms as a whole the best presentation of the loyalist cause as embraced and championed by an Anglican minister . For his boldness , however , his parishioners drove him into exile , in common with many another clergyman who held similar views . Mention should also be made here of the poems of Philip Freneau and John Trumbull , although the fuller discussion of their literary significance belongs elsewhere in this work . ' The first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conqueror of America Shut up in Boston and General Gage 's Soliloquy , were published in the summer of 1775 , while the siege of Boston was in progress . Trumbull , whose muse had already responded to some of the earlier incidents of the war , published the first canto of McFingal in January , 1776 . Grounded , as were the writings of both of these authors , in a clear , popular understanding of the points at issue , and foreshadowing , in Freneau 's case , the ultimate attainment of independence , the satirical humour of the poems confirmed the faithful and strengthened the wavering quite as effectively as state papers or pamphlet treatises . The great influence of Benjamin Franklin , covering the entire period of the revolutionary struggle , was exerted chiefly through the customary channels of diplomacy , and in a voluminous correspondence with friends and public men on both sides of the Atlantic ; and his contemporary publications , comparatively few in number , carried weight because of their directness and sturdy common sense , and of the fame of their writer as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Almanac or as the skilful champion of the colonial cause in England , rather than because of their literary merit or their substantive contribution to the American argument . The report of his Examination ' before the House of Commons ( 1766 ) , while the repeal of the Stamp Act was under discussion , showed a states= See Book I , Chap . Ix . 2 Writings , ed . Smyth , Iv , 412-448.  | manlike knowledge of American conditions , and dexterity and boldness in defending the patriot cause . In January , 1768 , he contributed to The London Chronicle an article entitled Causes of the American Discontents before 1768 , and later in the year he wrote a short preface for a London reprint of Dickinson 's Letters from a Farmer . For the next five years Franklin was occupied with his duties as colonial agent of Massachusetts , Georgia , and other colonies . His writings during that period consist almost wholly of letters , and of articles on electricity and economic subjects . Then , in September , 1773 , he attacked the colonial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be reduced to a Small One , following this , early in 1774 , with an article On the Rise and Progress of the Differences between Great Britain and Her American Colonies . The publication of the Hutchinson letters , although it brought official censure and cost Franklin the loss of a remunerative office , did not materially affect his reputation or weaken his influence ; but a Tract relative to the Affair of Ilutchinson 's Letters , written in 1774 , was , possibly from prudential reasons , not published . ' That persistent opposition to Parliament , whether through elaborated constitutional arguments or by such practical devices as commercial non-intercourse , might in the end raise the issue of independence , had early been perceived ; and the earnest protestations of loyalty to the crown which are found in the resolutions of the Stamp Act Congress or the declaration and resolves of the First Continental Congress , if read chiefly in the light of subsequent events , do not seem entirely unequivocal . Not until late in 1775 , however , after armed collisions had occurred at Lexington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been hopelessly besieged at Boston , and after a second Continental Congress , assuming the general direction of affairs , had begun the organization of a revolutionary government , appointed Washington commander-in-chief , and taken the first steps toward obtaining foreign aid , did the demand for independence , or even the disposition seriously to consider it , become general . Of the writings which contributed immediately to the final break , the foremost place must be given to Thomas Paine 's footnote For Franklin , see also Book I , Chap . vi .  | Common Sense ( 1776 ) . Paine , after an unimportant and not wholly respectable career in England , came to America in 1774 , in his thirty-eighth year , armed with introductions from Franklin , and settled at Philadelphia . His pamphlet Common Sense , published in January , 1776 , seized the psychological moment . 13rushing aside all legal and historical argument as no longer to the point , and resorting to the wildest exaggeration and misrepresentation for the purpose of discrediting England and its people , Paine laid his finger on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far to turn back . They were already alienated . The British connection was no longer valuable to them , and reconciliation would be an evil rather than a good . Common sense dictated that they should be free . Enthusiastic acclaim from leaders and public , and a sale of over 1oo,000 copies within three months , attested the success and power of Paine 's first essay in political pamphleteering . Sweeping as Paine 's success was , the course of events had nevertheless prepared the way . In February , 1775 , Lord North had startled the House of Commons by introducing and passing a conciliatory resolution ; but the offer , unsatisfactory less because of its terms than because of want of confidence in the ministry and the king , had been effectually prejudiced by the passage , in March and April , of bills restraining the trade of the colonies to Great Britain and the British West Indies , and by further provisions for the prosecution of the war . It was on the first of the restraining bills , that relating to New England , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came the battle of Bunker Hill and the appointment of Washington as commander-in-chief . On 6 July Congress idopted a Declaration of the Causes and Necessity of Taking Up ; lrms , ' the joint work of Dickinson and Jefferson , and one of the greatest of the state papers of the Revolution . Still protesting that " we have not raised armies with ambitious designs of separating from Great Britain , and establishing independent states , " the declaration reviewed , vigorously but with dignity , the course of recent events , protested in the name ( if liberty against a policy that would enslave the colonies , and ( proclaimed solemnly the intention of fighting until freedom was assured . footnote = Text in W. MacDonald , Select Charters , 374-3k.  | In our own native land , in defence of the freedom that is our birthright , and which we ever enjoyed till the late violation of it ? for the protection of our property , acquired solely by the honest industry of our fore-fathers and ourselves , against violence actually offered , we have taken up arms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the part of the aggressors , and all danger of their being renewed shall be removed , and not before . Two days later ( 8 July ) a last petition to the king once more protested loyalty and devotion , and prayed the interposition of the crown to bring about reconciliation . At the end of the month , however , in an elaborate report drawn by Jefferson , Lord North 's offer of conciliation was emphatically , almost contemptuously , rejected . In August a royal proclamation declared the colonies in rebellion . Franklin , meantime , had quietly slipped out of England and returned to America , where he was at once elected to Congress . He had withstood to the last the encroachments of parliamentary authority in England , and was now to witness the passing of royal authority in America . With the rejection of petitions on the one side and of compromise on the other , Paine could well urge that the time had come to act . For the writing of the Declaration of Independence ( 4 July , 1776 ) Jefferson had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publications already favourably known to members of the Congress . In 1774 he had published at Williamsburg A Summary View of the Rights of British America , Set Forth in Some Resolutions Intended for the Instruction of the Present Delegates of the People of Virginia now in Convention , in which , with somewhat flamboyant boldness of phrase , he had offered to the king " the advice of your great American council , " and had appealed to him to open his breast " to liberal and expanded thought , " that the name of George the Third might not be " a blot in the page of history . " In June , 1775 , he had framed an Address of the House of Burgesses , on the subject of Lord North 's conciliatory resolution , which was adopted by the house and served as the model for the report on the same resolution which was approved by the Congress in July . He had also , as we have seen , collaborated with Dickinson in the preparation of the Declaration of the Causes and Necessity of Taking Up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not in Jefferson 's training or skill as a writer , nor in the possession by him of extraordinary insight or prophetic vision , but in the succession of events for the fifteen years past and in the innumerable pamphlets and essays which those had called out . The conduct of the king , the ministry , and the Parliament , the history and necessities of the colonies , and the constitutional foundations of empire had all been repeatedly and ably examined by lawyers and publicists , and the findings set forth by accomplished writers , long before Jefferson was called upon to say the final word . Of all the criticisms that have been passed upon the Declaration of Independence , the least to the point is that it is not original . The material was at hand , the argument had been elaborated , the conclusions had been drawn . For originality there was as little opportunity as there was need . What was required now was a concise summing up of the whole matter , full enough to give a clear impression of completeness , vigorous and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polished , dignified , and incisive enough to catch the ear , to linger in the memory , and to bear endless repetition . That Jefferson met this need with consummate success , working into one brief statement doctrine , accusation , argument , and declaration of freedom , was a demonstration that the hour and the man had met . The period of active hostilities ( 1775-1781 ) , which had already begun when the Declaration of Independence was adopted , was not characterized by literary activity . On the American side , at least , the case had been fully stated , and with the decision of the Congress to accept no terms of conciliation that did not recognize independence , there was no longer an English-speaking audience to which to appeal ; while to France and Holland , whose aid was sought , the appeal was necessarily diplomatic rather than literary . With the recourse to arms , pamphleteers and essayists entered the army , or busied themselves with public service in Congress , state , or local community . Dickinson , who had drawn back when independence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The loyalists were overawed or driven out , and their writings belong thereafter to the countries of their exile . Newspapers were few , paper was scarce , mails  | were infrequent and precarious , schools and colleges were interrupted or suspended altogether . Of publication and writing of certain sorts , on the other hand , there was a considerable volume . The Journal of the Continental Congress , published from time to time , with the exception of such parts as were thought to require secrecy , ' is an invaluable record of proceedings , although it contains no report of debates . Numerous reports , resolutions , and other state papers of importance were , however , printed separately in broadside or pamphlet form for the use of members of Congress or for wider distribution . The acts and resolutions of the state legislatures , so far as such bodies were able to meet , were also printed , together with occasional proclamations and other public documents . The letters of American statesmen , particularly Washington , Franklin , John Adams , Samuel Adams , John Jay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editions , existed for the most part only in manuscript ; but their quasipublic character , together with their circulation from hand to hand , often gave to them , to an extent much greater than would be the case today , though within limited circles , the essential character of publications . Larger audiences , but still local , were reached by sermons , many of which , especially those of the New England clergy , dealt much with the war and the political issues of the time . Comparatively few of these , however , were printed contemporaneously . Of great importance to an understanding of the revolutionary struggle are the journals and letter-books of soldiers and officers , both American and British , and the controversial narratives and defences of Burgoyne , Cornwallis , Clinton , and others regarding the conduct of military affairs ; but few of these are predominantly political in character , almost none were printed in America at the time , and the publication of nearly all of those by American authors dates from years long subsequent to the war . Of the war-time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the author , Thomas Paine , gave the title of The Crisis . The first issue of the series had its origin in the gloom and despondency occasioned by Washington 's famous footnote ' The material in the Secret Journals , ? vols. , Boston , 1821 , is included in the Ford and Hunt edition of the Journals ( sec Bibliography ) .  | retreat across New Jersey , in the fall and early winter of 1776 ; a retreat which to many seemed to presage the speedy collapse of the American cause . On 18 December , Washington , irritated and alarmed at the rapid dwindling of his army under the operation of short-term enlistment , wrote to his brother : Between you and me , I think our affairs are in a very bad situation ; not so much from the apprehension of General Howe 's army , as from the defection of New York , Jerseys , and Pennsylvania . . . In a word , my dear Sir , if every nerve is not strained to recruit the new army with all possible expedition , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day there issued from the press the first number of The Crisis , with its ringing call : These are the times that try men 's souls . The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will , in this crisis , shrink from the service of his country ; but he that stands it now , deserves the love and thanks of man and woman . . . . Up and help us ; lay your shoulders to the wheel ; better have too much force than too little , when so great an object is at stake . .. . The heart that feels not now , is dead . Sixteen of these stirring pamphlets , produced as the hopes and fears , the successes and failures of the war gave occasion , were issued down to the end of 1783 , when the series ended . With the surrender of Cornwallis ( October , 1781 ) , the active military and naval operations of the war practically ceased . Nearly two years were to elapse before the treaty of peace ( September , 1783 ) formally recognized the independence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fact , and the way was now open for the discussion of new political problems . A frame of government , the Articles of Confederation , had gone into effect in March , 1781 ; and when fighting ended , Congress and the country turned their attention to the pressing questions of finance , the development and administration of the West , the restoration of normal conditions in industry , commerce , and social life , and the perfection of the Federal union . It is not without significance that , among the statesmen whose defence of colonial rights had developed both the theory and the practice of revolution , there were IO  | many who were now to set the United States forward in the next stage of its career . For the replacement of the Articles of Confederation by the " more perfect " union of the Federal Constitution , private correspondence , as in the case of the Revolution , did much to prepare the way . Jefferson and John Adams were absent from the country on diplomatic service , the former in France , the latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prince of American diplomatists , was not , in the larger field of government , a constructive statesman . But Washington , Madison , Jay , Hamilton , Patrick Henry , and other leaders were busy with their pens , discussing with one another , particularly in the interval from 1785 to 1787 , the defects of the Articles , the need of a firmer national organization , and the practical possibilities of united action . Prominent in this epistolary discussion were such questions as the protection and encouragement of American commerce , retaliation against England for its imperfect observance of the terms of peace , the adjustment of the opposing interests of large and small states , and the provision of an adequate revenue for the payment of the revolutionary debt and the maintenance of the Federal establishment . In May , 1787 , the Federal Convention met at Philadelphia . In anticipation of its deliberations , Madison set down his opinion as to the Vices of the Political System of the United States , ' and prepared a summary view Of Ancient and Modern Confederacies.2 The former noted most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but there is nothing in the Constitution to show that the latter had influence with the convention . The convention was preeminently a practical body . The sources of the Federal Constitution are in the government of England , the constitutions of the states , the Articles of Confederation , and the experience of the country and of Congress under the Articles . The Journal of the convention comprises only a bare record of proceedings , and does not report debates ; the proceedings , moreover , were behind closed doors . For our knowledge of what was said , as distinguished from what was voted , we are dependent upon Madison 's elaborate Notes , taken down at the time and corrected and footnote Writings , ed . Hunt , 11 , 361-369. 2 Ibid. , II , 369-390.  | supplemented by the journal ; some Minutes of Yates , a New York delegate ; a Report by Luther Martin to the Maryland assembly ' ; and the letters , many of them still unpublished , of members of the convention . The elaborate publication of documents , debates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention was conspicuously lacking . While the convention was in session , there was published at Boston , New York , and Philadelphia , in separate editions , the first volume of John Adams 's Defence of the Constitutions of Government of the United States of America . This work , written and first published in London , was occasioned , the author states , by Turgot 's sweeping attack upon the American theory of government , contained in a letter to Dr. Richard Price , in 1778 , and published by Price in his Observations on the Importance of the American Revolution , and the Means of Making it a Benefit to the World ( 1785 ) . Two additional volumes appeared in 1788.2 The prominence of the author gave the work , especially the first volume , some vogue ; but the disorderly arrangement , the verbose and careless style , the many glaring inaccuracies and inconsistencies due to hasty writing and negligent proofreading , a political philosophy nowhere profound , and the characteristic temper of the advocate rather than of the expositor , did Adams no credit ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opened the way for attacks upon his sincerity and loyalty which followed him throughout his life . To this disfavour the " worship of the Constitution " as a perfect instrument , which began soon after the successful establishment of the government under it , undoubtedly contributed . With the adjournment of the Convention in September , and the submission of the Constitution to ratifying conventions in the states , the public became for the first time acquainted with the pending scheme of government ; and the great debate on ratification began . The newspapers teemed with political essays , and pamphlets multiplied . The Constitution lacked neither friends nor foes . On the side of the Constitution were footnote The foregoing are included in Elliott 's Debates and Farrand 's Records of the Federal Convention ( see Bibliography ) . 2 Works , iv , v.  | James Sullivan of Massachusetts , with his eleven letters of Cassius ; Oliver Ellsworth of Connecticut , with thirteen letters of A Landholder ; Roger Sherman of the same state , who contributed five letters of A. Countryman and two of A Citizen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Letters of Fabius . The opposing views of the Anti-federalists were vigorously set forth by Agrippa , whose eighteen letters are probably to be ascribed to James Winthrop of Massachusetts ; by George Clinton of New York , who published seven letters under the name of Cato ; by Robert Yates , in two letters of Sydney ; and in seven letters by Luther Martin . ' The pamphlet literature was equally important . Noah Webster , best known to later generations as a lexicographer , came to the support of the new instrument in An Examination into the Leading Principles of the Federal Constitution ; as did John Jay , in An Address to the People of the State of New York ; Pelatiah Webster of Philadelphia , in The Weakness of Brutus Exposed , a reply to the first of a series of sixteen essays ascribed to Thomas Treadwell of New York ; Tench Coxe , in An Examination of the Constitution , written over the pseudonym of " An American Citizen " ; and David Ramsay , in An Address to the Freemen of South Carolina . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Constitution ; Melanchthon Smith 's Address to the People of the State of New York , and preeminently by Richard Henry Lee , in his Observations leading to a Fair Examination of the System of Government proposed by the late Convention , and by George Mason of Virginia , in his Objections to the proposed Federal Constitution , to the latter of whom James Iredell of North Carolina made an elaborate rejoinder.2 Incomparably superior , whether in content , or in form , or in permanent influence , to all the other political writing of the period are the eighty-five essays known collectively as The Federalist . The essays , the joint work of Hamilton , Madison , and Jay , appeared in the New York Independent Journal during the seven months beginning October , 1787 . They had been preceded , and to a considerable extent called out , by a series of attacks upon the new Constitution contributed by Governor footnote 2 All the foregoing are reprinted in P. L. Ford , Essays on the Constitution . 2 The foregoing are collected in P. L. Ford , Pamphlets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the New York Journal , over the pen-names of " Cato " and " Brutus " respectively . The authorship of a few of the essays has been an interesting problem of historical criticism , but four were the work of Jay , fourteen were certainly written by Madison , three are probably to be ascribed to Madison , nine are probably Hamilton 's , three are the work of Hamilton and Madison jointly , and the remaining fifty-one are the work of Hamilton . ' The plan was Hamilton 's , moreover , and his influence undoubtedly dominated all the numbers of the series , whoever the particular author . The papers of The Federalist are in part an account of the merits and defects of confederacies , and a discussion of the difficulties and advantages of union , and in part an examination of the weaknesses of the Articles of Confederation and a defence of the provisions of the proposed Constitution . Their actual influence upon the ratification of the Constitution in New York , which was the chief reason for writing them , has probably been overrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of popular argument likely to be effective in political debate . As the earliest contemporary exposition , in extended form , of the Constitution , however , they occupy a unique position . Written in the heat of controversy , and before the great structure of American constitutional law had even been begun , they forecast with extraordinary acuteness some of the most fundamental principles of constitutional interpretation which the federal courts were later to adopt , as well as some of the grave political issues on which party lines were to form . Judicial reference and quotation have given to The Federalist a weight of authority second only to that of the Constitution itself , and upon the authorship of the larger part of its pages the reputation of Hamilton as a publicist mainly rests . footnote This follows the classification in Ford 's edition .  | The Beginnings of Verse , 161 o-18o8 T HE two centuries that cover the beginnings of American poetry may be divided into three periods . The first period is that of the early colonial verse which begins in 1610 with the publication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ends with the seventeenth century . With 1700 begins the second period , which is one of transition in purpose , subject , and style . The third period , which is marked by the beginnings of nationalism , opens with the passage of the Stamp Act in 1765 and closes with the publication of Bryant 's Embargo in 1808 . Even in the light of the unliterary conditions that prevailed in the Southern and Middle colonies it is surprising to find how little verse was produced south of New England before the middle of the eighteenth century . The Southern colonists were not of a literary class , and probably would have written little or nothing under any conditions ; in the Southern colonies and , to a less degree , in the Middle colonies , conditions were distinctly unfavourable to literature ; and in Virginia , especially , there were no schools , no printing presses , no literary centres , and few people who cared to write books or , apparently , to read them . Yet , though the New England of the seventeenth century left us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as against the less than one thousand lines left by all the colonies to the south of that region , it was Virginia that produced what is perhaps the one real American poem of the seventeenth century . This is the epitaph on the insurrectionary leader Nathaniel Bacon , written " by his Man . " The " Man " clearly was no menial but a reader and a poet . His brief elegy of forty-four lines is worthy of Ben  | Jonson himself , and is indeed written in that great elegist 's dignified , direct , and manly style : In a word Marss and Minerva , both in him Concurd For arts , for arms , whose pen and sword alike As Catos did , may admireation strike In to his foes ; while they confess with all It was their guilt stil 'd him a Criminall . Maryland has even less to show than Virginia . The rhyming tags of verse appended to the chapters of George Alsop 's Character of the Province of Maryland ( 1666 ) can not be taken seriously . The description of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lewis shows that Pope had not yet reached Baltimore in 1732 , however at home he may have been in Boston and Philadelphia . Of the same type is a True Relation of the Flourishing State of Pennsylvania ( 1686 ) , by John Holme , a resident of that colony . The True Relation is utilitarian in purpose and homely in style , but on the whole its five hundred lines in various metres , with their catalogues of native animals and plants in the manner of William Wood 's verses in his New England 's Prospect , are rather pleasing . New York produced practically no English verse until the Revolution ; and the Carolinas and Georgia continued barren until near the close of the eighteenth century , when Charleston became something of a literary centre . But Pennsylvania came to be fairly prolific early in the transition period , and continued so for almost a century until New York and Boston , as literary centres , finally displaced Philadelphia . The earliest New England verse was as utilitarian and matter-of-fact as any prose . Narratives of the voyages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fauna , and scenery , written in the main for readers in the mother country , were versified merely for the sake of the jingle . Altogether this descriptive and historical verse amounts to less than a thousand lines . A Looking Glass for the Times ( 1677 ) , by Peter Folger of Nantucket , derives interest from the fact that it was written by the maternal grandfather of Benjamin Franklin . Its four hundred lines in ballad quatrains are very bad verse , however , and , though it has been termed " A manly plea for toleration in an  | age of intolerance , " there is still question as to whether it was actually published in the author 's lifetime and , consequently , whether Folger ran any risk . The most important piece of historical verse in this period was the work of the first native-born American poet , Benjamin Tompson ( 1644-1714 ) , who , as his tombstone at Roxbury informs us , was a " learned schoolmaster and physician and the renowned poet of New England , " and is " mortuus sed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crises , is a formal attempt at an epic on King Philip 's War . The prologue pictures early society in New England and recounts the decadence in manners and morals that has brought about the crisis , ? the war as God 's punishment . The six hundred and fifty lines of pentameter couplets are somewhat more polished than those of the poet 's contemporaries , and might suggest the influence of Dryden if there were any external reason for supposing that the Restoration poets gained admission to early New England . Tompson 's classical allusions , part of his epic attempt , are in amusing contrast to his rugged and homely diction , but his poem as a whole has at least the virtue of simplicity , and is interesting as the first of a long line of narratives in verse which recount the events of the wars fought on American soil . A Brief Account of the Agency of the Honorable John Winthrop in obtaining a charter for Connecticut , though not published until 1725 , belongs in purpose and style to the seventeenth century . The author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little more of a poet than Governor Bradford , but his literary pretensions ally him with Benjamin Tompson . His couplets are rugged and his diction prosaic , in the main , but the heroic style of the battle scenes and the lofty similes employed by the hero as he recounts to Charles II the settlement and the history of the Colony , show that Wolcott too was consciously attempting an epic . His poem is a link between the unliterary historical and descriptive verse of early New England and the more pretentious epics that appeared so abundantly during the latter half of the eighteenth century . The most characteristic poetic products of early New England are the memorial poems . Subsequent generations have made merry over their matter and style , and indeed little  | can be said in their favour if they are to be taken as an index to the poetic taste of the time and not simply as conventional tributes to the dead . If , however , the New England elegy is to be judged on its literary merits , we should remember that it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its matter and style , but that it simply reflected its English origin and was closely related to its English counterparts . Unlike the English , though , the writers of New England did not evolve a better style of their own , the elegies at the close of the century being , if anything , worse than those at the beginning . Perhaps Quarles was chiefly responsible for their pentameter couplets , rough with run-on lines and imperfect rhymes . Despite occasional variety of form in six-line stanza or quatrain , there is little variety of tone or style ; and in all these thousands of lines scarcely a line of genuine poetry , or a single poem worth preservation in its entirety . The succession of these elegies is surprisingly unbroken for at least forty years . Both authors and subjects are in the main the divines who controlled the destinies of New England and who provided its literature . When such an elegy as that on the Rev. Thomas Shepard by the Rev. Urian Oakes , president of Harvard , is discovered amid this dreary elegiac waste , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fifty six-line stanzas , though commonplace in thought and style , is not without pathos , and gives an impression of sincerity . But the Rev. Urian Oakes himself was not so fortunate in his elegist , no less a person than the Rev. Cotton Mather , the most prolific elegist of his time . His elegy on Oakes reaches a length of over four hundred lines . To adorn his subject he " ransacks the ages , spoils the climes " ; his pentameters and his quatrains are mere doggerel , his rhymes are atrocious , and his lines rife with conceits and puns and classical and biblical allusions . John Cleveland at his best could do no worse . The real feeling that probably inspired Mather 's writing is obscured by the laboured insincerity of his style . But the nadir is reached by the Rev. Nicholas Noyes ( 1647-1717 ) , who in his elegies on the Rev. John Higginson and the Rev. Joseph Green shows promising possibilities of bathos , but who in his poem on the Rev. James Brayley 's attack of the stone revels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put to the blush his most  | gifted English contemporaries . The one elegiac poem of early New England that may be worth preserving is the Funeral Song ( 1709 ) , written by the Rev. Samuel Wigglesworth , son of Michael , on the death of his friend Nathaniel Clarke . Together with its real feeling , it exhibits a certain felicity of diction that bespeaks Elizabethan models ; and such phrases as " where increate eternity 's concealed , " " solemn music , " and " warbling divinest airs , " seem to show that Milton had reached New England . As a genre the elegy died with the decline of the clergy , and passed as a fashion passes with changed conditions . The most interesting as well as the most pleasing figure in early New England verse is that of Anne Bradstreet , who was " fathered and husbanded " respectively by Thomas Dudley and Simon Bradstreet , both in their time governors of Massachusetts . Born in London in 1612 , she emigrated in 163o with her husband and died in 1672 . Although the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over seven thousand lines of verse in what must have been , to her , peculiarly uncongenial surroundings . Her brother-in-law , the Rev. John Woodbridge , when on a visit to London in 165o , published without her knowledge her poems under the title of The Tenth Muse , Lately Sprung Up in America , and a second edition followed in Boston in 1678 . That her poems were read and admired is attested by such poetic tributes as that of Nathaniel Ward , who affirms that she was " a right Du Bartas girle , " and represents Apollo as unable to decide whether Du Bartas or the New England Muse was the more excellent poet . But Anne Bradstreet was not a poet ; she was a winsome personality in an unlovely age . That she should have written verse at all was phenomenal , but that it should have been poor verse was inevitable . Her Exact Epitome of the Four Monarchies , in several thousand lines of bad pentameter couplets , is simply a rhyming chronicle of the medieval type , the matter of which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Four Elements , Constitutions , Ages of Man , and Seasons of the Year , almost equally worthless as poetry , is an interesting adaptation of Sylvester 's translation of the Divine Weeks . She repeatedly states her admiration for Du Bartas and her indebtedness to him . Thirteen lines in the second day of the first week of his poem suggested her theme , and this she expands in the form of a medieval debat ; other  | passages from Du Bartas she condenses , expands , or merely paraphrases . She gives only about ' Soo lines to the entire exposition of her elements , humours , ages , and seasons ; hence she uses but a small part of the encyclopedic material of the French poem . The feeble New England imitation can not compare with the original . Du Bartas , though often flat and prosaic , is immense in his range , and is at times even a poet ; Anne Bradstreet 's range is narrow ; her allusions are merely to the best known historical and mythological characters ; her descriptions of natural phenomena , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her New England environment , are vague and conventional . In occasional lines of Sylvester 's translation occurs something of Elizabethan spaciousness ; the only meritorious lines of Anne Bradstreet 's poem occur in the Spring ; The fearfull bird his little house now builds In trees and walls , in Cities and in fields . The outside strong , the inside warm and neat , A natural Artificer compleat . The verse of all her longer poems is precisely that of Sylvester ? a couplet , not quite loose , but less compact than the heroic couplet , with the characteristic Elizabethan freedom in rhyme and with the shifting caesura . It is not , however , in these long , dreary , and purely didactic poems that Anne Bradstreet shows her real capacity . When she walks in happier paths , with a song in her heart , remembering Spenser and Giles Fletcher , she shows that perhaps in more fortunate times she might have written poetry . Her Contemplations is a meditative and descriptive poem in thirty-three seven-line stanzas , in which occur passages at least pleasing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talents : When I behold the heavens as in their prime , And then the earth ( though old ) stil clad in green , The stones and trees , insensible to time , Nor age nor wrinkle on their front are seen ; If winter come , and greeness then do fade , A Spring returns , and they more youthfull made ; But Man grows old , lies down , remains where once he 's laid .  | Her lines to her husband , though not great poetry , are perhaps the most sincere , and are certainly the most human and touching she ever wrote ; and her poem on the rearing of her eight children , while infelicitous in its barnyard metaphor , presents a happy and lovable picture . So lovely and pathetic is the figure of the woman herself , and so remarkable are her achievements in the light of her environment , that one finds it ungracious to speak harshly of her verse . It is rather remarkable that so little purely religious verse was produced in early New England . Quarles , himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and paraphrases from the Bible . New England boasted a distinct literary class , not unfamiliar with great religious poetry ; but its one biblical paraphrase and its one effort at writing religious song was The Bay Psalm Book . To meet the need for divine songs to sing in the churches , Richard Mather , Thomas Welde , and John Eliot supervised the preparation of a new metrical version of the Psalms . The Bay Psalm Book , as it came to be called , was the first book published on American soil , and passed through twenty-seven editions between 164o and 1752 , when it was superseded by John Barnard 's New Version of the Psalms of David . It surpasses even Sternhold and Hopkins in uncouthness , and as a monument of bad taste has furnished an easy target for the ridicule of subsequent and less devout generations . It is unfair , however , to take The Bay Psalm Book as an index to the poetic taste of its period , or its subsequent popularity as indicating anything more than its usefulness . It was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; an edition " revised and refined " by John Dunster and Richard Lyon followed in 1647 . If these were " refined , " then , as Timothy Dwight remarks , " a modern reader would almost instinctively ask , What were they before ? ' " We still possess in its original crudity the " epic of New England puritanism , " The Day of Doom ; or , a Poetical Description of the Great and Last Judgment . This was the masterpiece of the Rev. Michael Wigglesworth ( 1631-1705 ) , who was born in England , but emigrated to America , and graduated from Harvard at the age of twenty . He was a physician as well as a theologian and a poet , amiable and humane in character , and greatly beloved . The most widely read and perhaps  | the most representative poet of early New England , he was also , with the exception of Anne Bradstreet , the most prolific . In both subject-matter and style he is only too representative of his times . His Day of Doom , first published in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and adds to these a statement of the Calvinistic dogmas of eternal punishment . Its two hundred eight-line stanzas tell a story which still entertains the reader , even if it has lost its power to terrify . Relatively , no poem was ever more popular ; the first edition of eighteen hundred copies was sold within a year ; within the century after , ten subsequent editions were published ; and its final passing was coincident only with the passing of the theology that gave it birth and rendered it tolerable . The opening stanzas of the poem show some imagination and power of description ; but these are borrowed plumes ; all that is good in The Day of Doom comes from the Bible . Wigglesworth had no real poetry in him ; at no period and under no conditions would he have been a poet . His God 's Controversy with New England , inspired by the great drought of 1662 , deserves no consideration as poetry ; but the poem that followed in 1669 is of greater interest . This is Meat out of the Eater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Usefulness of Affliction unto God 's Children , a theological treatise in rhyme , over two thousand lines in length , in various metres and divided into many different sections . The reflections , with their references to biblical prototypes , the quaint and often fantastic style , point to Quarles 's Emblems as their inspiration . Though even less poetic than The Day of Doom , the poem contains the only two good lines that Wigglesworth ever wrote : War ends in peace , and morning light Mounts upon Midnight 's wing . In his Vanity of Vanities , which was appended to the third edition of The Day of Doom in 1673 , certain rather polished heroic quatrains suggest Davenant or Dryden as possible models . But , as Wigglesworth 's library contained not one volume of English poetry , the poet must have found his model outside of his library ; it is beyond belief that either he or any  | other New England versifier of his period could have originated or even improved any form of verse . The years between the close of the seventeenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form a transition period in the development of American verse . It is interesting to note that the passing of the old century coincided almost exactly with the passing of the old models . About 1700 new literary influences came from England ; the old forms of verse were discarded for others more polished ; Quarles and Sylvester gave way , first to Waller , then to Pope . But the change was not one of form alone . The decline of clerical influence , the increase of security and comfort in the conditions of life , the more frequent intercourse with England ? all these and other changes were reflected also in the subject-matter , the purpose , and the spirit of the new verse . New England poets before 1700 learned nothing from the English poets of the latter half of the seventeenth century ; for New England seems to have placed all the literature of the Restoration period under a rigorous embargo . There is no sufficient evidence that Dryden was known in America before 1700 , in spite of some fairly regular quatrains by Michael Wigglesworth and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If they knew even Milton they perhaps saw in him only the champion of divorce and of other heresies . But there are other and obvious reasons for this ignorance or neglect of Dryden and Milton . Although John Cotton had some correspondence with Quarles , there was not much literary communication of any kind between the colonies and England before the eighteenth century . New England was complete in itself . Dr. Benjamin Colman ( 1673-1747 ) , upon his return from England in 1699 , brought with him both Blackmore and Waller . This decisive event in the history of American verse marked the beginning of a new era , that of the heroic couplet . But though Colman praises Waller and Blackmore and recommends both to his daughter Jane Turell , he himself , when he wrote his Elijah 's Translation ( 1707 ) on the death of the Rev. Samuel Willard , imitated Dryden in his heroic couplets and his method of applying a Bible story as in Absalom and Achito-  | phel . Jane Turell ( 1708 ? 1735 ) , whose literary tastes were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Blackmore , and Waller ; but she wrote the couplet of Pope . Another and even earlier evidence of the influence of Pope is a poem by Francis Knapp , who was born in England in 1672 , and at an uncertain date emigrated to America and settled as a country gentleman near Boston . In 1715 he addressed a poetical epistle to Pope beginning Hail ! sacred bard ! a muse unknown before Salutes thee from the bleak Atlantic shore , which was included among the prefatory poems in a subsequent edition of Windsor Forest ( first published in 1713 ) . Thus promptly Pope crossed the Atlantic to begin his undisputed reign of almost a century . Knapp 's heroic poem Gloria Brittannorum ( 1723 ) , an obvious imitation of Addison 's Campaign , celebrates " The most illustrious persons in camp and cabinet since the glorious revolution to the recent time , " and is perhaps the earliest example of the patriotic narrative poem that was to become so common in American after the Revolution . But a far more distinguished exponent of the style @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let you see a little of the reputation which you bear in these unknown climates ? I transmit to you the enclosed poems , " Byles wrote to Pope in 1727 . It was perhaps these poems that Byles published in a volume in 1736 , and which were published anonymously in the somewhat celebrated volume of 1744 , Poems by Several Hands . Mather Byles is a more eminent figure in the annals of American poetry than is at all warranted by his poems , which are few and altogether imitative . His reputation is due in part to the general poverty of the transition period ? the barest era in our verse ? and in part to his fame as a preacher and a wit . IIe was born in 1707 , was educated at Harvard , and served as pastor of the Hollis Street church in Boston through the greater part of his ministerial life . After the Declaration , he became a staunch and vehement Tory , lost his former popularity , and died embittered and broken in 1788 . He corresponded with Lansdowne , Pope , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | at least in his younger days ; and in his attention to contemporary English literature and his setting up of something approaching an Eesthetic standard in verse , represents a definite change from the point of view of the generation before him . But the Puritan is still at work in him , however modern may be his style . His most ambitious poem , The Conflagration , a description of the physical phenomena of the last day , and a shorter poem , The Comet , are both in the spirit of Wigglesworth , for all their heroic couplets and artificial diction . His elegies are unadulterated Pope ; and his hymns are in imitation of Watts . One of the first volumes of miscellaneous verse published in America was the Poems by Several Hands ( Boston , 1744 ) . All the poems are anonymous ; and aside from humorous ballads probably by Joseph Green , they merely echo Pope , with a plethora of " amorous swains " and " blushing charms . " Some were certainly written by Byles , and others are tributes to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to extol Byles as a poet worthy to be mentioned with Homer and with his only modern rival , Pope . Already America was looking for its Homer , a search that was to continue with increasing assiduity throughout the century ? and Boston found him in Byles . More original and interesting than the poems of Byles are the humorous verses of his friend Joseph Green ( 1706-1780 ) , a Boston distiller possessed of literary tastes , who ranked with Byles as a wit and social favourite . After the outbreak of the Revolution he too became a Tory , and finally found refuge in London , where he died . Though his poems seem to have been written for his own amusement and that of his friends , they are important as the first attempt to lighten the heavy Puritanism of early New England with some leaven of humour and wit . An Entertainment for a Winter 's Evening is perhaps the earliest piece of Hudibrastic verse written in America . We have travelled far from Puritan New England when a Bostonian can find amusement in the godless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and can edify his fellow townsmen with a burlesque account of their nocturnal adventures . Associated with Byles and Green in Poems by Several Hands was the Rev. John Adams , a young clergyman of Boston who died in 1740 at the age of thirty-five . Five years after his death his friends published his Poems on Several Occasions ;  | Original and Translated , which contains among other pieces paraphrases from the Bible , translations from Horace , and half a dozen elegies , including one on Cotton Mather and one on Jane Turell . All these are written in the heroic couplet but in a diction more natural than Pope 's . That Adams knew Milton 's poems is apparent in his Address to the Supreme Being . Indeed these poems , though pervaded by the Puritan spirit , yet reveal a more purely aesthetic purpose and a more careful style than can generally be found before the later years of the century . The almanacs of Nathaniel Ames , father and son , of Dedham , Massachusetts , had their part in disseminating throughout New England a knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taste for humorous poetry . The brief passages from Dryden , Pope , and James Thomson ( yes , and I3lackmore ! ) , prefixed to the astronomical data , and the unpretentious humorous verses scattered through the other matter , were far more widely read than the laboured and ambitious poems of the literary group in Boston . An Essay upon the Microscope is an elaborate poem , by the elder Ames , which , if not poetic , is interesting as perhaps our first ode in irregular verse . Boston was not the only literary centre of this transition period . Franklin tells us in his Autobiography that when he first entered the printing office of Samuel Keimer in Philadelphia in 1723 , he found the printer laboriously composing in type an elegy on Aquila Rose , a young poet who had just died in that city ? perhaps the worst elegy ever written . The poet elegized died in 1723 at the age of twenty-eight . Within the few years preceding his death he wrote the slight occasional poems in heroic couplets that were in 1740 published in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would Aquila Rose have been a poet , but his verses were quite the best that Philadelphia had yet produced , and were to remain so until Thomas Godfrey surpassed them a generation later . Furthermore , they show that the new influences from England had reached Philadelphia as well as Boston . George Webb , a member of Franklin 's " Junto , " wrote Batchelors ' Hall in defence of the life led by himself and other young bachelors at their club near the city . Unconventional as that life may have been , Webb 's heroic  | couplets are as conventional as could be desired , and , together with the verses written by other members of his circle , they recall the dominant hand of Pope . Intrinsically unimportant as was all the verse written in Philadelphia in this early period , it must have done its work in creating a literary atmosphere and in establishing traditions ; for this city remained throughout the entire century the centre both for the writing and the publishing of American poetry . During the whole of the eighteenth century the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flourished in England , and during the latter half of the same century its imitative progeny flourished in America . There could be no justification for cataloguing these imitative efforts , since not one of them still lives in our literature , and very few of them show any distinctive American traits . In the main , their method , their ideas , their imagery are as English as those of their prototypes ; their heroic couplet is that of Pope or Goldsmith ; their blank verse is that of Thomson or Young . The tide set in with imitations of Pomfret , whose Choice ( 1700 ) appeared in at least four editions in America between 1751 and 1792 . In 1747 William Livingston , who was to become the famous governor of New Jersey , expressed his ideal of existence in a direct imitation of Pomfret which he called Philosophic Solitude , or the Choice of a Rural Life . Ten years later a second imitation of Pomfret followed in The Choice by Dr. Benjamin Church of Boston , who longs for a home in the country , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to read his favourite poets ? Milton , Dryden , Gay , " awful Pope , unequalled bard , " and " nature-limning Thomson . " Though dwelling in a small American town , he sighs for solitude as longingly as he might have done in the midst of a world capital . Livingston and Church are half a century late in their sporadic imitations ; and for a while Americans were simply catching up with almost a hundred years of English didactic poetry ; but after the tide once turned , about the middle of the century , imitation was much more prompt and general and , after the Revolution , immediate and universal . Goldsmith reached Americans almost at once , and appeared in nine editions between 1768 and 1791 . His numerous imitators are all alike in using his method , his style , and  | even his very subject-matter . Among imitations of The Deserted Village may be mentioned Thomas Coombe 's Peasant of Auburn ( 1775 ) , which contains lines fine enough to save it from oblivion . Imitations of Thomson 's Seasons began to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1777 , increased in number with the five successive editions up to 1792 , and continued through at least the first decade of the nineteenth century . To read one of these is to know all , with their very fair verse , and their conventional and generalized descriptions of scenery that might as well be English as American . It is interesting to note , however , that the native clement in our descriptive verse grows more pronounced in the decade preceding the first work of Bryant . The form is still that of Thomson , but the poet has at last opened his eyes to the distinctive beauty of American nature . In his Descriptive Poems ( 1802 ) John D. McKinnon wrote of the Hudson and the Mohawk Rivers and our own October landscape , as well as of th ' illimitable plain Depastured by erratic buffaloes ; and some " Untaught Bard , " writing under the influence of both Thomson and Young , in his Spring clearly foretells the coming of Thanatopsis . John Hayes , professor at Dickinson College , in the 2500 lines of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American birds and flowers in spite of his imitation of Milton and Thomson . Still more interesting in this respect is The Foresters ( 1804 ) of the ornithologist Alexander Wilson , a poem in 2200 lines of heroic couplets which tell the story of a journey through New York and Pennsylvania to Niagara Falls . Wilson is a scientist rather than a poet , but he sees nature sympathetically and gives what he sees in a simple and direct style . At last the poet writes with his eye on American nature and not on conventional descriptions by English poets . The one poem that sums up all the direct imitations of Goldsmith , and Thomson , and of Denham , Milton , Pope , and Beattie as well , is Greenfield Hill . Timothy Dwight ( 1752-1817 ) , a grandson of Jonathan Edwards , at the age of nineteen graduated from Yale , where he then became a tutor . In 1777 ? 1778 he served as chaplain in the army , and varied his duties by  | writing patriotic songs for the soldiers . In 1783 he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in 1795 was made president of Yale . He was the first of our great college presidents , and as theologian , scholar , patriot , and writer was one of the eminent personalities of his time . As a poet he belongs to a group of writers who during the last two decades of the eighteenth century formed a literary centre at New Haven and Hartford . The chief " Hartford Wits " were Timothy Dwight , John Trumbull , Joel Barlow , David Humphreys , Richard Alsop , Lemuel Hopkins , and Theodore Dwight , a brother of Timothy , all either graduates of Yale or associated with that college . Their contemporary reputation was immense . Dwight , Barlow , and Humphreys , indeed , were practical men of affairs , and all were more or less versatile . But the reading public looked upon them as geniuses ; and Freneau was the only poet aside from the Hartford group who was ever mentioned in connection with them . Yet even as they were issuing their declaration of literary independence , they were in every line betraying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagery . Their more ambitious and laboured poems , including almost all those by Dwight , Barlow , and Humphreys , are to the modern reader the least successful . Their best work , which they themselves and the public took less seriously , is in the form of satire , and was mainly written , singly or in collaboration , by Trumbull , Theodore Dwight , Alsop , and Hopkins . Yet the work of the " Hartford Wits " in fostering poetry in a period of political and social struggle and change deserves grateful recognition from the student of American literature . Timothy Dwight 's Greenfield hill is a medley of echoes . The poet stands upon a hill in his Connecticut parish , and , like his English predecessors , describes the view , paints the social conditions of the country , recounts its history , and prophesies its future . The 4300 lines of the poem are divided into seven parts , written variously in heroic couplet , Spenserian stanza , blank verse , and octosyllabics . The poet 's desire " to contribute to the innocent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in economic , political , and moral sentiments " results in a history , guide-book , and treatise on manners , morals , and government , but not in a poem . To  | say that Greenfield Hill is made to order and is inspired by morality and patriotism , is to state the genesis of all the serious work of the Hartford group . Outrageously long poems on aesthetic subjects were rife in America toward the close of the century . At a time when society and politics were in a state of upheaval , when neither the domestic nor the foreign policy of the country had been settled , and when consequently there was so much of native interest to write about , it is incongruous to find so many poems suggested by Akenside 's Pleasures of the Imagination and Brooke 's Universal Beauty . Richard Alsop 's Charms of Fancy in all its 2300 lines of heroic couplets contains not a fresh image or an original idea ; but The Powers of Genius by John Blair Linn is at least the work of a man of taste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best of its British counterparts . The extreme of dulness and futility is reached in the many poems on philosophy and religion for which Pope and Young were largely responsible . Somewhat stronger and more interesting than most of these is Timothy Dwight 's Triumph of Infidelity , which purports to be a satire , and which with irony and abuse rather than logic attempts to refute the arguments of the eighteenth century " infidels , " Voltaire included . Biblical paraphrases , too , multiplied after the Revolution , and appeared in large numbers between 178o and 1810 . These are supplemented by epics on biblical themes , the most celebrated of which is again the work of the indefatigable Timothy llwight , written by the time he was twenty-two , but published when he was thirty-three and should have known better . The Conquest of Canaan ( 1785 ) , in ten thousand lines of heroic couplets , owes its style to Pope 's Homer and much of its method and imagery to Virgil and Milton . The epic as a whole is what might be expected when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are removed from the peculiarities of any age or country , and might belong to the amiable and virtuous of any period , elevated without design , refined without ceremony , elegant without fashion , and agreeable because they are ornaniented with sincerity , dignity , and religion . " Into the heroic biblical narrative are woven the loves of Irad and Selima and of I ram and Mira , who take their evening strolls through the lanes and meadows of Connecticut . Though intolerably  | verbose , the poem contains purple passages which lift it to the level of the average eighteenth-century epic and which perhaps led Cowper to review it favourably . With a noble disregard of congruity , The Conquest of Canaan is , withal , distinctly patriotic , with its union of " Canaan and Connecticut " and its allusions to contemporary persons and events . The third period of early American verse , which begins with 1765 and ends with 18o8 , is characterized by two remarkably coincident phenomena , one political , the other msthetic . One of these is the beginning of the nationalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is marked by the passage of the Stamp Act . The other , also beginning about 1765 , is the wholesale importation and reprinting of English poetry which worked with the growth of native culture to produce a great quantity of verse all more or less imitative of English models and largely independent of political conditions . All the poems of this period , whether springing from political or from purely aesthetic influences , are most conveniently treated under their various genres without regard to individual writers , though one poet , Philip Freneau , demands separate consideration . The first ballad springing from American soil recounts a battle fought in 1725 between whites and Indians near Lovewell 's Pond in Maine . Composed at the time of the event , it was for generations preserved only by word of mouth , and was not published for almost a century . Though unliterary , it tells its story with vigour and directness , and is of additional interest in that Longfellow in 182o chose the same fight as the subject of his first poem , The Battle of Lovell 's Pond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were published anonymously in the newspapers , the best of which are perhaps The Song of Braddock 's Men , and the lines on Wolfe Thy merits , Wolfe , transcend all human praise . Anti-British ballads began to appear immediately upon the footnote = The French and Indian War gave birth to a curious volume of Miscellaneous Poems on Divers Occasions , Chiefly to Animate and Rouse the Soldiers ( 1756 ) , by Stephen Tilden , which , in spite of its wretched verse , is of some interest as the first of its kind in America .  | passage of the Stamp Act , to continue until the close of the Revolution . These spring from the heat of the conflict , and are as replete with patriotism as they are deficient in literary merit . Yet they admirably fulfilled their purpose of arousing public spirit , and many of them were known and sung everywhere . John Dickinson 's Patriot 's Appeal , which begins Then join hand in hand , brave Americans all , By uniting we stand , by dividing we fall , gave rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ famous Massachusetts Liberty Song . Almost equally popular were John Mason 's Liberty 's Call , Thomas Paine 's Liberty Tree , and Timothy Dwight 's Columbia , with its refrain Columbia , Columbia , to glory arise , The queen of the world and the child of the skies . But the one ballad that shows a spark of poetry is Nathan Hale , which commemorates the capture and death of the young American spy . It opens with a promise that is scarcely sustained throughout the poem : The breezes went steadily thro the tall pines , A saying " Oh ! hu-sh , " a saying " Oh ! hu-sh , " As stilly stole by a bold legion of horse , For Hale in the bush , for Hale in the bush . Best known of the purely humorous ballads is Francis Hopkinson 's Battle of the Kegs ( 1778 ) , which tells of the alarm felt by the British over some kegs that the Americans had charged with powder and had set floating in the Delaware River . The hundreds of patriotic ballads , songs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more ambitious and " literary , " seem less spontaneous and sincere than the earlier verse , which called a nation to arms ; and for all their flaunting of the stars and stripes , they leave the reader cold . Scarcely a poet who wrote between 1780 and 1807 failed to compose at least one such poem ; but , it is safe to say , the only patriotic ballads of permanent merit written between 1725 and 1807 are the sea poems of Freneau.  | The longer American patriotic poems of the later eighteenth century may take the form of narratives of battle , of personal eulogies , or , perhaps most characteristically , of philosophic statements of what today is called " Americanism . " They increase in number toward the close of the century , when the air was full of American principles and ideals , and finally , in spite of their imitative style , they become in spirit at least a distinctive product without exact parallel in England . The best of them express a national aspiration that can still appeal to the patriotic reader . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the early outbursts evoked by the French and Indian War , when the poets were generally loyal to Great Britain . On the accession of George the Third in 1761 the faculty and graduates of Harvard published a curious volume of congratulatory poems entitled Pietas et Gratulatio Collegii Cantabrigiensis Apud NovAnglos . The volume of one hundred and six pages includes thirty-one poems , three of which are in Greek , sixteen in Latin , and twelve in English . The poems in English are in the form of irregular odes or heroic couplets stilted and commonplace in subject and style . The modern reader may find amusement in such loyal lines as Bourbons to humble , Brunswicks were ordained : Those mankind 's rights destroyed , but these regained . But the patriotic poem was soon to transfer its allegiance . A truly remarkable quantity of narrative verse tells the story of the Revolution and celebrates its civil and military leaders . Almost everyone who wrote verse in America after the Revolution produced an ode or an epic to vindicate his patriotism . Literature was now democratic ; nothing was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that . Far above the average is the rather fine Eulogium on Major-General Joseph Warren , written by " A Columbian " ; but the vast majority of these historic and eulogistic narratives serve but to exemplify the heights of patriotism and the depths of bathos . The elaborate and laboured elegies on Washington are as numerous and as futile as might be expected . The finest eulogy on Washington was written prior to his death by Dr. Benjamin Young Prime in a pindaric ode of 1400 lines entitled Columbia 's Glory , or  | British Pride Humbled , which , in spite of its conventional form and style and lack of imagination , contains passages of admirable rhetoric . Closely related to the narratives and eulogies are the many and lengthy poems belonging to the philosophic and didactic " glory of America " type , of which Freneau seems to have been the originator . The most prolific poet of this school was Colonel David Humphreys ( 1753-1818 ) , who graduated from Yale in 1771 , served as aide-de-camp to Washington , and became a frequent guest at Mount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1786 ; served as minister to Portugal in 1791 , and as minister to Spain from 1797 to 1802 . A versatile man like others of the Hartford group , he was not only soldier , diplomat , and poet , but also an experimenter in sheepraising and wool-manufacture . His six patriotic poems vary in length from four hundred to one thousand lines of heroic couplets . " Every poet who aspires to celebrity strives to approach the perfection of Pope and the sweetness of his versification , " says Humphreys . All his patriotic poems are the work of an experienced versifier with full command of his subject and with little poetic inspiration . The Poem on the happiness of America celebrates liberty and democracy , American scenery , resources , achievements , and prospects , with a boundless belief in the possibilities of America and her divine mission . No other member of the Hartford group , indeed no other man of letters of his time , lived a life so active and varied as Joel Barlow ( 1754-1812 ) . After his graduation from Yale , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ married and settled in Hartford as lawyer and editor . His philosophic poem 7'he Vision of Columbus , published in 1787 , was read and admired in France and England . Barlow later went to France as agent of the notorious Scioto Land Company , apparently in ignorance of its fraudulent character . In Paris he became a strong partisan of democracy , and for several years divided his time between France and England , writing political pamphlets and books , and making a fortune through commerce and speculation . While resident in Savoy in 1792 , he wrote what is certainly his most original and enduring poem and also one of the best pieces of humorous verse in our early literature .  | Hasty Pudding is a mock-heroic of the conventional eighteenthcentury type , in four hundred lines of heroic couplets . Its three cantos describe the making of the famous New England dish , the eating of it , and the traits that render it delectable and worthy of eulogy . The pastoral scenes are native , not imitated , the diction is simple and natural , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Barlow rendered valuable service to his native land in 1795 , when he went to Algiers and secured the release of American prisoners ; and again in 1798 when he helped to avert war between France and America . He returned home in 1805 , and two years later published his Columbiad . He again served his country well in 1811 , when he was sent by President Madison as an envoy to Europe ; but in journeying to meet Napoleon he was caught in the retreat from Moscow , and died and was buried in Poland . Though democrats in America celebrated his memory , he perhaps has never had justice done him as a patriot and typical American . When The Vision of Columbus was published in 1787 it suited the taste of the time , and its author was hailed as a genius , not only by his fellow Hartford Wits but also by the public at large . Its subject and style gave it a reputation that it could not have attained even a decade later . Barlow was misled by his temporary success into the fatal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of The Columbiad . But when the latter appeared in 1807 , it failed to please the very public that had welcomed its predecessor . Its failure was due less to the changes in the poem than to the development of public taste during the poet 's absence in Europe . Pope 's dominance had been successfully contested , and the long philosophic poem itself was in its decline . Barlow 's failure was all the more striking on account of his very audacity . His Vision of Columbus was simply a philosophic poem ; his Columbiad was avowedly an epic , meant to have a vaster theme , a more refined style , and a higher moral purpose than Homer 's . The Columbiad , however , remains merely a " geographical , historical , political , and philosophical disquisition . " To Columbus , as he lies sick and in prison , there appears Hesper , the genius of the western world , and , with the purpose of setting forth all that Columbus and America have contrib-  | uted to the welfare of the world , reviews the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of discovery , conquests , and colonisation , and the war of the Revolution , with references to contemporary persons and events . He concludes with a prophecy of the future glories of America . This literary dragnet has drawn into itself nothing delicate or tender and little that is truly human , for such qualities are not compatible with its forced sublimity and its declamatory and gaudy rhetoric . To the worst vices of the conventional poetic diction , Barlow in a painful effort to achieve the grandiose , has added vile phrases of his own peculiar coinage . And yet , hidden away among these thousands of lines of laboured rhetoric , are passages really fine and free in both conception and execution . Atlas , genius of Africa , prophesies to Hesper the ruin that must follow American slavery . In the chaos His own bald eagle skims alone the sky , Darts from all points of heaven her searching eye , Hens thro the gloom her ancient rock of rest , And finds her cavern 'd crag , her solitary nest . The most vigorous poems produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that marked every stage of the fight with England and of the internal strife between Whigs and Tories and , later , between Republicans and Federalists . Hudibras , The Dunciad , The Rolliad , The AntiJacobin , and the satires of Churchill , of Gifford , and of " Peter Pindar " bred in America songs , mock-heroics , burlesques , and satires of direct attack , in lyric measures , heroic couplets , and octosyllabics . American political satire began with the Stamp Act . The Times ( 1765 ) by the Rev. Benjamin Church of Boston , which vigorously defends the colonists , imitates Churchill , who for four years had been famous in England as the most relentless satirist of the day , and is doubly interesting in that its author later changed his attitude and was expelled from Boston as a traitor . The Boston Port Bill evoked from John Trumbull an Elegy on the Times ( 1775 ) , which uses the elegiac quartrains of Gray for satiric invective ; but far more important is the same author 's McFingal , the most effective satire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is now Watertown , Connecticut , in 1750 , and graduated from Yale in 1767 in the same class with Timothy Dwight . In 1772 he published his Progress of Dullness , a satire in Hudibrastic verse on the current educational system and the ignorance of the clergy which is still interesting . After studying law in the office of John Adams in Boston , he returned to New Haven to practise , and in 1776 published the first two cantos of McFingal. l In 1781 he published the third and fourth cantos , and in the same year removed to Hartford , where he became associated with the Hartford Wits and joined in writing The Anarchiad . After serving as State 's attorney , he became a judge of the Superior Court of Connecticut , and finally judge of the Supreme Court of Errors , a position which he held until 1819 . For some years he was the treasurer of Yale , from which he received the degree of LL.D . in 1818 . He removed to Detroit in 1825 , and died there in 1831 . McFingal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in favour of the whigs . As much the guide as the child of public sentiment , the piece had thirty editions . It is a burlesque epic in 3800 lines of Hudibrastic verse in four cantos , which parodies epic speeches in council , heroic encounters , and prophecy . At a town meeting held in a New England village to discuss the question of rebellion against the mother country , the whigs , led by the impassioned Honorius , and the tories , headed by Squire McFingal , an officeholder under the Crown , engage in furious argument . The whigs are finally victorious in speech and also in the battle which terminates the discussion . Under threats , McFingal 's tory constable recants , but the obdurate Squire is tarred and feathered and glued to the liberty pole , where he is left to meditate his misdeeds . Escaping in the night , he convenes a meeting of fellow tories in the cellar , and relates to them the vision which he has gained through his gift of second sight , and which prophesies final victory for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whigs and McFingal deserts his followers and escapes to the British . The verse runs swiftly , with considerable comic force , and contains epigrammatic couplets that might have come from I-Iudibras : footnote ' Published as Canto I , but since divided into two cantos.  | No man e'er felt the halter draw , With good opinion of the law , But optics sharp it needs , I ween , To see what is not to be seen . The burlesque contrasts , the absurd figures of speech , the farfetched allusions , are learned from Butler ; and the verse , with its frequent elisions , its feminine rhymes , and its homely diction , is more nearly that of Iludibras than of any other satire . Churchill is responsible for such serious passages in the speeches as For ages blest thus Britain rose The terror of encircling foes ; Her heroes ruled the bloody plain ; Her conq'ring standard aw 'd the main , as also for the use of personifications and of the terrible : Around all stained with rebel blood , Like Milton 's lazar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And Death was gov'rnor of the house . For all its indebtednesses McFingal remains the most entertaining satire in our early literature , and the only surviving poem by any member of the Hartford group . The two most vigorous and prolific tory satirists were Joseph Stansbury ( 1750-1809 ) , a merchant of Philadelphia , and the Rev. Jonathan Odell ( 1737-1818 ) , of New Jersey . Their satires and satirical songs , odes , and ballads are generally alike both in matter and style , but Stansbury is the better poet , and has to his credit several satirical lyrics , quite as good as any of their time on either side of the water . He turns off an ode to the king , a comic ballad recounting an American reverse , or a loyal song , all with equal facility and with little 0f the invective characteristic of Odell . His Town Meeting , a satirical ballad of over one hundred and fifty lines , is typical , but his lyric , To Cordelia , addressed to his wife from Nova Scotia and  | at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ write a true poem . Odell , whose satires were not only in the main longer and less original , but also more virulent , was the Freneau of the tory side . Though possessed of little humour and less wit , he is at least vigorous and incisive and can give Freneau as good as he sends : Back to his mountains Washington may trot . He take this city ? Yes ? when ice is hot . That Churchill was his model appears in his Feu de Joie ; his Word of Congress ( 1779 ) , four hundred lines of politico-personal invective against the Continental Congress ; and in the still longer American Times ( 1780 ) , which attacked the leaders of the American cause with extreme bitterness and scurrility . After the Revolution and before the adoption of the Constitution , social and political unrest produced The Anarchiad , a Poem on the Restoration of Chaos and Substantial Night ( 1786-1787 ) , in which four of the Hartford group , Joel Barlow , John Trumbull , David Humphreys , and Lemuel Hopkins cleverly adapted their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Shays 's Rebellion , paper money , demagogy , and other evils of the time . The Anarchiad is in 1200 lines of heroic couplets , and is divided into fourteen parts that purport to be extracts from an ancient epic , lately discovered , which foretell conditions in the decade following the Revolution . The verse is that of Pope and Goldsmith , from whom many passages are paraphrased ; the style is a parody of Homer , Dante , Milton , and Pope ; and the mock-heroic method is conventional ; yet the satire through its wit and good sense deserved its immense popularity . The speech of Hesper in favour of a firm union of the states is fine and eloquent ; and the brilliant satirical picture of the Land of Annihilation , though obviously suggested by The Dunciad , is not unworthy of its original . The entire story of the strife between federalist and republican , Hamiltonian and Jeffersonian , can be read in the verse satire of the time . No American shows this bitter partisanship more than Thomas Green Fessenden ( 1771-1837 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions , is not political but is chiefly aimed at the critics of  | Perkins 's " metallic tractors , " an invention of which Fessenden was the agent . Its 1800 lines of Hudibrastic verse , full of references to contemporary persons and scientific matters , form a fair example of a not very admirable type of satire . Fessenden again displays his mental alertness and his indebtedness to " Peter Pindar " in Democracy Unveiled , or Tyranny Stripped of the Garb of Patriotism . This surprising production , in which he reaches the nadir of indecent personalities , attacks Jacobinism , democracy , and Jefferson in particular , with a virulence that disregards both good sense and good taste . The political mock-epic appears in the anonymous Aristocracy ( 1795 ) , which ridicules the alleged aristocratic notions of the federalists . Also political in a sense is The Group ( 1795 ) , by William Cliffton , a satire on the men who hid from danger during the Revolution but who now claim the reward of patriots . Though its series of portraits in the mock-heroic style @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original and amusing than Cliffton 's Rhapsody on the Times , several hundred lines of octosyllabics in the style of Prior , which contains narrative and descriptive satire against unrestricted immigration . Before the nineteenth century our social and literary satires are amusing only as futile attempts to make something out of nothing . The society and literary productions of Philadelphia are satirized in a series of poems beginning in 1762 and extending on into the next century ; such as The Manners of the Times ( 1762 ) by " Philadelphiensis " ; the anonymous Philadelphiad ; and the more vigorous but still conventional Times ( 1788 ) by Peter Markoe . Other Philadelphia satires of this type might be named without raising the average of merit . Fortunately , New York and Boston seem to have been somewhat less analytic in their attitude ; though both cities were guilty of such conventional social and literary satires as Winthrop Sargent 's Boston ( 1803 ) . The inflated journalistic style of the last decade of the century suggested the one really clever and original literary satire of its time in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published serially , and appeared complete as a volume of three hundred pages in 1807 . Its authors , who seem to have been Richard Alsop and Timothy Dwight , select some particularly bombastic passage from a current newspaper and travesty its style in heroic couplets  | with a result that has not yet quite lost its flavour . The satire probably owed something to the parodies of The AntiJacobin , though in this case the matter and not the form is burlesqued . At the close of the century the long satiric poem in Hudibrastic verse or heroic couplet was already passing away in England , though American versifiers continued to imitate the outworn models . In the light of The Biglow Papers all these early beginnings seem faint and pale ; but they are still significant as indications of the growth of national consciousness . It should also be noted that in average merit our early verse satire is probably not inferior to its counterpart in England . There is little to be said for the genre on either side of the water . Volumes of miscellaneous short poems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Revolution and its attendant changes , ceased almost entirely between 1770 and 1790 , and revived only during the last decade of the century . Though intrinsically of little merit , they show in the main that Pope and the long poem were not absolutely dominant and that Americans were reading English lyrical poetry and were learning to write graceful verse which certain of the public were ready to read . This public was small enough , however , for most of the volumes were published by subscription ; and a remarkable number were issued by pious friends as memorials to young poets , and hence show little except that friendship may make unreasonable demands . The poems of Thomas Godfrey ( 1736 ? 1763 ) of Philadelphia were published two years after his death by his friend and fellow poet Nathaniel Evans . His work is highly imitative ; pastorals in heroic couplet , after Pope ; an Ode to Friendship and a Dithyrambic on Wine in the manner of Dryden 's occasional odes ; a Night Piece in elegiac quatrains , which shows the influence of Gray and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and here and there a touch of Collins . His best as well as his most ambitious poem is The Court of Fancy , an allegory in heroic couplets , suggested by Chaucer 's House of Fame . Though conventional in style , it is not without originality , and as the first truly imaginative poem written in America is of more than passing interest . Godfrey 's imitative habit could not quite cloak his spontaneity , and had he come only a generation  | later he might have contributed more permanently to our poetry . The poems of his friend and editor the Rev. Nathaniel Evans ( 1742 ? 1767 ) , also of Philadelphia , were issued five years after his death in a volume entitled Poems on Several Occasions which contains a number of unimportant occasional poems , and others imitative of Milton , Cowley , Prior , Gray , and Collins . Evans 's most ambitious effort is his Ode on the Prospect of Peace ; but more interesting is his tribute to Benjamin Franklin in praise of physical science . On the whole his poems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imitative ; but the work of both is significant as the beginning of our more purely lyrical verse . Had not the Revolution interfered , ' the publication of volumes of miscellaneous poems would probably have continued unbroken . When about 1790 it began again , to continue indefinitely , the awakening of national consciousness had produced no change in the matter and style of the short poem ; it was still an echo . And Philadephia was still the centre for writing and publication . But new influences ? such as Mrs. Radcliffe , Ossian , and the contemporary romantic ballads ? are often apparent in the last decade of the century . The sentimental , the mysterious , the horrible , environed with appropriate scenery , appear here and there in the work of such poets as William Moore Smith ( 1759-1821 ) , of Philadelphia , who gives evidence of this imported " romanticism " in The Wizard of the Rock , a blend of Parnell , Percy , and Goldsmith ; and Maria 's Grave , which is placed amid the romantic scenery pictured by the poet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Philadelphia poets was Judge Francis Hopkinson ( 1737 ? 1791 ) , = signer of the Declaration of Independence , whose many occasional poems are merely as good as the average of their kind , but whose songs , some of which are suggestive of Gay and Prior , are distinctly musical and pleasing . The Rev. John Blair Linn ( 1777-1804 ) , who , like Godfrey and Evans , died young and left his work unfinished , wrote odes to solitude footnote ' Aside from patriotic songs and ballads , not much lyrical verse was published between 1770 and 1786 , and that little appeared in newspapers and magazines . ' See also Book II. , Chap . II .  | and melancholy , pastorals and elegies , and other echoes of Shenstone , Gray , and even Mason . It is noticeable that the songs and light social lyrics of the close of the century come from Philadelphia , the social capital . The gifted and original William Cliffton ( 1772-1799 ) was both a satirist and a lyrist . His half-dozen lyrics , quite the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' are not without grace and delicacy , which he owes largely to his models , Gay , Prior , and Collins . Like Freneau and other poets of the time , Cliffton found his surroundings unsympathetic : In these cold shades , beneath these shifting skies , Where Fancy sickens , and where Genius dies ; Where few and feeble are the Muse 's strains , And no fine frenzy riots in the veins . So he characterizes his environment in his epistle to William Gifford , which was prefixed to the American edition of the Baviad and Maeviad in 1799 . Gifford 's stinging satire on the " Della Cruscan " school of poetry was welcomed in America by Cliffton , whose verse was at least manly and sincere . It is not certain that Joseph Brown Ladd ( 1764-1786 ) wrote his Poems of Arouet under Della Cruscan influence , for they were published in the year in which the school took its rise in Florence ; they are at least an anticipation of its more languishing side . But whether or not the Della Cruscan mania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duel , in 1786 , it was certainly widespread in Boston less than a decade later . Mrs. Sarah Wentworth Morton ( 1759-1846 ) , 2 termed by her admirers " The American Sappho , " praises Della Crusca in a fervid address prefixed to her narrative poem Ouabi , or the Virtues of Nature ( 1790 ) , and as " Philenia " exchanged poetical tributes with her " Menander , " no less a celebrity than Robert Treat Paine , Jr . ( 1773-1811 ) . Boston 's craving for a native poet , the bad taste of the time , and the poet 's own wayward life combined to give Paine a reputation surpassing that of any of his contemporaries . At Harvard he was known by his occasional poems , and his footnote ' The latter is written in the eight-line anapestic stanza greatly favoured by Shenstone and later used by Cowper in his Alexander Selkirk , which occurs with notable frequency in the lyrics of this period . 2 See also Book II , Chap . vi .  | patriotic song Adams and Liberty made him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of his time to the theatre and to poetry . Soon his reputation was such that he could command five dollars a line for his verse , a price never before approached in America and perhaps never since equalled . His marriage with an actress estranged him from his family , and after this event his life was that of a wastrel . His services , however , were in request upon all public occasions , from the opening of theatres to meetings of the Phi Beta Kappa . For such occasions he wrote the didactic poems , prologues , and odes in conventional but vigorous heroic couplets that form the greater part of his work . The Ruling Passion , for Phi Beta Kappa , and The Invention of Letters , for a Harvard commencement , were hailed as the spontaneous and original outbursts of genius , though both are merely laboured and conventional didactic poems of a type that was even then in its decline . In these and a few other of Paine 's poems one finds rhetorical passages of some merit amid a waste of bombast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real feeling . The diction embodies all the vices against which the new poetry rebelled . Della Crusca plus Pope would have crushed a more genuine talent than Paine 's . His reputation is a curious evidence of the pathetic craving for a national poet and of the determination to force the birth of a genius . His Works in Prose and Verse , an octavo volume of over five hundred pages , was published one year after his death , with all the reverence due to a classic . " The American Sappho " was not the only woman singer of Boston . Mrs. Susanna Rowson , ' besides her plays and novels , wrote poems which unite " sensibility " and didacticism . Her odes , hymns , elegies , nature lyrics , and songs show little observation of life or nature , and scarcely any distinctive American quality . Of all these , the patriotic lyric America , Commerce , and Freedom , which is commonplace but not without spirit , alone has survived . The Poems , Dramatic and Miscellaneous , of Mrs. Mercy Warren ( 1728 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elegies that are merely belated echoes of Pope . New York also had its woman poet in Mrs. Ann Eliza Bleecker ( 1752-1783 ) , whose melancholy footnote See also Book II , Chaps . ii and vi . ' See also Book II , Chap . t.  | life is reflected in the tone of her sentimental elegies , epistles , descriptive poems , and religious lyrics , in the style of the English poets of the first half of the century . Her daughter , Mrs. Margaretta Faugeres , who published her own poems with those of her mother in 1793 , shows in her poem on the Hudson the growing attention to native scenery . The inquiring reader may find all the imitative qualities of our early lyric poets if he will consult the very inclusive Original Poems , Serious and Entertaining , of Paul Allen ( 1775-1826 ) , whose facile and graceful verse is indicative of English influences all the way from Prior to Cowper . Aside from the lyrics of Freneau , the two original strains in our early lighter verse are the humorous poems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the nature lyrics of Alexander Wilson . Fessenden contributed humorous poems of New England country life to Dennie 's Farmer 's Weekly Museum , and these were afterwards published in his Original Poems . To this same magazine and also to Dennie 's Port Folio , Royall Tyler contributed pictures and studies in verse of American environment and character which are worth all the pretentious imitations of his contemporaries . The lyrics scattered throughout the pages of Alexander Wilson 's Ornithology and afterwards printed in his collected poems merit more attention than they have heretofore received . Wilson was scientist and poet enough to celebrate the osprey , the Baltimore bird , the hummingbird , and the bluebird in true nature lyrics which , together with those of Freneau , are not unworthy forerunners of Bryant 's . Philip Freneau was born in New York of Huguenot ancestry in 1752 , and died near Freehold , New Jersey , in 1832 . His long and eventful life was spent in a variety of pursuits . After he graduated from Princeton in 1771 , he was author , editor , government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genesis of his poems , two facts in his life are especially important . His newspaper work encouraged a fatal production of the satirical and humorous verse that gave him reputation ; and his trading voyages inspired poems descriptive of the scenery of the southern islands , and made possible what is perhaps his most original and distinctive work , his naval ballads . footnote ' See also Book II , Chaps . is , in , and vi .  | From the volumes of the most recent edition of Freneau 's poems , aggregating 1200 pages , the reader gains the impression t hat had this poet written half as much he might have written twice as well . That he was something of the artist is shown by the care with which he revised his poems for five successive editions ; but his revisions are sometimes actually for the worse . Yet Freneau surpassed all his contemporaries not only in quality but also in sheer quantity and in variety of subject and form . Furthermore , his work presents an almost unique combination of satiric power , romantic imagination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bitter invective of his satires ; at the other , the delicate fancy of his best lyrics . His early poems show the influence of Milton , as in The Power of Fancy ; of Gray , as in The Monument of Phaon and The Deserted Farm House ; and of Goldsmith , as in The American Village ? all of which contain lines of original power and beauty ; but in his Pictures of Columbus , he reaches complete originality . When the poet has Columbus exclaim in the face of death , The winds blow high ; one other world remains ; Once more without a guide I find the way , he shows that at last the new world has produced a poet . In his voyages Freneau found the tropical scenery of his descriptive poems . The Beauties of Santa Cruz , though unequal nd crude , has a definiteness of imagery and a simplicity f diction that set it apart from the conventional school of Thomson . The House of Night , which combines description and narrative , is the most remarkable poem written in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " romantic " scenery and of death a theme , Freneau was not a pioneer ; but in his supernaturalm and in the strange and haunting music of his lines , he stood alone , and , as has often been remarked , anticipated Coleridge and Poe . Although Freneau was known in England , it may be doubted whether he influenced the English romantic poets . 2llore probably , both he and they were influenced by the same general tendencies ; for the romantic movement was already well tinder way when he wrote the The House of Night . The poem h ( ( overlong , lacks unity of tone and matter , and altogether is disappointingly crude ; but it contains such lines as  | so loud and sad it play 'd As though all music were to breathe its last , I saw the infernal windows flaming red , Trim the dull tapers , for I see no dawn , which are a source of astonishment to one who has followed the course of American poetry up to this point . But unfortunately the romantic strain which promised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " glory of America " type , such as his Rising Glory of America , written in collaboration with H. H. Brackenridge ' when the two were seniors at Princeton , were inspired by a great vision and still retain a certain eloquence . His burlesques of American scenes and characters , such as Slender 's Journey , are less successful ; but his satires in both quantity and variety surpassed all but McFingal in their day . " Poet of the American Revolution " is no misnomer , if the term is to include political events up to 1815 . Freneau 's masters in satire are Dryden , Churchill , and " Peter Pindar " ; and his tone ranges from burlesque to invective . The Political Balance and The British Prison Ship are the most powerful and original satires of their time . The royalist printers Rivington and Gaine were his chief targets during the last years of the Revolution . In his personal satires he uses the anapest , which he was the first to popularize in America . His later satires , usually in lyrical stanzas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phrase " Peter Pindar of America " gives the key to his contemporary reputation . That his finer work received no praise was to Freneau a source of discouragement and even of bitterness . His aspiration was lyrical ; but he had fallen on evil days : On these bleak climes by fortune thrown , Where rigid reason reigns alone , Where lovely fancy has no sway , Nor magic forms about us play Nor nature takes her summer hue , Tell me , what has the muse to do ? ' Freneau 's newspaper work , his political affiliations , and his busi ? ness ventures operated unfavorably upon his lyrical poetry . footnote For whom see also Book II , Chap . vi . a To an Author .  | Although his fervour was reawakened by the French Revolution and again by the War of 1812 , almost all his best lyrics were written between 1775 and 1790 . In the main these concern the American Indian , the smaller objects of nature , and the sea , and in subject at least are altogether original . The Indian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which curiously anticipates some phases of Wordsworth 's Ruth , and The Dying Indian , are scarcely less fine . His nature lyrics , such as The Wild Honeysuckle , The Caty-Did , and On the Sleep of Plants , are the first to give lyrical expression to American nature . Their simplicity and restraint suggest Collins and Gray , but they are not imitative , and it is probable that Freneau is more original in even the style of his lyrics than has generally been acknowledged . To a Man of Ninety would at once be lighted upon as an imitation of Wordsworth had it not actually anticipated the Lyrical Ballads . The elegiac lyric Eutaw Springs , which Scott pronounced the best thing of its kind in the language , may have been suggested by Collins , but is still strongly original . However this may be , Freneau seems to merit all that his latest editor claims for him as a pioneer in the lyric of the sea . On the Death of Captain Nicholas Biddle ( 1779 ) has much of Campbell 's spirit and power ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Monk deserve more than the mere credit given to the pioneer , for they are intrinsically fine . There remains , then , out of Freneau 's voluminous product , a small body of work of permanent interest . The House of 1Vight deserves remembrance , not only for its pioneer romantiism but also for passages of intrinsic beauty and power ; and a Score of his lyrics , while far from perfect , are fine enough to deserve a permanent place in our anthologies . What his Mender but genuine talent might have produced under more avourable conditions , even a generation later , can only be surised , but even as it is we have in Freneau the only American et before Bryant who possessed both imaginative insight and elicity of style . A few general conclusions concerning early American poetry ay be stated briefly . First , the sheer quantity of it is surprisgly large in proportion to the population . Again , it is not the  | product of a new civilization , but as a whole is the extremely sophisticated result of English literary traditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English models , and in many instances it shows an immediate transmission of literary influences . Finally , in the average merit of its style , it is , at least in the eighteenth century , quite equal to all but the very best of its time in the mother country . Altogether , the first two centuries of American poetry prepared the soil for the truly native growth that was to come after 1812 ? a growth that was no sudden phenomenon but simply the inevitable result of the cumulative forces of two hundred years . ,  | Travellers and Observers , 1763-1846 T HE literature of travel , fresh , varied , and cosmopolitan , doubtless owes its principal charm to its effect upon the sense of wonder , and hence in the last analysis is to be understood in its bearing upon imagination and poetic art ; but its relation to history and geography is not superficial . Accordingly , we may first recall such dates and events as will suggest in outline the expanding region in which the second great division of American travellers range . With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supremacy of the English-speaking race in North America . Before twenty years had passed , the Colonies , no longer a mere fringe of population along the Atlantic , have achieved their independence , and possess a territory reaching inland to the Mississippi . Twenty years later , in 1803 , comes the Louisiana Purchase , when the wily Napoleon , for a consideration , and to thwart his colonizing foe across the Channel , endowed the Americans with a tract of land extending from that great river north-west to the Rocky Mountains , the importance of which even Jefferson , with his westward-looking eyes , was unable to grasp in full . Another eight years , and there is a temporary check in the Astoria Settlement , later recorded by Irving . Then comes the War of 1812-14 , and after it a rapid inrush of immigration . Of the flative citizens , two generations have been born since the War of Independence ; Revolutionary heroes are passing ; and the ew leaders are alien to England . The nation has become istinct . In 1819 Spain relaxes her feeble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the Louisiana Purchase , the utterance of the Monroe Doctrine announces to the world the position of the United States in the Occident . Meantime internal waterways and highroads have been developed ; and subsequently , during the presidency of Jackson , the steam locomotive is introduced . The year 1845 marks the annexation of Texas ; and with the cession of New Mexico and California in 1848 , the country virtually assumes its present proportions . Almost a century has passed since the nondescript Captain Carver , immediately after the French and Indian War , conceived the idea of opening up the vast north-western tract to the enterprise of Great Britain . The interest of travellers has shifted from the character and habits of the roving Indian to the domestic manners of East and West , North and South ; and science has moved from a less impersonal , yet fairly exact , observation of plants and animals , or of subterranean rivers in a terrestrial paradise , to the precise geology of a Featherstonhaugh or a Lyell . This period of travel saw the rise of modern geography @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancillary sciences , geology , botany , zoology , and anthropology . If the great epoch of modern geographical discovery began with 1768 and the voyages of the Englishman Captain Cook , the scientific elaboration of results by Continental investigators also mainly occupied the second half of the eighteenth century . Linnmus was still alive , and had followers collecting specimens in America . Zimmermann , who translated the Travels of William Bartram into German , likewise ushered in the study of the geographical distribution of plants and animals as well as of mankind ; while Blumenbach the anthropologist was making his famous collection of human skulls at Gottingen . The first work on physical geography ever published , that of the Swede Bergman , appeared in 1766 , shortly before the time when books of American travel began to grow numerous . The influence of Continental science upon American observers is often obvious , as in the case of Linnus , to which Zimmermann refers in his translation of Bartram . Indeed , a pupil of Linnaus , Pehr Kalm , who has been included among the botanists of Philadelphia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the influence was pervasive and general , so that geography  | proper soon became domesticated in this country . The Geography Made Easy of Jedidiah Morse , first published at New haven in 1784 , quickly went through a number of editions and transformations . About 1796 President Dwight of Yale , in his Travels , records that a work of Morse is studied by both freshmen and sophomores , probably referring to a revision of the more extensive American Geography of 1789 . Dwight himself made judicious use of it . The indefatigable Morse , though not a Humboldt , a Ritter , or a Leopold von Duch , was a lowly precursor of the European scientists who furnished the next generation with ideals in geography and travel . If territorial expansion and the development of geographical science are to be noted in studying the literature of travel , the general background of eighteenth-century thought must not be forgotten . The so-called rationalism of the French , with its tendency to destroy traditional distinctions , to suppress imagination , and yet to end in a kind of deism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the other hand , we may dwell for a moment upon the sentimental treatment of external nature in Rousseau , and upon his conception , in part derived from early American travellers , of the " natural " man in a terrestrial paradise . Such a being could , in fact , exist only in a tropical or sub-tropical environment such as the favoured regions in which the first American explorers and missionaries encountered the natives . Yet the transference of the idea to the Indians of North America was easy in an age when popular geography was vague ; and the faith of the Jesuits in the potential goodness of the savage doubtless helped to propagate a general belief that the aborigines were noble . The idea , which seems rather to have come from the travellers than from Rousseau , but possibly is dormant in almost every educated mind , is well established in American literature from William 13artram to Fenimore Cooper . The related notion of social equality in a state of nature has a more solid basis . As in Crcvecceur 's American Farmer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new agricultural settlement . An opposite conception was also prevalent . Side by side with the ideal of an eloquent stoic , artless , magnanimous by nature , we find ? often in the same book of travels ? the cruel savage as he is , vengeful and impure . Montaigne , indeed , a  | predecessor of Rousseau in admiring the unlettered aborigines , had held that the European surpassed the savage in barbarity ; yet when he turns from the ideal to the actual , there is but a step between Montaigne and Hobbes , who declares the life of nature to be " nasty , solitary , brutish , and short . " And Hobbes merely anticipates Voltaire and Pauw , whose unedifying pictures of American natives were put together from the accounts of travellers . We have , then , in the literature of Europe the same opposition between observed fact and preconceived notion that we meet in Bartram or Carver . On the one hand , we have La Jeune Indienne of Chamfort , presented at the Theatre Frangais in 1764 , or Rousseau 's Chanson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a debate among the learned on the question whether the villainy of the Indians was original , or had been acquired through contact with civilization . In De l'Amerique et des Americains , published at Berlin in 1771 , the anonymous author attacks the theories of Pauw , and vigorously contends that the savages were evil enough to begin with . Man in a state of nature suggests solitude ; and solitude , with its charms for the eighteenth-century poet , suggests the so-called " feeling for nature " that of late has been much discussed by literary students in dealing with that period . Though the point is not always made clear , the actual topic under discussion is the Neoplatonic doctrine of divine immanence . To a man who believes in this , the world , with its plants and animals , is no longer a work of art , shaped by the fingers of a MasterArtist ; it is filled with a subtle spirit which is interfused in all material and living things , " rolls " through them , and is their principle of movement and pulsation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immanence , familiar in the earlier poems of Wordsworth , characterizes the reaction against the age of reason , and may be found in many observers of nature in America . Its origin is obscure ; nor can one readily see why Neoplatonic ideas should cast a spell over minds so diverse as those of Rousseau , Goethe , Wordsworth , and the Quaker Bartram . The suggestion has been made that the writings of the mystic Boehme had an influence upon the Society of Friends . But the sources of the " feeling for nature " are likely to have been as various as the evidences of it in American travellers .  | Against the background thus rapidly sketched we are to project a hundred years of travel and observation . The wealth and variety of material are very great . For the period in question , one bibliographer has recorded 413 titles of works bearing upon the single state of Illinois ; for the same region between 1818 and 1865 , he notes 69 British travellers , 53 American , and 31 German . For the country as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sort by foreigners between 1789 and 1820 . Whether of American or foreign origin , such books were not restricted to one volume ; gradually there came to be two or three , and sometimes four . And commonly the route described was one of these : from New York to Albany , and thence across to Niagara Falls ; from an eastern port south to Savannah by boat , then overland to Mobile and New Orleans , and up the Mississippi ; from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh , down the Ohio to the Mississippi , and from the Mississippi up the Missouri to the North-west . Canadian travellers followed the St. Lawrence . As the lists would indicate , the literature is cosmopolitan ? an inference that is confirmed in other ways . Not only were the works of foreigners turned into English , but British and American observers were translated on the Continent : Bartram into French , German , and Dutch ; Crevecceur into French ( by himself ) and German ; Weld into Italian , Dutch , and German ; and so on . Again , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , might be published in the same year at Philadelphia and at London or Dublin , or first in this country , and then abroad , or vice versa . And finally , the borrowings from earlier by later travellers , irrespective of tongues , are endless . Confining ourselves as far as possible to British and American travellers , we may say that their motives were as various as their callings and station , and ran from the lust of a Daniel Boone for new solitudes , through the desire to promote the fur trade or immigration , and through semi-scientific or scientific curiosity , to the impulses of the literary artist or to the religious aims of the missionary . George Rogers Clark , Logan , and Boone were pioneers . Fearon , Darby , and Faux came to study conditions for emigrants . Bernard , Tyrone Power , and Fanny Kemble were actors . Wilson , Nuttall , and Audubon were professed ornithologists ; the Bartrams and Michaux , botanists .  | Schoolcraft was an ethnologist , Chevalier a student of political economy , Fanny Wright a social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Martineau had a special interest in humanitarian projects . Richard Weston was a bookseller , John M. Peck a Baptist missionary , DeWitt Clinton , who explored the route of the future Erie Canal , a statesman . Many others had eyes trained in surveying . Boone was a surveyor , like Washington himself ? and Washington may be classed with the observers and diarists . Buckingham , a traveller by vocation , had journeyed about the world for thirty years before visiting America ; nor did he feel his obligation ended when he had published the customary three stout volumes . Creveceeur actually was a farmer , though he was more , and Richard Parkinson , very definitely , a student of agriculture . The abusive Ashe came to examine the " western " rivers , and to observe the products and actual state of the adjacent country . Among transients from the Continent were Chastellux , the friend of Washington , Chateaubriand , with his youthful plan of helping Washington to discover the Northwest Passage , the Duc de la Rochefoucauld , a fair observer , and De Tocqueville @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brief visit for the purpose of studying prisons . " Charles Sealsfield " ( Karl Postl ) , whose several periods of residence were longer , who wrote in English , yet more in German , and whose tombstone in Switzerland calls him " ein Buerger von Nordamerika , " is hard to classify . The commonest type among these works seems to be the journal , which is the form used by William Bartram ; but the epistolary type , represented by Crevecceur , by Dwight , and by Wirt in his Letters of the British Spy , is very common . The general range of substance is displayed by circumstantial titles in the Bibliography . Among objects of interest to many were , in the early years of the Republic , the persons of Washington and Jefferson , and , in his time , the picturesque figure of Jackson ; and among natural wonders , Niagara Falls , the " Rock Bridge " of Virginia , and the Mammoth Cave . This , after its discovery by Hutchins in 1809 , took its place in the attractions of Kentucky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , supplied an unfailing interest . Their habits , as in Bartram , speculation concerning their origin , as in Timothy  | Dwight , and remarks upon their language , as in Carver , are stock material ; so , too , such lists as Carver 's of plants and animals . Another topic is seen in Gilbert Imlay 's anticipations of states to be formed from the land to the north and west of the Ohio . Or an occasional enthusiast , possibly remembering Berkeley 's project for educating the natives , will found an imaginary school of letters in a suitable landscape . Thus Stansbury in central New York , almost fifty years before the opening of Cornell University , deems the site of Ithaca most fitting for a college : " Inexhaustible stores for the study of natural history will always be at hand , and for all other sciences the scholar will be secluded in a romantic retirement which will give additional zest to his researches . " The attention of others , as Fanny Kemble and Harriet Martineau , is drawn to the negro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , perhaps , after the anti-slavery agitation in England . But the interest in slavery , in frontier life , and indeed in all the main topics of the later travellers , is not peculiar to them , partly because essentials are necessarily repeated , partly because subsequent observers have read , and often consciously imitate , their predecessors . Crevecceur 's ghastly picture of the slave in chains would impress any sensitive reader . But nowhere could imitation be clearer than in respect to impossible marvels , which even the steadiest early observers like Bartram are impelled to relate . We read in his description of an enraged alligator : " The waters like a cataract descend from his opening jaws ; clouds of smoke issue from his dilated nostrils " ; and , aware that this guileless traveller was merely yielding to custom , we are not led to undervalue his notes on sub-tropical fauna . Nor are we forced to discredit an entire later work , wherein adventures , like some of those in Ashe , may be altogether imaginary . Further , when unconscious imitation passes into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tolerance which the eighteenth century showed to this sort of indebtedness , and not condemn the debtor out of hand . So late as the year 1836 , Irving could employ good sources in his own way , with a general acknowledgment of the fact in his Introduction . For various reasons the earlier travels are more interesting ; and it may be said that the best of them appeared , or were written , between 1775 and 1800 . We may select as typical the  | Travels of Carver ( 1778 ) , the Travels of William Bartram ( 1791 ) , and the Letters from an American Farmer of Crevecceur ( 1782 ) . The dubious personal history of Carver , and questions as to the authenticity of his book , will excuse the introduction of certain details in his biography . Jonathan Carver , the ostensible author of Travels through the Interior Parts of North America in the Years 1766 , 1767 , and 1768 , was not the greatgrandson of the first colonial Governor of Connecticut , but was probably born in humble circumstances at Canterbury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by whom he had seven children ; he later contracted a bigamous marriage in England . The extent of his education has been disputed ; but he seems to have had some knowledge of surveying and mapmaking , with perhaps a smattering of medicine . His title-page calls him " J. Carver , Esq. , Captain of a Company of Provincial Troops during the Late War with France " ; and he probably was captured with Burk 's company of rangers in 1757 , when he was " wounded in his Leg at the bloody Massacree of the unhappy Garrison of Fort William Henry at Lake George . " The war over , he says he began to think of exploring the most unknown parts of England 's new territory . In the opinion of a severe critic , Professor Edward G. Bourne , Carver 's actual journey was limited to this : he went from Boston to Michilimackinac , thence by way of the Fox River and the Wisconsin to the Mississippi , and thence up the Minnesota ; returning , he explored northern Wisconsin and the northern shore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account of his discoveries , in 1769 he went to England with a project for further exploration in the North-west . The pecuniary aid accorded him as a needy person by the Government would argue some recognition of his services . He evidently enlisted the sympathy of Dr. Lettsom and others who took an interest in his schemes , and , like many another , no doubt received help with the manuscript before his Travels were published in 1778 . But he failed in his main endeavour , and is said to have " died in misery , in 1780 , at the age of 48 . " His book instantly became popular , and it so remained , as twenty-three editions and translations bear witness . The author or compiler , whoever he was , understood the public , was a man of some imagination , and knew how to combine  | Carver 's own material with observations from previous writers ; nor does he fail to mention , in the casual way of the time , authorities like Charlevoix and Adair , from whom , as we now look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Here is one of the examples pointed out by Professor Bourne . Charlevoix had said of the Indians in the English translation : On the smoothest grass , or the hardest earth , even on the very stones , they will discover the traces of an enemy , and by their shape and figure of the footsteps , and the distance between their prints , they will , it is said , distinguish not only different nations , but also tell whether they were men or women who have gone that way . And in Carver we read : On the smoothest grass , on the hardest earth , and even on the very stones , will they discover the traces of an enemy , and by the shape of the footsteps , and the distance between the prints , distinguish not only whether it is a man or woman who has passed that way , but even the nation to which they belong . In spite of his borrowings , and in spite of incredible and monstrous stories , even worse than the sordid actualities of savage life , Carver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no instance exceed the bounds of truth , or have recourse to those useless and extravagant exaggerations too often made use of by travellers , to excite the curiosity of the public , or to increase their own importance . Nor shall I insert any observations but such as I have made myself , or , from the credibility of those by whom they were related , am enabled to vouch for their authenticity . These false pretensions easily lead one to underestimate the element of truth in the narrative , and Carver 's share in its production . Carver was not too uneducated to make notes and gather materials for a book . He could write a long coherent letter to his first wife , and specimens of his writing are not in the hand of an ignorant man . He , not less than his assistant or assistants in publication , could have met with the works of Charlevoix , Adair , and Lahontan in London book-stalls . But it was hardly his pen that made reference to Plato and Grotius . The volume is dedicated " To Joseph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows , in the second edition , a  | magniloquent Address to the Public . The journal proper occupies but a third of the volume . Next come seventeen chapters on the origin , physique , and dress of the Indians , their manners and customs , their government , their food , dances , methods of warfare and games , and their language . The eighteenth deals with animals , birds ? as , for example , " the Whipperwill , or , as it is termed by the Indians , the Muckawiss " ? fishes , reptiles , and insects ; the nineteenth , with the vegetable kingdom . There is an Appendix on the future of discovery , settlement , and commerce . In his Introduction Carver says : What I chiefly had in view , after gaining a knowledge of the Manners , Customs , Languages , Soil , and natural Productions of the different nations that inhabit the back of the Mississippi , was to ascertain the Breadth of that vast continent which extends from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean , in its broadest part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been able to accomplish this , I intended to have proposed to Government to establish a Post in some of those parts about the Straits of Annian , which , having been first discovered by Sir Francis Drake , of course belong to the English . This I am convinced would greatly facilitate the discovery of a North-West Passage , or a communication between Hudson 's Bay and the Pacific Ocean . . . . A settlement on that extremity of America . . . would open a passage for conveying intelligence to China and the English settlements in the East Indies , with greater expedition than a tedious voyage by the Cape of Good Hope or the Straits of Magellan will allow of . This was the dream that foreshadowed the present development of the entire North-west . It worked in the mind of Jefferson , took shape in the Lewis and Clark expedition and in the enterprise of John Jacob Astor , and reappeared in Irving 's Astoria . Carver 's volume still fastens upon the imagination , as it did in the time of Schiller , Wordsworth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's descriptions , doubtless set a higher value upon Bartram ; he says in Table Talk : " The latest book of travels I know , written in the spirit of the old travellers , is Bartram 's account of his tour in the Floridas . It is a work of high merit every way . " The poet almost certainly refers , not to A Journal Kept by John Bartram  | of Philadelphia , Botanist to His Majesty for the Floridas ; but to the volume of Travels by his son , William Bartram . Yet it is difficult to mention the son without reference to the father , whom Linnmus called the greatest self-taught botanist in the world . John Bartram , born in 1699 , when almost seventy years old explored the St. John 's River in Florida , accompanied by William , who in turn made a second journey to the region in 1773 , " at the request of Dr. Fothergill , of London , " the English naturalist being zealous " for the discovery of rare and useful productions . . . chiefly in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European scientists , including Gronov and Dillen , but more particularly with Peter Collinson , through whom the elder Bartram came into relations with virtually all the distinguished naturalists of his time . The botanic garden for which the father began to collect in 1730 , and which is now within the limits of Philadelphia , was justly famous . Here , it is said , Washington and Franklin were wont to sit and talk just prior to the Revolution ; and Bartram 's Garden is still an object of interest as the first establishment of its kind on this continent . From a local guide is extracted this description of its founder : He was one of an early incorporated company to batik the Schuylkill and the Delaware , by which means he rescued , out of extensive swamps , arable land , and pasture for many cattle and horses ; his crops of wheat challenge the farmer of to-day ; he fertilized his orchard in an ingenious way that was a " miracle in husbandry . " Besides , he was stone-mason ; his interesting old house he built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estate in a remarkable manner ; see , also , in the Garden the watering-trough and the ciderpress , cut out of solid rock . And his record is fuller yet ; he had to study Latin for his botany ; he was enough acquainted with medicine and surgery to be of great help to his poorer neighbors ; he delineated a plan for deep-sea soundings more than a hundred years before the Challenger expedition . His thirst for knowledge was insatiable . His joy in the revelations of nature was unbounded . What wonder that he was astonished when people complained that they were tired of time ! His son William , called by the Seminoles " Puc-Puggy " ( Flower-Hunter ) , was born at Kingsessing , Pennsylvania , 1739 ,  | he and his twin-sister taking fifth place in the succession of children . He grew up with the Garden , accompanied his father on collecting tours , travelled himself , and published his Travels through North and South Carolina , Georgia , East and West Florida , the Cherokee Country , the Extensive Territories of the Muscogulges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chactaws , as well as " the most complete and correct list of American birds prior to the work of Alexander Wilson " ; he lived in Philadelphia , unmarried , a student of science , caring for the Garden until his death in 1823 . A professorship was offered him in 1782 by the University of Pennsylvania , but failing health led him to decline it . His manuscript work on the Indians was published by the American Ethnological Society in 1853 . The Travels reveal the enthusiasm of a man still young , with an eye that nothing escapes , not without poetical imagination or philosophical vision , and with a deep reverence for the Creative Spirit which he feels in all about him . The volume is divided into four Parts . In the first , the Introduction , he recounts the voyage by packet from Philadelphia to Savannah , whence he proceeds to the " Alatamaha " River . The second describes East Florida , and the ascent of St. John 's River in a small canoe . On reaching Lake George , " which is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " at once diminished to a nutshell on the swelling seas . " The Indian whom he engaged to assist him on the upper river becoming weary , Bartram continues on alone , to encamp at an orange grove , to battle with alligators , and to observe " a large sulphureous fountain . " Descending again , he is robbed by a wolf , and so , after sundry adventures , arrives at the lower trading-house . He then " proceeds on a journey to Cuscowilla , " where he meets with a friendly reception from the " Siminoles , " and from there goes to view the " great bason " or sink , whose subterranean waters swarm with fish . In Part III , having returned to Charleston , he sets out for the Cherokee territories and the " Chactaw " country , going as far as Mobile , from which , turning back , he accompanies a band of traders to visit the Creeks . Again in the company of traders , he sets off for Georgia ; from Augusta he revisits Savannah , whence he makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " adding to his collection , and gathering seeds of " two new and very curious shrubs . " At Charleston  | he began the overland journey northward through Virginia ; he crossed the River Susquehanna on the ice , " next morning sat forward again towards Philadelphia , " and in two days more arrived at his father 's house on the banks of the River Schuylkill , having been absent nearly five years . Though collecting as a botanist and observing as an ornithologist , Bartram thus far has mainly been occupied with the Indians . In Part IV he discusses their persons , character , and qualifications , noting that they have the " most perfect human figure , " their government and civil society , their dress and amusements , property and occupations , marriage and funeral rites , and their language and monuments . The ready pencil of the naturalist provided the engraver with drawings of botanical and zoological subjects throughout the volume . The frontispiece represents " Mico Chlucco the Long Warrior , or King of the Siminoles , " whose dancing crest of splendid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survey does scant justice to the richness of form and colour in Bartram 's pages . At one time he is struck with " the tall aspiring Gordonia lasianthus . " " Its thick foliage , of a dark green colour , is flowered over with large milk-white fragrant blossoms , on long slender elastic peduncles , at the extremities of its numerous branches , from the bosom of the leaves , and renewed every morning " ? the " budding , fading , faded flowers " of Ruth . Or again we see the solitary dejected " wood-pelican , " alone on the topmost limb of a dead cypress ; " it looks extremely grave , sorrowful , and melancholy , as if in the deepest thought " ? an image used by Wordsworth in Book Third of The Prelude . Of the " Alatamaha " Bartram says : " I ascended this beautiful river , on whose fruitful banks the generous and true sons of liberty securely dwell , fifty miles above the white settlements . " Allured by the " sublime enchanting scenes of primitive nature , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wandered away to a grove at the edge of a luxuriant savannah : How happily situated is this retired spot of earth ! What an elysium it is ! where the wandering Siminole , the naked red warrior , roams at large , and after the vigorous chase retires from the scorching heat of the meridian sun . Here he reclines and reposes under the  | odoriferous shades of Zanthoxylon , his verdant couch guarded by the Deity ; Liberty , and the Muses , inspiring him with wisdom and valour , whilst the balmy zephyrs fan him to sleep . The apostrophes and redundant descriptions , which the rigorous German translator pruned away , did not prevent Zimmermann from calling Bartram 's volume one of the most instructive works of the time . The faults of an unpractised writer are relieved by a constant cheerfulness , candour , and animation ; " cheerful , " " cheering , " and " social " are favourite epithets . The words " animate , " " animating , " " vibration , " and the like , give a clue to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contemporary European poets : If , then , the visible , the mechanical part of the animal creation , the mere material part , is so admirably beautiful , harmonious , and incomprehensible , what must be the intellectual system ? that inexpressibly more essential principle , which secretly operates within ? that which animates the inimitable machines , which gives them motion , impowers them to act , speak , and perform , this must be divine and immortal ? There is a motion and a spirit in the environment itself : " At the reanimating appearance of the rising sun , nature again revives " ; " the atmosphere was now animated with the efficient principle of vegetative life " ; " the balmy winds breathed the animating odours of the groves around me . " " At the return of the morning , by the powerful influence of light , the pulse of nature becomes more active , and the universal vibration of life insensibly and irresistibly moves the wondrous machine . How cheerful and gay all nature appears . " In Bartram the " feeling for nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " natural " man . The social philosophy of the time is more apparent in Crevecceur . In a letter to Richard Henderson on the subject of immigrants , Washington writes ( 19 June , 1788 ) : The author of the queries may then be referred to the Information for those who would wish to remove to America , and sic published in Europe in the year 1784 , by the great philosopher Dr. Franklin . Short as it is , it contains almost everything that needs to be known on the subject of migrating to this country .. . .  | Of books at present existing , Mr. Jefferson 's Notes on Virginia will give the best idea of this part of the continent to a foreigner ; and the American Farmer 's Letters , written by Mr. Crevecoeur ( commonly called Mr. St. John ) , the French consul in New York , who actually resided twenty years as a farmer in that State , will afford a great deal of profitable and amusive information , respecting the private life of the Americans , as well as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country . Perhaps the picture he gives , though founded on fact , is in some instances embellished with rather too flattering circumstances . " The name of our Family is St. Jean , in English St. John , a name as Antient as the Conquest of England by William the I3astard . " So writes St. Jean de Crevecoeur , but he puts " J. 1 Iector St. John " on the title-page of his imaginary Letters from an American Farmer . Born at Caen , 31 January , 1735 , at the age of sixteen he went to England . A seven years ' education there may explain the superiority of his English style over his French . Emigrating to Canada , he subsequently was resident in Pennsylvania , and in 1764 became a citizen of New York . After five years he settled as a farmer in Ulster County ; at a mature age for the colonies he married Mehetable Tippet of Yonkers . He made journeys in New York and Pennsylvania , and to the west , to the south as far as Charleston ? possibly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on attempting to return to France , he was imprisoned in New York City as a spy . When released , he went to England , sold his Letters for thirty guineas , and crossed to Normandy ; we find him writing from Caen in 1781 . Through the Countess de Houdetot of Rousseau 's Confessions he was enabled to send a copy of his book to Franklin , then ( 1782 ) on a mission abroad . Instrumental in helping Americans in England to return to this country , when Crevecoeur himself came back , in 1783 , it was to find his wife just dead , and his children in the care of strangers . Meanwhile he had been appointed French consul in New York . His travels with Franklin gave rise to a three-volume work , not so interesting as the Letters , entitled Voyage daps ki Haute Pennsylvanie . From 1790 until his death at Sarcelles , 12 November , 1813 , he lived in France . The Letters of this " farmer of feelings " to a doubtless hypo-  | thetical " W. S. Ecuyer " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Behold , Sir , an humble American Planter , a simple cultivator of the earth , addressing you from the farther side of the Atlantic . . . . As an eloquent and powerful advocate , you have pleaded the cause of humanity in espousing that of the poor Africans ; you viewed these provinces of North America in their true light , as the asylum of freedom , as the cradle of future nations , and the refuge of distressed Europeans . Of the twelve , the Introductory Letter is intentionally rambling . A former European guest having asked for a detailed account of colonial life , " neighbour James " seeks counsel of the minister , who tells him : " He that shall write a letter every day of the week will on Saturday perceive the sixth flowing from his pen much more readily than the first . " But the Farmer 's wife dissuades him , unless the plan be followed secretly , so as not to arouse gossip . A chance allusion to the speeches of " friend Edmund , " that is , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letters that follow . " If they be not elegant , " says the minister , " they will smell of the woods , and be a little wild " ; but he also assures the Farmer : " Nature hath given you a tolerable share of good sense . . . some perspicuity , " and " a warmth of imagination which enables you to think with quickness . " The second letter takes up the situation , feelings , and pleasures of an American farmer , and the third , on " What is an American ? " relates the diverting experiences of Andrew the Hebridean , in his first meeting with Indians . In the fourth we pass to the Island of Nantucket , while the fifth describes the education and employment of the islanders . In the sixth , after an account of Martha 's Vineyard and the whale fishery , the author returns to a discussion of manners and customs , this topic continuing in the seventh and eighth . The ninth transfers us to Charleston and the South , where slavery brings the author to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " Would you prefer the state of men in the woods to that of men in a more improved situation ? Evil preponderates in both . . . . For my part , I think the vices and miseries to be found in the latter exceed those of the former . " In the tenth , a special inquiry of the correspondent abroad is met with a dis-  | sertation on snakes and on the humming-bird . The eleventh is a letter " From Mr. Iw ? n Al ? z , a Russian Gentleman , describing the Visit he paid at my request to Mr. John Bertram , the celeI ) rated Pennsylvania Botanist . " The twelfth and last pictures the distress of a " frontier man " ? menaced by the savages , and unsettled by the revolt of the colonies , ? who " would chearfully go even to the Mississippi , to find that repose to which we have been so long strangers " ; with his appeal to the Father of Nature , to the Supreme Being whose creative power inhabits " the immense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's pretext of an inquiring foreigner mirrored the curiosity of Europe respecting the colonies , and the way in which that curiosity was satisfied , not merely through the multiplying books of travel , but also through the exchange and publication of formal letters . Such was the origin of Jefferson 's Notes on the State of Virginia ; Written in the Year 1781 , Somewhat Corrected and Enlarged in the Winter of 1782 , for the Use of a Foreigner of Distinction , in Answer to certain Queries Proposed by Him . This serious piece of scientific writing , perhaps the most frequently printed treatise that has emanated from the South , was compiled by Jefferson while he was Governor of Virginia , and sent to M. Barbe de Marbois , Secretary of the French Legation . It was first issued at Paris ( 1784-85 ) . The arid statistics , the details of agriculture , and the generally dry geography , important in their time , now mean less to the reader than do Jefferson 's occasional flights in a loftier style , represented in the following : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , though not comprehended under the present head Cascades and Caverns , must not be pretermitted . . . . Though the sides of this bridge arc provided in some parts with a parapet of fixed rocks , yet few men have resolution to walk to them and look over into the abyss . You involuntarily fall on your hands and feet , creep to the parapet , and peep over it . Looking down from this height about a minute gave me a violent headache . If the view from the top be painful and intolerable , that from below is delightful in an equal extreme . It is impossible for the emotions arising from the sublime to be felt beyond what they are here ; so beautiful an arch , so elevated , so light , and springing as it were up to heaven !  | The influence of the Notes , of their author , and of Jeffersonian ideals , is constantly met in other works of description . The allusions to Washington himself are scarcely more frequent . In 1794 Henry Wansey , an English manufacturer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and admiration " ; but about the same time , Thomas Cooper , who , in a flying visit , found " land cheap and labour dear , " remarks that " the government is the government of the people and for the people . " And when John Davis , the pedestrian , had from 1798 to 1802 " entered , with equal interest , the mud-hut of the negro and the log-house of the planter , " he dedicated his book to Jefferson . Isaac Weld the Irishman , author of a widely read book on the United States and Canada , wrote one of his thirty-eight letters from Jefferson 's then unfinished establishment at Monticello . He made mediocre pencil sketches of Niagara Falls , and the " Rock Bridge " of Virginia , but secured a picture of Mount Vernon from a friend . He visited the Dismal Swamp , saw Washington in a cheerful mood at a reception in Philadelphia , and culled observations on the Indians , helping himself at need from Carver and Jefferson . In Weld 's account , the backsliding of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strictures of the British travellers upon American life become sharp . A mild rejoinder to foreign depreciation soon appeared in the fictitious Letters of the British Spy by the American jurist William Wirt , which purported to derive from the abandoned manuscript of " a meek and harmless " young Englishman of rank who was travelling incognito . Composed in a formal Addisonian manner , this defence of American statesmen and American eloquence is overcharged with allusions to Cicero and Demosthenes . Nevertheless , some of the descriptions cling to the mind . ' It is easy to perceive why the booklet went through so many editions , when one finds in it the leading men of the nation in 1803 under a thin disguise . Here , for example , is President Jefferson : The . . of the United States is in his person tall , meagre , emaciated ; his muscles relaxed , and his joints so loosely connected as not only to disqualify him , apparently , for any vigorous exertion footnote See also Book II , Chap . in.  | of body , but to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement . Wirt 's young nobleman denies to the President the gift of poetical fancy ; yet Jefferson allowed such imaginative faculty as he possessed to dally with the theme of western exploration . As early as 1784 he was devising names for ten suggested states to the northwest ? " Sylvania , " " Michigania , " " Metropolitamia , " etc. , ? after the pseudo-classical taste of the day . He was therefore ready to promote discovery in the far North-west when the moment for action arrived . Indeed , before the Lewis and Clark enterprise , he had twice made plans for the same general undertaking . More particularly , while he was VicePresident of the American Philosophical Society , in 1793 , he had arranged with the French botanist Michaux , then in this country , for an expedition which was to follow the Missouri and some tributary thereof to a point where these waters might communicate with the Columbia River , opening a way to the Pacific . The scheme fell through when Michaux became involved in a French marauding project against the Spanish , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Ivleriwether Lewis , a young neighbour of Jefferson , had desired the position of leader in the great exploration . Lewis , who in 18o1 became private secretary to Jefferson , as born in 1774 of a prominent stock in Virginia . After five ars at a Latin school , he studied botany on his mother 's rrn , then entered the army raised to quell the Whiskey ebellion , and , serving as an officer under Wayne , rose to be a 1tain . In the eyes of Jefferson , Lewis was " brave , prudent , bituated to the woods , and familiar with Indian manners and character , " besides possessing " a great mass of accurate obseration on all the subjects of nature . " When chosen to pilot now famous expedition which bears his name , he further Tared himself by studying with competent scientists at Phillclphia ; and feeling the need of a companion for the tour , he osc a friend of his boyhood , his elder by four years , Capin William Clark , also a soldier under Wayne , experienced in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An polished , but staunch and friendly man , heartily returning warm affection of Lewis , Clark accepted the opportunity  | with spirit , and made ready to join him in seeking the information which Jefferson desired " for the benefit of our own country and of the world . " For a time it was Jefferson 's pretence that the undertaking was " a literary enterprise . " But when the sale of Louisiana was ratified , there was no further need of concealing the interest of the Federal Government in the project . Lewis left Pittsburgh on 31 August , 1803 , to meet Clark in Kentucky . They wintered in Illinois , as Clark writes , at the enterance of a Small river opposit the Mouth of Missouri Called Wood River , where they formed their party , Composed of robust helthy hardy young men . In the spring the detachment of twenty-nine regular members and sixteen supernumeraries began the slow progress up the Missouri . They spent the next winter in a stockade in North Dakota , proceeding in the spring of 1805 to the source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many hardships crossing over the barrier mountains toward the end of summer . Going down the Columbia River , they reached the Pacific at the close of the autumn , to pass the winter in their Fort Clatsop ? log huts enclosed by a palisade . Here they had leisure to study the natives and to compile records . In March , i8o6 , they began the return journey . After surmounting the difficult snow-clad barrier in June , the party divided , Lewis making his way to the Falls of the Missouri , and exploring Maria 's River , Clark returning to the head of Jefferson Fork , proceeding thence to the Yellowstone River , and following this down to the Missouri . Coming together again in August , they went to St. Louis in September , having consumed about two and one-third years in the wilds . The subsequent duties of Lewis as Governor of Louisiana Territory , and of Clark as Superintendent of Indian Affairs , delayed the preparation of the records , although Jefferson was ardent for their publication . In 18og , Lewis , while on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the editing , met his death , probably by violence , in Tennessee ; whereupon the unlettered Clark , at the urgent desire of Jefferson , under ? took the task with the help of Nicholas Biddle of Philadelphi  | Biddle performed the major part of the editing , and then Paul Allen , a journalist , supervised the printing . After many vicissitudes , the work was published in February , 1814 . Much of the scientific material , however , was not included ; nor was a strictly accurate account of the expedition and its results ever given to the world until the recent edition ( 1904 ? 1905 ) of the Original Journals by Dr. Thwaites . Of the first edition , about 1400 copies were circulated , from the sale of which Clark apparently received nothing . Though the authentic work became popular in America and Europe , being reprinted and translated , the initial delay in publication , and the presence of other diarists in the party , made room for more than one earlier account of the expedition ? for example , the Journal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editions before 1814 , as well as a French and a German translation in that year . However made known , the achievement of Lewis and Clark has won greater fame than any other geographical exploration ever undertaken within the United States proper . The Government expedition from Pittsburgh to the Rocky Mountains in 1819 , under the command of Major Long , was more fruitful in technical results ; and with the vast , though unmethodical , accuftittlations of Schoolcraft the data on Indians in the records edited by Biddle are not to be compared in value . But the uthorized account of Jefferson 's great enterprise , published in he concluding year of the final war with England , marked the fulfilment of Carver 's vision , and betokened the approaching stablishment of the United States as the ruling power in the Vestern Hemisphere . When the strife of arms was settled by the Treaty of Ghent 1 1814 , a literary war between Great Britain and America urst into flame . It had long been smouldering . In the Travels of the Rev. Andrew Burnaby , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jealous or sensitive American . This genial lergyman went through the " Middle Settlements , " beginning with Virginia , in 1759 and 176o . His slender volume , published 1775 , had reached a third edition by 1798 , being revised and larged , and was still valued in 1812 when Pinkerton chose it r his collection of travels in all parts of the world . Burnaby 's cction for the colonies is only second to his love of England . e balances the advantages and disadvantages of North and  | South , and of Philadelphia , New York , and Boston . At " Prince-town " he finds " a handsome school and college for the education of dissenters , erected upon the plan of those in Scotland , " with " about twenty boys in the grammar-school , and sixty in the college . " There are " only two professors , besides the provost . " He sees beautiful homes along the Raritan River , and handsome ladies at " Brunswick " ; but the people of Rhode Island " are cunning , deceitful , and selfish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so much to the disadvantage of this colony , I should be guilty of injustice and ingratitude , were I not to declare that there are many worthy gentlemen in it , who see the misfortunes of their country , and lament them . " The lower classes at Boston are insufferably inquisitive ; yet " Arts and Sciences seem to have made a greater progress here than in any other part of America . " By 1798 Burnaby might well have revised his prediction that " America is formed for happiness , but not for empire . " Before this there had been critics more hostile , like J. F. D. Smyth ; but in British travellers who really belong to the period about 1800 , there is a new and characteristic note of displeasure . Weld remarks that the Pennsylvania farmers " live in a penurious style " ; they are " greatly inferior to the English . " The roads are " execrable , " and the Americans in general are prying . In Ashe , who had expected too much , the reaction against both people and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pennsylvania , he " did not meet with a man of decent literature " ; and this is the mildest of his abuse . Weld , Parkinson , Ashe , and Bradbury , in a line , raise and re-echo the note of censure . Before Bradbury 's work was published , there was a dismal chorus from the great British periodicals . As early as 1814 The Quarterly Review was chiming in , to be duly followed by the Edinburgh and the British , and by Blackwood 's Magazine . Both Gifford and Sydney Smith lent their voices , and Southey was supposed by the Americans to have produced one of the bitterest attacks upon them . Various causes exasperated the discussion ? discontented emigrants , discontent in England at the emigration , vainglory in America , especially over the outcome of the second war , the sensitiveness of Americans to the charge of inquisitiveness and lack of reserve , and , by no means least , the pirating of English books by American publishers .  | The strife was at its height from 1814 to 1825 . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American book ? or goes to an American play ? or looks at an American picture or statue ? " Such were the cordial questions put by Sydney Smith in The Edinburgh Review for January , 1820 . The sourness of the reviewers , great and small , reacted upon new books of travel , and prospective observers when they crossed the ocean came with the prepossession that democratic institutions in America had corrupted good manners . There was a recrudescence of the old theory , once formulated by Pauw , that everything deteriorated when transplanted from Europe . Fearon ( 1818 ) ? " no lover of America , " said Sydney Smith , ? Harris ( 1821 ) , Velby ( 1821 ) , and Faux ( 1823 ) gave the English public the reading it enjoyed , and the publishers welcomed fresh manuscript . " Have a passage ready taken for ' Merriker , " whispers Mr. Pickwick 's friend Weller to Sam . " Let the gov'ner stop there till Mrs. Bardell 's dead . . . and then let him come back and write a book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenses , and more , if he blows ' em up enough . " Evidently the painful animadversions had not ceased in 1837 ; they were perhaps generally mitigated after 1825 . Captain Basil Hall in 1829 , Fidler in 1833 , Thomas Hamilton in 1833 , Captain Marryat in 1839 , and Thomas Brothers in 1840 , keep up the unlucky strain , sometimes with more , and sometimes with less good humour . Brothers is of opinion that " there is in the United States more taxation , poverty , and general oppression than ever known in any other country . " And in . January , 1844 , The Foreign Quarterly asserts that " As yet the American is horn-handed and pig-headed , hard , persevering , unscrupulous , carnivorous , . . . with an incredible genius for lying . " Ere this , however , better sense was prevailing . Basil I Iall , though preferring the manners of aristocratic England , was not unkindly , nor was Mrs. Trollope ( 1832 ) unsympathetic . Dickens himself , having followed the Ohio and the Mississippi to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1842 published his American Notes , in which he " blows ' em up " with moderation . The courteous Sir Charles I , yell ( 1845 ) was unfortunately justified in a dislike of American boasting . Meanwhile the Americans , sensitive as well as vainglorious  | or patriotic , on their part had not been idle , whether in the magazines or in books . Niles ' Weekly Register , and The North American Review , with Edward Everett as editor , hurried to the defence , and Timothy Dwight , Irving , Fenimore Cooper , and Paulding were among those who , with or without finesse , parried the foreign thrusts . Robert Walsh wrote An Appeal from the Judgments of Great Britain respecting the United States ( 1819 ) , while John Neal of Portland carried the fight into the enemy 's camp by contributing to Blackwood 's Magazine from 1823 until 1826 . After Dwight 's death his Travels in New England and New York were published , four substantial volumes , representing vacation journeys which he had taken for reasons of health from 1796 on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject ? on the prevailing winds , on the " excellencies of the colonists of New England , " " their enterprise and industry , their love of science and learning , their love of liberty , their morality , their piety , " on the superiority of soil and climate , etc . But the serious vein was not the only one for such a contest , as Paulding was aware when he wrote the anonymous John Bull in America , or the New Munchausen ( 1825 ) , which for its time was effective as an allegorical satire upon English opinion in relation to travellers . It is now less amusing than the strictures that called it forth . But there is something trivial about the whole episode . The best kind of reply to the taunt of Sydney Smith was the literary work of Fenimore Cooper and Washington Irving , who are more fully treated elsewhere in this history . ' Of Cooper 's novels , three more important ones had been produced before he was entangled in the controversies that occupied much of his life . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Last of the Mohicans deserves notice because it contains , in distinct types , both the idealized and the unidealized Indian that we have seen in the travellers . Chingachgook is a true descendant of Montaigne 's high-minded savage , and belongs to the family of Rousseau 's " natural " man ; whereas the base " Mingoes " are more like real aborigines . The Prairie , with its large element of description , was followed during the author 's residence abroad by Notions of the Americans Picked up by a Travelling Bachelor ( 1828 ) , a series of letters by footnote ' See also Book II , Chaps . iv and vi .  | an imaginary Englishman , in which there is an attempt to rectify prevailing European and British misconceptions of America , and to show the Americans how to be more refined , and how to suppress their self-satisfaction . A middle course pleased neither English nor Americans ; nor did the criticism in homeward Bound and Home as Found tend to pacify Cooper 's fellow-countrymen . The turmoil of his later years did not prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Pathfinder and The Deerslayer , which again disclose his conception of the forest and frontier . Few have depicted that life with more truth and spirit than Irving . From the noisy disputes between John Bull and Jonathan we come back to him as to a contemplative traveller of some previous generation ; and in truth he carries on the tradition of Carver , and of Lewis and Clark . Returning in 1832 , after an absence in Europe of seventeen years , Irving found his countrymen expecting him to vindicate his patriotism , and American letters , by some work on a native theme . Instead of directly yielding to the call , he made " a wide and varied tour , " joining a Government expedition to the Arkansas River , exploring the hunting-grounds of the stealthy Pawnees , witnessing the pursuit of the buffalo , and sharing the spoils of bee-hunters . The result was A Tour on the Prairies ( 1835 ) , which represents 1 , ut a part of the journey . " It is , " he says , " a simple narrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life of the border with fidelity ? Osage Indians , " stern and simple in garb and aspect , " with " fine Roman countenances , and broad deep chests " ; gaily dressed Creeks , " quite Oriental " in appearance ; and " a sprinkling of trappers , hunters , half-breeds , creoles , negroes of every hue , and all that other rabble rout of nondescript beings that keep about the frontiers , between civilized and savage life , as those equivocal birds , the bats , hover about the confines of light and darkness . " Irving 's next task was to write the history of John Jacob Astor 's development and consolidation of the fur-trade in the North-west ( after the Lewis and Clark expedition ) , in Astoria , or Anecdotes of an Enterprise beyond the Rocky Mountains , which appeared in 1836 . The literary method here employed is characteristic of so many books of travel , beginning with Carver 's , that Irving may be allowed to explain it in his own words :  | As the journals , on which I chiefly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intent upon the main object of the enterprise , and but little versed in science , or curious about matters not immediately bearing upon their interests , and as they were written often in moments of fatigue or hurry , amid the inconveniences of wild encampments , they were often meagre in their details , furnishing hints to provoke rather than narratives to satisfy inquiry . I have , therefore , availed myself occasionally of collateral lights supplied by the published journals of other travellers who have visited the scenes described , such as Messrs . Lewis and Clark , Bradbury , Brackenridge , Long , Franchere , and Ross Cox , and make a general acknowledgment of aid received from these quarters . The work I here present to the public , is necessarily of a rambling and somewhat disjointed nature , comprising various expeditions by land and sea . The facts , however , will prove to be linked and banded together by one grand scheme , devised and conducted by a master spirit ; one set of characters , also , continues throughout , appearing occasionally , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up by a regular catastrophe ; so that the work , without any laboured attempt at artificial construction , actually possesses much of that unity so much sought after in works of fiction , and considered so important to the interest of every history . While engaged upon Astoria , Irving had met at the house of Colonel Astor the picturesque Captain Bonneville , and learning that the Captain possessed a manuscript record of his experiences among the Rocky Mountain hunters , he secured it for a goodly sum , thereupon proceeding to rewrite and amplify it in the customary fashion . From the popular Adventures of Captain Bonneville ( 1837 ) , one gains an indescribable sense of the buoyancy of spirit in the open prairies , and of high tension in the life of the mountaineers , sanguine and alert in the midst of dangers known or surmised . The general influence of these travellers and observers upon commerce and immigration is rather the affair of the historian and economist . Unquestionably the effect of innumerable guides for emigrants , and statistical works on agriculture , was augmented by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from these humbler compilations . The trenchant if malevolent Cobbett , glorying in a life of cheerful industry close to the soil , and representing America as neither  | a paradise nor yet a den of thieves but a good nurse for the farmer , did much in the third decade of the last century to stimulate emigration of a better sort from the mother country to the land of free endeavour . Possession of the soil , and the opportunity to gain more and more of it ? as depicted by Crevecoeur ? must always act as a stimulus to the human mind . Once reaching these shores , a mobile population would be allured to the West through the virile descriptions of the Mississippi Valley by a Timothy Flint , or through the animated sketches of life and manners by a James Hall . To the literature of travel may also be ascribed much of the attraction exerted by this country upon distinguished foreigners in seasons of stress or misfortune . Napoleon himself once spoke of America as a possible retreat . If Crevecoeur 's portrait of the free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances , " it was not the less true in presenting an ideal that the Americans have striven to realize ; it was real in the sense that it governed their better thoughts and actions . By disengaging and projecting the ideal form of American life , such works interpreted the new republic for England and the Continent . More than this , they interpreted one part of the new nation to another . No other class of books can have done so much to consolidate the people ; their effect upon character and imagination can hardly be overestimated . They gave wings to the imagination ; and here they are especially significant for the history of literature . As the discovery of America was accompanied by an outburst of poetry in the Renaissance , other causes , naturally , contributing thereto ? as the mind of a Shakespeare was caught by a chance description of the " still-vexed Bermoothes " ; so the great advances in geographical discovery and natural science after the middle of the eighteenth century made themselves felt in another generation of poets , and American travels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The place of the travellers in the movement known as " the return to nature " would require for adequate treatment nothing short of a dissertation ; nor could one always discriminate between the literary preconceptions which the observers brought with them and the ultimate facts about man and his environment which they transmitted to the poets . Yet we recognize in the reports  | of American travel something ultimate , as did the poets and philosophers . Scattered instances suffice for illustration . In the speech On Conciliation with America , Burke , who himself had a share in an Account of the European Settlements ( 1757 ) , betrays an acquaintance with more recent works of a similar kind . To one of Carver 's borrowed passages on Indian funeral customs Schiller owes the substance of the Nadowessiers Todtenlied , a poem greatly admired by Goethe . Still better known is the employment of what is striking and exotic in Carver and Bartram by Chateaubriand in the composite landscape of Rene and Atala , and his mingling of conventional with imaginary incidents in the Voyage en Amerique . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the connection between higher forms of literature and books of travel . Freneau translates the Travels of the Abbe Robin ( Philadelphia , 1783 ) , and writes Stanzas on the Emigration to America and Peopling the Western Country ( Poems , 1786 ) . Timothy Dwight 's " Most fruitful thy soil , most inviting thy clime , " in Columbia , echoes the sentiment of his Travels . Longfellow derives the myth of Hiawatha from Schoolcraft , and is said to have used , Sealsfield 's Life in the New World , and Fremont 's Expedition to the Rocky Mountains , in Evangeline . In Bryant , the allusion to the continuous woods Where rolls the Oregon has been traced to Carver . Thanatopsis , the lines To a Waterfowl , and The Prairies alike reveal the spirit of inland discovery . The relation of English poets to American observers is most significant of all . Coleridge praises Cartwright , Hearne , and Bartram ; " the impression which Bartram had left on his mind , " says his grandson , " was deep and lasting . " Lamb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crevecceur , yielding to Hazlitt 's recommendation . Southey commends Dwight , and employs Bartram in Madoc . In Mazeppa , Byron , an inveterate reader of travels , takes the notion of an audible aurora borealis from Hearne . But the most striking instance is Wordsworth . Commonly supposed to have refrained from describing what he had not seen with the  | bodily eye , and to have read little save his own poetry , he was in fact a systematic student in the field of travel and observation , for the ends of poetical composition . Accordingly , he writes to Archdeacon Wrangham , perhaps in 1811 : " You inquire about old books ; you might almost as well have asked for my teeth as for any of mine . The only modern books that I read are those of travels , or such as relate to matters of fact ? and the only modern books that I care for . " What they meant to him may be seen in Ruth , which is full of images from Bartram ? the magnolia , the cypress , green @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire ; in The Complaint of a Forsaken Indian Woman , based on Hearne ; in the address to Hartley Coleridge , reminiscent of Carver ; in Book Third of The Prelude , where the ideal environment for a university and its students is clearly that of Bartram 's " Alatamaha " River , " where the generous and true sons of liberty securely dwell " ; and in Book Third of The Excursion . Here the Solitary , a returned American traveller , first relates his dissatisfaction with the " unknit Republic , " echoing Ashe , and English opinion in the year 1814 , and then tells of his vain search for the natural man , westward , tow'rd the unviolated woods I bent my way ; and , roaming far and wide , Failed not to greet the merry Mocking-bird ; And , while the melancholy Muccawiss ( The sportive bird 's companion in the grove ) Repeated o'er and o'er his plaintive cry , I sympathised at leisure with the sound ; But that pure archetype of human greatness , I found him not . There , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vengeful , and impure ; Remorseless , and submissive to no law But superstitious fear , and abject sloth . The Solitary is not Wordsworth , but a dramatically conceived malcontent . The animating note that is characteristic of American travel at its best was sounded , not by English poets in the time of George the Third , but forty years before the  | close of the French and Indian War in Berkeley 's anticipatory lines On the Prospect of Planting Arts and Learning in America : There shall be sung another golden age , The rise of empire and of arts . . . Westward the course of empire takes its way .  | The Early Drama , 1756-1860 OUR native drama , even though it antedated the novel and the short story , has practically no history until the latter half of the eighteenth century . The first drama written in this country which is now in existence , the satirical farce , Androborus , was printed , it is true , in 1714 . It was by Governor Richard Hunter ' of New York , but as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is limited to its representation of local conditions . Androborus was not acted , and had no influence in the development of an acting drama . The two forces which seem to have led to the production of a native play upon the stage were the indirect influence of the early performances of masques and of dramatic odes and dialogues at the colleges , and more directly , the acting of the first regular company of professional players . The earliest college exercise , including original composition , that has survived , is Francis Hopkinson 's revision of The Masque of Alfred , originally written by Thomson and revised by Mallet in 1751 , which deals with the invasion of England by the Danes . It was performed , according to Hopkinson 's statement , 2 several times during the Christmas holidays of 1756-7 in the College of Philadelphia.3 Hopkinson 's original lines number more than two hundred , besides a new prologue and epilogue , and new scenes are introduced so that the masque may be considered as in large measure original . What makes footnote ' For a description @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beginnings of American Dramatic Literature in The New England Magazine , Feb. , 1894 , New Series , vol . Ix. , No. 6 , p. 674 . ' See The Pennsylvania Gazette , 20 and 27 Jan. ; 3 and 10 Feb. , 1757 , for a detailed account of the Masque , giving Hopkinson 's lines . ' Now the University of Pennsylvania .                     