@@773940

txt The mental and spiritual state of the beautyloving Greek when he finds himself face to face with the inevitable he has exemplified in the highest degree in his architecture . He not only is reconciled to the struggle , but he welcomes it for the opportunity it affords him for self-expression . At the point where the rising forces in the column meet the resistance of the entablature , at this point of transition and of conflict , at this crucial point in the battle where the aspiring spirit will prevail in beauty or brute force will overpower , the Greek makes the supreme application of his theory of life and registers his moral conviction as to what the outcome should be and his aesthetic judgment of how best it should be expressed . Having gained a victory at this point he has prepared himself for the further and final effort through which he hopes to achieve that perfect relation of part to part and that perfect unity of the whole which are the end and aim , the crown and finish , of his ever-ascending effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one for immortality the Greek left to the Egyptian ; he himself discussed academically the problem of conduct as affecting a future state ; but such discussion did not affect his philosophy of life which embraced the propositions that the achievement of the ideal justified itself and that nothing short 40 of unity and completion of purpose was to be considered worthy in the expression of that ideal . The struggle of man upward , always upward until perfection is achieved , receives full and rich expression in the architecture of the Greek . The forms interpret not only rising force developing character under a down pressing material mass , as exemplified in the columns , but in the lines of the entablature there appears an interpretation of that more subtle , more involved , attitude which is encountered when the ardent aspiring spirit approaches what I have called the superimposed limitation of finality ; when it receives the command " thus far shalt thou go and no farther " and realizes that in meeting this fixed , impenetrable , impassable spiritual barrier it will demonstrate the truth or falsity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it developed in the earlier stages of its ascent . The rare pathos of the situation , the calm though eager acceptance manifested in the Greek answer stir the imaginative mind to its depths . Fate , level , calm , inexorable is symbolized in the entablature ; fate against which the aspiring spirit presses with the resultant return upon self in perfection of character ; fate , upward and through the calm , level restraint of which the perfected character sends the impulse of its unconquered aspiration . 411 Realizing , then , something of its spiritual content , let us look at the architecture in detail , taking first the Doric as representing the simplest as well as the oldest and most virile expression . The column springs directly from the stylobate without an intervening base . It is as though the vital forces of the earth were gathering and rising to the fray . The rising force expresses its vitality in the flutings or channelings which extend throughout the entire height of the shaft . Compared with a fluted shaft a plain one is cold and dead ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The shaft does not rise in a straight line but develops a curve as the diameter of the column begins to decrease toward the necking of the capital . This curve , called the entasis , is very subtle , being parabolic or hyperbolic , and imparts the feeling that the movement within the shaft is gathering in force , in vitality and in concentration , until , meeting the restraint imposed by the entablature , it expands into the beautiful , firm , resilient supporting form of the echinus . The impression conveyed is strong that the movement within the column was merely an aspiring desire until the weight of the entablature was superimposed , and then it became a living force meeting the obstacle with a characteristically beautiful line ( Fig. 2-A ) . The echinus does not X43 meet the lower member of the entablature directly , but there is interposed a heavy rectangular block called the abacus . This abacus signifies more than is apparent at first sight . Its presence permits the structure to comply with that esthetic law mentioned as having been discovered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which insures perfect relationship , correct proportions ; just enough of this to satisfy that ; poise , selfrestraint . As I have already said , a certain relationship between them transforms the post and lintel into the column and entablature and the abacus permits the establishment of this relation in its Doric perfection . As seen directly in front view there appears to be no reason for the abacus , the echinus seeming to function perfectly against the soffit of the epistyle or lower member of the entablature ( Fig. 2  --  B ) . But in perspective or in sectional view the aspect is changed ( Fig. 2-C ) . A soffit or under surface wide enough to cover the entire area of the echinus in plan would imply a superincumbent mass out of all proportion to the supporting columns . To narrow the soffit to less than the upper diameter of the echinus and omit the abacus would be to have a beautiful functional line of resistance resisting nothing ; and with that the integrity of the style would disappear and there would be no Doric . Doric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aesthetic imagination , and an ideal for it to feed upon , first shaped an echinus and so environed it that it should function perfectly throughout its entire periphery . So , while the abacus might be conceived of as a pillow block , furnishing a firm seat for the entablature , yet the exigencies of the case do not warrant that conception , for the abacus hardly functions structurally at all . In reality its function is purely aesthetic , the abacus being introduced to permit of a correct proportioning of the two main features of the style . Many experiments with the general proportions , and consequently with the line of the echinus and the thickness of the abacus , were made before the perfection of the Parthenon was attained ; however , from the very first the truth and logic of the style were compelling . The abacus leads us naturally to the entablature , which will now claim our attention . The effect produced by the Greek temple is of such absolute simplicity and such directness of purpose that one finds it not easy to comprehend what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for sake of clarity , let me say that in an arcuated system of construction but one force is in operation , that is , compression . Throughout the seemingly and , indeed , really complex system of mediaeval construc 45 tion with slender piers , ribbed vaults , and flying buttresses , compression alone is operating and its aesthetic expression is never complicated by an ascending movement running transversely or at an angle to it . The movements , structural and spiritual , coincide in each and every member throughout the whole composition . And yet the system is complex and the expression is in a manner involved . In the Greek entablature there are two forces , compression and tension , operating structurally in the horizontal plane and both are to be reckoned with aesthetically ; while crossing these vertically is to be expressed that force which , rising through the column and achieving beauty in the capital , is finally to reach in the fullness of perfected character the external limitation imposed upon it . A trabeated system in the hands of a materialist is complicated and bewildering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resting on piers or internally braced supports ) , but under the touch of an idealist like the Greek it lends itself to the expression of the highest simplicity and unity ( Fig. 3-A ) . The aesthetic expression of the entablature in all the delicacy and refinement of its functioning will not fully appear to us until we view the Ionic forms ; but we already have a sufficient groundwork for the study and analysis of the Doric entablature . The Greek 47 entablature is the apotheosis of the beam , and in order in any degree to appreciate the character of the entablature one must understand the nature of the beam . Take a piece , ' preferably rectangular in section , of any material which will not fall apart of its own weight and place it on supports at the ends . Press down upon it in the middle and you will observe that the beam , for such it is , bends , tending to lengthen along the lower sur-face and to shorten along the upper ( Fig. 3-B ) . This distortion is caused by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower half , and a crushing force which tends to shorten the beam in its upper half . Between these lies a neu-tral axis along which neither force is operative , where they fade the one into the other . These forces are called respectively tension and com-pression . When a beam fails by compression the matter crumples or buckles , forming areas of broken light and shade along the upper edge per-haps as far down as the neutral axis . When it fails by tension fine lines indicative of tearing or stretching appear on the surface.l The sensitive mind of the Greek sought an aesthetic expression 1481 of this phenomenon . How far the presentation was carried , depended upon the intrinsic character of the ultimate expression . Thus , in the Doric , in which the intrinsic characteristic was bold , simple masculinity , the subdivision within the members was minimized and the expression not carried as far as in the Ionic , the intrinsic characteristic of which was graceful feminine refinement . Now , in the entablature we find fields corresponding to these tensile , neutral , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring out the inherent characteristic of each . These fields , known as the members of the entablature , are defined as the epistyle ( the lower member , resting on the columns and in tension ) ; the frieze ( the middle member and in repose in so far as tension and compression are involved ) ; the cornice ( the portion above the frieze and in compression ) ( Fig. 3-A ) . In all of these members in the Doric entablature is visible the expression of that aspiring spirit which ascends to respond in beauty to the final call ( Fig. 3-C ) . In the epistyle the presence of this spirit is manifested in the guttae and the fillet ; in the frieze it is seen in the triglyphs ; in the cornice the crown mold bears its charm . It is quite possible to conceive that in the early days of the Doric , before the law of measure had found its fullest interpretation , the epi-491 style was regarded as the beam while the frieze was given up entirely to the function of vertical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the broadening conception of functional relations and I , for one . - do not doubt that at a very early period the entablature as a whole came to be re-garded as the beam . I think that the analysis of the Ionic forms , a little later , will substantiate this view . The Doric builders did not draw the fine-spun lines of tension upon the surface of the epi-style , but the nature of the member becomes ap-parent when its plain surface is viewed in relation to the field of broken light and shade in the frieze which leads up to the cornice , and , especially , in the cornice itself . The frieze is of extreme in-terest . It is comprised of alternating members known as the metopes and the triglyphs . The metopes originally , according to all available data , were open spaces functioning for light and air and given over later to the storage of the temple vessels . Still later they were closed up with stone slabs upon which were carved repre-sentations of the vessels which formerly had occupied the spaces ; and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spaces are what I shall denominate zones of repose ? areas in which na.structural forces are operating . They alternated , as stated , with the triglyphs , 501 which were blocks of stone introduced to support the cornice and roof . The theory that the triglyphs are survivals in stone of ornamented ends of wooden beams is pretty thoroughly exploded , as , too , is the general theory that columns , gutter , mutules , and the whole structural fabric are merely translations into stone from wooden forms . It is a trivial and baseless theory which I shall touch upon later ; for the time it is only necessary to say that if ever there was an architecture in which the ? eeling and forms are essentially those of stone that architecture is the Doric . The triglyphs , then , function structurally as supporting members , but aesthetically they serve three very necessary uses , and the forms to which they were shaped ( Fig. 3-D ) , though not always identical in different structures , permitted them to serve , equally , fully and simultaneously these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the force upward through the entablature to a perfect conclusion . In this the triglyphs are aided by the guttae , which in the higher types are not pendant but spring from the surface of the epistyle and soften the transition . Second , the triglyphs introduce needed variety , alternating as night and day , with a zone of repose contrasting with a field of activity ; and they serve , too , as a foil to the long , horizontal lines of the entabla1 51 i ture . Third , they break up the shadow of the cornice and thus assist that member to introduce a vigorous play of light and shade into the upper portion of the entablature , expressing the com-pressive forces struggling to maintain the in-tegrity of the beam , and filling a desire in the aesthetic mind endowed with a fine appreciation of structural symbolism . The lines and forms which perform so completely these several func-tions must be highly characteristic . Had the triglyphs been grouped columns of reduced scale , proportion and unity had been wanting ; had they been merely fluted blocks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , their sharp , deeply incised lines conserve all this and give powerful aid to the expression of the compressive force in action and all the while conserving the inspiring ascend-ing movement and doing no violence to the neu-tral zone . The unity , the simplicity , the charm , hold us in admiration and cause us to marvel at the largeness of the spirit which dictated the form . 152 IV THE GREEK EXPRESSION THE IONIC AND THE DECADENCE THE GREEK EXPRESSION THE IONIC AND THE DECADENCE N contemplating a typical Ionic structure one is not impressed with that sense of power which fills him in the presence of a typical example of the Doric ; but another impression , just as complete and satisfying , stamps itself upon the mind . The vigorous masculine assertion of the Doric gives place to the charming and gracious feminine appeal . Were the Greeks themselves conscious of the presence of these ideals ; conscious of the masculinity inhering in the Doric and of the essential femininity of the Ionic ? The Greeks themselves have answered the question fearing , perhaps , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . The Greeks knew that life was incomplete socially , ethically , wsthetically , without the presence for cooperation and for contrast , of these two primal factors ; and to their minds religion and art , elemental modes of expression , to satisfy must of necessity employ each and both distinctly differentiated as 1551 in the higher types produced in nature ; in witness of this , contemplate the gods and goddesses of the Greek pantheon , the manly men and womanly women of pediment , frieze , and metope . In their architectural abstractions such care was used to keep the types pure and the definition clear that wherever a male figure suggests support the background will be found to be Doric , and wherever the female figure symbolizes structural force the setting will be found to be Ionic . Never does the male figure characterize structure , symbolically , functionally , or interpretatively in the Ionic , nor does the female figure appear in like manner in the Doric . The examples of figures objectifying support which will come most readily to mind are the Atlantes ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Agrigenturn , and the Caryatids ? female figures really supporting ? in the Porch of the Maidens of the Erechtheion at Athens . A recognized distinction between the two orders is that the Doric employed sculpture as ornament while the Ionic incorporated sculpture into the structure . There can be no better exemplification of this than is given in the instances cited . As to which of these particular examples or types embodies the purer aesthetic expression , I shall discuss later ; but now , having noted that which characterizes and differentiates 157 these two orders , we will proceed to study the Ionic ( Fig. 4 ? A ) . Let us begin with the column noting first its contact with the earth . What will strike us most forcibly is that the impression of upward thrust gained from the Doric is wanting , and , in its stead , we feel a gracefully soaring tendency which starts from the moldings at foot of the column . The most attractive combination is known as the Attic base . This base ( Fig. 4 ? E ) is paralleled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call to attention " which opens the Mendelssohn Wedding March , or by preludes which , while they may or may not call to attention , suggest the mood and epitomize the theme which is to be developed later . We may gain , perhaps , a more complete idea of this essential characteristic of the Ionic by a comparison and contrast . In the Doric we feel the firm tread of a powerful man upon the pavement . In the Ionic the sentiment is that exhaled by a charmingly robed , radiant woman with a dainty , arched foot , and , to cite a modern detail , a gracefully curved heel . The comparison is not altogether inept . From the graceful lines of this base , where the force seems to originate , it rises through the slender shaft with poise and vitality , as evidenced by the fine entasis and rich flutings , to meet with dignity and with gracious acceptance the service it is 58 to perform in the cause of unified and idealized architectural expression . The Ionic displays no want of force , no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feminine spirit of yielding grace which man may recognize and appreciate in woman , but which he can not truly or sincerely make a factor in his own self-expression . In the Ionic the abacus is not employed to assist in gaining a desired proportion , for the capital does not project in advance of the face of the epistyle ; but it is used to effect a , pleasing transition between the volutes of the capital and the entablature ( Fig. 4 ? 13 and D ) . It is quite possible to conceive of the member in which the volutes develop as being a refinement on the Doric abacus , the band or necking crowned with the egg and dart molding corresponding to the echinus with its annuli ; but it is much more logical , the character of the Ionic being understood , to regard the typical form of the voluted member as a highly conventionalized expression , adopted for the sake of simplicity and clarity , of the underlying idea of a rising force fulfilling its mission and developing a graceful return upon itself ( Fig. 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ovolo , as the case may be , is undoubtedly a transitional member designed to carry the ascending movement within the shaft up through the capital into the entablature. 591 But beautiful and expressive as is the Ionic column , with its component parts , it is no more subtle or characteristic than is the Ionic entablature , which is the most clean cut and clear aesthetic interpretation of structural forces correctly functioning that exists in the domain of architecture . We should judge architecture , as we do humanity , from its highest expression and not from its failures or at its lowest ebb ; and so I shall direct attention first to the entablature of the Porch of the Maidens of the Erechtheion , for finer than therein aesthetic feeling for function never has been embodied . The extreme of poise and balance was necessary in this particular example that the presentation might not seem brutal ; for the rising forces which meet this entablature and sustain it are cast in the female form ? the form of the goddess ? and the Greek would impose upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! I must refer again to those forces which I have mentioned as operating in the entablature , the compression above , the tension below , while between them lies the neutral axis along which neither force is operative . In structural analysis the engineer designates the compressive stress by a plus sign ( + ) and the tensile strain by a minus sign ( ? ) . The area over which , or the axis 61 along which , no force acts might well be indicated by a zero ( o ) . Let us arrange these signs in the order and position in which the forces they represent are active in the beam ( Fig. 5-A ) , and let us even refine the pattern by a repetition of its parts ( Fig. 5 ? B ) and then compare this with a fragment of the Porch entablature ( Fig. 5-C ) . Is not the result of the comparison suggestive , if not startling ? I would not for a moment be understood as saying that the Greek laid out a series of + and ? signs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but I insist that the aesthetic intuition of the Greek , guided by his reason , compelled him to use in the compressive field the broken lights and shades of the dentils , et cetera , which the series of + signs suggests , and in the tensile field the fine-spun lines of tension into which the ? sign is so readily translated . The presence of the circular disks in the neutral zone causes me to marvel at the keenness of the Greek 's perception and the refinement of his expression , for , to me , it means that the Greek deemed that he had so finely balanced his opposing forces that perfect poise had ensued ; that he had so truly expressed this equilibrium that there could be no suggestion of disturbance or unrest even with the delicately disposed disks or rollers intervening between the forces . A member less 62 perfectly poised and with parts less subtly related would have been out of harmony with the graceful Maidens of the Porch . What we see in this entablature may stand as a type of the Ionic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the epistyle , the neutral zone of the frieze given over to applied ornament , and the broken light and shade of the decorated moldings of the cornice , and of the dentils whenever the latter were employed . Never in his finished product does the Greek make the fatal aesthetic mistake of introducing masses or fields of broken light and shade into the lower portion of the entablature even in the form of decoration . As we noted in the analysis of the Doric so , too , shall we see in the Ionic : that there is an aspiring force rising through the forms of the entablature seeking perfect expression as the structure approaches the limit which is set for it by its creator . This expression is in obedience to that law of nature which causes the flower to break forth in beauty at the end of the stalk ; which causes the oak , the elm , the pine , the modest shrub , to take on each its characteristic and beautiful outline and individual mass . It is , as I have said , the expression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implied in the command " thus far shalt thou go and no farther , " and the donning of a 63 II beautiful form to express the spirit with which one meets the end . To follow the forms and curves of the members of the entablature as seen in section ( Fig. 6 ? A ) will convey to the mind an impression of how beautifully the Ionic Greek arose to the sublime occasion . The rhythmic movement starts upward through the fascia of the epistyle , each developing a richer and fuller line of stress as the spirit rises ; up through the frieze it springs until it vibrates in the light and shade of the cornice , to emerge in the graceful cyma or crowning molding which suggests rather the repose after struggle than a continued participation therein . The cornice is like the breaking crest of the spent wave , like the flower at the end of the stem , when nature 's forces , having achieved that for which they struggled , seek the end in delicious repose . That is the correct interpretation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exhale . With the full and final development of the Doric and Ionic orders ended that phase of Greek architecture in which functional forces were interpreted in altogether abstract forms , and the reign of the literal and concrete set in . This later phase marks the beginning of what in my chapter sub-head I have denominated " the decadence . " Holding as I do the exalted view that architecture 65 should be an expression in the abstract , the term " decadence " expresses the nature of the appeal to me ; to many , undoubtedly , the development of the Corinthian was an advance . I seem to see in it a descent from the high intellectual plane to the emotional , or rather , the sentimental . The demands of luxury and the desire for ornament for its own sake should , it seems to me , have been met in some manner other than in perverting or displacing truly functional forms . I yield to no one in my admiration of the acanthus in the hands of the Greek sculptor , but were it to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " woven acanthus wreath divine " in the frieze or upon the wall panel , in the zones or fields of repose , rather than in the capital ? The later Ionic builders must have known the feature thoroughly and may have been tempted to employ it ; but fidelity to the ideal forbade and the Ionic order developed in its purity . The Corinthian builders , lovers of ornament for its own sake , were not content with functional expression no matter how highly idealized . They of themselves or through contact with the Doric and the Ionic realized the real meaning of the capital , knew that it " exemplified a conflict , " but did not see fit to beautify the struggle ; they sought rather to conceal it ; and so they bound a beautiful acanthus fillet around the " sore " spot , and hid , 66 as it were , the functioning forms with a fig leaf . The Corinthian builder in all probability started out with a certain appreciation of the idea which underlay the Doric and the Ionic , for in his earli-est @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an abacus a functional curve unlike that in either of its predecessors ; and on the surface he sculptured forms which may easily be conceived as expressive of developing force , for they are not unlike the forms which ter-minate the flutes or channelings in the Temple of Demeter , Paestum ( Doric ) , in the Erechtheion at Athens ( Ionic ) , and which appear highly de-veloped in the monument of Lysicrates , Athens ( Corinthian ) ( Fig. 6-D , E , and F ) . Take the capital of the Coragic monument . Even in this capital ( Fig. 6-C ) , which embellishes a struc-ture which is almost wholly monumental and deco-rative in its character , the Corinthian could not entirely rid himself of the earlier influence , and the manner in which it impels him to carry the feeling 67 of the flutings into the lowest member of the capital is almost pathetic . This concession overpowered him , and he gave way immediately and completely to his new-born love of ornament for ornament 's sake . There is the hint of a deeper meaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have occasion to touch upon when we come to a discussion of democratic ideals , a meaning which was felt in the Middle Ages ; but as the ideal which called for its expression never entered as a compelling factor into Greek life , it could not have influenced the forms of Greek art . Had it been an influence I doubt the capacity of the Corinthian to receive and act upon it . In his later and fully typical capitals the Corinthian always introduced a line which returned upon itself under an abacus after the manner of the Ionic volute ; but if an idea of force underlay the form , the attenuated form expressed a thoroughly ana ; mic force . In the Corinthian the members of the entablature were consistently and correctly developed , with special emphasis on ornament , but at the same time with a recognition of that law of aspiration which is so firmly planted in the heart of nature and which so strongly strives for expression in the activities and in the conscious , as well as subconscious , efforts of humanity . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident 68 confession , though possibly an unconscious confession , of a lowering moral tone . As I shall repeat later in another connection , architectural forms do not develop from structural necessity but in response to esthetic demands . The aesthetic imagination of any unified race or nation colors the expression of all its activities , shapes in a measure its social usages and religious forms . Uses may have been dictated by religion ; form was dictated by esthetics . This was true of the Greeks . Religion may have called for the portico and the colonnades surrounding the temples ; it probably did , but art gave them their significant forms . In so far as the altar and the statue of the god were concerned all the ceremonial and ministration might have been confined within walls ; but an external expression of what was within , of the deep significance of what was going on within , was demanded by the aesthetic instinct ; hence the presence of the columns . The column from the dawn of religious consciousness has been revered almost as a god . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gods ; a sign post indicating their presence ; hence its employment in temple architecture . The Egyptian made it a symbol ; the Greek used it as a means of high ethical and aesthetic expression , as we have seen . The entablature drew these columns into a unity ; a II 69 unifying ideal drew the gods into a pantheon . The god in this pantheon found expression in the Doric column , the goddess in the Ionic , in each the definition being clear , concise , and adequate . But the gods did not stay adequate in the Greek mind ; confusion entered ; the expression no longer sufficed , nor was the definition clear . Man , freed from the gods , sought to express himself . Austerity , introspection , idealism gave way to luxury , superficial adornment , and weakening force . The Corinthian began the movement in this direction and completed it so far as classical Greece is concerned . While the image of the god is in its shrine and incense is burned before it and reverence paid it , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desecrated and the image is removed to be set up otherwhere , merely as an object of ornament or of bric-a-brac , its purity of ideal and its austerity of form no longer appeal , and it is draped with ribands to make it pretty and with garlands of natural leaves to cover its nakedness . As this new effect is copied and reproduced by others to whom the true significance is lost , but who crave ornaments or decorations , the garlands are sculptured or molded upon the figure from which the essential characteristic has vanished . The figure no longer symbolizes the godlike attributes ; the column no longer indicates 70 the presence of the god . To me it seems that something has been lost , some light has been shaded , some idealism has vanished ; and so I feel that with the coming of the Corinthian came also decadence . It was given , however , to the grandeur that was Rome to tarnish the glory that was Greece ; to create or apply , merely for ornament , forms which did not function , columns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ span the void . 717 V ROME , ROMANESQUE , AND THE GOTHIC ROME , ROMANESQUE , AND THE GOTHIC OME that vital spirit we have been analyzing , although she did so little toward aiding in any sincere architectural manifestation whatsoever , and did so much toward interrupting the continuity of the influence ; for Rome was a great builder , and her buildings were instinct with power . But the Romans were engineers rather than architects , and architecture is as far removed from engineering as poetry is from prose . Architecture , the art , as far transcends engineering as mural painting transcends protective coating , or as the dance transcends mere locomotion . We are interested in Rome at this juncture because she developed a great arcuated system of construction which , later , under the wand of northern and eastern magicians , was touched with the vital spirit and became real architecture . We are interested , also , 75 because Rome exemplified in all her endeavors in art that philosophy of life which bids its follow ers " seem beautiful . " She seemed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prob ably had little conception of it ? but she craved ornament in which to cloak her structures and give appropriate setting to her sensuous and over-powering social and governmental life . She seemed to recognize in the architecture of Greece and her colonies a fitting form of embellishment ; , not knowing architecture as an expression of life but merely as the skin coat of a building . And so Rome imported artisans from Greece and bade them apply the exotic Greek forms to the native Roman structures , with the resultant hybrid which has been the bane of architecture in the Western World . How different had been the architecture of the Renaissance had Rome bidden her Greek servants apply their genius to a real solution of the problem of idealizing the Roman form of con struction ! The western Empire was never fair to Greek genius as the eastern Empire always tried to be ? conserving the Greek spirit and giving the world through it the wonderful struc ture of Hagia Sophia . But what was needed to interpret Roman life was not Greek genius , but Roman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no gainsaying the power , the magnifi-76 cence , and the dominating character of the Roman structures even behind or through the pseudoGreek mask ; while the great engineering works , like the aqueducts , the viaducts , and the unmasked Pantheon , approach real architecture perhaps nearer than poetical prose approaches real poetry . It must be said in justice to the Greeks who were called to produce architecture for Rome that when they were not degrading Greek forms by applying them to an arcuated structure , but were working in the trabeated system purely , they carried out the structural expression in the entablature with fine logic and to a degree of richness quite commensurate with the power and grandeur of Rome , and quite surpassing anything which had been attempted even in the most ornate examples of the Greek . In expressing the upward movement within the entablature , in objectifying those forces which rise to carry the cornice and the roof and complete the design as it approaches the superimposed " limitation of finality , " these Greek architects of Rome in many instances developed grace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though as it might have seemed to the early Greek redundantly , a philosophy of life far in advance of that system which enjoins one " to seem beautiful , " a philosophy which demands of its adherents that in all their X77 acts they " be beautiful . " The fact that these architects did seem to comprehend so fully the functioning of the entablature makes it all the more surprising and distressing that they should have used this feature as a string course ; that they did not change the forms of the members , eliminating entirely the expression of tension , and strengthening the impression of vertical support ; for a string course can not function in tension , nor can it function compressively in the horizontal plane . Rome furnishes in her arcuated structures with their superficial adornment a supreme object lesson in that perversion and degradation which follow when taste is vulgarized by wealth , and vanity directs the expression of power . Often the entablature is bent around the arch into semicircular or segmental form without a change in its sectional outline . Thus the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sectional area , retains superficially an expression of tensional functioning in its inner rim . If the beam , which the entablature is designed to typify , is to be bent to arch form , as a bow is bent , then the tension must occur , and should be indicated , if at all , in the outer rim . But a beam is never so bent ; and an arch can never so function . And yet the architects of the Renaissance , exponents of " classic culture and refinement " as they are supposed to 78 be used , and their disciples of today still use , these forms in this debased and debasing manner all unconscious of the violence they are doing to real culture and refinement . It is one of those habits which make of architecture a whited sepulchre . If Rome , with all her power and riches and love of display and magnificence , could have been sincere and introspective and creative , what a great real architecture might have been hers . But she could not . With her arcuated forms calling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the same time , a racial and intuitive feeling for horizontality and what that implies in architecture , she frittered away an opportunity which will never occur again for developing a great real style . The builders of the Romanesque , scattered , impotent , ununited as they were , felt the stir of the spirit which Rome with all her unity and resources had missed . They touched the massive arches with a spirit of functional beauty ; and what with others had been dead form became with them matter instinct with life . The Greek idea employed upon a column and beam system had been to express the rising force within the column , to beautify the conflict at the point where opposing forces met , to express the complex forces at work within the beam , and to bring all the discordant 79 factors into one harmonious whole . The field of operations for the builders of the Romanesque was not a column and lintel , but a massive wall pierced by arched openings or a mass pierced with vaults ; and so they amplified the Greek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changed conditions . Where the repose of the mass was interrupted , as by openings ( Fig. 7-A ) , where stresses were forced to change their direction and operate under new or altered conditions , there the Romanesque builder took opportunity to apply his theory of beauty ? which was a law of life ? the old Greek theory that necessary stress and strain must not result in ugliness , but that the outcome of the struggle must be beauty . In a way his problem was not as complicated as was that of the Greek , for he had but one force ? compression ? with which to deal , tension or any need for its expression being eliminated by the nature of his structural principle . Though into the Greek system tension entered to complicate the situation , yet compression operated in but two directions , vertically in the column and horizontally in the entablature . In the Romanesque , on the other hand , the compression acted vertically , horizontally , on the diagonal , in the curve , in every conceivable direction , and , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of harmony and unity were not 8i altogether simple ones for the Romanesque architect . But he entered upon his work in a spirit of sincerity , using forms ( Fig. 7 ? B ) as abstract as those of the early Greeks and functioning in the same manner ; directing the force through columns ( Fig. 7 ? C ) where it seemed desirable ; letting it play through fields of broken light and shade where the unity and beauty of the composition so demanded . The Romanesque arch is always frankly in compression and the frankness is never minimized . The early builders were imbued with the horizontality of the classic periods ? individualism and intense spiritual emotionalism had not yet entered as compelling factors into life ? and horizontality was expressed by string courses and corbel tables ( Figs. 7-D , E ) in which the forces sprang vertically , the tendency being always upward , always expressing that aspiring spirit in man which will not down and , wanting which , as sometimes happens in case of a temporary rebuff , man lapses from his spiritual estate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new orders , between the severe intellectual restraint of the Greek and the individualistic and highly emotionalistic nature of mediaevalism . The earlier Romanesque forms are marked by classic restraint ; the later forms foretell the imminence of mediaeval emotionalism. 8a It were well to emphasize the point that the Romanesque was transitional ? a leading of one form of idealism into another  --  and not a stopgap filling in the space between the end of one and the beginning of another distinct order . The Greek religion called upon the individual to sink himself in the welfare of the city or of the state . The forces act as one , individuality being merged in the mass ; and so the flutings of the Greek column do not express individual forces rising in the column ; but they characterize the resistance , the vitality , the unity of the single force within the mass . The Gothic piers , developing in their final expression , as they do , into clustered columns , typify the individualistic tendency of the age , the combining of individual and single forces toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expression of a democratic or communal as opposed to an aristocratic or centralized order of society . It is in the temples , of the Greek , of the Romanesque or transition , and of the medieval or Gothic , that we find the characteristic quality of the particular age most richly and vividly expressed ; for into his temples man has always put the fullest and most characteristic expression of himself . These temples are the expression of man 's religious nature , which takes its character from the life and 83 idealism of the age , and are not the embodiment of creeds . The classic temples were pagan when the thought was pagan ; they were Christian when the thought was Christian , but through all they were classic . The Gothic temples were medixval always and were Christian only as mediaevalism shaped the Christian thought of that Era . If Christianity persists it will worship in temples different in form from either the classic or the Gothic , possibly in temples embodying some of the spirit of each ( as did the Romanesque ) ; or else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a barbarism from which there must be a new and altogether independent awakening ; not a rebirth , but a new creation . As the Greek spirit manifested itself throughout the period of the Romanesque , so did it enter into the beginnings of the Gothic and express itself in abstract forms ( Fig. 8 ? A to G ) which persisted to the last in spite of the introduction of naturalistic forms significant of personal predilections , of individual loves and hates . The forces in the clustered piers rise from a molded base quite similar in character and function to the attic base of the Ionic ( Fig. 8 ? G ) . To preserve the unity of the clustered members they sometimes are banded by moldings , which do not check the ascent , but do materially lend suggestion of sta-85 bility . The pier is crowned with a capital , sometimes simple in form , sometimes more involved , as would of necessity be the case where each of the individual shafts of the cluster had its own capital intervening between the shaft and the arch which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gothic capital , as in the Romanesque , is one similar to that from which we may readily and logically conceive the Ionic volute to have evolved : the upspringing force yielding to the pressure from above and given its initial direction and character by a necking similar to the band which encircles the mass , and which keeps the forces intact ( Fig. 8-B ) . Sometimes this expression takes the form of a molding continuous around the capital ; sometimes it takes the form of individual arms of force , as is suggested by the detail of the bell capital of the Corinthian . Sometimes one of these individual arms rises above another and similar one , suggesting two lines of individual force developing in unity , in the pure media val spirit , one force developing its own character and perfection in aiding another to achieve the common end ( Fig. 8-C ) . This is what the Corinthian may have had in mind and may have been endeavoring to express in applying his two fillets of acanthus leaves ; it would have been an attempt at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was never achieved in Greece , that is , not in the medieval nor in the modern sense ; and so , as already indicated , we must believe that the Corinthian leaf band was introduced for the sake of embellishment rather than to embody a deeper meaning or express a higher ideal . This mediaeval expression , however , holds within it a potent suggestion and a rich lesson for today . In the arch the lines are refined , while broken masses of light and shade produced by rhythmically spaced bosses after the manner of the Ionic dentils or consoles ( Fig. 8-H ) , or by canopies and carvings comparable in a measure to the Doric triglyphs and metopes , convey an idealized impression of the compression acting within and the changing direction of that force in the soaring member . While , because of the absolutely different mental attitudes of the ages , the medieval expression was not as refined and as intellectually satisfying as the Greek , yet there can be no question that the same idea underlay both , the idea of embodying in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the action and interaction of the forces inhering in the structure . As already stated , the Greek accepted and adopted a trabeated system as best adapted to the expression of his restrained and self-contained intellectualism. 87 The mediaeval man evolved an arcuated system which lent itself fully and richly to an expression of his wellnigh unrestrained and uncontained emotionalism . Each was working in terms of force ; the one with force calmly and serenely meeting force ; the other with force actively resisting force with balance and counterbalance , with thrust and counterthrust . The one sought an expression of final poise and repose ; the other expressed an aspiration and an ideal which could not find fulfillment in things material but must ever draw the spirit upward . The one expressed in completeness all that is implied by horizontality as interpreting the intellectual life ; the other gave rich expression to that incompletion and lack of finality which inheres in verticality . Each embodied completely , in his aesthetic expression of the lesson and meaning of life , a conception of that ascending spirit in man , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in this life or in another , be crowned with an emblem of perfection and of destiny fulfilled . 88 VI ORIGINS AND ILLUSIONS ORIGINS AND ILLUSIONS I N this chapter I am entering a field over a portion of which considerable controversy has waged , and in which continually things are being " seen " which really have no cause for being seen at all . They can exist , most of them , only in matter-of-fact minds of a mechanical turn and not at all in minds which are endowed with any degree of aesthetic imagination . ! Esthetic imagination is spiritual in its essence and does not need to be stimulated by the " adze , " by the turning lathe , by interlacing branches of standing trees , or by any of the physical facts of the material universe . The spiritual ideal is quite sufficient to sustain the aesthetic imagination and the soul of man . I say this because so many writers of architectural history make so much of physical origins , losing sight of , if ever they saw , the real significance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volumes , have been written in asseveration of the idea that the Doric Greeks received the origi-91 nal suggestion for the column flutings from the adze marks on wooden posts which were tree trunks with the bark blazed away ! Did anyone who ever had the slightest conception of the content and meaning of Grecian architecture believe that ? If the wooden posts which were used in prehistoric construction were shaped to polygonal section , and there is no existing proof that they were so shaped , it is because that form was inspired by an idea , and not because the adze would naturally leave the post in that shape , for it would not . The form resulting from the use of the tool would naturally be more nearly cylindrical ; so that if the workmen were at some pains to produce the polygonal form it must have been for some specific reason ; and that same reason held in higher degree in the more finely developed and civilized minds which later sought to express themselves in stone . Even had the Greeks blazed flat surfaces a , nd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , again , I say no proof exists that they did so , it does not follow that the form suggested the channelings in the stone shaft . The channel was the expression of a mental concept made possible of realization only through the nature and employment of stone . Writers of some repute have gone so far as to suggest , if not to aver , that the Greeks , the greatest masters of idealized con-92 struction , could not think for themselves but must needs go to Egypt , to the rock temples of Beni Hassan , for instance , for an exemplar of how wooden forms might be translated into stone , which , having found , they adopted into their temple construction . Let us leave out of count any such altogether baseless notion as that these forms found in Egypt were " proto-Doric " ? they may have been pre-Doric ? and look at the matter from another angle . The stone posts of Beni Hassan , some with eight flat sides , some with sixteen , and some with sides slightly channeled ( showing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any suggestion of entasis ; and each is capped with a rectangular pillow block between which and the shaft no molding intervenes . This latter fact alone removes them absolutely and infinitely from any possible relationship to the Doric . There was no Doric , or no idea approaching the Doric , until the echinus interposed its beautiful and resilient line of resistance between a richly channeled shaft and an abacus which existed not for structural but for purely aesthetic reasons . If one wishes to appreciate very fully the difference in " feeling " which so far separates the real Doric from this so-called " proto , " he can readily enter into the spirit , or have the spirit enter into him , by the following 93 experiment : go into a low-studded room , and standing upon a support which will just admit of an erect posture , press the top of the head against the ceiling with the axis of the body in a vertical line ; the sensation throughout the body will be that of a hopeless , lifeless resistance to a brute force . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not touching , the ceiling , press upward , meeting the resistance with the tips of the fingers . The sensation in the body will be that of buoyant , vital force rising hopefully and eagerly to meet the resistance . Now look at the outline of the hand as it exerts this upward pressure and take note of the play of muscles in the forearm . The back of the hand forms the line of a beautiful refined Doric echinus ; at the junction with the wrist will be seen the outline of the fillets or annuli ( Fig. 9-A ) . The sensation in the forearm will suggest the meaning of the flutings or channelings , while its outline will reveal the truth and the practical and aesthetic necessity of the entasis . You will be a man , probably , conducting this demonstration , and the force you exert will be a masculine force and the lines will be lines of masculine expression . If a woman of the gentle feminine type is watching the experiment , she , naturally , absorbed in the process , will let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the elbow is planted upon the arm of 95 the chair or on other convenient resting place ( Fig. 9-B ) . The force she is exerting in her arm is a feminine force and the lines of her hand are lines of feminine expression . This is absolutely in accord with Greek ideals of manliness and womanliness , of masculinity and femininity ; for these lines as seen in art are in their origin expressions of Greek ideals . The Greeks endowed their gods with their idea of masculine characteristics , among which were physical power , mental vigor , and spiritual resilience . They endowed their goddesses according to their idea of feminine characteristics , among which were softness and roundness of physical form , refinement of mentality , and grace and sweetness of spirit ; and so the Doric was the masculine architectural expression of the god and the Ionic the feminine architectural expression of the goddess . I am not saying that the Greeks , seeing the lines of the hand developed under these two conditions , said , " Go to , now , we will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form into an Ionic volute , " but I maintain that the Greeks did feel and embody in their architecture what you feel in your body in so meeting resistance , and they found an expression for it in wood or in stone or in whatever material they employed in their temple construction . Our writers do not stop with evolving 96 flutings , smoothly concave and parallel with the axis of the shaft , from adze marks roughly concave , if at all , and at right angles to the line of force , but must need find or devise wooden models for the members and details of the entablature . The guttae are wooden pin ends , as are the mutules ; the triglyphs are developments of beam ends , regardless of the fact , which is stated by the most observing and erudite of them , that there is to be found no example or record of beams having been placed opposite to the triglyphs , but that so far as known the beams rested above them ! I have tried in a preceding chapter to make clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other members of the entablature , both in the Doric and the Ionic , and even if one does not see fit to accept my conclusions , I do not see why , whether or not the original was of wood or of stone , the triglyph should not be conceived of as functioning structurally purely as a vertical support . Why drag in the unknown , the problematical , to explain the obvious ? There are those , I appreciate , who , to grasp it , must have a physical counterpart for a spiritual idea ; those who have not the imagination to see that , or how , an abstraction becomes concrete through the operation of the creative mind , but must look for the physical model . Such as these could easily convince themselves that the 97 Creator was led to fashion man through seeing a doll baby which some cosmic infant had dropped into chaos . It may be said with truth that such minds as these are not far removed from the bulk of the architectural profession , who , when confronted with a contemporaneous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on forms developed in another age , under dissimilar conditions , for a different purpose . ( This tribute to the profession in passing ! ) Probably the most grotesque lack of comprehension as to origins lies in the minds of those who seriously relate the aisles of a med.iaeval church to " forest aisles " and evolve the pillars and high springing ribs from lofty tree trunks and interlacing branches . This is a pretty idea , conceived by one who never had analyzed the clustered columns and the molded piers and ribs ; one who never had considered the vast difference between a social order in which the units combined and worked together harmoniously and enthusiastically , and with the deepest of emotionalism , around a common idea toward a common end , and two tree trunks adding rings year by year and sending branches out anywhere into the blue . It is almost as much of a misconception to ascribe a Christian or a religious origin to the forms which appear in these same mediaeval piles . In reality 981 the forms were not Christian , but were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age and gave color to all its institutions . Mediawal Christianity took on its emotionalism because the age was emotional . All the secular and civil architecture of the age employed these forms and took on this aspect , yet we do not call it Christian or religious but mediaeval . Without a doubt Christianity was the fullest flower of mediaeval thought and life , and because of that the religious edifices assumed their vast proportions and developed a plan which functioned for Christian uses . The fact that these buildings were mediaeval unsuits them in great measure for Christian expression today , though replicas , trivial and otherwise , are being forced into present-day Christian service . Fully as logically might we employ the pure classic forms in the same service . The Christian churches of Rome were classical , yet we do not call the classical Christian architecture , though it is quite as expressive of the Christianity of that time as was the mediaeval of its time . The origins of architecture are aesthetic ; not religious , not civil , not domestic . The most vital point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither the Greek forms nor the mediaeval forms , nor , for that , any other architectural forms , arose from structural necessities or requirements , but in re 99 sponse to the richest and deepest aesthetic demands of the age . Greece demanded a horizontal expression and applied its genius to an existing structural system . Mediaevalism demanded a vertical expression , and mediaeval genius responded with the lofty pillar , the high-springing arch , and the wide-flung buttress . The Orient demanded picturesque and daring fancy , not to say fantasy , and the genius of the Arab responded with the slender shaft and the unstable arch . The age gets architecturally , that is , aesthetically , what its genius is prepared to give it ; and for its genius the age is wholly responsible . There are other misconceptions as to origins . For instance , it is held in some quarters that the Greeks developed their ' horizontal style because the quarries of the region yielded great blocks of stone which could span voids in one piece . That may well account for the development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is held , too , that Gothic architecture was called into existence by the fact that the quarries of the North yielded but small blocks . That might well account for the arch or the vault but not for Gothic architecture . Some other and more important factor is accountable for the existence of the Gothic . The Gothic builders really broke up huge blocks into smaller units , which they ioo shaped to fit the character and exigencies of the design . When the Renaissance relit the candle of Roman classicism and demanded the expression of horizontality in architecture , it was no drawback that the northern quarries yielded only small stones . The drawback was that the designers of the Renaissance could conceive of no expression of horizontality except that offered to them by Rome . In accepting and applying these proffered forms they developed one of the most inharmonious , illogical , and unaesthetic features which ever has cursed architecture ? the arch dressed to function as a beam . Nothing architecturally uglier or more restless has been conceived than the horizontal lines of the entablature crossing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed where only compression can exist , if the structure is to remain intact ! It is a clear statement by the Renaissance , that " Renaissance " is merely a term of convenience ? not a definition ? and that Greek culture in its purity , with its logic , its poise , its self-restraint , will never again be the controlling factor in life . It is an illusion to allow one 's self to believe that small stones are accountable for this expression of degeneracy , which , rather , must be traced directly to the thought of the age . As for illusions , there are two sorts for us to Ioi consider : The so-called optical , that is where a faulty impression is carried to the mind through the eye , which , because of its natural imperfection , distorts physical realities , and those in which the mind itself is responsible for a distorted mental or spiritual vision . We have had the matter of the entasis in mind so recently that I shall bear upon that detail first . I register here and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would make the correction of optical illusion in any fundamental manner responsible for the lines which appear in Greek architecture , very especially as affecting the line of the entasis . It may be true that , as is often stated , the parallel bounding lines of a cylindrical column seem to bow in toward each other and so produce a false effect which needs correction . Personally I do not believe it , and especially do I not believe it in relation to a colonnade of cylinders ; for there is as great an affinity between the bounding lines of the voids as of the solids , which would of itself correct the illusion did it tend to exist ; correct it , even could not the aerial perspective be counted upon to do so . The curve of the Greek entasis originally was too great , and always too subtle , to be accounted for by any such theory . It can have but one meaning : it is the aesthetic expression of a vital force rising in conscious power to meet the IO2 conflict ; concentrating , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approaches the point where , having gained poise and self-control , it expands to the resilient , masculine echinus of the Doric or the yielding and graceful , though no less potent , feminine volute of the Ionic . That , to me , is a truer explanation than is the correction of optical illusion . The slightly crowning curves of the stylobate and the entablature are the aesthetic expression of a noble idea rather than the attempt to correct a theoretical illusion , which did it tend to exist would be corrected by its surroundings . A long straight horizontal line seems to sag . That is the theory . The illusion is supposed to be corrected by giving the line a slight curve upward . A long straight line connecting the ends of a number of parallel lines seems to bend toward those lines , and so there is a theory that the Greeks crowned the entablature not only to offset the depressing effect of the raking lines of the pediment , but to overcome the dished effect which would be produced in the entablature by the series of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines of the columns seem to pull the entablature downward toward the center , why do they not seem to draw the stylobate upward and so counteract the seeming sag in that feature ? In reality , as touching optical illusion , the effect of the columns upon 103 the entablature need not be taken into account , for the columns by their very design have so marked an effect of pushing upward that they could not produce at the same time the effect of pulling downward . This same upward tendency in the columns , massive and powerful though they be , prevents them from seeming to crush the stylobate . The strong man in action does not seem to crush the platform upon which he stands when he raises the weights in the air . The crowning of the stylobate and the entablature must , then , have been done to conserve the effect of unity ; to give from the ground up in all the parts expression to that aspiration , that tendency and will to ascend which is deep rooted in man 's nature . Nor was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ axes of the columns were inclined inward so as to meet at a point high above the earth , but , rather , to enhance the sublime effect of unity which is a psychological characteristic of the pyramidal form . The Egyptian used the form to minister to the craving for bodily immortality , the Greeks to gain the effect of spiritual unity and in that way achieve deathlessness . The Greeks well knew the effects of interacting lines and contours , but they employed their architectural forms with deeper meaning and purpose than to correct optical illusion merely . 104 When it comes to the matter of auto-illusion we are encountering a very serious phase of the subject . This operation of the mind upon itself is not confined to artists ; it exists among certain critics and philosophizers on art . The processes of art , to use a homely parallel , are not unlike the processes of intensive agriculture , where to be successful the nature of the seed , of the soil , of the fertilizer must be known and understood . Where would the world of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that matter , of art , have stood today had the real workers in these fields left the direction of affairs to an outside spirit which supposedly could be depended upon to bring order out of chaos ? The artist or the philosophizer who maintains that art is purely a temperamental expression unrelated to the solid facts of life , and that the " world soul " will direct the course and produce the national and racial embodiments , is cherishing a fatal illusion . Why the philosophizer should take this attitude I know not ; but the artist who assumes it does so to excuse his own lack of mental and moral force . " Artist ! know thyself , the life about thee , and thy relation to it ? " is a good injunction to be followed by one who wishes to be a factor in the ultimate achievement of national and racial ideals . 105 VII THE SIGNIFICANCE OF MASS AND FORM THE SIGNIFICANCE OF MASS AND FORM MASS , as mass merely , makes to the mind an appeal quite independent of form or of defining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sheer bulk , as does a mountain or other vast object in nature , altogether irrespective of the subtler message carried by the outline or by the characteristic forms within the mass when such it may contain . Mere size , for itself , is a very minor if not unworthy architectural adjunct . No work of art ever was great because of its immensity ; but it is great because of the form to which the mass , large or small , was shaped . The distinction between greatness and great size should be clear in the mind . The great Pyramids do impress by their very bulk , but it is the form which has carried their message down through the ages . The immense religious structures of the mediaval period impress us by their size , but it is their form which inspires in us the deep heartfelt emotionalism which exalts 109 7 us while in their presence . Without the form the mass would be inert and dead . The temples of Greece are , comparatively , not great in size , but there is a largeness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its intellectual appeal . It is with the effect of mass as characterized and defined by line and form that this chapter has to deal . The appeal of art is directly to the emotions . This does not greatly limit the field of art , for emotionalism is varied and manifold in its content and in the possibilities of its expression . There is the emotionalism of faith ? of aspiration ; there is the emotionalism of reason ? of intellectual satisfaction . These are the extremes in emotional reaction and between them lies a great range . Each is ministered to and stirred into activity by forms for which the mind , racially dominated or individually controlled , holds an affinity . Thus , the mediaval man would be thrown into an ecstasy of spiritual exaltation through gazing upon masses vertically disposed and dominated by lines ever ascending and forms intermingling and mutually sustaining and inspiring . The Greek would be stirred to the depths of his nature , in a manner just as truly emotional , by contemplation of masses so disposed horizontally as to arrest and crown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charm of sweet reasonableness and intellectual restraint . The Greek would be powerless to fathom the uncontrolled spiritual emotionalism of the mediaval man , while the latter would gain small satisfaction from the poised intellectual emotions of the Greek . Can the modern mind fully comprehend and find complete satisfaction in either of these great manifestations ? Unless modernism can spend itself in an ecstasy of faith like that of medievalism or can practice the self-restraint , submit naturally and gracefully to the keen intellectual discipline and attain to the high idealism of the Greek , it is quite apparent how futile it were to seek now to express the ununified and involved modern conditions by any return in their purity to medieval or Greek forms in art . That the modern age may know how to express itself and to interpret its own spirit in terms of art it is desirable and altogether necessary that it not only should know and comprehend itself but should understand the significance of the forms which art must use in its interpretation . There should , for instance , be in the mind a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a full recognition of the distinct psychological appeal of each . One should disabuse himself of the conception , if it be held , for it is a misconception arising C III through misinformation or superficial observation , that horizontality or verticality , as carrying each its own peculiar message through mass , is in any way related to or dependent upon the contour or physical formation of the earth 's surface . One hears advanced not infrequently the theory that a long low horizontal disposition of masses is particularly appropriate to a level or prairie country , while a vertically disposed mass harmonizes with a broken , hilly , or mountainous environment . Horizontality and verticality are purely psychological in their bearing and carry each its own peculiar emotional appeal whatever may be the nature of the physical surroundings . As indicated above , the extremes of emotional appeal are to intellectual poise on the one hand and to spiritual ecstasy on the other . The mass which makes the appeal calling forth , the intellectual response is characterized by horizontality . The mass which incites to an ecstatic state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horizontal form and line appeal to and superinduce the feeling of restraint and restfulness , as they do , then this will be the effect produced by the horizontally designed structure whether it be among the hills or upon the prairie . If the element of verticality be introduced to stimulate into emotional activity the mind which inclines to rebel against the re II2 straint of a purely horizontal composition , the effect will follow whether the building be upon the prairie or among the hills . The appeal of mass as defined by its larger outline depends on the natural surroundings , reacting directly as those natural surroundings may have affected the formation of the racial instincts and attributes in man ; as they may have sensitized the mind of man and rendered him more susceptible to the appeal of certain forms through the age-long contact of his ancestors with those forms and surroundings . Through such reaction do we account for the unified mind of Egypt and her particular racial characteristics ; so do we account for the unified mind and manners , the unified mental and spiritual attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past ; so may we in large measure account for the heterogeneity and want of unity in thought and idealism in our own race today . The physical characteristics of the earth , whether it be level , like the prairie and the sand-swept plain , or broken with verdure-clad hills or rugged mountains , and these under either the clear sunny skies of the south or the broken and cloudy skies of the north , influence the defining form of the architectural mass just as they influence differently the character and predilections of the race of humans inhabiting a level or a broken district under a 113 clear or a clouded sky . Generalizing broadly we may say that a level country calls for a distinctly pyramidal architecture , while a broken or mountainous country demands a distinctly cubiform type . Architectural masses under clear sunny skies tend toward simplicity ; while under cloudy , broken skies the masses become broken and picturesque ( Figs . I o A ? B and 11 A ? B ) . This is in obedience to a law of harmony which is basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor does it preclude variety . Rather it demands variety , and nature 's constant effort has been to produce infinite variety from the simple cell with which , or with a multiplicity of which , she might have rested content ; but higher development means variety rather than multiplicity . Hence , contrasting masses into which the broad level sweep may merge by steps of ready transition , and not masses echoing its essential nature , are demanded by the plain . These masses within themselves may be dominated by the vertical or by the horizontal principle ; that will depend entirely upon the mental and spiritual attitude of the races which shape the forms . And so , too , the rounded forms of the hills or the peaked tops of the mountains call for the cube for contrast and variety ; and a really sensitive race will answer that call in the spirit in which it is sent , and this without regard as to I16 whether the forms within the cubical mass are to appeal to spiritual emotionalism or intellectual restraint or to sentiments and passions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between . ' We are , in these pages , dealing specifically with the arts which have for their medium of expres-sion material defined by mass , form , color , and line , and the properties and qualities appertain-ing thereto . I may use to advantage the pictorial art , albeit diagrammatically , to explain the mean-ing and effect of horizontality and verticality and to note them as reflected in the attitude and bear-ing of the sensitive body of a sympathetic ob-server . This manner of presentation may be more effective than a statement of the proposition in words . Let us observe ( Fig. 12 ? A ) a man 1177 before a vertical composition . The feet lightly resting on the earth maintain the body in delicate balance ; the hands feel the influence of the ascending spirit and are ready to make upward gesture ; the head is thrown back so that the glance may go aloft freely . Again ( hig. i 2 ? B ) , we see a man in contemplative attitude before a building dominated by the horizontal principle . The feet are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest , the head is squarely upon the shoulders ; the whole pose is one indicative of poise and complete intellectual understanding . These two illustrations are more than diagrams in the strict sense ; they are pictures harmoniously composed , with careful selection as to content . The laws of unity and purpose have been observed and the effect in each case is that of harmony . This effect would be completely destroyed were the human figures in the pictures to be transposed . Neither man could maintain the particular mental attitude expressed in the lines of his body in the presence of the other object ; and to draw him so , except to illustrate a point , would argue a want of aesthetic intelligence on the part of the artist . The art instinct has loosely been denominated the sixth sense . Art , however , makes no demand upon a sixth sense , nor does it call for the occult , nor for the abstruse in its every-day appreciation ' ' 9 and application . Art is for the race ? for all and not for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself capable of comprehending or of expressing can be apprehended by the five senses and expressed in terms of three dimensions . What we need now is to put into active operation our powers of observation and our power of expressing in three dimensions , aided by those same five senses . This is not all we need ; for to produce or to appreciate great art we must add spiritual insight , without which the form and its significance can not be really comprehended . It takes a sympathetic insight into human life to recognize the working of that law which impels the human mind to express itself in those forms for which the evolution of racial characteristics has given it an instinctive affinity . This working is more readily observed and more easily recorded where the particular race has achieved a unity of nature and a harmonious expression , whether through racial strength and vitality or through comparative isolation . Let us observe a few characteristic examples of racial lines and expression ; comparing the physiognomy and the character of the garb with the masses and details of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convince us that to produce in each case this striking harmony the racial artist-historian must have I2I chosen forms with which he was by nature and environment sympathetic , must have discarded others , and , in reflecting so closely what evolution had so clearly stamped on things about him , must knowingly have expressed the highest ideals of his time and race . We must grant that the selection was made with design , that is , knowingly , or the product would be nature , , not art ; was made with design , otherwise all architecture , well-nigh all art , would fall into the category of Emerson 's " temples , " which " grew as grows the grass . " " Nature gladly gave them place Adopted them into her race And granted them an equal date With Andes and with Ararat . " I confess my poetical limitations ; but as a humble worker in the greatest of the arts and a sincere student of the manner and media of architectural expression , I protest that art transcends nature , so far as humanity is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of humanity ; and if the poet finds the realization fit to rank with the wonderful manifestations of nature 's spirit , it argues the greatness of the spirit of humanity , or in other words the human mind , rather than an unreasoning or unconscious obedience to purely natural laws . That the spirit of the time was working 122 through the artist there is no doubt . How potent this spirit is may be suggested by placing in juxtaposition an idealized characterization of the human quality of an age and an epitome of its contemporary architectural expression . We may recognize ( Fig. i4 ? A ) the spirit of Egypt , with its characteristic forms crystallized and its manner unvaried through the ages . We may gain ( Fig. 14 ? B ) a definite impression of the Greek spirit , of calm intellectual poise and emotional restraint and its expression . Again ( Fig . I4-C ) , we may evidence the working of that spirit of fanaticism and cruelty which marked the mediaeval period . These are great periods marked by grandeur of expression ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its art just as surely and relentlessly . Glance , for instance ( Fig. 14 ? D ) , at that debased period of the Renaissance and its art known as the " periwig and pigtail . " This is a real interpretation of the spirit of that time , and while it is unlovely it is accurate . In another chapter I shall have cause to consider if certain unlovely interpretations which set themselves up to portray our own age and time are equally searching , or if , as we may hope , they are but momentary impressions gained through a distorted lens . We find a field not altogether devoid of interest 124 when we leave these wider ranges of thought and come to study in detail the significance of certain simple geometric figures and forms . We have noted already quite at length the appeal of the pyramid . The triangle upon which it is based carries in one plane a less complete message of unity , of inflexibility , or of permanence , as the case may be . Let us now take up in turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ square from which is derived the cube . The sphere presents the fullest symbol of completion . Nothing can be added or subtracted and leave the form perfect . It is cold and lifeless in its very completeness . Architecturally the features related to it are the arch and the dome . The dome carries a note of finality . In semicircular form it neither incites to spiritual emotionalism nor commands intellectual poise . The eye following its form is brought back without interruption to the plane in which the movement started . The result is pessimistic ; the effort is wasted . This form of dome is made to crown the tombs of those races whose philosophy is " what will be , will be " and with whom death is annihilation or Nirvana ; it appeals to this sentiment and performs this function admirably ( Fig. 13-B ) . We of the Western World feel this and use the form to crown our courthouses and museums , the latter of which 125 we , until very recently , have considered to be the final resting places of stuffed specimens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ province as an expression of domination , and is so employed , imitatively , on our statehouses ; but is not this expression a perversion and an anomaly in a democratic state ? ' When the nature of our courthouses and museums and statehouses is really apprehended and our esthetic sense and common sense demand that these buildings function for the living humanity which surges through them with all its vital problems , the dome will disappear as a dominating feature , and the walls will cease to be masked with misunderstood and unrelated architectural forms . The dome appears upon many of our modern so-called Christian church edifices ; but , as with the statehouse , this is a perversion . The religion of goodness does not express its true self in this form : only the religion of power does this , and such a religion has no reason for being in this altruistic and humanitarian age . The dome seems to have been employed as the crowning feature of the church edifice before ever the form was applied to the statehouse . The transition came about very naturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State , reaching out beyond its selfassumed dictatorship in the realm of the spiritual I26 to grasp political power in matters temporal . The dome is not a form through which the spirit of a true democracy can express itself . The dome as a minor feature , however , and broken in line , has a use today in giving picturesque contrast to other forms and in making a poetic appeal ; in this it is potent , the dome being a development of the arch , which is the most emotionally poetic line in architectural composition . The pointed arch does not bring the aspiring thought back to earth unsatisfied , but bids it follow the rising forces in the clustered piers ever on and upward into the wide high spaces of the imagination . The pointed arch was not a structural expedient , but rather the poetic builder 's practical answer to the prayer of a great humanity which asked in deepest sincerity for some material form of expression for the bursting emotionalism of its spirit . That the answer was full and complete no one who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ semicircular arch , used by the builders of the Romanesque and the architects of today to span a succession of voids , imparts the feeling of movement and rhythm , introduces the element of poetry , and is freed from that feeling of pessimism which is apt to accompany it when used singly and upon a large scale . When used in the North the semicircular arch 127 sprang from a great mass or buttress , which tended to emphasize the rising character of the forces within ; but in Italy and the South the feeling for horizontality was so firmly established that even the arch , pointed , semicircular , or segmental , lent itself to the horizontal scheme of design which was under the circumstances inevitable . The arches spring lightly from shaft to shaft and the spreading tendency is curbed by a tie rod , so that the arch becomes the upper chord of a bowstring girder , and we have the post and beam system in another form , with the compression and tension visualized . This form of architecture is perfectly frank , straightforward , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greek , or the bold imagination of the mediaeval . The perfect cube is the most refractory form in art and often is employed for contrast with yielding or flowing lines . This contrast is required by that law which demands variety , variety in mass and form as well as variety in sentiment and feeling . The dentils which break the simple forms into masses of light and shade virtually are cubes . Nothing could be more refractory or of slighter imaginative appeal than the cube with all its corners rectangular , with all its lines of equal length , all its surfaces equal squares . It symbolizes better than any other geometrical 128 figure that concentrated resistance which a force has to meet in order to develop within itself a supreme ideality , a beautiful and complete character . So it was used , slightly modified , in the abacus of the Doric capital ; not as filling a structural want , but , as we have seen , an utterance of that powerful something which was necessary to the wonderfully expressed relationship between column and entablature , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the echinus . Not only did the echinus function against this refractory object , but through it character entered into the form , as will be noted in the final chapter , where the cube and square are further and more fully discussed . 129 VIII THE ELEMENT OF RHYTHM THE ELEMENT OF RHYTHM RCHITECTURE , whether it be considered merely as an affair of abstract aesthctics , or regarded in the higher light of spiritual symbolism in aesthetic terms , depends in large measure for its emotional appeal upon the essential element of rhythm . Before the psychological bearing of mass and form had impressed itself upon the intelligence , before the mind had even subconsciously yielded to the influence of mass and form , rhythm had been making its persistent appeal to the emotions . The first idea or want or desire of the infant is expressed in terms of movement . The spasmodic workings of arms and legs and trunk are at first the subconscious and then the altogether conscious manifestation of an indwelling spirit and an awakening will . As the desire begins to take definite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and directed toward its prescribed end . The parts begin to function as nature has appointed ; the arms to push 133 or to pull , at first generally to pull , the hands to grasp , and after a longer period the legs to uphold the trunk and the feet to maintain the body in equilibrium . As the passion to reach the object of its desire develops in the child , the legs are called upon to transport the body to the point at which the arms and hands can function readily . In the first stage the infant crawls , using both arms and legs as means of locomotion , a correlation intended by nature evidently , for even after the legs and feet have been trained fully and properly to function , the arms and hands continue to act with them , as does the trunk also , in sympathetic and coordinated movement . The mechanics of locomotion once mastered , the normal child immediately and consciously , from the very joy and exhilaration of it , introduces the element of rhythm . He does not analyze @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and shortens and lengthens his steps , and say to himself that he is producing rhythm , but he is conscious that he is doing something which is altogether remote from and which transcends mere locomotion ; and the fact remains that he is producing rhythm . In hopping and skipping and contorting the child is but following natural impulses , in indulging which he gains pleasure . By and by he begins to perceive the real meaning and essence of rhythm and em 134 ploys it as a means of creating and imparting a sensation or an emotion ; and at that point he enters the domain of art . Here it is that the subject relates itself to architecture . The dance is said to have been the first fully developed form of aesthetic expression , and from it in order proceeded music , acting , and poetry . The next oldest form of art , developing quite possibly contemporaneously with the earlier form , was architecture , from which proceeded sculpture , painting , and the arts of design . That architecture and the dance were the primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one who comprehends the nature of these arts . Architecture has been analyzed in the preceding pages ; let us now contemplate the dance , a something which transcends locomotion as architecture transcends building . In walking , and it is the same after the art has been acquired in all its perfection , the body is allowed to fall to be caught up immediately by interposing the leg between it and the ground . The foot then holds the body in poise until again it is allowed to fall , again to be restrained by the interposition of the other leg , and so on . This is the technique of walking , and the principle holds whatever the direction of the movement , whether forward , backward , or sidewise , whether the body be lowered 135 or raised . The leg in advance does not pull the body to it , nor does the leg in the rear push the body except in case of disease or decrepitude , never in normal locomotion . When the movement in walking is normal and regular no peculiar sensation is gained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retarded or accelerated the attitude of mind in both mover and beholder is changed . This mental attitude is complicated and the imparted emotions become definite , become complex and compelling , when an ordered relationship is established in the case of either retarded or accelerated movement , especially when there is a combination of retarded and accelerated movements following in ordered sequence . The emotional appeal is intensified by the introduction of rising and falling movement , that is , movement in the vertical plane . Upon the delicate interaction of the primal elements of time and space all rhythm depends . Distance across which the mind is carried at a certain speed , through the instrumentality of the senses , harmoniously related to other distances traversed at the same or varying rates of speed , producing melodic intervals , is the source of rhythm . In the dance , as in music , these intervals are marked by accented beats ; in poetry by accented syllables . In architecture the intervals are marked by a succession of solids and 136 voids or by a succession of masses brought out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ related to each other and to the masses . The most impressive and dignified of all rhythmic appeal , that which imparts the feeling of intellectual poise and emotional restraint , is achieved in the dance by the slow-moving processional of formally draped figures ; in music by the succession of related chords recurring at slow intervals ; in architecture by the austere and unadorned colonnade . To produce this stately character in the highest degree , the units of the composition must in themselves be dignified and stately in bearing and be such as shall arrest the eye or the ear and hold them at attention for the desired period of time . Emotionalism will be enhanced , at the expense , however , of intellectual poise , though great power and dignity will still obtain , by introducing gesture or varied drapings into the dance ; by symphonic variations on the theme in music ; and , in architecture , by treating more freely the accented masses in form or in detail ; by introducing thematic variations into the voids or into the mass of the dominant solids , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is not my purpose to enter into an extended discussion of the philosophy of the dance , and attention is directed to it only that the fundamental 137 character of rhythm may the more forcibly be impressed upon the mind through an appeal to an instinct which is universal . In " Monadnock , " in which he penetrates nature with deep poetic analysis , Emerson says : " For the world was built in order And the atoms march in tune ; Rhyme the pipe , and time the warder The Sun obeys them , and the Moon " thus indicating " how the chemic eddies play " and declaring the fundamentality of rhythm to cosmic design , construction , and conservation . The stately measures of the dance were developed undoubtedly in response to religious feelings , and were symbolic of religious ideals ; and so , naturally , the corresponding architectural expression , the colonnade , is found early in the temples of the race . More clear and strong and harmonious was the expression in those temples built by races which had developed a clear-cut and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , as that of the Greeks . The emotional and intricate measures of the dance arose in response to the call of the elemental passions , the strongest and most effective of which in race development was love . Thus the social dance and the domestic architecture of all times and peoples , including the intellectual Greek , were tinted or deeply colored 1387 by emotionalism . When love made for its object of worship the supernatural , or the divine , architecture discarded the intellectual orders which had graced the temples , but , conserving the powerful rhythm responding to deep religious emotion , shaped its embodying forms to an expression of personal and individual love and passion magnified to communal , national , or racial dimensions . The dance , even as a religious expression , was sometimes couched in the forms of the highest emotionalism , and this was especially so where fanaticism overshadowed the religion of goodness . The structure of the highly emotional dance presents itself now for our consideration divorced for the time from its occult meaning and symbolism . The body sways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the feet touch the ground for an instant with springy impact . The feet and legs conform themselves to the graceful lines of living force , changing ever as the body shifting the center of gravity calls upon them to maintain it in equilibrium . The call is heeded , the response comes , and with charm and grace and power the rising force in the legs meets the force of gravity acting through the body . When the art is perfect there is always felt and imparted the sense of perfect poise , of the perfect adjustment of parts , such as is seen in Greek architec 139 ture . In the dance the force is a living force flowing through living form ; in architecture it is an inert force symbolized in fixed though subtle forms which convey the impression of rich vitality . In both architecture and the dance rhythm contributes vastly to the essential unity of the whole . Although not generally so recognized , tumbling is an exalted form of the emotional dance , not universally practiced because of the seeming difficulty of acquiring its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved as compared with the dance proper , for the hands and arms act as supports , alternating ofttimes with the feet and legs in the performance of that function . The impact of hands and feet upon the ground marks the rhythmic sequences , corresponding to the solids in architecture , while the body in revolution or in convolution , extended or contracted , fills the interspacing with thematic variations which define the rhythmic character and quality of the composition . In the Orient , and especially among the Moors and Arabs , where the dance is wholly sensuous in its appeal , tumbling bears the same relation rhythmically to music and to architecture as does the stately processional dance to the chorus and to the colonnaded temples of Greece , or as does the gorgeous and picturesque procession of clerics and their ministrants and 140 choir to the musical masses and to the emotionally imbued piers and buttresses of the mediaval cathe-dral . To watch understandingly the movements and rhythm of a troupe of Arab tumblers is an education in racial aesthetic expression . The rhythm seemingly is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not composed , as in the mediaeval , of units concentrating their social and spiritual forces , but rather they tend to fly apart , the units taking each its individual line . The curves and convolutions , corresponding to the arches of their structures , are broken with quirks and twists indicating feverish activity and lack of poise . In the " pyramid building , " which always accompanies the Arab 's acrobatic exhibition , un-stable equilibrium is demonstrated in the highest degree and is parallel with that architectural motif which finds expression in the light fairy shafts of the columns surmounted by heavily massed , interlaced , interpenetrating arches . The Arab music illustrates the same racial character-istics . I have amplified this in an essay , ' " The Poetry of Motion , " from which I quote : " Flow a movement may impart its character is demon-strated by a comparison of the music and of the tumbling of the Oriental and the Occidental races . The music of the West is built upon an eight-toned 141 scale and though admitting and frequently abounding in transition and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And so with the movement in Western tumbling ; there is a certain sinuosity , but in general the feet and hands touch the ground with an evenly measured rhythmic beat , and in a line at right angles to the general direction of the movement , be it forward or backward . The Arabs furnish the best expression of Oriental art in music and tumbling . The music is based on a chromatic scale and moves in broken rhythm with many a quirk and twist . In the tumbling of the Arab there is hardly a movement directly forward or backward , but the sidewise movement and the twist predominate . What in the West would be a long gradual sweep is , in the East , a brilliant succession of chromatic runs . The decorative arts of the East and of the West present these same racial characteristics . " Arabian architectural forms do function not infrequently , after the manner we have been discussing ; but that does not characterize Arabian architecture to any extent , while complex rhythm does characterize it as well as all Arabian art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horizontal plane , but it expresses itself in the vertical plane as well . It is not enough in an architectural composition that the mind should 142 be carried by the eye from pier to pier , from solid to solid , across the intervening voids , but the eye should be directed upward over masses just as rhythmically related , leading the mind in rhythmic transition from the bold base to the delicately flowering crown . In a perfect composition designed to be dominated by horizontality , the vertical movement will not antagonize or destroy the horizontal , but will augument the desired effect , while in vertically dominated compositions the horizontal movement should enrich and intensify the vertical expression . This law will be found to have been observed in all truly successful examples of the architectural art . The study of rhythmic expression is fascinating . Rhythm , itself , in architecture as in poetry , in music , in the dance , in all human undertaking , gives character , unifies the expression , and adds zest to the joy of living . 1431 IX ON SCULPTURE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WERE I viewing the subjects in the narrower aspect , I should write of sculpture and painting . That would limit my field , however , for the term " sculpture " as employed in the chapter heading comprehends not only the use of the human figure symbolically and decoratively , but includes carvings and moldings used after the same manner ; while " color " includes not only mural painting , as that term is commonly understood , and surface decoration , but also takes into consideration the value and possibilities of color as a qualifying attribute of the materials which enter integrally into the structure . For the sake of clarity and convenience , however , I shall use " sculpture " as meaning the representation of the human figure in relief or in the round , and " carving " or " carvings " as referring to abstract or conventional forms similarly presented , and in either case whether used to symbolize force or employed purely as ornament . 147 As already noted , sculpture was used in two distinct manners by the Greeks : Interpretatively , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Atlantes ; and , decoratively , to tell the story of the gods in pediment , frieze , and metope ; beautiful beings overcoming influences which seek to drag them down or which seek rather to crush them . Let us consider for a moment the former manner . The Atlantes appear in the Doric . They are male figures expressing support . They are in high relief upon the faces of heavy piers which actually do the supporting , while the figures are designed to interpret the character of the rising force - in this case to interpret the rugged masculinity of the Doric . This is a truly architectural treatment of sculpture and one which lends itself to adaptations seemingly never utilized by the Greeks themselves . I can conceive of no just criticism upon the use of the figure as herein employed . The physical structure of the male , his muscular development especially as idealized by the Greek , made his employment in the interpretation of this force one peculiarly fitting and consistent with Greek ideals of religion and aesthetics . When , however , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of doubt crosses my mind , just a shade of criticism lingers . I shall reject the theory that these Carya 148 7 tids are immortal monuments to slave maidens , for the Greek ideal controlling in architecture was too profound and too spiritual to admit of any such perversion . It is true that slavery did exist , and the interminable extent of the flutings and the endless repetition of details and carvings more than suggest to the temperamental spirit that these miracles of beauty must have been accomplished , not by artists , but by artisan slaves under the strict rule of the master . I doubt if the Greeks were deeply concerned with the spiritual development of their slaves or kept them in bondage to develop in them beauty and perfection of character through restraint . Therefore , I reject the theory that these Maidens of the Porch are slaves , and adhere to the theory I have already advanced that the Caryatids were designed to proclaim the essential femininity of the Ionic order , to characterize and define that order which was a monument to the eternal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the idea that the Doric conception as expressed in the Atlantes is really the finer of the two . The Maidens literally support . I know that the distinction is fine ; but still there is a distinction to be drawn between symbolic interpretation and actual participation . It is drawn every day in our criminal courts . In bearing and attitude these Maidens are symbolic of 149 the highest in Greek philosophy as exemplified in the individual , but not of the finest in Greek art . In spite of the ultra-refinement of the entablature , in spite of its perfect balance of forces amounting to a bouquet of flowers , these goddesses , these serene and poised exemplars of womanly charm , are bearing a physical burden , and that fact , in spite of the shield and spear of Athena , I can not quite reconcile with the Greek ideal of womanly perfection as exemplified in the goddess . The Atlantes and Caryatids furnish the only instances of the employment by the Greeks of sculpture along the lines or axes of force . The nearest approximation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sculptured drums of the columns of the Artemision at Ephesus , an ornate Ionic structure of a rare type . The sculptured figures are of gods and goddesses and in no manner express support . The flutings of the shaft began in all probability above a narrow base molding which intervened between the shaft and the sculptured drum . A pedestal upon which the drum rested was also sculptured in the field between a plinth and an ornate crown mold . This field , as also the podium and the wall generally , was probably conceived by the Greeks as in repose , and , hence , adapted to sculpture and carved ornament . Transitional members , functioning as do 150 the base and capital , often adorned and gave structural character to the wall . A band beneath the crown mold was , not infrequently set off as a frieze and adorned with rich sculpture , as in the Parthenon , the example best known to us . It would be logical to infer from the presence of base and crown molds that an aspiring force was conceived of as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did no violence to this conception by permitting the seeming invasion of this field by the sculptured frieze ; indeed , they reinforced the idea , for the frieze interprets the successful struggle of the gods against beings of the lower order seeking domination , and the emergence of beauty from the conflict . The Parthenon frieze was a concrete statement of the content of Greek philosophy and art . The metopes of the Doric entablature were , as I have shown , fields or zones of repose in which the sculptor was free to vent his fancy without the hampering necessity of conforming his design to structural expression . This , too , was true of the tympanum , the triangular space bounded by the entablature and the raking molds of the pediment . The stresses theoretically were all absorbed in the horizontal and in the raking members , leaving the field free for any disposition of sculpture or any play of light and shade the designer might elect , and he generally 151 elected to place figures prone , reclining , kneeling , or crouching at the angles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ echoing in the sculptural composition the expression of that ideal unity to which attention already has been directed . For the Greek treatment of sculptured frieze and metope I have only the highest admiration , but the treatment of the pediment , it seems to me , leaves much to be desired . To fill the triangular space and to conserve unity it was necessary to vary the scale of the figures , or place them in constrained or artificial attitudes . ' When they were detached from the background , the figures gave the impression of being " stood around , " of being unrelated objects of bric-a-brac on a shelf . There is no more beautiful sculpture in the world than some of that which adorned the temple pediments , but the beauty of the sculpture could not save it from seeming architecturally a thing apart . The perfect treatment of the sculptured pediment is yet to be achieved , if ever it is to be . A misunderstanding and misinterpretation of the Atlantes caused the Romans , and through them the architects of the Renaissance and the moderns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , beauty , and unity in the placing of free standing portrait or allegorical sculpture upon columns used decoratively rather than structurally about 152 the building . This treatment debases the structure , vulgarizes the building , and makes of the sculpture , however beautiful it may be , an unrelated and altogether extraneous object of bric-abrac . No extenuation can be found in the excuse , sometimes given as a reason , that the sculpture is necessary to the architectural composition ; some sculpture may be required , but not that . There are in the Greek very few examples where a field of force has been invaded by other than sculpture enforcing the symbolism of structural stress and strain . The sculptured epistyle of the very early Doric temple at Assos is the most important of these ; but this is an archaic structure , with columns devoid of entasis , and tells the story of that remote period before the Greeks had found themselves . One matter with relation to the sculpture and carvings of the Greek temple must not escape us , as it is vital to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the larger unity . Nowhere is the architectural ornament pendant ; nowhere does it hang in festoons . Wherever a suggestion of this motive is found , and the instances are very rare , it will be not in Greece but in Asia Minor , of a very late period , and probably traceable to Roman influence . There is nothing so discordant with the aspiring note vital to any great or fine 153 architecture as permanent decorations in which the feeling runs counter to the rising force . The festoon is for temporary display ; and while a dignified , serious structure might be asked to lend itself for the moment to lighter matters , to impose upon it the burden of permanent festivity , or of permanent grief , or permanent expression of any temporary mood , is to debase its character and mar its unity . A man of spirit can not always be decked out as a beau or a harlequin ; only a marionette in a shop window can stand that . In the best examples of neither the Greek nor the Romanesque , nor indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the chase , or of any of the trivial and every-day occupations and diversions of man , carved permanently into the structural masses of the building . Rome bequeathed this altogether ignoble conception of architectural adornment to the modern Western World through the Renaissance , and the modern Western World accepted it in the name of classic culture . Trophies , arms , instruments , implements , all may be hung upon the wall as matters of personal interest and even of decoration ; but as one loves the integrity of architecture , he should not carve them or semblances of them into the stone or apply them permanently in bronze . Too disgusting for words is the employment , as decoration , of skulls of ani 154 mall or men and the carved representations of the remains of burnt or blood offerings . Taste and humanity revolt at such exhibitions . In the zones of repose tapestries , mural paintings , and appropriate carvings may be exposed with propriety and effectiveness , but they should not cross the lines of force nor mar the structural unity . There may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ space or zones should be provided for decorations of an ephemeral nature , where architectural forms and lines of force should not dominate , but individual expression of taste in decoration he permitted to assert itself . Such wise provision may save worthy architectural forms and compositions from desecration . In the Gothic vaultings the pendentive strikes a false note . This feature was undoubtedly suggested by the points of the foliated traceries . From a detail which was introduced to give lightness and airiness to the ascending lines came a feature which opposes itself to the general tendency and creates a discord . It is stalactitic , while the fleche , or the pinnacle directly above it , is stalagmitic . The mind which comprehends the entire structure feels instinctively this lack of harmony . The feature is comparatively rare and does not occur in the best examples of the art . In Arabian architecture , more emotional and 155 fantastic than the most florid examples of the Gothic , are ceiling vaults which have been inappropriately and altogether mistakenly denominated " stalactitic . " In none of them is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sectional or fragmentary domes which go to make up the larger dome or vault everywhere , even when seemingly pendentive , exhibit the rising tendency , if not , indeed , the aspiring spirit , as does the greater form itself . The line is similar to that used in the Corinthian bell capital and in the mediaval capitals ; one concave form springs upward from another ( Fig. 9 ? F ) , developing beauty in the true spirit of ancient Greece . As with the Greek so with the Gothic ? only with the latter more exuberantly and redundantly ? the carvings emphasize the character and direction of the forces in the mass . While in the Gothic there never was the Greek refinement of form , yet in the earlier examples there was an almost Greek austerity , and the lack of refinement in form was atoned for by the warmth of color and the intimate personal touch . Throughout the mediaeval Gothic we feel the presence of the personal influence and the absence of the master of the machine . We are in the presence of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of boss , of cusp , and of capital was contributed as a personal 156 offering , as a labor of love . In the presence of the modern Gothic we gain no such impression . ' We feel all too keenly the masterful insistence of the material machine doing work it never was intended to do and doing it for people who have missed the inspiring motive . While sculpture is allied with form , yet it is form proper rather than sculpture which finds its complement in color . It is through form that the sense of power in a structure forces itself upon the mind ; it is color which radiates charm and bathes the object in atmosphere . Color and form together deepen the mystery which must surround and penetrate any work of superlative art ; together they intensify the Blooms and heighten the gleams of the inherent magic . The Egyptian temples meet us with forms compelling the sense of power , forms clothed in the mystery of chiaroscuro and color . The Greek temples greet us with forms which charm and with color which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ piles lift us up into the mysterious heights and bathe body and soul in an atmosphere of luminous vibrant color . The methods employed in these three great types are individual and distinctive . With the Egyptian the conventionalized representations of terrestrial life , upon pier , pylon , wall , and lintel , were picked out in bright and 157 striking colors which vanished warmly into the deep rich gloom . With the Greek the architectural members , such as the echinus , the abacus , the moldings of entablature and of the pediment , were ornamented with patterns in rich , harmonious colors ; patterns which were intended to enhance to the eye the value of the functional parts and to reinforce the form . The sculpture of the pediment , harmoniously colored , shone out against a contrasting background , while the columns stood in relief against the tinted walls of the cella ; and thus the temple shone magically resplendent in the ambient light of the Attic sun . ' With the Gothic enters a new element . Color is now removed from the solids and fills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflected from the surface of the mass , but swims and dances forward to enfold all in its atmospheric arms ? to baptize the form into its own radiant luminous spirit . And so colored surface decorations in the Gothic temples were reduced to a minimum , for it was difficult for opaque color to compete on even terms with the refracted , reflected , tremulous , and living light that was distilled through the luminous screen which filled the voids between the great ever-ascending piers . In the Greek , color while assisting form drew the whole into fuller unity and added rarer charm . In the mediaeval , 158 color , the impalpable entrancing spirit borne upon the shafts of light which penetrated the translucent voids , not caring nor intended to enhance the value of single forms or details , enveloped the whole in a charmed atmosphere , mellowing , gleaming , glowing , or glooming in the changing lights and in the shadows and shades of passing clouds . The interplay of light and shade which is the concomitant of form , though powerful and mystic in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and depends rather upon the meaning behind and character within the form than upon any subtle quality or complex nature such as reside in color . Light and shade , unless influenced from without , stay as firmly fixed in their surroundings as do the fixed stars in their heavenly environment . But let color touch the form , and all is changed ; and necessarily so from the very nature of color which makes at one and the same time a physical and a psychic appeal . For instance , and roughly speaking , blue will calm the emotions while red will excite them . Yellow and gold maintain a neutrality and poise both physically and spiritually , tending neither to incite or allay passion nor to advance or retreat from the plane upon which either may be laid . Blue is of a retiring nature and the plane upon which it is spread seems to withdraw itself , while 159 1                     