@@28412

Trouble Magnet By Alan Dean Foster Random House Alan Dean Foster A most peculiar thing happened to the battleship as it departed the Repler system : initially daunting in size and form , it proceeded to undergo a kind of reverse metamorphosis , as if a butterfly were turning backward into an ungainly caterpillar . Intimidating weapons blisters collapsed in upon themselves like so many glistening , harmless bubbles . Lethal wave-form projectors shrank and slivered . Vast projecting appurtenances shimmied and vanished like the ominous illusions they were , until the menacing martial shape had imploded completely . In its place gleamed the far smaller fast-moving footprint of an ordinary cargo carrier approaching changeover . Clearly not a craft that was part of the impressive fleet component still orbiting the planet that was rapidly receding behind it , nor one that was likely to attract undue notice . Visually revamped , externally overhauled , and mechanically face-lifted determinedly downscale , the Teacher slipped unchallenged into the physically unreasonable but mathematically coherent state known colloquially as space-plus , whereupon it swiftly left the Commonwealth border system known as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Changeover complete . Exterior appearance modified as per necessity . Proceeding on general Almaggee vector . Awaiting instructions . " A pause , then , " Resume search ? " Resume search . Flinx staredout the command port at the splay of distorted stars forward . Resume search for what ? His ship was doubtless referring to the search his friends and mentors Bran Tse-Mallory and the Eint Truzenzuzex had sent him on . The one he had agreed to undertake provided only that they see to and look after his injured love Clarity Held back on New Riviera . A simple enough quest request . All he was being asked to do was search and scour the vast reaches of the largely uninhabited section of the Sagittarius Arm of the galaxy opposite the Commonwealth , locate and establish contact with an unbelievably ancient planet-sized weapons platform of the long-extinct -- except for one recently demised individual -- war-like species called the Tar-Aiym , and persuade it to aid in defending all civilization against an immense , undefined menace steadily accelerating in this direction from a region of space near Botes known as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attentions of the increasingly persistent and curious Commonwealth authorities , the crazed suicidal adherents of the Order of Null who badly wanted him dead , certain elements of the AAnn Empire , and perhaps the isolated Qwarm assassin . All in hopes of saving the galaxy and , with luck , of in a few years making it to his thirtieth birthday . And maybe , just maybe , finding out who his father was . He took a deep breath . From her position sprawled across the center of the command console , the minidrag Pip looked up at him , yawned , and stretched her brilliant pink-and-blue wings without unfurling them . He nodded , though not particularly at her . Time for tea . The Teacher brewed perfect tea . Many was the time , and more frequently lately than not , he found himself considering perfection tedious . But not when it came to the making of tea . Darjeeling tea from Terra , anar tea from Rhyinpine , unique forest teas from Alaspin ; the ship was steeped in those and more . Various chemicals both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body were available to the Teacher . Except on rare occasions he disdained them all in favor of flavor in the form of natural tea . When it was delivered to him in a pot and cup whose functions , if not the material from which they had been made , would have been recognizable to a tea drinker from a thousand years ago , he stirred in additives , leaned back , and wondered at how many ancient ship captains had similarly sat and sipped their own favored libation while studying the stars . They had done so from a considerably different perspective , of course . They had been sailing along beneath the stars , not among them . The hot , sweetened , dark gold liquid calmed his body but did little to settle his thoughts . Behind him lay the threat of the alien Vom , extinguished . Ahead lay a search for something to help deal with an infinitely greater threat . A search that might well take years . To what end ? Not for the first time he wondered why he ought to bother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future for himself and Clarity he dared to dream of in quiet moments ? If the evil he had perceived within the Great Emptiness was not due to arrive for hundreds or even thousands of years , why should he care about it ? Why should he have to be the one to sacrifice his life and happiness in a probably futile attempt to forestall the inevitable ? Everything went in cycles . Perhaps the eventual arrival of the Great Evil represented nothing more than the ending of one such cycle and the beginning of another . Neither of which , as he lived out his normal life span , he need be expected to deal with . Still running away , he told himself as he sipped . The realization burned him more than the hot liquid . After what he 'd seen on Repler , the wild thought occurred to him that maybe he should take drugs to make himself feel better . Perhaps try something stronger than tea . Given his singular abilities , however , there was no telling , no way of predicting , what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he felt he could deal with any consequences that the sampling of artificial stimulants might pose to himself , there was no telling what kind of harm such an indulgence involving his increasingly unmanageable abilities might visit on those around him . He decided that such experimentation was , at least for now , not a viable option . All right then , the voice inside himself demanded . If you 're going to devote yourself to saving something , maybe what you need to stiffen your resolve is to prove to yourself that that something is worth saving . That it 's worth the sacrifice . What he had recently experienced and observed while on Repler was not encouraging . Selfishness , greed , violence . Conscious misuse of intelligence . Willful consumption of sentience-altering drugs . Bloodhype . The noblest creature he had encountered during his sojourn on Repler -- the one with whom he had personally empathized the most -- had belonged not to one of the existing races whose future he was being asked to help save but to a Tar-Aiym named Peot : the last surviving representative of that long-dead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his recent , self-challenging , near-defiant , and very brief dalliance with the United Church officer Kitten Kai-sung , there was Clarity . Not to mention Bran Tse-Mallory , Truzenzuzex , Mother Mastiff , and other exemplary examples of contemporary cognizance and compassion . Even those who hungered first and foremost for wealth , like the old prospector Knigta Yakus , were at heart good folk whose heritable lines were deserving of preservation . Maybe that was it , he told himself as he sat up straighter in the command chair . In the course of his short but very full life , so many of those he had been in close contact with had been in one way or another exceptional or atypical . Easy enough to rationalize risking all to save such . But what about the great , restless , surging mass of others ? Did they deserve salvation ? Was the future of those vast , unknown , swarming genetic masses worth the sacrifice of his personal happiness ? That was really what was at stake . That was truly what he needed to decide . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquire wisdom . Where to go and what to do to find it ? In his short life he had seen much . Love , hate , all manner of planetary environments . But not , his recent encounter on Repler with the disreputable drugger and emoman Dominic Rose notwithstanding , the full wickedness and inventive iniquity of which humankind and others were capable . In order to pass judgment on his fellow sentients , and to acquire the fullness of wisdom that he sought , it was only reasonable to believe that he needed to experience that as well . Needed to proceed counter to his natural impulses and immerse himself in the worst that full-blown civilization had to offer . He mentally and methodically worked his way through the most relevant steller schematics . The source for the kind of learning he desired lay a good way distant but not all that far off his present vector . Determination overrode a hesitancy that as recently as several years ago would have held him back from proceeding . Determination , and a seriously advanced case of what-the-hell . Sensing his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and glided over to land on his right shoulder . As her tail end curled affectionately around his neck , he reached up with his free hand to absently stroke the smooth , scaly back of her head . " Course change , " he announced aloud , lowering his cup . " We will remain within the borders of the Commonwealth , but off the Almaggee vector . Set a course for Visaria . " The Teacher 's ship-mind was programmed to emulate an extensive and varied assortment of human reactions , but pausing for emphasis was not one of them . Therefore , its skepticism was immediate . " Permit me to point out that Visaria represents a considerable detour from the most direct route into the Blight , the region you wish to search for signs of the absented Tar-Aiym artifact . " He glanced toward one of the numerous visual pickups that were scattered about the command chamber . " Yep . " Nonexistent applicable programming notwithstanding , the ship-mind momentarily did seem to hesitate . " Visaria is an N Class One , highly industrialized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can discover to the alien weapons platform you are engaged in seeking out , and its heavily concentrated and urbanized population is the kind you prefer to avoid whenever possible . " " Yep , " muttered Flinx a second time . He took a swallow of tea . Forward of the curving port , stars and nebulae whirled about one another in an eternal crazed tarantella -- fused hydrogen partnering with torn particles to produce all the colors of God . " You are being deliberately unresponsive . Cold statistics and classification aside , my records indicate that Visaria is considered one of the most disreputable , debased , dangerous , and generally unpleasant settled worlds in the entire Commonwealth . It has a reputation for corrupting representatives of even such generally well-thought-of species as the Quillp and the thranx themselves . It is a place whose occupants are primarily preoccupied with building wealth as opposed to character . Since you already have both , I am perplexed as to why you should wish to go there . Particularly now . " " Well , " Flinx replied evenly , " it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ship-mind 's response was calculatedly cool . " The acerbic reference to the recent awkward sojourn on Jast is duly noted . My query and concern remain unaddressed . " " I indeed intend to spend an undetermined length of time there , " he continued deliberately , " to further my education . " " At the risk of your life ? " " Ah yes , " the tall young man in the command chair murmured , " that would be a first , would n't it ? " " If sarcasm were gravity and could be channeled , I would be the fastest vessel in the Commonwealth . " " By which comment you indicate that you 're not averse to occasionally employing it yourself , " he shot back . The ship-mind collected itself . " My sole concern is for your well-being . Visaria is a patently dangerous place . You are already under threat from various sources . My logic processor fails to see why you would willingly pile one danger upon another , when that other is easily avoided . " " You do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason ? " He stared in the direction of the nearest visual pickup . " One must consider the question of demonstrable risk versus theoretical benefit , " the Teacher insisted . " I 've done all the analysis I need to , " Flinx replied irritably , " and it is my intention to proceed . " Another suggestion of circuitous , or perhaps merely circuitry , hesitation . " You are not feeling suicidal again , are you ? " A dull pounding started at the back of Flinx 's skull . He willed it away . " If that was the reason for my wanting to visit Visaria , there are quicker and easier means of fulfillment . " " Granted . " The ship sounded relieved . " Visaria , then . Do you wish upon arrival to enter into an announced orbit ? " Rising from the chair , he placed his cup in the appropriate receptacle and started back toward the ship 's lounge . " If the folks who run the place are as cagey as you suggest , I do n't see how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowded as you say , I do n't imagine we 'll need to . And if it 's as shady even on the sunward side , I 'm sure we can convince the appropriate authorities to take a pass on any detailed arrival and entry formalities . " As its master left the command chamber , the Teacher set about negotiating the necessary alterations to the appropriate dimensional mathematics , with an appropriate kick in the right direction . It worked flawlessly , efficiently , rapidly . But insofar as it was capable of contemplating the consequences of the impulsive course change , it was not pleased . Habitable worlds were like tolerable people , Flinx mused as the Teacher decelerated through normal space toward Visaria . Viewed from a distance , they all looked similar . Draw closer , and individual features made themselves visible . The lines of a continent on a planet ; the lines of character in a person 's face . Canyons and crevices , rills and revelations , some carved by wind and water , others by life and experiences . He had encountered both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with sentient nonhumans . One simply had to study the different physical features to learn what they signified . Move in closer still and fine detail became apparent . With worlds , individual streams . Continues ... by Alan Dean Foster Excerpted by permission .                     