@@33898

Introduction Tradition Wall Street is long on tradition . The opening bell , the floor traders ' vivid jackets , black Town Cars at curbside , long nights spent hunched over spreadsheets , helicopters to the Hamptons , lap-dance tabs that run to five figures-these shared rituals and experiences bind generations of money folk one to the other , and so preserve and propagate the culture . But there 's one link in that chain more tarnished than the rest , and less fondly regarded : crime . Financial crime has a history much longer than Wall Street's-by several thousand years at least . Conflicted interests , insider trading , and outright fraud are as old as the first marketplaces-as old as the first swap of flint chips for bearskins , no doubt-and they 've been part and parcel of Wall Street since the days of the old Dutch barricade . Just as Wall Street has raised finance to high art ( or at least , to expensive spectacle ) , so has it done crime bigger and flashier than its Old World antecedents . Sure , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Vatican Bank , but Wall Street has given us Robert Vesco , Ivan Boesky , and the Hunt brothers , not to mention playing midwife to Enron , Adelphia , and Qwest . And unlike some traditions ( floor traders are an endangered species at the NYSE , and the bean counters are ever more skeptical about receipts that come dotted with glitter ) , crime on Wall Street actually has a future . Caveats about past performance and future results notwithstanding , I feel pretty safe in this prediction . The news gives me comfort . Every day seems to bring more stories of front-running , insider trading , and cooked books , and some business blogs ( the more ironic ones , to be sure ) even offer travel tips for white-collar bail-jumpers . Crime endures on Wall Street through cycles of boom and bust , and waves of regulation , deregulation , and re-regulation-a constant in an otherwise changing world . This persistence and bright future of crime stands in marked contrast to the public image the Street projects these days . Viewed from a distance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like such a clean , well-lighted place . The sort of place where investment decisions are guided by careful formulae and subtle strategies , by dispassionate consideration of all the facts and figures ; the sort of place where cool reason prevails . The information is out there for all to see ; you just need to interpret it correctly . It 's as pure a meritocracy as one could ask for , so get some software , open a margin account , and knock yourself out . It 's a comforting notion-but it does n't hold up on close inspection . Close up , you see distortions in how the information flows ( remember that suspicious trading activity before the merger announcements ? ) . You see the sheen of sweat , and you can almost smell the fear and greed . News reports of Wall Street crime do n't often focus on the gritty parts . Not surprisingly , they 're usually more concerned with the nuts and bolts of a scam-the who did what when , the mechanics of the money laundering . The human details get lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those details-in the textures of fear , greed , envy , and paranoia , in the class , race , and sexual frictions-that Wall Street is revealed as a very noirish place indeed , a place that is far more Jim Thompson than Warren Buffett . Beyond the buying and selling , the dealing room is a theater of outsized , often dysfunctional personalities , banging heads ( and other body parts ) in sometimes ugly , sometimes entertaining , and usually noisy and fascinating ways . And always there 's money at stake-big money . Of course , as the clich goes , that 's just for keeping score . To many of the players , money is a proxy for more desperate stakes : the sense of self is on the line . Who has the biggest , brassiest pair ? Whose is longest ? It 's a zero-sum game , and if he 's the Man ( or she is ) , then you are not . Step onto any trading floor , anywhere in the world , and watch the action for a while-you 'll get what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that 's no surprise-many of them are industry insiders or refugees , and all are keen observers of the Wall Street scene . Their stories are dark ( sometimes darkly funny ) tales of hungry egos , cutthroat competition , cultural dislocation , sweaty suspicion , not-so-innocent bystanders , and desperate deals with a variety of devils . And while these tales offer not a shred of advice about what to do with that 401k , their cautionary aspects are unavoidable . Hard to miss also is that many of these stories are not set on those short , crowded blocks between Trinity Church and the East River . This too should not surprise . In the past couple of decades , Wall Street has decamped from its historic home in lower Manhattan and-riding a wave of globalization and deregulation-conquered vast new territories around the world . There are stones from the old Dutch wall in Midtown Manhattan ; Greenwich , Connecticut ; London ; Moscow ; Mumbai ; and in the shining sci-fi skyline of Shanghai , too . Today , Wall Street is everywhere-the undisputed capital city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from its downtown roots to its glossy uptown digs , from Main Street , U.S.A. to the wider world beyond . It 's a shadowy landscape , to be sure , but they are savvy guides . Peter Spiegelman Ridgefield , Connecticut December 2006 (                     