@@29365

1 IT IS DIFFICULT TO WALK CASUALLY WITH FIVE HUNDRED thousand dollars taped to your belly . More difficult still when any of the men brushing past you would gladly slit your throat were they to suspect the king 's ransom you carried . The man who had chosen the warrior 's name Abu Sayeed snaked through the alleys of the Smugglers ' Bazaar , careful to check his impatient step . He was close now , but he could not hurry . To hurry invited attention . And attention meant trouble he could not afford . Around him , shopkeepers leaned in open doorways , smoking cigarettes and sipping cups of tea . He could sense their eyes upon him as they studied his bearing , gauging its strength , deciding whether he was a predator or prey . Instinctively , he stood straighter and thrust his chin forward . But all the while he kept his pace relaxed , his face slack , even as the claws dug into him . The money was divided into fifty packets , each containing ten thousand dollars , each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharp , cruel corners that chafed and cut his flesh . He had been traveling for thirty-six hours . His chest and back were flayed as if scored by a cat-o ' - nine tails . Only by thinking of the operation was he able to continue . The prospect of the infidels ' death invigorated him with the strength of the Pharaoh 's army . At four p.m. , the summer sun was at its fiercest . Dust devils arose on the dusty road , swirled lazily , then spun themselves out . After a brief lull , the bazaar was rousing itself to life . Beneath fluorescent lights , shelves sagged with cartons of Dunhill cigarettes , Toshiba laptops , and Paco Rabanne cologne , all brought overland fromAfghanistan to avoid duty and tax . Other windows displayed less mundane goods : Kalashnikov rifles , Colt pistols , and Claymore mines . Hashish , heroin , even human chattel could be had at the right address . If there was a free market on earth , mused Sayeed , it was here on the western outskirts of Peshawar , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cube of diced sugarcane , he cast his gaze behind him . His depthless black eyes scoured the street , checking for the misplaced face , the averted gaze , the anxious dawdler . So close , he must keep his senses keen . He did not believe that the crusaders knew his identity . Still , he must be cautious . Members of the American Special Forces infested Peshawar as lice infest a beast . Most were easy to spot , with their Oakley sunglasses , Casio watches , and desert boots . A few even dared enter the bazaar , where foreigners were not welcome and Pakistani law held no sway . The thought of the Americans brought a contemptuous smile to his lips . Soon they would learn that they could not run . The fire was coming . It would burn them in their heartland . It would scald them from within . And for a moment , the claws loosened their grip . The pain subsided , and he basked in the glow of destruction . Satisfied his trail was clean , Sayeed spat out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at , he was no different from any of the thousands of souls who eked out an existence trafficking the porous border that separated Pakistan from Afghanistan . His shalwar kameez , the baggy shirt and trousers that made up the local dress , was filthy and stiff with dried sweat ; his black headdress smothered with red alkali dust . His beard belonged to the most fervent of believers , as did the AK-47 he carried slung over a shoulder and the bejeweled dagger strapped to his calf . But Sayeed was not Pakistani , nor was he a Pashtun from the southern provinces of Afghanistan , or an Uzbek from the north . Born Michael Christian Montgomery in London , England , Sayeed was the bastard offspring of a cancerous British officer and a teenage Egyptian whore . His father had died while he was a boy , leaving him a polished accent and not much more . Unable to care for him , his mother returned to Cairo and gave him over to the madrasas , the religious schools that gifted him with an Islamic education . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progression to the camps where he learned the creed of the gun , memorized the verse of violence , and worshiped at the altar of rebellion . And from there to the killing fields of Palestine , Chechnya , and Serbia . At twenty , the Sheikh found him . At twenty-one , Michael Christian Montgomery ceased to exist . It was Abu Mohammed Sayeed who swore the oath , accepted the mark , and joined Hijira . Skirting a convoy of carts piled high with Korean fabrics , Tibetan rugs , and Panasonic televisions still in their factory packaging , he reached the Tikram Mosque . The doors were open , and inside the shadowy hall , a few men lay on prayer rugs , prostrate in worship . His eyes returned to the street . Scanning the intersection ahead , he felt a new pain lash his back . This time , however , it was not the jagged belt that provoked his discomfort . It was fear . He could not see the store . Somehow , he had taken a wrong turn . He was lost . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It could not be . He was at the Tikram Mosque . He had seen the photographs . He had studied the maps . Despair washed over him . Others were waiting . The countdown had begun . Seven days . The thought of failure turned his bowels to water . Terrified , he wandered into the street . A horn blared in his ear , loud , very loud , but from another universe altogether . Sayeed jumped back a step and a jitney lumbered past , passengers hanging from the doors , clinging to the luggage rack . In its wake , a cloud of rank exhaust choked the already oppressive air . He could not go on . He could not go back . Truly , he was damned . The exhaust dissipated and he saw it . The gold letters emblazoned on a black field . Bhatia 's Gold and Precious Jewelry . His despair vanished . In its place came joy . The light of a thousand suns . Insh'allah , God is great , he whispered , a bolt of piety swelling his heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kalashnikovs to their chests , fingers tickling the trigger guard . Sayeed passed them without a glance . They were not there to protect jewelry , but cash , primarily U.S. dollars , and gold ingots . Bhatia 's reputation as a jeweler might be suspect , but his trustworthiness as a hawaladar , or money broker , was unquestioned . Faisan Bhatia had long served the local smuggling community as its agent of choice . He was the only broker in the region able to handle the large sums that Abu Sayeed required . In Arabic , hawala means to change . And in Hindi , trust . Put simply , it was the hawala broker 's job to effect transfers of cash from one city to another . Some of his clients were traders eager to repatriate their earnings after selling their haul in the bazaar . Others , simple folk wishing to send money home to loved ones in Karachi , Delhi , or Dubai . Both groups shared a distrust of the bureaucracy and paperwork demanded by the country 's less-than-solvent banks . For them , hawala @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hidden from intrusive eyes . A system that had been in place when Arab traders plied the Silk Road hundreds of years ago . Bhatia , a fat Indian with a streak of gray in his hair , stood imperiously behind the counter . As Sayeed approached , he eyed the customer 's caked clothing and unwashed face with undisguised contempt . I would like to make a transfer , Abu Sayeed whispered when he was close enough to taste the man 's breath . It is a matter of some urgency . The Indian did not move . The Sheikh sent me . Faisan Bhatia 's eyes flickered , but only for an instant . Come this way . From the Hardcover edition .                     