@@31813

East of Storm Lake , Iowa " All right , I admit it . Radio Goldman is stone-cold dead . " Herman Goldman stood like an iron spike driven into the rutted blacktop that had once been Route 169 heading north to Blue Earth  --  technically still was , Cal Griffin reflected , although no car had driven it in the nearly half year since the Change . No car could have , since cars ran nowhere on the face of the earth as far as anyone knew , as any of them had heard . Horses , though , were a hot commodity again ; and Cal and his friends had been hard-pressed to retain Sooner , Koshka and their other steeds from the depredations of roving smash-and-grab gangs that had lain in wait at numerous rest stops and Kodak moments along the way . " Horse thief " was no longer a quaint term out of a Western  --  it was a job description . And we 've got the scars to prove it . You ca n't go through life without making enemies , his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That was just before Dad 's first abandonment of the family , cutting out for the territories , the apogee and perigees of a roving life that had made enemies of his own family . Now I 'm the rootless one , Cal thought , and his collection of scars both physical and emotional , formed the road map of his travels . " Maybe you need new batteries , " Colleen said , jolting Cal from his reverie . Goldieglowered at her , stuck out his tongue . There were no radios , of course , and batteries did n't do shit . They were both speaking metaphorically , baiting each other as they tended to do when most frustrated . When it grew too barbed , veering into real venom , Cal would step in as he always did , smoothing their rough edges , reminding them of what held them together , of what bound them on this road . He was their moderator , their governing influence , and he knew well why they thought of him as their leader , despite how reluctant he had once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quizzically , as if listening for a distant , staticky station , and Cal realized that " radio " was n't just a metaphorical term , after all . Goldie had been their crystal set even before the Change , catching the twisted music and voices on the winds of the Source , coaxing and wheedling and beguiling them on the daunting path that had begun that sweltering day in Manhattan when Cal had saved Goldie from being pulverized by a truck on Fifth Avenue  --  and Goldie had tried ( unsuccessfully , of course ) to warn him of the coming Storm . Since Chicago , Goldie had led them by fits and starts through the blasted terrain of western Illinois and Wisconsin , past Rockford and Beloit , skirting the horror of Madison , where cholera and a newborn smallpox raged . In general , the most populous areas were hardest hit , and best avoided . On the outskirts of Sauk City , by the banks of the Wisconsin , Goldie had found a cliff face with a faded petroglyph that he 'd been able to coax into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iowa . It had been murder getting the horses throughthey grew frenzied at the prickling feeling of being transported-but it had saved several hundred miles of rough traveling . They had continued west , drawn by the elusive call of the Source . Until now . Goldie shook his head . " Nada . K-Source is not on the air which certainly does not mean it 's not still out there , doing it 's nasty best . " " Great , " Colleen enthused . " So we 're stuck in this beauty spot . " The afternoon light had turned long , the shadow of a bleached FOOD GAS LODGING sign stretching out toward the horizon , browned prairie grasses tossing in the frigid wind . Route 169 opened ahead like a mottled black ribbon , and despite the signage , there was no food , no gas , no lodging anywhere in sight . " Patience , Colleen , " Doc advised from atop Koshka , looking every bit the brooding Russian horseman in his fleece-lined greatcoat . " I wo n't try to tell you it 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the stomach lining . " Goldie remounted his steed , took the reins from Cal , who was straddling Sooner . Goldie 's horse had originally been called Jayhawk , but he 'd taken to calling it Later . He 'd wanted Colleen to rechristen her horse Further , but she had so far resisted the idea , merely commenting on an increase in Goldie 's annoyance factor . Not that it was inappropriate , actually . According to Goldie , this was the name Ken Kesey had painted on the psychedelic bus the Merry Pranksters had driven across America back in 1965 . Cal dimly recalled reading the Tom Wolfe book on the subject , years ago . The irony was explicit . Kesey and friends had seen themselves as divine madmen embedded in a staid , magicless reality . And we 're the opposite , Cal thought . Reality has gone mad ; we cling to sanity . Such sanity as we make for ourselves . Colleen pressed her heels to her gelding 's flanks and the four of them moved ahead at a brisk trot . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cal ? Anything off your map trick ? " Cal reached back and pulled a Triple-A map booklet from his saddlebag to open it across the pommel of his saddle . He had unearthed it in the looted ruins of a convenience store outside Osage . On their passage from Boone 's Gap to Enid 's Preserve and beyond , he had gained a fitful ability to read a map in a new and frequently useful way , to sense the changed terrain ahead , discern some of its tweaked geography . But that skill had utterly deserted him since their showdown with Primal . And now , looking at the creased paper with its tangle of red and blue lines like arteries and veins of a body , he knew he had no special clue as to what lay before them . Only that Tina , if miraculously still alive , was somewhere due west of them , and that they had to keep moving ... Continues ...                     