@@29941

Trials can have moments of truth subtle , unexpected , even magical . Like the sudden stillness of songbirds or animal tracks filling with water or a name called from a dream . All at once a meaning comes to light , if you 're paying attention . If you 're not so taken up in the action you miss it , a revelation that flares and blows out . I was incidental to the action in Stillwell v. The Western Pacific Railroad . As the court-appointed conservator for Dale Stillwell , my only job was to approve a settlement between the company and the injured brakeman and his wife . Ten minutes into Stillwell 's testimony , the adjuster for the Western Pacific 's captive insurer had seen the writing on the wall . The robber barons were going to get hammered again . It was settlement time . Given Stillwell 's impairments , the judge and lawyers wanted a conservator to bless the negotiations . As a piece of legal work the Stillwell case made no particular impression , but I 'll see the facts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would even if they had n't led five years later to the Colfax Center for Rehabilitation , where June Stillwell was warehoused in Denver with other hopeless patients . December 25 , 1993 . Triple overtime at the Western Pacific switching yard in Laramie , Wyoming , for the unsentimental few who 'd service locomotives on Christmas Day . June Mooney might as well sign up . Her daughter was spending the day with June 's ex . Her father was snowed in seven hours away in Lander . Dale Stillwell showed up too . A loner , that was no surprise . Christmas was just another day . June was the only female engineer at the Laramie yard . She put Stillwell on the lead of the three-engine string she was hostling in to be serviced . Dale Stillwell was quiet , good-looking in an offbeat way . Wiry , tough , aloof , he 'd worked June 's trains once or twice , rarely talking , always moving , quick as a cat . June liked to know what made folks tick . She 'd wondered about his hidden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could n't have seen much in the ground blizzard tearing by . Her task was to nose the string through the maze of track and on into the roundhouse . The yard was backed up with cars going nowhere on Christmas . Stillwell stood outside atop the lead engine , checking switches and hand-signaling go-aheads back to June . The yardmaster in the diesel tower radioed permission for June to come inbound . There should n't have been any other power out there any other locomotives , cranked and manned . June 's engine started down a line that curved , then converged with a cutoff spur , the two lines merging to form a curving Y , a gantlet . Neither knew it but an outbound coal train was standing on the cutoff , fouling her tracks , the brakeman working the switch instead of protecting his power . Stillwell scampered down the front steps and hung off a grab iron to check what lay ahead . From back where the curve began , back in the cab and behind the string , and through the plumes of snow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the two seconds when calm turned to terror , a weightless feeling . Stillwell 'd trotted up the lead engine 's hull like a sailor and dropped down the right side for a look . Bent and leaning , one bulky glove hooked on the angle iron , balanced on the ball of a boot . Lulling sounds of rolling wheels and wind-rushed snow . No sky or ground , as the locomotive burrowed into the storm . Straining through the spray at the shadow taking shape ahead like a rockfall blocking the road . June kept the engines coming though he had n't waved her on . The cowcatchers closed with six inches to spare . Stillwell raced up the rungs but missed one , cracked a knee , lost his hold on the frozen metal . He slipped between the locomotives as they nearly touched , rolled like a rag in a wringer , dropping when they parted , with two collapsed lungs and eleven snapped bones and a penetrating head wound from a bolt that had jammed his skull like a geartooth . June said she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ She never saw Stillwell until the yardmaster called her to stop , she had a man on the ground . June Mooney was the ace switch engineer of the Laramie yard , envied for her gentle throttle . A " Casey Jones , " in railroad lingo , she could close on a coupling at a quarter mile an hour , so smooth that water would n't tremble in a cup . But the switchman is the engineer 's eyes , clearing the track and signaling forward . Nothing 's worse in a yard than a curve where a hand signal ca n't be seen . A radio would have helped , or a relay crew , but they had n't been assigned . June was running her string without a go-ahead from Stillwell , but the yardmaster should n't have let the outbound power leave . They should have kept the gantlet clear . There were no clearance markers . In zero visibility , how was she to know a locomotive would have to be cleared inside the curve ? She did know . She " sixth-sensed what was going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the snow and me running at him screaming . Something kept the power on , " she later typed in her journal , " like I froze up too , paralyzed by fate . " Guilt is a dangerous motivator . Sometimes it leads to breakthroughs . More often it takes you places you 've got no business going . While Stillwell was hospitalized , first in Cheyenne for six weeks of drug-induced coma , then down to the brain-injury unit in Boulder , through months of hysteria when he was strapped down , and finally the faltering baby steps of therapy , June was there every day , feeding him , reading , singing , whispering prayerfully , unfolding his balled hands . A year into his recovery she married Dale Stillwell in the Boulder hospital chapel . They got an apartment near the brain-injury unit once Stillwell was discharged to outpatient care . They filed suit in Boulder , kept it out of federal court when the Western Pacific tried to remove , and in Boulder my town it came to trial . Four days into the plaintiff 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for his lawyers and the house counsel for the WP , and surely for its adjuster , the moment of truth had arrived : halting answers to simple questions that built into a pressured , panicked rush of scenes of snow and steel , agitation , then incoherence that flew apart in convulsive stammers and shuddering tears of frustration and shame , and then the moment . The agonized silence that hung in the courtroom when he gave up trying to speak . Their moment of truth , not mine . I was called in afterward , and I caught sight of a very different man .                     