@@26368

Chapter One The Smell Test In my line of work , we call it the f-word . Not the too familiar obscenity but a close cousin and mercenary variant called fraud . I work in the Special Investigations Unit of Reliable Allied Trust , where I investigate insurance fraud . Truth be told , we do n't do all that much investigating ; it 's more about odor management . Fraud runs through the insurance business like waste through a treatment plant , and the vice presidents in marketing and sales and product development do n't care . If they pay out on too many rotten claims , they charge it back to their honest customers by raising premiums . Our marching orders in Special Investigations are to " process " the fraud just enough to keep the stench away from the corner offices and off the front page . Meanwhile , out in the cube village where I work , the aroma seeps into our clothes . Every day the network routes me three or four claims that failed the smell test over in General Processing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Special Investigations Unit , " and when I click on the folder icon , the virtual file opens containing all of the supporting medical records , accident reports , claim forms , and death certificates that were scanned in and uploaded by the document-management and knowledge-index jockeys downstairs . I like computers as much as the next gaming geek , and I appreciate the efficiencies of scanning in the documents instead of carting them around in manila folders . But the veteran investigators all say that the computers and the scanning are just more proof that management is barely interested in actually doing anything about insurance fraud . Those ofus trained by real investigators , like Old Man Norton , know that if you really want to smell out a fake claim , you need a file with real papers in it  --  the accident reports , medical records , claim forms , obituaries , and newspaper clippings  --  the ones that the fraudster actually held and doctored with Wite-Out or computer imaging or by cutting and pasting photocopies . If you can get your hands on those , you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dowser finds water with his rod  --  some say it 's a real smell . Something 's not right , so we study the handwriting , the layout , stray marks , margin alignments , the obituary date , the slightly different fonts in one blank on a form that otherwise appears to be an original  --  all become runes with elusive meanings , and soon the papers give off the unmistakable scent of human deception . The old-school investigators also yearn for the days when it mattered if you busted a scammer and saved a bogus claim getting paid . Nowadays , the computers do n't even flag the tricky ones . Instead they send me three or four laughable virtual " special claim " files , and within five minutes I determine that they do n't just smell special , they stink so high in heaven they make the angels weep . No investigation necessary . I do n't really smoke , except during certain periods of my life . These certain periods tend to pop up at work , where , if I need a cigarette , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The company provides a smoking break room with separate ventilation , and also a canopied veranda out front with huge sand pit ashtrays , but all the smokers in the building prefer the fire escape . It overlooks a satellite pediatric clinic operated by one of the big hospitals in town . All day long , nervous mothers drive up in minivans , unpack toddlers from their car seats , and haul them in to see pediatricians . We look on , charmed by the cherubic faces blooming with ruddy innocence , while we squint and suck death into our lungs . The day my friend Lenny got fired , I 'd been out on the fire escape enjoying one of those periods of my life by smoking a Marlboro I 'd bummed off a woman from Procurement . When I got back to my workstation , I found a " While You Were Out " electronic sticky blinking on my monitor from my fellow investigator , and daily obsession , Miranda Pryor , advising me that Old Man Norton 's assistant had come by in my absence : Carver , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Norton has some questions about the life insurance claims on the twenty dead Nigerians . She said she 'd call you later . Miranda Lenny , who works out of the cube to my right , was n't at his desk . The latest issue of PC Gamer was still open on his keyboard , which meant that he 'd left in a hurry  --  maybe he was already in Old Man Norton 's office discussing dead Nigerians . I stalled , skimmed an article in the John Cooke Fraud Report about infant life insurance policies and " baby farming " in the Soviet Union , and hoped I 'd be able to check stories with Lenny before Norton called me in . Miranda probably knew more about what was up with the dead Nigerians , but she was on the phone denying a bogus auto claim . I leaned closer to the cellulose prefab wall between us , closed my eyes , and felt her voice resonate within , as if a tuning fork or a frequency transponder were embedded in my limbic system , stimulating my pleasure circuits , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire scalp tingled in sync with the inflections of her voice . When Miranda denies an insurance claim by phone , she first consoles the would-be claimant with a free vocal massage ( for male callers it 's closer to a vocal frottage ) because her voice is a delicate inveigling rasp textured by fifty-dollar bottles of wine , designer chocolates , and , I imagined , other mysterious and intriguing bad habits . The party on the other end gets an earful of gregarious patter sparkling with authentic concern , and soon Miranda sounds as if she 's ready to propose a dinner-date . Until she gets the information she needs to deny the claim , whereupon the telephone romance ends ...                     