@@27146

Early Life , Such as It Was In 1812 , I went to the Stone , the holy house at C , a village straddling the ill-drawn borders of Brittany and Normandy , dependent upon the grace of the Church . For the next twelve long years , the nuns who had taken me in made it plain : if I lived cleanly , devoutly , as they did , I might one day see the face of God .... But no ; lately I 've seen only Satan . The sweet girlish faces of Satan .... Ah , but I do n't mean to self-dramatize ; I mean only to situate you , Reader , and so ... My world was the domain of C , its sloping fields bounded by picket fences and , beyond , hedges and waves of mounded stones . That place was comprised of a series of outbuildings surrounding three larger , two-story buildings conjoined by galleries , some shuttered , others open . It was hewn of darkly mottled stone and gray slate . Surrounded by tall stands of deciduous evergreens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sky . Set loosely at right angles , and forming an inner yard at the center of which rose a statue of the Sacred Heart , the three main buildings were these : St. Ursula 's Hall , a large and featureless space sometimes used for assembly , beneath which were the kitchen and dining hall ; the dormitory , set above a bank of classrooms , nuns ' cells , and offices as well as our Pupil 's Parlor , where the girls received their visitors ; and the third building , which housed the main chapel , Our Lady of Prompt Succor , as well as the sisters ' chapel , the main library , and several lesser libraries . Beyond the chapel sat the dairyand the stables . Beyond the stables was a graveyard , where we buried our dead in private . Too , there was the laundry , a dovecote , a carpenter 's shop , a smithy , and the building known as the Annex , which sat empty and unused all my years at C. White pickets formed our inner borders ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daily , surrounded the Sacred Heart to take our exercise . The youngest girls formed an inner circle , so near the statue as to see our Lord 's incarnadine heart amid the marble folds of His robes . If the weather was fair , it was in the yard , thusly circling our Savior , that we would stand with arms akimbo , bending at the waist , doing this and that , careful always to keep one foot firmly planted on the ground , as befits a lady . In winter , we would crowd under the galleries and stretch and bend as best we could . My position in these drills was fixed : I had always to stand nearest the kitchen , lest Sister Brigid need me for some duty therein . Understand : I was the sole scholarship student at C , and I was made to work for my keep . Usually in the kitchen , sometimes in the laundry or gardens . Though Sister Isadore ran the Lower School , and Sister Claire de Sazilly the Upper ( both answering to Mother Superior Marie-des-Anges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that I reported . I loved her ; she was kind . Kind too was the extern I knew from an early age , Marie-Edith , who came to C from the village thrice weekly to help with meals ; she also did our shopping , as the sisters were suspect of all worldly commerce . Indeed , it was I who lately taught Marie-Edith to read in my room off the kitchen .... Yes , I lived apart , at Sister Brigid 's request , and I did not mind . The cellarer , Sister Margarethe , however , did mind : not only did I occupy her pantry but I deprived her of the root cellar dug into its floor and covered over with boards . Though it was barren and cold in winter and damp in summer , with its walls in constant sweat , the room suited me . It was private ; and it was privacy I craved above all else . No novitiates came to see that my Bible lay beneath my pillow as I slept . No one woke me harshly at first light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attract attention . And , blessedly , a pump sat just outside the kitchen door , and it was from this that I drew my bath water , bathing alone behind my closed door . Not only did I have to work for my keep  --  and countless were the potatoes peeled , the corn shucked , the fish scaled and gutted ...  --  I had to succeed academically . If I did not  --  and this was intimated , if never stated  --  I might be sent away to an orphanage or some lesser facility of the Ursulines . And so I became an excellent reader at an early age . In time , no text was beyond me . And the books at C .... So many wondrous works , though I remember too some particularly hateful theology and sheaves of impenetrable poetry .... I was perhaps ten when I began to study Greek under the tutelage of Sister Marie de Montmercy . I immersed myself in the language ; but only until I discovered Latin , to which my allegiance shifted . Here was the language for me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfying as a puzzle perfectly done . I do n't mean to say that I rambled about C with Aeschylus and Cicero tripping off my tongue , but fluency did come in time . Additionally , there were the hours devoted to the perfection of our French , of course  --  and her sisters , Italian and Spanish . I worked diligently on English and German in private ; quite similar , the two , though I loved the myriad exceptions of the former and detested the guttural rattlings of the latter . For this , I relied solely on texts and guesswork , for none of the nuns spoke English and only one spoke German ( ancient Sister Gabriella , as likely to nod off as to assist me with the nuances of pronunciation ) . Mathematics , penmanship , geography .... These were easy and unexciting subjects , which I easily mastered ...                     