@@26587

Come and sit with me a moment , friend and pilgrim , for I have a tale to tell that many of you have never heard before . It is one of honor and friendship . One of bravery and nobility . One of strength and loyalty . It is a tale of boys who became men , not because they aged in years , but because they walked through the very fires of hell , arm in arm , back to back , defiant and bold with only one code of honor between them . We all survive . We all go home . We are brothers unto the end . It is said that the strongest steel is forged by Satan 's fires . I have witnessed this myself . For I was once one of their number . Captured in a land known by many as Outremer or the Holy Land , and held as hostage by my enemies , it was there that I found these amazing men . There were fifty of them in my cell . Cramped and cold , tired , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , these men could never be defeated . Not by anything born of this earth . Though I knew them for young men , and in some cases mere boys , they looked as haggard as any old beggar . Their faces were lined by horror and starvation , their clothes tattered and shredded , their bodies scarred and bleeding from old wounds and new . Still , they fought on with a strength of will that amazes me unto this day . Out of fifty , five of them emerged as our leaders : the Wraith , who moved with stealth and secrecy while he ran interference with our guards ; the Scot , who sacrificed himself for others so that they would not be punished ; the Widowmaker , who watched over us and planned our escape ; the Sorcerer , who was able to distract and steal whatever we needed ; and the Abbot , whose scholarly ways and unending faith reminded us that we were still human even though we lived as animals in a filthy cage . We named the five of them the Quinfortis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They kept our spirits and hope alive every day as our captors sought to break us . Without them none of us would ever have made it home . We would be dead now . All of us . It is in their honor that this chanson is written . The Widowmaker I met the man the Brotherhood termed the Widowmaker on the first day of my incarceration . His face had been so misshapen by a beating that he reminded me of some horrid monster . But it was his eyes that seared me . Intelligent and sharp , they had seen right through me . He offered me his hand , as he had done the others who had been taken against their will , and told me that so long as he breathed , I would be protected . He meant that . On the night of our escape from hell , seven men stayed behind to cover our trail . The Quinfortis , the Phantom , and the Pagan . While we boarded a boat for home , the seven of them bravely faced our pursuers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . Even now , years later , I can still clearly remember the sight of them in the moonlight as they fought like possessed champions while we ran at their behest . The Wraith , the Scot , the Widowmaker , the Sorcerer , the Abbot , the Phantom , and the Pagan . Men who refused to use their God-given names while imprisoned since they had been reduced to animals forced to fight for bare sustenance . Men who are bound by their scars and oaths to each other , and by the brand on their right hand that their enemies had placed there to remind them always of that time in the past when they were beasts . But on the night of our escape , they were n't animals . They were n't men nor were they boys . They were legends . The kind of legends whose courage and selflessness should never be forgotten . I have already told the tale of the Wraith in Midsummer 's Knight , about the blessings that have since come upon Simon of Ravenswood . It is time now that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known to the world as Lord Stryder , earl of Blackmoor  --  a man of many secrets and strengths . A man who has fought all his life and who has yet to realize the beauty that can be found off the battlefield . And for those of youwho are curious , my name , like those of the others , was hidden during my captivity . The Brotherhood gave me my own special moniker . I usemy Christian name now , but for the purposes of introducing theworld to the heroes I know , you may call me simply the Minstrel . I am a wandering bard , ever seekingmy own peace from the pastwhile I make sure that everyone knows of the personal sacrifices of the men who made up our company . And now here begins the official tales of The Brotherhood of the Sword ... Continues ...                     