@@26870

He pressed the button and the cacophony began . The big door descended , wheels running noisily along the twin metal tracks , and then it was over , and he stood in silence , and darkness . He thought of releasing his grip on the handle of the coffee mug he held ; he knew the ceramic mug would shatter , the lukewarm coffee pooling on the concrete floor , never to be swept clean . But he did n't drop the mug . Instead , he made his way in the semidarkness to the light switch , and in a few seconds the ceiling-mounted rack of fluorescent bulbs bathed the garage in a diffused moon lime glow . A black Chevy Blazer occupied one side of the garage . Along the opposite wall were rows of fertilizer bags , stacked nearly to the ceiling . Beside the fertilizer stood bags of grass seed and topsoil ; two dozen red , five-gallon fuel canisters were pushed against the bags . The man approached the workbench at the back of the garage . He used pliers , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of contents within seven crimped lengths of narrow brass pipe . This took him about twenty minutes . When he finished , he set the seven devices in a neat line on the bench . What he did next would have horrified his wife , but not for the reason he supposed it should have.Armed with a fishing knife , he sliced open each of the bags of fertilizer and , one by one , emptied their contents into the cargo space in the rear of the Blazer . He ignored the bags of topsoil and grass seed . When he had filled the back end of the SUV nearly to its ceiling , he removed a stepladder from its hook on the wall , stood it beside the Blazer 's passenger-side door , and proceeded to pour the remaining complement of fertilizer through the sunroof , burying the leather seats his wife had demanded they include as an option in three feet of ammonium nitrate pellets . He closed the rear doors and made sure each of the side doors was sealed . Then , mimicking his transfer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canisters of fuel from its place against the wall , up the stepladder , and , obscenely , poured each container 's fuel in through the Blazer 's sunroof . The garage soon reeked of diesel fumes . He took the lengths of crimped brass pipe , reached in through the sunroof , and dispersed the devices evenly throughout the vehicle . From his perch on the stepladder , he reached into his pocket and depressed the appropriate button on the Blazer 's car-alarm remote ; the sunroof closed and the parking lights flashed once , the doors locking noisily . He came into his kitchen , where he noticed a plastic fire engine parked beneath the kitchen table . He took the toy from under the table and returned it to the playroom . The kitchen stairwell took him into the basement . Once there , he opened the top door of the aging refrigerator-freezer reserved for soft drinks and beer . From his pocket came the trusty Phillips-head screwdriver , which he used to remove ten screws at the base of the freezer . When he had the screws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he 'd just unfastened and removed a metal storage container the size of a shoe box . He used a combination to open the container 's lock and opened its lid to reveal fourteen glass vials , each plugged with a wax-sealed cork . He pocketed a pair of the vials , resealed the container , and returned it to its hidden compartment . In the kitchen , he ran warm water over the vials in the sink until the cold fluid became less viscous . Vials repocketed , he returned to the garage ; at the workbench , he broke the seal of the first of the vials and removed its cork , revealing the gelatinous , deeply blue contents within . He stood , nearly motionless , observing the reflection made by the fluorescent lighting on the surface of the fluid . He had thought through this part upward of ten thousand times , inevitably drawing the same conclusion he drew again now . He had no choice . Seizing the vial in his right hand , he lifted the tiny container to his lips , threw his head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swallow . He set the vial back on the workbench and stood still for nearly five minutes while his stomach grumbled noisily , objecting to the offensive drink it was forced to digest . He left the second vial in his pocket . From an open cardboard box on the workbench he removed the last of the day 's devices : a tiny black box with a green flip switch . While approximately the same size as the car-alarm remote , it was nonetheless simpler in both design and purpose . Using the stepladder , he climbed onto the Blazer 's roof and stretched out , facedown , on the cool surface of the vehicle 's skin . In his right hand was the black-box remote . He looked at it , then readied his thumb beside the flip switch . Electing not to engage in further doubt or debate , he pushed the switch against its housing and closed his eyes . He thought to himself in the instant before his death that he would be the first martyr of his kind . Perhaps nobody would know it ; perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Perhaps when the truth emerged , if it ever did , his wife and son would come to understand ; perhaps not . No matter . He knew he was acting piously , and that his actions were just , and necessary . At that point his thoughts ended abruptly as , along with the Blazer and the majority of the house enveloping it , the man 's body was dispersed in a sudden , crude , foul-smelling eruption of fire , black soot , and enflamed fragments which , in their violent fury , flattened nearly two square blocks of the suburban housing development in which the man and his family had once owned their home . Continues ...                     