@@29255

" HOLD MY CALLS ! " Thompson Briephs flicked the Lock in his office door as he barked out the command . At ten-thirty A.M. the temperature in the Massachusetts coastal town had already reached a brutal 94 degrees and the despairing throb of the anti- quated window air conditioner did nothing to alliviate the problem . The brass doorknob twisted greasily in Briephs ' hand ; the heat wave that had gripped New England for a relentless two weeks had begun to feel like his personal demon . He shook his head as if trying to expunge his sense of frenzy and oppression , but there was no escape . The heat followed him everywhere , clogging his lungs and nos- trils and swelling his eyelids until they ached . Beneath the urbane lines of a navy blazer and knife-pressed khaki trousers , his middle-aged but athletic body railed at man 's impotence when confronting the forces of nature . Briephs ran damp fingers across his well-formed lips , then tested the lock again . Through the door 's frosted glass panel , he watched the blurred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tall and hopelessly angular female physique topped by an aging , toothy face and hair the color of dirty sand . JaneAlice Miller 's single display of femininity was a bold slash of fuchsia lipstick . Briephs stared through the glass at the repellent color ; the door panel illuminated and enhanced the purplish-red shade like a rainy night magnifying the glare of oncoming car lights . " Are you all right , Mr. B ? It sure is hot out ... " JaneAlice idolized her boss ; she 'd been his willing slave forthirteen years and so abject and fawning in her attentions that her fellow employees at the Newcastle Herald were convinced she had masochistic tendencies . That and the fact that her sole source of solace seemed to be an obsession with aging or dead movie stars and their life works . She could rattle off the name of any film , its cast and director as well as recite salient lines of dialogue . It was a trick she was not encouraged to perform . " Mr. B ? Are you okay ? " Briephs did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gesture , passing a perspiring hand across his mouth and then wincing as if in physical pain . " Maybe you need a bicarb , Mr. B ... You probably did n't get enough sleep last night after that lavish fund-raiser ... Oh , speaking of lavish , Mrs. Housemann phoned to thank you ... She said the affair went very well ... " JaneAlice 's gawky form bobbed about as she spoke . She was so close to the door 's far side that Briephs could hear her palpitating breaths . She sounded like a gaffed sea bass , the thought of which immediately produced a spasm of nausea . Thompson was forced to gasp and shut his eyes ; sweat covered his scalp and the backs of his legs . " Did you hear me , Mr. B ? ... This heat sure is something , is n't it ? The meteorologist says we ca n't expect any relief for at least another week ... Oh , Mrs. Housemann also said she 's lunching with the mister today and mentioned she 'd stop by to show her gratitude in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his head into his palms and groaned aloud . The last person he wanted to think about was his editor in chief 's newest wife , the flame-haired , aggressively voluptuous Betsey Housemannne Grumpilski . " Mr. B ? " " I heard you ! " The words flared out of Briephs ' mouth . He groaned again , but more softly . " Mrs. Housemann already telephoned my residence to thank me for last night . She neglected to mention she 'd be lunching with her good husband . " The former Betsey Grumpilski 's husband , Steven , was a quick-tempered septuagenarian who 'd clawed his way up through the Herald 's ranks . Ever conscious of having been denied a prep school and Ivy League education like Thompson 's , Housemann 's response to any adversarial situation was sudden and ruthless anger . His feuds and vendettas were as legendary as his rages over misprints and errata . Heads could roll over misspellings ; careers were threatened by sloppy reportage . Steven carried this business doctrine into personal life , becoming a vengeful and often mendacious opponent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ golfing partners he did n't outlast , few squash and tennis courts that had n't echoed with his outraged shouts . Housemann also believed he could outmaneuver Father Time if he picked a younger bride as soon as the previous model began to show wear ; he married frequently , with the fervor some men reserve for purchasing automobiles . " Now , JaneAlice , as you 're well aware , I require privacy to sort through the day 's submissions . " Briephs sighed noisily as if to express how beleaguered he felt . " I do n't wish to see or converse with anyone . . . Betsey Housemann , included . Is that clear , Miss Miller ? " The sudden use of her surname sent chills of self-pity up and down JaneAlice 's spine . " Oh , Mr. B ! Do n't be cross with me ! I 'd never do anything to hurt you ! Not in a billion years . I 'm your Girl Friday , you know . " She paused at the door briefly , then skittered away , a praying mantis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crane Briephs , the Newcastle Herald 's renowned crossword editor , pushed aside the latest offerings from his many contributors as well as an envelope bearing the logo of his crusty literary agent , and another from the New York publisher who compiled his annual puzzle collection . Those messages would waitbut the hand-delivered envelope , the one that had been slipped surreptitiously into the pile of incoming mail would not . Briephs found himself breathing irregularly . His mouth was as dry as baked mud . He stared at the cheap white paper ; it was smudged with grime as if the fingers that had carried it to the Herald 's offices had never encountered soap . " This has gone on far too long , " he announced . " I 've been reasonable until now , but the entire situation has become absurd . Farcical , really ... If one were given to dramatic allusions ... " Despite the brave words , he was sweating profusely . The starched collar of his pima cotton shirt felt sodden and oily around his neck . " Dammit ! " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jackets , the discreet silk neckties and regal mane of silver hairwere all part of a carefully constructed facade . As a member of the illustrious Crane family , the clan who 'd first settled Newcastle 's rocky shores , he was n't permitted to appear in any guise other than exemplary blueblood and model citizen . At fifty-one , Thompson had had plenty of practice . " Dammit , " he repeated , then slit open the grimy envelope . Inside was the usual word gameor more accurately , a piece of a word game cut from the Herald 's daily crossword . But whoever had developed the habit of hacking apart Thompson 's puzzles had created new sets of clues that even the most slack-jawed , nose-ringed teenager would have found embarrassingly inadequate . Only infrequently did the format vary or a clue contain a sophisticated etymological fiddle , leading Briephs to suspect his tormentor might be more than one personor a single being so verbally adept that he , or she , could afford to play the idiot . Thompson guessed he was being toyed with ; if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Everyone in Newcastle knew Thompson Crane Briephs was a wealthy man . A very wealthy man . The present message contained the usual threat of " exposure " if " Thompson Briephs " did n't " ante up . " This time the amount was a paltry two hundred dollars . " Eleven hundred last time ... five hundred before that ... three thousand four months ago ... A year of being nickel-and-dimed to death , " Briephs groaned . " What is this creature waiting for ? Where is the method to this madness ? " Briephs dropped the letter and envelope into his calfskin attach case . By now , his handsome shirt was thoroughly soaked ; the monogrammed pocket clung to his skin like ancient adhesive tape . Reflexively , he tucked his hand back into the attach case , fingering a loose-leaf notebook that contained the beginnings of his latest and as yet unfinished collection of puzzles . This " bible " was never far from his reach ; touching it gave him momentary solace . " Bartholomew Kerr 's on the line , sir . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " He says he wo n't take a moment . It 's about the society column . He wanted to mention the theatre piece you 're backing , but did n't have time to discuss it last night ... He said you must have slipped away before he realized it ... " Briephs ' hand jerked away from the notebook , ripping a manicured fingernail on the hard edge . " Dammit , JaneAlice ! I distinctly said no interruptions ' ! " His voice rattled the glass . The secretary again retreated from the entrance to her boss 's forbidden sanctuary . " But he said " " I do n't care what that sniveling snoop told you ! " " Yes , sir . " A faint sound of weeping followed this exchange . Briephs raised impatient eyebrows but stifled an additional tirade . " I 'm going home , " he said instead . " I ca n't operate under these appalling conditions . Tell Mr. Housemann I 'll fax the Saturday and Sunday puzzles . " " Oh , Mr. B , I hope it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slammed out of his office and strode through JaneAlice 's . The attach case was clenched in his fist . Briephs watched the doors of the Herald 's elevator snap shut . Its sculpted bronze faade to the contrary , the car 's interior was airless and stank of old shoes , unwashed hair and too many layers of yellowing floor wax . He wrinkled his patrician nose in distaste , then jabbed the button for the garage level . The elevator began rumbling through the brick building , coming to a halt on the third and second floors , although the halls remained mercifully empty . Briephs could hear voices arguing , doors slamming and a cacophony of unanswered telephonesthe customary panic to meet Friday 's deadline . " Dammit , " he swore , stabbing the garage button again . The minutes were ticking away , and he was stuck in an elevator from hell . He could feel sweat prickling his scalp and the palms of his hands . " This is ludicrous , " he muttered between clenched teeth . " I 'm Thompson Briephs . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Finally he reached the Herald 's cavernous underground parking garage . An inadequate number of fluorescent lights cast putrid green shadows that intensified the humidity while failing to fully illuminate the area . Involuntarily , Briephs combed his fingers through his silver hair as he peered through the murky gloom , searching for signs of life . When he was certain there were no witnesses , he opened his attach case , pulled out the letter and envelope , shredded them and dropped the pieces into a Dumpster . Then he walked to an adjoining arched alcove and his waiting canary-yellow Jaguar XJS convertiblea toy purchased with the advance from his tenth annual collection of puzzles . Briephs pushed the Jag 's black canvas top into its boot , tossed in the calfskin case , jumped into the driver 's seat , and was about to turn the key in the ignition when he heard the unmistakable sound of high heels tapping across poured concrete . He jerked around and stared through the darkness , gradually recognizing Betsey Housemann sashaying slowly toward him . A statuesque woman who claimed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tight black silk blouse and short blue leather skirt that barely covered what it had been designed to cover . Her hair billowed around her face like mounds of crinkled red cellophane . " Sneaking out on me , are you , Tommy-Boy ? " " I was n't aware you were coming so soon , Betsey . " " I 'm coming ' to see Steven , honeybunch ... Besides , I thought you did n't approve of inelegant speech in public . " " The verb is a common one , Betsey . . . Old English cuman , meaning to approach ... " " You know that lingo stuff bores the you-know-what out of me ... " " Perhaps you should n't have espoused yourself to a newspaperman . Words , I believe , are Steven 's stock in trade ... " Briephs made an instinctive grab for his briefcase . " My lord and master is n't expecting me till lunchtime . Maybe I could make a quick detour ... Come out to your hideaway for a little warm-up exercise ... We could pick up where we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Briephs turned the key in the ignition . " You can be a real creep , Thompson . " " So is this great and wide sea , wherein all things creeping innumerable ... ' I 'm a man , dear girl , in case your memory does n't span a mere twelve hours . I do n't slither on my belly . I walk on two feet . Now , I 'm afraid I must go . I 'm regrettably late . " Betsey 's tall form swayed over the driver's-side door . For a moment Briephs imagined she was going to grab his keys and heave them toward the garage 's inaccessible recesses . Or swallow them . Betsey was capable of almost anything . " You know , Tommy , sometimes I think I hate you , " she cooed in a husky voice .                     