@@30331

One Matchless Time A Life of William Faulkner Chapter One Origins A Sense of Place The past is never dead . It 's not even past .  --  Faulkner , Requiem for a Nun A sense of place was everything to William Faulkner , and more than any other American novelist in the twentieth century , he understood how to mine the details of place , including its human history , for literary effects . His novels , from the outset , are obsessed with what T. S. Eliot once referred to as " significant soil , " but the outward details of place quickly become inner details as Faulkner examines the soul of his characters through the prism of their observations , their rootings and branchings , their familial and social as well as geographical contexts . Place , for Faulkner , becomes a spiritual location from which he examines a truth deeper than anything like mere locality . Faulkner saw himself as taking part in a great process , moving through history and , in an intriguing way , creating a counterhistory of his own . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based on the " real " universe of Lafayette County , Mississippi . Faulkner 's invented region , Yoknapatawpha County , was named after an actual stream that ran through Lafayette County , the name itself meaning , according to Faulkner , " the water runs slow through flat land . " Lafayette was among several counties created by various acts of violence in northern Mississippi in the 1830s , when the native Chickasaw tribe was driven westward , displaced by a procession of planters , slaves , and small farmers , all of whom worked together to fashion an economy based on cotton . At least for a while  --  before repeated plantings of cotton depleted the topsoil  --  this economy worked well for the white population of Lafayette , especially those living at its middle and higher end . Not surprisingly , this prosperous class regarded the abolition of slavery as a threat to their way of life and joined forces with those who believed in secession . Their allegiance to the Old South was , for the most part , unwavering . In Faulkner 's fiction , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planter class , and their failure over generations is one of his most compelling themes , counterpointed by the implacable emergence of the Snopes clan , representing the greedy , unscrupulous white folks who come from the outlying country and who form a kind of counterpoint to the Sartoris clan , although it is somewhat misleading to regard this dialectic in a simplistic fashion , since there are admirable Snopeses and selfish , inconsiderate members of the Sartoris family . The Civil War came as a tidal wave , sweeping over northern Mississippi with a vengeance . Oxford itself  --  Faulkner 's hometown , and the focal point of his imagination  --  was ransacked by Union troops ( which included many liberated slaves in their ranks ) in August of 1864 . The aftershocks of this horrific war reverberated through the decades , and Faulkner 's characters might be considered survivors of an original trauma , often unspoken , absorbed and transmogrified in their own lives and relived as other kinds of trauma . Even World War I , which obsessed Faulkner , was in a sense an extension , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by pitting brother against brother , father against son . ( Faulkner plays out some of these conflicts in A Fable , a late novel set mostly on the western front , and in many stories . ) It is in the nature of things for violent acts to repeat themselves , even though the original source of the violence is lost to view . In many ways , Faulkner 's writing is about uncovering these hidden sources of disruption , about following their echoes and unconscious reenactments down the decades . Even the form of his narratives  --  obsessed with revision as much as vision  --  often reproduces the content , with the novels and stories ( " a few old mouth-to-mouth tales , " as Faulkner says in Absalom , Absalom ! ) doubling back on themselves . Lafayette County was indeed a representative county , even without Faulkner . As Don H. Doyle notes , " Quite apart from Faulkner 's unique contribution to the history of this county and region , Lafayette County , Mississippi , stands on its own as a southern community whose history can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part . " 1 One tends , when thinking of the Old South , to concentrate on the more settled parts of that region , from Virginia southward through the Carolinas and Georgia and Alabama . Mississippi , at the western border of the Old South , occupied a liminal territory on the wilder edge of frontier society . It was , as a result of its position , more dynamic , less predictable , and therefore appealing to a writer 's imagination , a place where he could explore the " human heart in conflict with itself , " as he said in his Nobel address in Stockholm in December 1950 . Faulkner examined a wide range of social classes , each struggling for survival in a county that fell between piney hills and richly fertile river valley . Two rivers dominated the region : the Tallahatchie and the Yoknapatawpha --  the names themselves like poems in the ears of a young boy sensitive to language . During Faulkner 's childhood , the lower ranks of society were dominated by sharecroppers and " poor white trash , " who course vividly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War , there were the slaves  --  the rock bottom of society , who later become " free " Negroes and who worked the fields after the war in much the same way they worked the land before the war . Faulkner would write about them frequently , and with sympathy , although not with the same passion or inwardness that he reserves for white characters . Forty percent of the white families in Lafayette County owned slaves before the war , as Doyle notes , with half of these families owning five slaves or fewer . ( A few families owned more than a hundred slaves , but this was exceptional . ) The slaves themselves made up roughly half of the county 's population . Nearly a century later , the balance between the black and white population remained roughly the same . Needless to say , blacks in postCivil War Mississippi lived close to the poverty line , sinking into a period of deep subjugation from which they would find little relief until the civil rights movement of the 1960s began to lift their burden , however slightly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               