@@33426

Hampton Regis Early February , 1920 It was a bitterly cold night of frost , the stars sharp and piercingly bright overhead . He pulled the motorcar to the verge and settled to watch the house that lay directly across the black expanse of water . It stood out against the sky , amazingly clear . Even from here he could tell there were lamps burning in three of the rooms . He could picture them in his mind : at the rear of the house -- the sitting room , very likely . In the entry , where the pattern of the fanlight over the front door shone starkly against the deep shadows there -- behind it the staircase , of course . And one on the first floor , under the eaves . Their bedroom , surely . The sitting room lamp went out after half an hour . He could see , for an instant , the grotesque silhouette cast for a moment or two against the drawn shades as someone reached out to turn down the flame . And then the silhouette reappeared briefly in the fanlight just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his concentration intense , then swore as the windscreen clouded with his breath . Were there two people in the bedroom now ? He could n't bear to think about it . He could n't bear to picture her in another man 's arms , wrapped in the warmth of the bedclothes , whispering softly , her hair falling over his shoulderand across his chest . . . . His fists pounded angrily on the steering wheel as he tried to force the images out of his mind . And then the last lamp went out , leaving the house in darkness . Shutting them in . While he sat there , like a fool , in the windless night , cold and wretched . It was the fourth time he 'd driven into Hampton Regis . He had promised the doctor he 'd do no such thing . But the temptation was too strong , overwhelming his better judgment . Haunted by the need to know , he had told himself that once would do no harm . But once had become twice . And now here he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't healed yet . Do you understand ? Emotional distress could put you back here , in a worse state than before ! " Both of them knew it was a lie . There could be no worse state than the one he 'd somehow , miraculously , survived . He had had to kill the Captain before Dr. Beatie could set him free . He wished now it had been Matthew Hamilton who had died . He caught himself , knowing it was wrong to wish such a thing . But God , he was tired , and alone , and sometimes afraid . He wanted things the way they had been in 1914 . Before the war -- the trenches -- the nightmares . Before Matthew Hamilton had walked into the clinic waiting room to comfort Felicity and told her -- what ? Lies ? Or the sordid truth ? That her fianc was a coward . After a time Stephen got out to crank the motorcar , the sound of the powerful engine roaring into life and filling the cold silence . He would freeze to death if he sat here , uselessly mourning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without looking again at the darkened house behind him , drove back the way he 'd come . He could n't see behind the silken white curtains that covered the window under the eaves a pale face staring out into the night , watching the puff of exhaust whip across the rear light , a wraith shielding its brightness until it was out of sight . Matthew Hamilton rose early , quietly throwing back the bedclothes and the counterpane that covered him , then tucking the ends around his wife 's bare shoulder . Looking down at her , he marveled again at his luck . Then reminded himself that it was n't his luck at all , but someone else 's misfortune , that he had married this lovely , loving woman in his bed . Wryly turning away , he dressed quickly and then set about making up the fire so that the room would be warm for her . When it was drawing well , he went down to the kitchen and blew the fire there into life for the kettle . While he waited for it to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clear , cold morning . The sun was not yet up , but a pale rose had begun to streak the winter-brown lawns spreading to the cliff face overlooking the sea . The water beyond was still , waiting for the sun , and farther out there was a soft mist blanketing it . To the west , across the harbor below , the land rose up again , running out to a point a little higher than the one on which his house was set . The pair of headlands formed two arms embracing the Mole -- the medieval stone pier that jutted out across the shingle to the tideline -- creating a haven for shipping along England 's south coast in an age when sailing ships made Hampton Regis rich . There had once been a watchtower on the far headland , built to keep an eye on Napoleon . Only ruins stood there now , overgrown at the base , a few feet of stone still reaching upward like pleading fingers . Two days ago he 'd seen a vixen and her kits romping there , and he 'd been touched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them down . Farmers were often a backward lot , though it was an unkind thing to say . But foxes kept vermin down , and like the old owl in the belfry at the church , deserved a better character than they 'd been given . The kettle whistled behind him , startling him , and he moved quickly to lift it off the plate . He enjoyed these few minutes alone , before the maid arrived , before the house was a-bustle . He also enjoyed spoiling his wife , doing such small things for her pleasure . A far cry from his long years of exile in other countries , alone and often distrusted , the voice of London when often London had left him to his own devices . It was over , and he called himself happy .                     