@@27162

Near Ground Zero  --  Before Dawn Randy Waller had heard all the stories about Medicine Water Creek . It was a load of bullshit , as far as he was concerned , dreamed up by some drunk sad-sack Sioux to make up for the fact that they 'd got their asses kicked by the U.S. cavalry and had n't done a damn thing since . He drew rein at the top of the draw and lit up , scanning the fence line in the glimmer of first light . Fuckin ' miles to cover today , and they were saying it 'd rain tonight . That meant Black Hat Coulee would flood by tomorrow and he 'd have to dick around with wire and fence posts and nails while standing knee-deep in muddy water , oh joy . Better to get up early and get the whole thing done today and talk the foreman into letting him take the truck into town tonight . Under him his horse snorted , rubbed a cheek on the fence post . Randy nudged the animal forward along the fence , down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared and disappeared among twisted hummocks of rock . The city kids who came up here in vans , with their long hair and their two-hundred-dollar hiking boots , to " find communion with the Earth "  --  which , by all Randy could see , meant smoking pot and humping in the bushes  --  talked about old Indian legends and ate up stories about how horses would spook here in broad daylight and even the coyotes would avoid the place at night . Of course , they did n't come here at night . Randy blew a double line of smoke from his nostrils and scouted the matte-blue shadows among the rocks , the waving thickness of grass that grew everywhere on the level ground . They were allover at the ranch house , raiding the garbage . And as for " Medicine Water "  --  which Randy 's dad had called Piss Creek ... It was low this time of year , midsummer . A glistening thread among the dark convolutions of eroded rock , course echoed by the pale bands that marked the water-chewed banks . Mounds and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep grass . This time of the morning , before the prairie winds started up , the place was deathly silent , filled with the hard cold of the night . That 'd wear off goddam soon . Randy stubbed the butt on his boot heel , flicked it away into the creek . " Let 's go , Bean , " he said and twitched the reins . Whole place 'd get hot as the inside of a cow by ... Movement caught his eye . The horse flung up its head , reared and veered sidelong , and Randy hauled savagely on the bit . Just a goddam cow for Chrissake . Only it was n't a cow , he saw , when he 'd dragged his mount around to a trembling standstill . It was a buffalo . Shit , where 'd that come from ? Government herd taking up good grassland over in the national fuckin ' monument ... The smell of blood hit him , metallic and savage . He saw it glisten darkly on the buffalo 's muzzle , long strings dripping down to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Randy saw the nasty glitter of a small black eye . More blood smell ; ol ' Bean jittered and tried to run again , and Randy saw there was another buffalo close to the first . Holy shit , must be them ritual mutilators like in the newspaper ! Because this one , a huge curly-haired bull , had been hacked savagely , the whole hump cut off its back , raw meat gleaming where the skin had been pulled back . Like the old buffalo hunters used to do , he thought suddenly , the ones the city kids talk about  --  the ones that killed a hundred animals for their tongues or humps or hides and left the rest to rot . The world all around him seemed suddenly to breathe . Where the hell the buffalo came from Randy could n't imagine . Hell , he 'd looked down this way not ten minutes ago from the top of the draw , and there had n't been so much as a chipmunk , let alone six  --  ten  --  twelve  --  full-grown buffalo . And why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christ now . In the thin gloom of the place he should n't have been able to see , but he could . Some of them had had their humps torn away , others , it seemed , only their tongues . Something came around the corner of a rock pinnacle , and Randy screamed , for this buffalo had been skinned , meat gleaming naked and pearly and rubied with dots and runnels of oozing blood  --  it worked its jaws , ruminatively chewing , and it looked at Randy with deep-set black eyes . Bean reared , fighting the brutal drag of the bit , humped his back and fishtailed , throwing Randy to the ground . Randy cursed , scrambled to his feet , made a futile snatch at the reins as the horse pelted wildly away , and the buffalo  --  how the fuck many of them WERE there ?  --  let it pass . Bloodied mouths . Bloodied fur . The hot smell of them , like thunder in the ground . A glimmer of blue lightning crept half-seen among the rocks before sinking into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cry out  --  chants , maybe  --  endlessly far away . Randy screamed again and ran for the nearest hummock of rock . But something tore at his leg , what felt like huge broken tusks ripping through the leather of his boot , and looking down he saw the white bones of an old skeleton rising up through the grass and the earth . Ribs snapped shut on his leg like the bony fingers of a giant hand . He wrenched his leg free and stumbled two more feet , and then another skeleton speared through the topsoil , ribs closing around his ankle again . The ground shook a second time and there was a sound , and he looked up to see them  --  hundreds of them now , robbed of humps and tongues and skins  --  all lower their heads and charge .                     