@@33200

So set was the captain on reaching calmer waters that he took no no-tice of the several ships that lay dead ahead of us , their sails as bright as ivory in the glaring sunlight . Some of the vessels appeared to be war-ships . Such a group , encountered closer to Alexandria , would have given no cause for alarm , for there the harbor and its guardian fleet would have offered protection from vagabonds and pirates . But our location ap-peared to be far from any port or harbor of consequence , so that we might as well have been on the open sea . We were acutely vulnerable to robbery and attack . Even as I was considering this , the captain finally appeared to take notice of the vessels ahead of us . He gave an order to veer southward , toward land , even though that arid , featureless strip of shoreline appeared to offer very little in the way of succor or conceal-ment . But the other ships had already spotted us , and whatever their inten-tions , seemed unwilling to let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out toward us . .... Whoever they were , they were practiced sailors with considerable skill at pursuit and capture . Coordinating their movements with ad-mirable precision , they drew apart so as to pull alongside us both to star-board and port , then slowed their speed to match ours . They were close enough now so that I could see the leering faces of the armed men on deck . Were they bent on our destruction , or merely exhilarated by the chase ? From the ship to our starboard , an officer called out , " Give it up , Captain ! We 've caught you fair and square . Raise your oars , or else we 'll get rid of them for you ! " The threat was literal ; I had seen warships employ just such amaneu-ver , drawing alongside an enemy vessel , veering close , then withdrawing their oars so as to shear off the other ship 's still-extended oars , rendering it helpless . With two ships , such a maneuver could be executed on both sides of us simultaneously . Given the skill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt that they could pull it off . The captain was still in a panic , frozen to the spot and speechless . His men looked to him for orders , but received none . We proceeded at full speed , the pursuers matching us and drawing closer on either side . " By Hercules ! " I shouted , tearing myself from Bethesda to run to the captain 's side . I gripped his arm . " Give the order to raise oars ! " The captain looked at me blankly . I slapped him across the face . He bolted and moved to strike back at me , then the glimmer of reason lit his eyes . He took a deep breath and raised his arms . " Lift oars ! " he cried . " Trim sail ! " The sailors , heaving with exertion , obeyed at once . Our pursuers , with flawless seamanship , mimicked our actions , and all three ships re-mained side by side even as the waves began to brake our progress . The ship to our starboard drew even closer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , though he was now so close that he hardly needed to raise his voice . I saw that he wore the insignia of a Roman cen-turion . " Identify yourself ! " The captain cleared his throat . " This is the Andromeda , an Athenian ship with a Greek crew . " " And you ? " " Cretheus , owner and captain . " " Why did you flee when we approached ? " " What fool would n't have done the same ? " The centurion laughed . At least he was in good humor . " Where do you sail from ? " " Ostia , the port city of Rome . " " Destination ? " " Alexandria . We 'd be there now if not for- " " Just answer the questions ! Cargo ? " " Olive oil and wine . In Alexandria we 'll be picking up raw line and- " " Passengers ? " " Only one party , a fellow and his wife- " " Is that him , beside you ? " I spoke up . " My name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Are you now ? " The centurion peered at me . " How many in you party ? " " My wife , a bodyguard , two slave boys . " " Are we free to sail on ? " said the captain . " Not yet . All ships without exception are to be boarded and searched and the names of all passengers passed on to the Great One himself . Nothing for you to be alarmed about ; standard procedure . Now turn about , and we 'll escort you to the fleet . " I cast a wistful glance at the bleak , receding shore . We had not fallen into the clutches of Caesar , or pirates , or renegade soldiers . It was much worse than that . Only one man in the whole world presumed to cal himself Magnus , Great One : Pompey . The Fates had delivered me into the hands of a man who had vowed to see me dead .                     