@@26381

The Dare 1948 Marika thrust the glass jar up to Veronica 's face . " See this one , Nicky ! " she declared . " Caught it last week ! " Veronica stared at the coiled brown shape slithering inside the greenish liquid . She felt sick . " You should have seen how blinking quick I was , man ! This sort are poisonous ! " Marika 's eyes pinned her down , watching for a reaction . She did n't know which were worse , Marika 's or those of the dead creature in the jar . " Where did you find it ? " Her voice did not betray her , and Marika began her dramatic tale about tracking the snake in the bougainvillea next to the hen run . It was a valuable addition to her collection . Rows of bottles , all with the same green liquid , lined the shelf above her bed . Spiders and insects of various shapes and sizes floated safely , serenely , inside . Marika carefully replaced the snake next to another prize item  --  a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remembered it alive . It had been the farm children 's pet briefly until they had tired of capturing flies for it . She had even helped one whole Saturday prowling around the cowshed , sneaking up and snapping the overfed blue buzzers in cigarette tins . The next morning Marika and her brothers had decided to let the creature go free and get its own dinner . But when they had come to release the catch of the splintering old wood-and-wire hutch , the chameleon lay stiff and still . The three boys had wanted , to make a special grave down in the donga  --  but in the end Marika had persuaded them to let her preserve it . The farm , a small holding owned by Marika 's parents , lay against a mountain in themiddle of the Magaliesberg . As well as growing fruit and vegetables and keeping a few animals , the van Reenens rented out a small cottage on the farm , mostly to city visitors . It was near enough to Johannesburg for Mr. and Mrs. Martin with their only child , Veronica , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They were regulars , coming two or three times a year . In fact , Mr. Martin had been visiting since he was a child , when Marika 's mother herself had been a small girl on the same farm . Veronica 's own memories of the place stretched back for as long as she could remember . For years she and Marika had played " house " in the donga behind the farmhouse . They had used larger stones for the walls , shifting around smaller stones as the furniture . In the past Veronica used to bring all her dolls , despite her mother 's protests . Sensing Marika 's envy , she had enjoyed saying which dolls could be played with . But since Marika 's tenth birthday things were different . Veronica had been taken by surprise . She had been sitting with the farm children on the wall of the stoep , dangling her legs and kicking the brickwork with her heels like the others . Marika had been telling her about her birthday treat when Veronica had suggested that they go to the donga @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollies ! " Marika 's twin brother , Piet , had sneered . Slipping off the wall , six-year-old Dirk had rolled on the ground , kicking his legs in the air and cooing . " Gaga gaga ! Mommy ! Mommy ! Change my nappy ! " Veronica had glared at him , and he had pulled a face at her . She had fought to hold back her tears . Only Anton , the oldest , had not joined in but called the others to leave the girls alone to their sissy games . Marika had reacted furiously . " I 'm not a sissy ! " she had screamed after them . Leaving Veronica alone on the stoep , she had gone inside the house , slamming the door behind her . When Veronica returned to the farm a few months later , Marika had begun her bottle collection . Veronica had also left her dolls at home , except for the eyelid-clicking , brown-eyed Margaret . But this time the porcelain head with brown painted curls remained tucked under the bedclothes and was spoken to only at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm  --  a pale replica of Veronica 's personal counselor in town . Back home in Johannesburg it was Rebecca , their maid , to whom Veronica confided . She was a far better listener than Margaret because she made sympathetic noises . With Veronica 's mother often helping out at her father 's office , or busy with Mothers ' Union meetings , they spent a lot of time together . Whether she was cooking , washing , ironing , or dusting , Rebecca was always prepared to chat . But she never came to the farm with them . Instead she went to visit her own children , living with their grandmother , a five-hour bus ride away . Sharing secrets with Rebecca was fun , especially when Rebecca had let her visit her dim , tiny room in the servants ' quarters at the top of their block of flats . It had started with her desperate desire to see the bedspread that Rebecca had been patiently embroidering for months on " baby-sitting " nights when Veronica 's parents went out . Although Veronica did n't think she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's company . Together they would sit and talk at the table in the Martins 's kitchen until it was her bedtime . She had watched the bedspread growing and , when it was finally completed , had begged and nagged to see how it looked on the bed . But before she could be taken , Rebecca had made her promise , " Remember , you are not to tell your ma or pa ! " Because it had been a secret , everything had stayed fixed in her mind like a picture . The splendid bedcover draped over an old iron bed raised up high on bricks . A curtain across one corner of the room , Rebecca 's cupboard . An orange-crate table next to the bed , on which stood a photo ...                     