@@30327

Indelible A Novel Chapter One 8:55 A.M. " Well , look what the cat dragged in , " Marla Simms bellowed , giving Sara a pointed look over her silver-rimmed bifocals . The secretary for the police station held a magazine in her arthritic hands , but she set it aside , indicating she had plenty of time to talk . Sara forced some cheer into her voice , though she had purposefully timed her visit for Marla 's coffee break . " Hey , Marla . How 're you doing ? " The old woman stared for a beat , a tinge of disapproval putting a crease in her naturally down-turned lips . Sara forced herself not to squirm . Marla had taught the children 's Sunday school class at the Primitive Baptist from the day they opened the front doors , and she could still put the fear of God into anyone in town who 'd been born after 1952 . She kept her eyes locked on Sara . " Have n't seen you around here in a while . " " Hm , " Sara @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see into Jeffrey 's office . His door was open but he was not behind his desk . The squad room was empty , which meant he was probably in the back . Sara knew she should just walk behind the counter and find him herself  --  she had done it hundreds of times before  --  but survivor 's instinct kept her from crossing that bridge without first paying the troll . Marla sat back in her chair , her arms folded . " Nice day out , " she said , her tone still casual . Sara glanced out the door at Main Street , where heat made the asphalt look wavy . The air this morning was humid enough to open every pore on her body . " Sure is . " " And do n't you look pretty this morning , " Marla continued , indicating the linen dress Sara had chosen after going through nearly every item of clothing in her closet . " What 's the occasion ? " " Nothing special , " Sara lied . Before she knew what she was doing , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foot to the other like she was four instead of nearly forty . A glimmer of victory flashed in the older woman 's eyes . She drew out the silence a bit more before asking , " How 's your mama and them ? " " Good , " Sara answered , trying not to sound too circumspect . She was n't naive enough to believe that her private life was no one else 's business  --  in a county as small as Grant , Sara could barely sneeze without the phone ringing from up the street with a helpful " Bless you "  --  but she would be damned if she 'd make it easy for them to gather their information . " And your sister ? " Sara was about to respond when Brad Stephens saved her by tripping through the front door . The young patrolman caught himself before he fell flat on his face , but the momentum popped his hat off his head and onto the floor at Sara 's feet . His gun belt and nightstick flopped under his arms like extra appendages . Behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at his less-than-graceful entrance . " Oh , " Brad said , looking at Sara , then back to the kids , then at Sara again . He picked up his hat , brushing it off with more care than was warranted . She imagined he could not decide which was more embarrassing : eight 10-year-olds laughing at his clumsiness or his former pediatrician fighting an obvious smile of amusement . Apparently , the latter was worse . He turned back to the group , his voice deeper than usual as if to assert some authority . " This , of course , is the station house , where we do business . Police business . Uh , and we 're in the lobby now . " Brad glanced at Sara . To call the area where they stood a lobby was a bit of a stretch . The room was barely ten feet by eight , with a cement block wall opposite the glass door at the entrance . A row of photographs showing various squads in the Grant County police force lined the wall to Sara 's right , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only police officer in the history of the force who had been killed in the line of duty . Across from the portrait gallery , Marla stood sentry behind a tall beige laminate counter that separated visitors from the squad room . She was not a naturally short woman , but age had made her so by crooking her body into a nearly perfect question mark . Her glasses were usually halfway down the bridge of her nose , and Sara , who wore glasses to read , was always tempted to push them back up . Not that Sara would ever do such a thing . For all Marla knew about everybody and their neighbor  --  and their dog  --  in town , not much was known about her . She was a widow with no children . Her husband had died in the Second World War . She had always lived on Hemlock , which was two streets over from Sara 's parents . She knitted and she taught Sunday school and worked full-time at the station answering phones and trying to make sense of the mountains of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Simms . Still , Sara always thought there had to be more to the life of a woman who had lived some eighty-odd years , even if she 'd lived all of them in the same house where she had been born . Brad continued his tour of the station , pointing to the large , open room behind Marla . " Back there 's where the detectives and patrol officers like myself conduct their business ... calls and whatnot . Talking to witnesses , writing reports , typing stuff into the computer , and , uh ... " His voice trailed off as he finally noticed he was losing his audience . Most of the children could barely see over the counter . Even if they could , thirty empty desks spread out in rows of five with various sizes of filing cabinets between them were hardly attention grabbing . Sara imagined the kids were wishing they had stayed in school today ... Indelible                     