@@33887

ONE Eight Years Later Staff Lieutenant David Anderson , executive officer on the SSV Hastings , rolled out of his bunk at the first sound of the alarm . His body moved instinctively , conditioned by years of active service aboard Alliance Systems Space Vessels . By the time his feet hit the floor he was already awake and alert , his mind evaluating the situation . The alarm rang again , echoing off the hull to rebound throughout the ship . Two short blasts , repeating over and over . A general call to stations . At least they were n't under immediate attack . As he pulled his uniform on , Anderson ran through the possible scenarios . The Hastings was a patrol vessel in the Skyllian Verge , an isolated region on the farthest fringes of Alliance space . Their primary purpose was to protect the dozens of human colonies and research outposts scattered across the sector . A general call to stations probably meant they 'd spotted an unauthorized vessel in Alliance territory . Either that or they were responding to a distress call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't easy getting dressed in the tight confines of the sleeping quarters he shared with two other crewmen , but he 'd had lots of practice . In less than a minute he had his uniform on , his boots secured , and was moving quickly through the narrowcorridors toward the bridge , where Captain Belliard would be waiting for him . As the executive officer it fell to Anderson to relay the captain 's orders to the enlisted crew . . . and to make sure those orders were properly carried out . Space was the most precious resource on any military vessel , and Anderson was constantly reminded of this as he encountered other crewmen heading in the opposite direction as they rushed to their assigned posts . Invariably , they would press themselves against the corridor walls in an effort to let Anderson by , snapping off awkward salutes to their superior as he squeezed past them . But despite the cramped conditions , the entire process was carried out with an efficiency and crisp precision that was the hallmark of every crew in the Alliance fleet . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ navigation , where he noticed a pair of junior officers making rapid calculations and applying them to a three-dimensional star chart projected above their consoles . They each gave their XO a curt but respectful nod as he passed , too engrossed in their duties to be encumbered by the formality of a true salute . Anderson responded with a grim tilt of his head . He could see they were plotting a route through the nearest mass relay . That meant the Hastings was responding to a distress call . And the brutal truth was that more often than not their response came too late . In the years following the First Contact War , humanity had spread out too far and too fast ; they did n't have enough ships to properly patrol a region the size of the Verge . Settlers who lived out here knew the threat of attacks and raids was all too real , and too often the Hastings touched down on a world only to find a small but thriving colony reduced to corpses , burned-out buildings , and a handful of shell-shocked survivors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cope with being a firsthand witness to that kind of death and destruction . He 'd seen action during the war , but this was different . That had been primarily ship-to-ship warfare , killing enemy combatants from tens of thousands of kilometers away . It was n't the same as picking through the charred rubble and blackened bodies of civilians . The First Contact War , despite its name , had been a short and relatively bloodless campaign . It began an Alliance patrol inadvertently trespassed on the territory of the Turian Empire . For humanity it had been their first encounter with another intelligent species ; for the turians it was an invasion by an aggressive and previously unknown race . Misunderstanding and overreaction on both sides had led to several intense battles between patrols and scout fleets . But the conflict never erupted into full-scale planetary war . The escalating hostilities and sudden deployment of turian fleets had drawn the attention of the greater galactic community . Luckily for humanity . It turned out the turians were only one species among a dozen , each independent but voluntarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Citadel Council . Eager to prevent interstellar war with the newly emerged humans , the Council had intervened , revealing itself to the Alliance and brokering a peaceful resolution between them and the turians . Less than two months after it had begun , the First Contact War was officially over . Six hundred and twenty-three human lives had been lost . Most of the casualties were sustained in the first encounter and during the turian attack on Shanxi . Turian losses were slightly higher ; the Alliance fleet sent to liberate the captured outpost had been ruthless , brutal , and very thorough . But on a galactic scale , the losses to both sides were minor . Humanity had been pulled back from the brink of a potentially devastating war , and instead became the newest member of a vast interstellar , pan-species society . Anderson climbed the three steps separating the forward deck of the bridge from the main level of the ship . Captain Belliard was hunched over a small viewscreen , studying a stream of incoming transmissions . He stood up straight as Anderson approached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his own . " We 've got trouble , Lieutenant . We picked up a distress call when we linked up to the com relays , " the captain explained by way of greeting . " I was afraid of that , sir . " " It came from Sidon . " " Sidon ? " Anderson recognized the name . " Do n't we have a research base there ? " Belliard nodded . " A small one . Fifteen security personnel , twelve researchers , six support staff . " Anderson frowned . This was no ordinary attack . Raiders preferred to hit defenseless settlements and bug out before Alliance reinforcements arrived on the scene . A well-defended base like Sidon was n't their typical target . It felt more like an act of war . The turians were allies of the Human Systems Alliance now , at least officially . And the Skyllian Verge was too far removed from turian territory for them to get involved in any conflicts out here . But there were other species vying with humanity for control of the region . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establish a presence in the Verge , but so far the two rival species had managed to avoid any real violence in their confrontations . Anderson doubted they 'd start with something like this . Still , there were plenty of other groups out there with the means and motive to hit an Alliance stronghold . Some of them were even made up of humans : nonaffiliated terrorist organizations and multispecies guerrilla factions eager to strike a blow against the powers-that-be ; illegal paramilitary troops looking to stock up on high-grade weapons ; independent mercenary bands hoping for one big score . " Might be helpful to know what Sidon was working on , Captain , " Anderson suggested . " They 're a top-security-clearance facility , " the captain replied with a shake of his head . " I ca n't even get schematics for the base , never mind get anyone to tell me what they were working on . " Anderson frowned . Without schematics his team would be going in blind , giving up any tactical advantage they might have had from knowing the layout of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " What 's our ETA , sir ? " " Forty-six minutes . " Finally some good news . The Hastings followed random patrol routes ; it was pure chance they happened to be this close to the source of the distress call . With luck they could still get there in time . " I 'll have the ground team ready , Captain . " " You always do , Lieutenant . " Anderson turned to go , acknowledging his commanding officer 's compliment with a simple , " Aye-aye , sir ! " In the black void of space the Hastings was all but invisible to the naked eye . Surrounded by a self-generated mass effect field and traveling nearly fifty times faster than the speed of light , it was little more than a flickering blur , a slight wavering in the fabric of the space-time continuum . The vessel altered its flight path as the helmsman made a quick course correction , a minor adjustment to the trajectory that sent the ship hurtling toward the nearest mass relay , nearly five billion kilometers away . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did n't take long before their destination was in range . Ten thousand kilometers out from their target , the helmsman took the element-zero drive core off-line , disengaging the mass effect fields . Blue-shifted energy waves radiated off the ship as it dropped out of FTL , igniting the darkness of space like a flare . The illumination of the blazing ship reflected off the mass relay growing steadily larger on the horizon . Although completely alien in design , the construction closely resembled an enormous gyroscope . At its center was a sphere made up of two concentric rings spinning around a single axis . Each ring was nearly five kilometers across , and two fifteen-kilometer arms protruded out from one end of the constantly rotating middle . The entire structure sparkled and flashed with white bursts of crackling energy .                     