@@26787

Midnight shadows filled the forest , spectral images born of moonlight filtering through a thicket of gnarled oak and shagbark hickory , of pine and spruce , of ferns and fronds and slithering ivy . Upon the ground , dark profiles weaved and merged , gathered over twigs and needles in a series of dry pools . Once puddled , the darkness shifted in silent ripples , mimicking the languid motion of branches and leaves swaying overhead in a late summer breeze . At the edge of one such pool , standing just within the sifted radiance of a pale moon , a mouse lifted its head to sniff the scented air . Whiskers wriggled atop its nose , brushing the air with ceaseless anticipation . Its heart beat furiously within its chest . The creature glanced quickly to one side , then the other , then looked back to the small grain seed clutched in its paws . Once , twice , it nibbled experimentally , turning the morsel over , testing it from either end . Finally , it cast the seed aside and reached for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mouse squealed as iron talons pierced its flesh , a sharp squeak of fear and surprise . Before it could draw another breath , its chest collapsed beneath a crushing grip as it was hoisted freeof the earthen floor . The owl bore its twitching meal skyward , winging its way through a labyrinth of dark trees . The Shadow watched the owl 's flight and remained hidden , eyes and ears probing the darkness . But the attack had been perfect . Almost immediately , the shrill echoes of the mouse 's cry were lost to the wind , and what remained of life within the forest went about its business without notice or concern . The Shadow permitted itself a private smile . Perfect . It detached itself from its concealment then , peeling from the trunk of a nearby birch like a strip of bark . It cast north and south , crouched low , searching for a response to its movement . Detecting none , it resumed course , a shimmer amid the trees . Like the owl , it flew upon wings of death , slipping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Rodents scurried from its path ; trees shuddered in a gust of wind . Made anxious by its ghostly presence , nature recoiled , finding safe quarter from which to watch and wait out the trespasser 's foul purpose . It helped the Shadow to think in such exaggerated terms , to distance even itself from its true identity , to imagine itself a creature of supernatural origin and prowess . It fancied itself a fiend among children , pitiless , as inexorable as death itself . Unhindered , it slid into a copse at the fringe of the forest . Less than a hundred paces to the south , down a gently sloping hill , loomed a forbidding shape , a wall outlined against the night by the pale wash of moon and stars . The Shadow 's gaze swept the wall 's surface , a skin ravaged by mosses and ivy and crumbling mortar seams . Despite its weathered appearance , the stone structure towered over the land . A trickle of a moat ringed its base , little more than a stream of sewage headed for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentinel stood watch upon this section of the rampart , one who , amazingly enough , appeared to be dozing while leaning upon his rusted pike . Without further hesitation , the Shadow dashed from its cover , plunging into the knee-deep prairie grass that carpeted the hillside . It crossed the clearing in a crouch , leapt the putrid stream , and came to rest against the cold stone of the castle wall . With only a slight breeze to mark its passing , it need not have paused to ensure that it had not been spied . But the Shadow wore caution as a soldier would his heavy armor , a coat of arms enmeshed over limbs and joints , impossible to remove without concerted effort , and shed not a moment before the battle was won . Caution shielded against overconfidence , which often led to mistakes . And in a contest such as this , a single mistake could grant passage into death 's domain . So the Shadow made none . An army of crickets chirped in shrill cadence . Farther off , an owl hooted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the moat lapped against their earthen banks . But the Shadow 's presence , draped flat against the wall , remained undetected . Secure in this thought , the Shadow turned to face the unyielding stone , producing a coiled length of slender rope from within its cloak . To one end was fastened a tiny , three-pronged grapnel , its metal hooks wrapped in cloth to help quiet any sound and guard against the reflection of light . With deft movements , the Shadow sent the hook hurtling to the top of the crenellated battlement some ninety feet overhead . The throw was true . A muffled clank echoed upon the wind as the hook swung around a crumbling merlon and bit like a serpent into the resisting stone . Below , the Shadow waited , a tiny crossbow poised to bury its bolt into the unsuspecting face of any curious sentry . But once again , its caution proved unnecessary , as a sudden snore broke the near silence . The crossbow vanished , and a pair of daggers appeared . After spinning them in its fingers , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threadlike rope , the invader tested its hold before beginning to climb . The Shadow breezed up the monstrous structure , running skyward along the wall while pulling hand over hand upon the rope . Upon reaching the top , the Shadow swung skillfully between two moss-covered merlons , drew the daggers from its mouth , and buried each to its hilt in the throat of the oblivious guardsman . Slumping to the ground within a shadowed alcove , the sentry fell silently into a sleep from which he would never awake . Pausing briefly to draw a breath , coil its rope , and retrieve its blades , the Shadow turned and raced along the battlement , down a flight of lichen-covered steps , and into the city below ... Continues ...                     