@@29340

My name is Vahan Kenderian . I was born in Bitlis , a province of Turkey , at the base of the Musguneyi Mountains of the East . It was a beautiful city of cobbled streets and horse-drawn wagons , brilliant springs and blighting winters , strolling peddlers and snake charmers . Beyond the sun-baked mud-brick houses were fields of tall grass , rolling hills , and orchards of avocado , apricot , olive , and fig trees . Steep valleys of stone climbed sharply to grassy plains and pastures , and higher still to the slopes of snow-capped mountains where every summer evening the sun set in deepening shades of red and blue . On your way into town , you would walk on crooked sidewalks past houses so close together that a small boy could easily jump from one roof to another . Weaving your way through a tangle of pedestrians , you passed veiled women sitting on stools selling madzoon , and in shop windows you would see merchants dressed in baggy pants and vests , sipping small cups of black coffee . You smelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cab driver in his two-wheeled horse-drawn cart drove by . Walking home at sunset , you would see the lamplighter carrying a torch in his hand and a ladder on his back . And as darkness fell , all the flat-roofed , tightly packed houses would become one great house where a thousand small lights burned . As far as an Armenian from Bitlis was concerned , Bitlis was the center of the world : Her mountains were the highest , her soil the most fertile , her women the loveliest , her men the bravest , her leaders the wisest . Of course , not every Armenian from Bitlis was praiseworthy . Some drank , some begged in the street , some swindled their employers , some were vain , careless , licentious , or lazy . But , for the most part , they were a hardworking and honorable people . At least the ones I knew . In 1915 , I was twelve years old , the youngest child of one of the richest and most respected Armenians in Turkey . I was small for my age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , excellent posture , a firm handshake , and a brisk , determined stride . I walked with the confidence of a boy who has grown up in luxury and knows that he will always be comfortable , always well fed , always warm in winter and cool in summer . My father was afraid that I lacked character and discipline . And he was right . As far as I was concerned , character and discipline were consolation prizes given to the meek , the unadventurous , and the unlucky . Mrs. Gulbankian needed character because she was a widow and lived alone . Mr. Aberjanian needed discipline because he worked twelve hours a day selling groceries . Most adults , it seemed , needed character and discipline because their lives had long ago ceased to either amuse or fulfill them . " You 'll see , " they would say to me with knowing smiles , as though disillusion were a law as inevitable as gravity . But I knew better . I knew that time and destiny were my allies , the twin magicians of my fate : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Bitlis , and destiny would transform me into one of the wealthiest , most admired men in Turkey . I did not know if I would be a lawyer , like my father , or a doctor or a businessman , but I knew that I would be a man of consequence . When I walked down the street , people would say , " There goes Vahan Kenderian , " and I would smile or not smile , depending on my mood that day . Unfortunately , I was an unlikely candidate for greatness-at least by conventional standards : In school I threw wads of paper at my friends Manoosh and Pattoo , spoke out of turn , fell asleep at my desk , and was generally the first one suspected whenever anything out of the ordinary happened anywhere on the grounds . Twice I had been sent home for wrestling in the halls , twelve times for skipping school , once for falling out of my chair , and once because I had given one of my teachers " a look . " " What kind of look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't know . I just looked at him . " " How did you look at him ? " " I do n't know . Like this . Like I 'm looking at you . " Father Ossian said I had a poor attitude . Father Nahnikian said I was looking for attention . Father Asadourian said I should be disciplined as often as possible , preferably with a stick . My father gave me chores to build my character . When I forgot to do them , he would take me into the living room , sit me down , look me in the eye , and say , " What kind of man do you think you are going to be ? " My father had black hair , a black mustache , and black eyes that could see through anyone or anything . He was the disciplinarian of the family , who , by example , tried to teach his children the laws of honor , integrity , and self-reliance . He was a man to whom others often turned for money or support , and he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the long white wall that surrounded our property , to open my eyes to the challenges of the real world . The real world , as far as I could tell , was a terrifying place where half-dead men and women labored , bore children , grew old , grew ill , and died-a drab , inhospitable place where the grim and bitter read to one another from a book of woe . Naturally , I had no interest in that world , and no intention of ever becoming one of its citizens . In my real world , cold would always be answered with warmth , hunger with food , thirst with water , loneliness with love . In my real world , there would always be this house I loved , the laughter of brothers and sisters , uncles and cousins . In my real world , I would always belong , and I would always be happy .                     