@@26285

Chapter One Arlington National Cemetery The next morning I apologize for holding this press conference in this kind of weather , with no shelter , " former president of the United States Kevin Martindale began . As he did , the early-morning downpour seemed to intensify . " Out of respect for this place , I chose not to set up any tents or shelters and add any more to the circuslike atmosphere I 'm already creating here . It 's also why we 're out here in the visitors ' parking lot instead of on the grounds themselves , and why I requested that no cameras be aimed toward the cemetery itself . But I did come to Arlington for a reason . " Despite the weather , Kevin Martindale , standing on the running board of his armored Suburban , looked as groomed and polished as if he were in a television studio . In his early fifties , tall and handsome , a former two-time vice president and one-term chief executive , Martindale still looked every inch the political pro and commander in chief . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impeccably ; he had shaved his beard and cut his hair for this appearance . The famous " photographer 's dream " was still there , even in the rain-the two locks of silver hair that automatically mirrored his mood . If he was angry , they curled menacingly across his forehead , as they did right now ; when he was contented , they swept gracefully back across his salt-and-pepper mane . " I asked you to meet me out here today so I might make an observation and an announcement , " Martindale said . " The weather happens to match my mood pretty well . " " Today is a very solemn anniversary : the twelfth anniversary of the last postwar combat deaths of Operation Desert Storm . Two weeks after the Iraqi army was decimated and a cease-fire was declared , a U.S. Army Blackhawk helicopter went down in bad weather over Kuwait , and six brave soldiers were lost . Some of those heroes are interred here in Section H at Arlington National Cemetery . That these losses happened at all is a huge tragedy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victory against the Iraqi army makes the loss even more grievous . " Yet it was a great victory for freedom . The mission to release Kuwait from the clutches of Saddam Hussein took only six weeks to accomplish ; Iraq surrendered just one hundred hours after the ground war began , after being pummeled into submission by forty days of continuous aerial bombardment . Coalition forces lost just five hundred brave soldiers , against nearly one hundred thousand Iraqi casualties . It was clearly one of the most lopsided wars in history . Those soldiers ' deaths were tragic , but it was a mission I feel the United States needed to accomplish . They did not die in vain . " I bring all this to your attention today to point out an alarming fact : that the United States does not now have the capability to perform that same fight for freedom , " Martindale went on . " The United States mobilized two hundred and fifty thousand soldiers , sailors , Marines , and airmen in six months to fight that last battle . Today it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of troops and send them halfway across the world to fight . We have no ground forces stationed overseas-none . We have a total of fifty thousand Marines deployed aboard ships around the world with aircraft-carrier battle groups . Those are the only ground forces that can respond to an emergency . We also happen to have two fewer aircraft- carrier battle groups operational , which in essence leaves one-fifth of the world unpatrolled at any given time . " In addition , the forty-first president managed to commit , organize , mobilize , and direct another two hundred and fifty thousand troops from fifty-seven nations in the war against Saddam Hussein , including those from six Arabic-speaking nations and another seventeen Islamic nations , " Martindale continued . " The current administration has managed to ignore , cancel , violate , and abrogate dozens of treaties ; it has alienated most of our allies , created distrust among the nonaligned world , and angered our enemies . " Thomas Thorn continues to cut the size of the United States military at a ridiculous rate , especially our Army , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Army is now one-half the size it was just two years ago , and it continues to shrink . The size of the Reserves and National Guard has increased , but the overall force is still one-third smaller . We have abrogated numerous mutual-defense and cooperation treaties with dozens of nations , most important among them the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , which in my opinion has ensured the safety and security of the entire world for almost half a century . Thanks to Thomas Thorn 's shortsightedness , the United States is a friendless , futureless desert island hopelessly lost and forgotten in the sea of global geopolitical affairs . We are not adrift-we are being purposely and maliciously steered around every tragedy , every responsibility , and every crisis , all in the name of splendid isolationism . It is time for that policy to end . " Now for my announcement : I am hereby announcing the formation of an exploratory committee to become the Republican Party nominee for president of the United States . " Even from this group of Washington reporters , who had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a loud murmur of surprise . Martindale 's aide stepped toward the former president , whispering in his ear that several networks wanted to go live with this press conference . Martindale turned from the podium for several moments as if adjusting his trench coat , but he did n't need to do so-everyone in attendance knew what was happening . Less than ten seconds later the networks gave the sign that they were ready ... ( Continues ... )                     