@@28907

Rules of Attraction Chapter One At this moment , Miss Hannah Setterington could unequivocally state that she was alone . Completely , absolutely , bleakly alone . As she let her valise slide with a thud onto the wooden boards of the railway platform , she looked around in the Lancashire twilight . No building rose among the encroaching trees . Nowelcoming light beckoned through a shaded window , no human voices grumbled or laughed , and the faint city glow that surrounded London even on the darkest of nights was absent here in the depths of the country . In-deed , she could no longer see the outlines of the moun-tains that rose to the north . Night and fogwere settling over the landscape , the train was nothing more than a departing rumble along the tracks , and right now , changing her mind about this position of caretaker to the marquess of Raeburn 's elderly aunt seemed wise . But to whom could she announce her decision ? The servant she had assumed would meet her was nowhere to be seen along the rural road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of sight . And she had a mission herein . She had come here to fulfill her heart 's desire , and she would n't leave until she had done so . Although she knew it was impossible for her to have made a mistake , she fumbled in her reticule and brought forth the letter sent by the housekeeper who had hired her . Hannah squinted through the rapidly fading light and read in Mrs. Trenchard 's beautiful penmanship : Take the train to Presham Crossing , arriving there on March 5 , 1843 , and there depart it . Hannah knew the date to be March 5 . She glanced up at the sign erected above the newly constructed platform . Proudly it proclaimed Presham Crossing . I will send a coach to bring you to Raeburn Castle , where the master most anxiously desires your arrival . Hannah considered the narrow road again . No coach . No servants . No anything . Tucking the letter back into her reticule , she sighed and wondered why this evidence of ineptitude surprised her . In her experience , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not . Indeed , it was her efficiency that had enabled her to run the Distinguished Academy of Governesses alone these past three years , and successfully enough that when she had gone to Adorna , Lady Bucknell , and asked for help in selling it , Adorna had bought it for herself . I need something to occupy my time since Wynter took over the family business , she had said as she wrote out a check for a tidy sum . Now , at the age of twenty-seven , Hannah found herself in the enviable position of never needing to work again . Although she would , of course . From the time she could remember , she had always worked . Sewing , running errands , helping out as a maid . Even when she 'd studied at school , she had labored to be the best ... then there had been that brief , terrible , and wonderful time when she had not worked . Pulling her cape closely against her neck , she looked again at the road , but it remained obstinately empty and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often recalled those days when she had been useless , unnecessary , a possession . Although the clarity of her memories discomfited her , it failed to surprise her . Every time she came to a crossroads in her life , a time when everyday tasks failed to occupy each second , her mind drifted back to the past , and she wondered again . At moments such as these , standing alone while wisps of fog became drifts and banks , blotting out the stars and wrapping her in isolation , she pondered what would happen if she returned to Liverpool , where the past awaited her . Yet always she rejected the idea . In the end , she was too much the coward to dare face the consequences of her youthful misdeeds  --  and too wise to brood about them now . Tucking her chin into her wool muffler and her gloved hands under her arms , she turned her thoughts along a more useful path'what to do . The servant had failed her , the village was nowhere in sight , and the night grew frigid . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'd been abandoned . At least she knew she had n't been followed from London . One of the many reasons she 'd taken this position was the recent suspicion that she was being watched . Either that , or one of the three very somber , identically clad gentlemen whohad taken the house across the street visited the market when she did , attended the theater when she did , and even appeared in Surrey where she attended thebaptism of Charlotte 's second child and visited with Pamela . And who cared enough about the humbly born owner of a London business to find her and observe her every movement ? Only one man ... and in all fairness , how could he ever forget her ? So when a job request came in for a companion for an elderly lady in Lancashire , she had decreed it to be fate . She sold her business and slipped away from London . The ignorant might call this flight . She preferred to call it a sabbatical . She nodded firmly . Yes , a sabbatical to consider her future . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No driver . She considered the ways she had taught student governesses to deal with such dilemmas  --  with good sense and without rancor . If no one appeared within the hour , she would step onto the road and start walking , and hope that whichever direction she chose would be toward Presham Crossing . From there she would hire someone to take her to Rae-burn Castle . When she arrived , she would give Mrs. Trenchard , the housekeeper , a firm but thorough up-braiding . Gently bred women who took positions such as governess and caretaker were frequently abused by the servants below stairs . Hannah meant to start as she would go on , and that included demanding respect . If that was n't possible , then she 'd best know at once before she became attached to the elderly aunt who , she 'd been assured in the exchange of letters , was a lovely lady , if occasionally a little confused .                     