@@30305

Is n't It Romantic ? An Entertainment Chapter One America was Natalie 's idea . She 'd gone to the upstairs travel agency of Madame Dubray on rue Saint-Jacques in Paris , and politely listened as Madame extolled the fresh sea oysters of Saint-Malo , the forests and glades of Perpignan where there were no longer lions , the sunstruck beaches of the Cte d'Azur where Mademoiselle could air her still-youthful breasts in innocent , unfettered freedom . Natalie shyly hid her still-youthful breasts with her forearms as she told Madame that unfortunately those were all places that Pierre would have chosen for an August vacation and she was no longer interested in accommodating her shifty fianc . She reminded Madame that she was a librarian specializing in Americana at the Bibliothque nationale , so touring the United States seemed a more intriguing and practical choice than staying with the French in France for the August vacances as she 'd done all her life . Sighing , Madame agreed , in the grudging way of one who thought some people would garden in basements if you let them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shopping in New York ? Mickey Mouse in Orlando ? " She shook her head and said she would like to tour America on an overland route from the East Coast to the West . Madame Dubray held her face carefully fixed as she asked , " How ? " Natalie felt unfairly tested . " Railway ? " Madame smirked . " Railway , " she said . " In America . " " Or perhaps I could rent an automobile . " Madame scoffed , " Are n't you the audacious one ? Motoring through all the forty states . " " There are fifty . " " Well , not worth seeing , " said Madame . Natalie told the travel agent that she was n't confident there was a good way to do what she wanted , that 's why she 'd thought it necessary to visit Madame . But she very much wanted to see some of the attractions and natural wonders in the American interior that Europeans frequently missed . She lifted from the floor beside her a coffee-table book and turned its pages to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chase on a drive-in movie screen , snow falling on the just-alike homes of Levittown , hot sunlight and green machinery baling yellow hay in Iowa , an ominous rainstorm over a trailer park in Kansas , a girl in cowboy boots selling yard gnomes at a flea market , a giant bingo parlor with hundreds hunching over their game cards . " Like these , " Natalie said , " not the typical places . " Madame Dubray gave it some thought and said , " We have one possibility . " Natalie said in English , " Oh goody ! " Chapter Two Mademoiselle Clairvaux was a gorgeous woman of twenty-six with an oval face , caramel-colored eyes , and a luxuriance of coffee-brown hair , and she sometimes wore serious eyeglasses she did n't need in order to intimidate men who seemed to think she needed touching . But she forgot those glasses in her hurried packing in Paris and she was so wearied with unsolicited attentions on the flight from Orly to New York City that she purchased heavy black spectacles like those Buddy Holly favored before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Authority terminal . There she found the See America bus hulking in a side alley like a venerable but malfunctioning machine that had been cannibalized for auto parts or just plain meanness , its metal surfaces wildly paisleyed with left-over housepaints . Luggage of Samsonite , canvas , grocery box , and gunnysack was waiting to be stowed in its craw . Waiting , too , were its forlorn passengers : a crazy old coot with binoculars , some Japanese children sullenly playing with Gameboys , some Canadians for whom cordiality was not a priority , a husband and wife in matching safari jackets , a crewcut man who tiptoed wherever he went , a hugely overweight woman continually folding chocolate eclairs into her mouth , three teenaged girls from Scotland who seemed near panic over a spree that had gone lame many days ago and now considered Natalie Clairvaux with desperate affection . She nearly walked away , but she knew such delicacy about transportation and companionship would make her a tourist , not a traveler . She 'd lack moxie . And so she joined the See America tour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the boyhood home of Frank Sinatra , though there was no sign on the house and the owner looked worriedly at them from a chink in the venetian blinds . They then saw the world 's largest buffet ; the location for a 1940s movie that starred either Peter Lorre or Adolphe Menjou ; a caf where a waitress succeeded in juggling four out of five coffee cups ; Punxsatawney , Pennsylvania , where on February second a woodchuck seeing or not seeing its shadow would somehow predict the climate ; a hideous motel near Lake Erie where the tour group was put up that night , and where Mademoiselle Clairvaux hesitated at her room 's threshold for many minutes , skeptically staring in . In eastern Ohio , Natalie woke up from a morning nap in a truckstop where idling semis throbbed and percolated outside the bus windows . Huddling like a waif , she walked down a long line of them , considering with puzzlement the opportunities that a number of truckers offered , and found her tour group inside a cafeteria . She herded along behind them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from among the appalling alternatives some crusty chicken pieces . A cook then plopped a softball of mashed potatoes on Natalie 's dish and flooded the plate with Crayola-yellow gravy . The husband in the safari jacket confided , " We 're packing beef jerky if you need it . " She had no idea what that was . The husband was about to show her when his wife began hitting him with a spoon . The next stop was the House of Bottles , and then Heine 's Place where they all glumly peered at an orange ten-ton wheel of cheese in a refrigerated glass case . A sign on the wall said CHEDDAR . In Akron they tentatively entered an exhibit hall ... Is n't It Romantic ?                     