@@31741

Chapter One On her way to bed , Lucinda stopped in the living room doorway to look at the black-and-white pinspot-lit photographs of her mother and father on the far wall . Lily 's was the famous 1957 Hurrell portrait , with his signature exquisite lighting and airbrush work . Simply made up ( Lily had refused the usual false eyelashes , heavy penciled-in brows and overdrawn mouth ) , her deep-set , clear blue eyes looked directly into the lens as if offering a somewhat amused challenge . Her normally limp , naturally blonde hair gleamed in an elaborate upsweep that accentuated the length and vulnerability of her exposed throat , and her famous cleavage was on display courtesy of a tastefully lowcut , long-sleeved black moir silk dress . No one would have known , from that photograph , how thin and tiny a woman she actually was , and how very unprepossessing in real life . Beside it , in a matching frame , was the blown-up late-40s studio photograph of her father , Adam Bentley Franklin . In his pristine white dress uniform , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he looked impossibly young . His slight smile was sufficient to show the appealing dimple in his left cheek - a man of evident good humor , despite the formality of the pose . He had the same hazel eyes as Lucinda 's , the same mouth and cheekbones , the same high forehead and slightly squared jaw . But unlike her hair which was dark blonde , his was black , with the standard military short-back-and-sides cut . And unlike her complexion , which was pale like Lily 's , her father 's was dusky . The first time she 'd come to visit after Lucinda had hung the photographs , her grandmother , Elise , stopped in the doorway , her hand lifting to her heart , and said a little breathlessly , " Oh , but this is wonderful ! How lovely they were , eh , chrie ? " Lucinda was perpetually awed at her parents being side by side , together for anyone to see - something they 'd done in reality only a few times during their lives . Public or studio knowledge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end to Lily 's film career , and neither she nor Adam had been willing to risk that . Nor had they wished to risk stigmatizing Lucinda 's life . So they 'd gone to great lengths to ensure that their child would n't know the true facts of her parentage . Lily always said , " I 've got no idea who your father was . Okay ? It could 've been a couple of different guys . What 's it matter anyway ? I did right by you , did n't I ? " True . She 'd done better than all right . She 'd been a wonderful mother - easygoing and proud of her daughter 's slightest accomplishment . It was just that she 'd had a big secret she 'd gone to extraordinary lengths to keep . There had been no other men . Only the one . And his identity had died with her , leaving Lucinda to search every avenue , using every conceivable resource , until all the possibilities had been exhausted . It would n't have mattered , Lily , she silently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She 'd have been happier knowing her family , spending time with them , instead of losing years , decades , to a paralyzing uncertainty that had , like a bizarre life-support system , kept her breathing but not truly alive . Lucinda stood enjoying the fragrant breeze and the early summer sun piercing the heavy foliage to lay splashes of warmth on her arms . Everything was in bloom and the colors were , she thought , like the primaries of a beginner 's set of Crayolas . She loved spring . But full summer , when the air stood motionless and heavy , too thick almost to breathe , was unbearable . Despite having spent the first part of her life in California - the land of perpetual summer with the periodic peculiar effects of the Santa Anas that often drove otherwise rational people to do irrational things - she 'd never tolerated the heat well . Lily had n't either , and used to say she 'd passed her native New England genes to Lucinda . Which was why Lily 's first major expenditure on the Connecticut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second and last expenditure of any significance was the installation of the swimming pool for Lucinda ( Lily herself did n't swim ) . And that was that . Lily 's taste in furnishings had been terrible . Lucinda had grown up with a woman who , while meticulous in most other areas , had been content to live with furniture the Salvation Army would 've rejected . Nearly thirty years before , when Lily 's estate finally cleared probate , Lucinda had become the owner of a property that included the old farmhouse and barn on two acres of land ( which had the local real estate agents salivating and phoning endlessly , begging her to sell ) , more money than she could possibly spend ( given her limited needs and desires ) , and a number of cartons of highly collectible memorabilia from her mother 's film career . By then , though , Lucinda was in a state perilously close to agoraphobia . With a desperate need to humanize the space that had come to contain her as tightly as a vacuum-sealed , see-through package , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remained untouched , a repository for rusted-out farm implements , dead lawn mowers and crumbling wicker furniture ; the home of nesting birds and small burrowing animals . At last , in the grip of long-accumulated inspiration , she 'd hired an architect - a then-recent graduate whose tidy features flushed with ambitious pleasure at the sight of the massive hand-hewn beams and weathered wood walls . And the previous May the renovation of the barn had finally been completed after thirteen months of noisy saws , migraine-inducing hammering , and workmen moving about to the accompaniment of bad music blaring from the paint-bespattered boombox that seemed to be a vital part of their equipment . ( Continues ... )                     