@@28900

Late on Tuesday afternoon , Sheriff Joanna Brady sat at her desk , stared at the pages of her calendar , and knew that Butch Dixon , her husband , was absolutely right . She was overbooked . When he had mentioned it at breakfast that morning , she had done the only reasonable thing and denied it completely . Coffeepot in hand , Butch had stood looking at the week 's worth of calendar he had finally convinced Joanna to copy and tape to the refrigerator door in a vain attempt at keeping track of her comings and goings . " Two parades on Friday ? " he had demanded , studying the two pages of copied calendar entries she had just finished posting . " According to this , the parades are followed by appearances at two community picnics . " Butch shook his head . " And you still think you 'll be at the fairgrounds in time for Jenny 's barrel-racing event , which will probably start right around four ? You 're nuts , Joey , " he concluded after a pause . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picked up a clone without telling me about it . " " Do n't worry , " she told him . " I 'll be fine . " Butch had poured coffee and said nothing more . Now , though , late in the afternoon and after putting in a full day 's work , Joanna studied her marathon schedule and worried that maybe Butch was right . How would she cover allthose bases ? The Fourth of July had always been one of Joanna 's favorite holidays . She loved going to the parade , hosting or attending a backyard barbecue , and then ending the evening in town watching Bisbee 's community fireworks display . But this was n't a typical Fourth of July . This was an election year , and Joanna Brady was an active-duty sheriff trying to do her job in the midst of a stiffly contested reelection campaign . Rather than watching a single parade , she was scheduled to participate in two of them - driving her Crown Victoria in Bisbee 's parade starting at eleven and in Sierra Vista 's , twenty-five miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to appear briefly at two community picnics that day - in Benson and St. David . The day would end with her making a few introductory remarks prior to the annual fireworks display eighty miles from home in Willcox . Stuffed in among all her official duties , she needed to be at the Cochise County fairgrounds outside of Douglas at the stroke of four o'clock . After years of practicing around a set of barrels positioned around the corral at High Lonesome Ranch , Jennifer Ann Brady had declared that she and her sorrel quarter horse , Kiddo , were ready for their public barrel-racing debut . That Fourth of July would mark Jenny 's first-ever competition on the junior rodeo circuit . Joanna 's showing up for the barrel-race rodeo had nothing at all to do with politics and everything to do with motherhood . Be there or be square , Joanna told herself grimly . Looking away from her calendar , Joanna walked across to the dorm-sized refrigerator Butch had brought back from Costco in Tucson and installed in her office . She retrieved a bottle of water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ window at the parched hills surrounding the Cochise County Justice Center . The thermometer perched in the shade under the roof of a covered parking stall just outside her office door still hovered around 103 degrees . Summertime temperatures in and around Bisbee seldom exceeded the low nineties , so having the temperature still that hot so late in the afternoon was bound to be a record breaker . Inside Joanna 's office , things were n't much better . The thermostats at all county-owned facilities were now set at a budget/energy-conscious 80 degrees - too warm to think or concentrate . She had a fan in her office , too , but she hated to use it because it tended to blow loose papers all over her desk - and there were always loose papers . The radio , playing softly behind her desk , switched from music to bottom-of-the-hour news where the weather was a big concern . All of Arizona found itself in the grip of a severe drought and what was , even for July , a fierce heat wave . The radio reporter announced that flights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been grounded due to concerns that the heat-softened runways might be damaged by planes landing and taking off in the record-breaking 126-degree temperatures . The announcer 's running gag about its being a dry heat did n't help Joanna 's frame of mind . Bisbee , situated two hundred miles southeast of Phoenix , was a couple of thousand feet higher than Phoenix and more than twenty degrees cooler , but that did n't help , either . Deciding to ignore the weather , Joanna switched off the radio and returned to studying her calendar and its self-inflicted difficulties . Months earlier , one of her least favorite deputies , Kenneth W. Galloway , had officially announced his intention to run against her . Bankrolled by a wife with a booming real estate business in Sierra Vista , Ken , Jr. , had resigned from Joanna 's department within weeks of announcing his candidacy . Minus the burden of a regular job , Galloway had been on the stump ever since . He spent every day on the campaign trail , crisscrossing the county with door-belling efforts and public appearances . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With a department to run , she could n't afford to doorbell all day long . She had done her share of rubber-chicken banquets and pancake-breakfast speeches for local civic organizations , but she 'd had to squeeze them in around her regular duties . Which was why she had said yes to appearing at all those various Fourth of July events . She 'd be able to cross paths and shake hands with far more people at those holiday get-togethers than she would have been able to see under ordinary circumstances ... ( Continues ... )                     