@@31441

Imaginings An Anthology of Long Short Fiction By Keith R. A. DeCandido Pocket Keith R. A. DeCandido Introduction : Novelette , Over Easy Keith R.A. DeCandido Novelette is a really silly word . Ask the average person on the street what a novelette is , and they 're most likely to say that it 's a kind of egg dish  --  or they 'll think it 's a malapropism for novelty . Most people are familiar with the terms novel and short story , but once you get into the more esoteric subcategories like novella and novelette , you are met with looks of abject confusion . However , a novelette is the ideal length for a speculative-fiction story . My personal definition of SF  --  which , for the purposes of this discussion , applies to fantasy , science fiction , and certain types of horror  --  is that it 's the world we live in with at least one major change . Sometimes that change is as simple as moving forward or backward in time . Sometimes it 's that vampires exist . Sometimes it 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or goes into a wardrobe or travels through a wormhole . Sometimes it 's that the Axis won World War II . Sometimes it 's that the sun is eaten by a giant space goat . Often , it 's more complex , of course , but what 's important is that the author has to create a new world  --  sometimes several  --  or , at least , a new way of looking at this world . To do that , and to also weave atale , sometimes requires a certain amount of storytelling space not provided by the short-story format . After all , SF is the only genre in which the setting is n't ( necessarily ) real . SF is also one of the few genres that still has a thriving short-fiction market . It 's possible to have a writing career in SF that focuses primarily on less-than-novel-length works ( indeed , some of the authors in this volume have such careers ) . Unfortunately , most short-fiction markets , limited as they are by space , the rising costs of paper , and the desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short story ( which usually averages 3000- 8000 words ) to those silly-sounding novelettes , which are about 8000-15,000 words , or to 15,000-40,000-word novellas . Such longer works still do get published , of course , but in much smaller numbers . A pity , that , as some of the most influential and important stories in the field are novelette length : " The Bicentennial Man " by Isaac Asimov , " Blood Music " by Greg Bear , " Tower of Babylon " by Ted Chiang , " Buffalo Gals , Wo n't You Come Out Tonight " by Ursula K. Le Guin , " Sandkings " by George R.R. Martin , " The Screwfly Solution " by Raccoona Sheldon ( better known under her other pseudonym , James Tiptree , Jr . ) , " Slow Sculpture " by Theodore Sturgeon , and so many more . The book you hold in your hands is an attempt to provide a new source for these novelettes . It all started in Framingham , Massachusetts . It was Boskone , 1999 . Boskone is a science-fiction convention that has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now . I was there , doing a panel on anthologies . Also present  --  either on the panel or in the audience  --  were Patrick Nielsen Hayden , Kathryn Cramer , Esther M. Freisner , and David G. Hartwell , all experienced anthologists . We got to discussing Patrick 's Starlight series of original anthologies , and how it was a return to the old-fashioned anthology , la Terry Carr 's Universe series , where the only requisite was that a story be a good example of the genre , as opposed to the " theme " anthologies that proliferate these days ( hell , I 've edited a whole bunch of them ) . Kathryn made a comment that there needed to be more books like that . And I said to myself , " Self , " I said , " you should do that . " The catch was trying to make mine unique , and it did n't take long to hit on how to do that : length . I would do an anthology that would be home to the best new novelettes ( silly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the two requirements for consideration in Imaginings  --  which was a totally open call , with no preselected stories or guaranteed spots  --  were that the story be in the science-fiction or fantasy genre ( or horror , but only if the story contained SF elements ) , and that it be between 8000 and 15,000 words in length . I received approximately 450 submissions over nine and a half months , and somehow managed to whittle it down to the ten in this volume . It was n't easy  --  I could have filled two more volumes with excellent stories that I ultimately passed on . But in the end , I think we have the cream of the crop . The quality of the submissions certainly , to my mind , proved the ideal-length thesis to be corrrect . What 's more , we have variety . Within these pages are hard-science stories , fantasies , horror stories , superhero stories , funny stories , speculative stories , stories that could n't have been written before the turn of the twenty-first century , stories that could just as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acknowledged masters of the field , stories from relative unknowns . They have only this in common : they show us the world we know , but with at least one important thing changed , and they are quality tales . Well , at least I think so . I hope you feel likewise . If you do  --  or if you do n't  --  please drop us an e-mail at **25;899;TOOLONG or send us a letter : Imaginings , PO Box 4976 , New York , NY 10185-4976 . I want to hear your thoughts , positive and negative . As of this writing , I have no idea if there will be an Imaginings 2 , but if there is , I want to go in prepared .... So enjoy your journey through ten authors ' wildest Imaginings.  --  Keith R.A. DeCandido somewhere in New York City Continues ... by Keith R. A. DeCandido                     