@@31980

Thursday , February 8 , 2001 , 9:29 A.M. For two years Joanne Kuhlman had gone to bed each night not knowing whether her children were dead or alive . That morning , Leah , her fifteen-year-old daughter , had made her so angry that Joanne had felt like shipping her back to her father . Even if she 'd been serious , the man was currently in jail and would more than likely be sentenced to prison . Exiting her white Lexus , Joanne jogged toward the main entrance to the Ventura County courthouse . She wondered how many people in her office knew about the situation with her ex-husband . Worrying about gossip , she told herself , should be the least of her concerns . Her prayers had been answeredLeah and Mike had been located and returned . The fact that Doug 's first trial would be held in Los Angeles was another reason she should be grateful . At least the divorce was final now . The papers had come through the previous month . Joanne had filed over a year ago , yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be finalized . At thirty-nine , Joanne was a petite and youthful-looking woman , with shoulder-length chestnut-brown hair , pronounced cheekbones , and large hazel eyes . Naturally slender , she self-consciously tugged on the hem of her jacket . In less than three months , she had gained ten pounds . People said she looked great . She did n't mind having a curvaceous body , but she could n't afford to buy a new wardrobe . Pushing her way through the heavy oak doors , Joanne leaned against the back wall to catch her breath . Leah wasshifting from one behavioral problem to the next . The night before , she 'd decided to go joyriding , then failed to turn the headlights off once she returned home . The battery on the Lexus had been dead that morning . With the help of their neighbor , Emily , Joanne had scrounged up a pair of jumper cables in the cluttered garage and managed to get the car started . The court hearing had been scheduled for nine , however , and it was already nine-thirty . Joanne was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her nylons and a grease stain on the front of her turquoise blazer . Thrusting her shoulders back , she shook her hands to release the pent up tension , then strode briskly down the aisle to speak to the bailiff . " Did Judge Spencer get my message ? " Joanne asked , glancing over her shoulder at the defense attorney and his three clients . " My car ... " Officer John Shaw was a stone-faced redhead in his late twenties . He tapped his watch with his finger , his voice as flat as his personality . " The longer he waits ... " " Right , " Joanne answered , feeling idiotic for offering an excuse , particularly to a bailiff . Unless something unexpected occurred , Shaw 's job consisted of saying a few words and then standing around like a statue . Shaw plucked a piece of chewing gum out of his mouth , wrapped it in a scrap of paper , then tossed it across the room into the trash can . " Are we ready ? " Joanne was leaning over , yanking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ co-workers made fun of her , telling her she looked more like a camper than an attorney . Compartmentalized to hold file folders as well as her laptop computer , the backpack had been a birthday present from her father . For years , she had lugged around heavy litigation cases or costly briefcases . Next month would mark her ten-year anniversary as a prosecutor . Image no longer mattered . All she cared about was distributing the weight evenly on her back . " No , John , " she said facetiously . " I thought we 'd just sit around and shoot the breeze for the next hour . " The bailiff 's jaw dropped , but he knew to keep his mouth shut . Joanne Kuhlman might be slightly frazzled today , but she was a major player in the Ventura County judicial system . Although she 'd declined for personal reasons , she 'd been offered a judgeship the previous year . Everyone knew she was renting Judge Spencer 's beach house , and had even become friends with the presiding judge 's wife who lived next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pretty blonde with dove-gray eyes and a pleasant disposition . Dressed neatly in a white shirt and black sweater , she took over for the bailiff . " Are you serious , Ms. Kuhlman ? Should I buzz Judge Spencer or do you want us to wait for you to get organized ? I 've already called the jury room . " Picking up her pen and jotting down a few notes to herself , Joanne answered without raising her head . " I assumed you notified Spencer as soon as I got here . " When she discovered her pen had run out of ink , she threw it aside and grabbed another one . " I just thought ... " A muscle in Joanne 's face twitched . She stared at the clock mounted on the wall over the clerk 's console , the minutes clicking off inside her head . " I appreciate your consideration , Anne , " she said , attempting to smile . " We should begin immediately , though , do n't you think ? " Her neighbor had lectured her over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being can only take so much stress , " Emily Merritt had told her . " You need to take yoga classes , meditate , book yourself a nice vacation . " Emily was married to the presiding judge , Kenneth Merritt , a man twenty years her senior and extremely wealthy . She knew Joanne 's predicament . When you lived at Seacliff Point , everyone knew your business . The community consisted of only thirty-three homes , the lots so narrow , they could hear each other 's toilets flushing . Judge Kenneth Merritt had inherited the fifty-acre parcel of prime coastal real estate from an ancestor , then later sold lots to handpicked individuals , most of them friends or family members . Unlike Joanne , Emily spent her days shopping , sunbathing , or playing bridge at the only commercial establishment Merritt had allowed behind the gates at Seacliff Point , a spectacular structure he had named the Cove . Perched on a cliff above the water , the Cove was shaped in the form of a star , with the rooms branching out in five different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embedded deep in the core of the rock 's surface . Merritt boasted that the Cove was sturdy enough to withstand a major earthquake . For the residents of Seacliff Point , the Cove was their exclusive club . With the availability of on-line shopping , investing , and other computer-related technology , the residents never had to physically venture beyond the gates to the outside world . The Cove was their kitchen , their recreation room , their meeting place , their local pub , their ballroom . The way it was designed , a person could enjoy a sunset and watch the waves breaking on the shore directly below from all but two of the five public rooms . Emily 's intentions had been good when she spoke to Joanne that morning . Regardless of the differences in their lifestyles , Joanne liked the woman and enjoyed having her as a neighbor . But Joanne could n't walk off her job or leave her kids to go on a vacation . Her ex-husband was facing child-stealing charges for abducting her children , along with a multitude of other crimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damage Doug had inflicted would take years to overcome . Taking yoga classes would n't replenish her bank account . A second job might help . There were n't enough hours in the day , though , let alone enough energy . The lovely home Joanne had owned in Ventura had been sold the previous year , the profits used to trace her children 's whereabouts . Judge Spencer , the man she had kept waiting this morning , had been kind enough to let her use his beach house until she managed to get back on her feet financially . The clock was ticking there as well . In three months , she would have to find another place to live . While she was struggling to pay off her debts and become financially stable , her despicable ex-husband had a pile of money , more than likely stashed in an offshore bank account . The problem was finding it . " Division 23 of the Ventura County Superior Court is now in session , " the bailiff announced , his deep voice echoing in the courtroom . " Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-respected judge . Joanne watched as he climbed the stairs to the bench , his black robes swirling around him . With his white hair and bushy beard , he resembled a good-natured grandfather . She heard two of the three defendants snickering across the room . They probably thought drawing Spencer as their trial judge meant they were in for an easy ride . They were in for a big surprise , Joanne smirked , feeling some of her earlier anxiety slipping away . Of all the Ventura County judges , Spencer was by far the most punitive . People swore he would send his own son to prison if he was certain he 'd broken the law . " The State of California versus Ian Decker , Thomas Rubinsky , and Gary Rubinsky , " Spencer spoke into the microphone . " Case number A987243 . " Joanne glanced over at the three defense attorneys . Arnold Dreiser , who was representing Ian Decker , was a tall , handsome man in his forties . Dreiser 's area of expertise centered around medical malpractice . Rumor had it that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a law degree from Harvard , he 'd also served a year on the Los Angeles bench . Gary Rubinsky was represented by Joseph Watkins , a public defender . At five-eight , Watkins had thinning blond hair , blue eyes , and a round face . Marilyn Cobb , Tom Rubinsky 's attorney , was also a public defender . At twenty-seven , she had curly red hair , freckles , and was toothpick thin . Whereas Watkins had been a public defender for seventeen years and was a supervisor over his unit , Marilyn Cobb had only been with the agency for a year . The case involved the December 16 , 2000 , armed robbery of a Quick-Mart convenience store . Since none of the defendants possessed criminal records as adults , the court had released them on bail . Ian Decker had never received so much as a parking ticket . The Rubinskys had committed numerous offenses as juveniles , all fairly minor , the majority having occurred during their early teens . In the past , juvenile records were inadmissable in adult proceedings . Laws had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to consider both the adult and juvenile histories of an offender when rendering decisions regarding bail or sentencing . As long as the defendant 's juvenile offenses did n't involve acts of violence , or were n't reflective of a specific pattern of criminal behavior , Judge Spencer did n't attach a great deal of weight to them . Two of the defendants , Ian Decker and Tom Rubinsky , were each twenty-one years old . They had been childhood friends who had only recently renewed their friendship . Tom 's brother , Gary Rubinsky , was twenty-five . Neither of the Rubinskys had been employed during the past year , leading Joanne to suspect that they were far more entrenched in criminal activity than their records indicated . Decker , on the other hand , had been attending welding classes at Franklin Junior College as well as holding down a job as a busboy . From what Joanne had been told , the Rubinskys ' parents had disowned them , so they were n't getting money from home . This meant Ian Decker was the only one of the three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The question that kept nagging at Joanne was how Decker had come up with enough money to hire Arnold Dreiser . Joanne read through the list of witnesses , knowing she needed to focus on the business at hand . At least the trial was not fully under way , which would have made her tardiness even more serious . The present stage of the criminal proceedings was technically referred to as voir direthe process of selecting a jury . While a young Hispanic housewife was being questioned by Dreiser , Joanne 's gaze drifted over to the three defendants . Ian Decker was a pale , meek young man , with dirty blond hair , a narrow face , and a dull look in his murky brown eyes . In contrast , the Rubinsky brothers stood over six feet , had bulging biceps and crude tattoos , their appearance more or less in line with the crime they were accused of committing . From Joanne 's experience , robbers looked and behaved like robbers . They moved around in their seats with restless energy , laughed inappropriately , and spoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Individuals who committed crimes such as homicides or rapes were harder to profile . The crime of robbery required a high degree of boldness . Fast money , she called it , especially when the suspects targeted a convenience store . Robbery was on Joanne 's list of what she called stupid crimes . It was n't like a murder , where , in the majority of cases , the only witness was dead . When a person confronted their victim face-to-face , it was usually only a matter of time before they were apprehended . The odds grew even greater with convenience stores , gas stations , and establishments that stayed open late at night as most of these places had security cameras . The defendants in this case had lucked out . The videotape from the Quick-Mart had been so severely distorted , Joanne had decided not to introduce it as evidence . The three scruffy defendants might not be bright , but they had nonetheless grown up in the technological era . According to the clerk at the Quick-Mart , Gary Rubinsky had pointed what appeared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was actually a firearm . When the poor man decided to call their bluff , one of the Rubinsky brothers had pushed a button on the decoy phone and fired off a round . After several months of research , the ballistics division reported that the weapon the clerk described had first surfaced in Europe . Since it was n't legal , the authorities knew the gun was being traded in the underground market . The police had not recovered this new deadly device during their search of the defendants ' property , which would have made Joanne 's job far easier . They had the bullet , though , so they had sufficient evidence to prove that the crime had been committed with the use of a firearm . Seeing Ian Decker slouched in his seat , Joanne wondered if he was under the influence of narcotics , also a common denominator in most holdups . Decker turned around and stared at her . Joanne felt a chill , but it was n't menace she saw in his eyes . He seemed to be attempting to communicate with her . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't exist . He stood several feet away from the other men , his arms dangling at his sides . Crime partners were known to stick together for a number of reasons . Something about these men struck Joanne as strange . Several more jurors were examined before Judge Spencer recessed for lunch . He removed his glasses and rubbed his eyes , a bedraggled look on his face . Voir dire was one of the more tiresome stages of the criminal process , and Arnold Dreiser seemed to have been moving at a snail 's pace . " I 'd like to accomplish something by the end of the day . We 'll reconvene promptly at three , " Spencer said , giving Joanne a stern look .                     