@@29944

The Legend of the Rubbish Heap A Chronicle of Two Pioneer Families In the mid-nineteenth century , when Moose County was beginning to boom , it was a Gold Rush without the gold . There were veins of coal to be mined , forests to be lumbered , granite to be quarried , land to be developed , fortunes to be made . It would become the richest county in the state . In 1859 two penniless youths from Germany arrived by schooner , by way of Canada . On setting foot on the foreign soil , they looked this way and that to get their bearings , and both saw it at the same time ! A piece of paper money in a rubbish heap ! Without stopping to inquire its value , they tore it in half to signify their partnership . It would be share and share alike from then on . Their names were Otto Wilhelm Limburger and Karl Gustav Klingenschoen . They were fifteen years old . Labor was needed . They hired on as carpenters , worked long hours , obeyed orders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watched for opportunities , took chances , borrowed wisely , cheated a little , and finally launched a venture of their own . By the time they were in their thirties , Otto and Karl dominated the food and shelter industry . They owned all the rooming houses , eating places , and travelers ' inns along the shoreline . Only then did they marry : Otto , a God-fearing woman named Gretchen ; Karl , a fun-loving woman nicknamed Minnie . At the double wedding the friends pledged to name their children after each other . They hoped for boys , but girls could be named Karla and Wilhelmina . Thus the two families became even more entwined ... until rumors about Karl 's wife started drifting back from the waterfront . When Karl denied the slander , Otto trusted him . But there was more ! One day Karl approached his partner with an idea for expanding their empire . They would add saloons , dance halls , and female entertainment of various kinds . Otto was outraged ! The two men argued . They traded insults . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tore up the fragments of currency that had been in their pockets since the miracle of the rubbish heap . Karl proceeded on his own and did extremely well , financially . To prove it , he built a fine fieldstone mansion in Pickax City , across from the courthouse . In retaliation Otto imported masons and woodworkers from Europe to build a brick palace in the town of Black Creek . How the community reacted to the two architectural wonders should be mentioned . The elite of the county vied for invitations to sip tea and view Otto 's black walnut woodwork ; Karl and Minnie sent out invitations to a party and no one came . When it was known that the brick mansion would be the scene of a wedding , the best families could talk of nothing else . The bride was Otto 's only daughter ; he had arranged for her to marry a suitable young man from the Goodwinter family ; the date was set . Who would be invited ? Was it true that Otto had taken his daughter before a magistrate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was true . Elsa 's dower chest was filled with fine household linens and intimate wedding finery . Gifts were being delivered in the best carriages in town . Seamstresses were working overtime on costumes for the wedding guests . Gowns for the bridal party were being shipped from Germany . Suppose there was a storm at sea ! Suppose they did not arrive in time ! Then , on the very eve of the nuptials , Otto 's daughter eloped with the youngest son of Karl Klingenschoen ! Shock , embarrassment , sheer horror , and the maddening suspicion that Karl and Minnie had promoted the defection-all these emotions combined to affect Otto 's mind . As for the young couple , there were rumors that they had gone to San Francisco . When the news came , a few years later , that the young couple had lost their lives in the earthquake , Elsa 's father had no idea who they were . Karl and Minnie lived out their lives in the most splendid house in Pickax , ignored by everyone of social standing . Karl never knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial crash of 1929 . Toward the end of the century , Otto 's sole descendant was an eccentric who sat on the porch of the brick palace and threw stones at dogs . Karl 's sole descendant was Fanny Klingenschoen , who recovered her grandfather 's wealth ten times over . Eventually the saga of the two families took a curious twist . The Klingenschoen Foundation has purchased two properties from the Limburger estate : the mansion in Black Creek and the hotel in Pickax . The former has become the Nutcracker Inn ; the latter is now the Mackintosh Inn . The " legend of the rubbish heap " has come full circle .                     