@@32214

CANTICLE ONE I JOHN KURTZ , the chief of the Boston police , breathed in some of his heft for a better fit between the two chambermaids . On one side , the Irish woman who had discovered the body was blubbering and wailing prayers unfamiliar ( because they were Catholic ) and unintelligible ( because she was blubbering ) that prickled the hair in Kurtz 's ear ; on the other side was her soundless and despairing niece . The parlor had a wide arrangement of chairs and couches , but the women had squeezed in next to the guest as they waited . He had to concentrate on not spilling any of his tea , the black haircloth divan was rattling so hard with their shock . Kurtz had faced other murders as chief of police . Not enough to make it routine , though -- usually one a year , or two ; often , Boston would pass through a twelve-month period without a homicide worth noticing . Those few who were murdered were of the low sort , so it had not been a necessary part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man too impatient with emotion to have excelled at it anyway . Deputy Police Chief Edward Savage , who sometimes wrote poetry , might have done better . This -- this was the only name Chief Kurtz could bear to attach to the horrifying situation that was to change the life of a city -- was not only a murder . This was the murder of a Boston Brahmin , a member of the aristocratic , Harvard-schooled , Unitarian-blessed , drawing room caste of New England . And the victim was more than that : He was the highest official of the Massachusetts courts . This had not only killed a man , as sometimes murders do almost mercifully , but had obliterated him entirely . The woman they were anticipating inthe best parlor of Wide Oaks had boarded the first train she could in Providence after receiving the telegram . The train 's first-class cars lumbered forward with irresponsible leisure , but now that journey , like everything that had come before , seemed part of an unrecognizable oblivion . She had made a wager with herself , and with God , that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the time she got there , the telegram 's message had been mistaken . It did n't quite make sense , this half-articulated wager of hers , but she had to invent something to believe , something to keep from fainting dead away . Ednah Healey , balanced on the threshold of terror and loss , stared at nothing . Entering her parlor , she saw only the absence of her minister and fluttered with unreasoning victory . Kurtz , a robust man with mustard coloring beneath his bushy mustache , realized he too was trembling . He had rehearsed the exchange on the carriage ride to Wide Oaks . " Madam , how very sorry we are to call you back to this . Understand that Chief Justice Healey ... " No , he had meant to preface that . " We thought it best , " he continued , " to explain the unfortunate circumstances here , you see , in your own house , where you 'd be most comfortable . " He thought this idea a generous one . " You could n't have found Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordered him to sit . " I 'm sorry you 've wasted this call , but there 's some simple mistake . The chief justice was -- is staying in Beverly for a few quiet days of work while I visited Providence with our two sons . He is not expected back until tomorrow . " Kurtz did not claim responsibility for refuting her . " Your chambermaid , " he said , indicating the bigger of the two servants , " found his body , madam . Outside , near the river . " Nell Ranney , the chambermaid , welled with guilt for the discovery . She did not notice that there were a few bloodstained maggot remains in the pouch of her apron . " It appears to have happened several days ago . Your husband never departed for the country , I 'm afraid , " Kurtz said , worried he sounded too blunt . Ednah Healey wept slowly at first , as a woman might for a dead household pet -- reflective and governed but without anger . The olive-brown feather protruding from her hat nodded with dignified resistance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great humanity , " You ought to come back later in the day , Chief Kurtz , if you please . " John Kurtz was grateful for the permission to escape Wide Oaks . He walked with appropriate solemnity toward his new driver , a young and handsome patrolman who was letting down the steps of the police carriage . There was no reason to hurry , not with what must be brewing already over this at the Central Station between the frantic city aldermen and Mayor Lincoln , who already had him by the ears for not raiding enough gambling " hells " and prostitution houses to make the newspapers happy . A terrible scream cleaved the air before he had walked very far . It belched forth in light echoes from the house 's dozen chimneys . Kurtz turned and watched with foolish detachment as Ednah Healey , feather hat flying away and hair unloosed in wild peaks , ran onto the front steps and launched a streaking white blur straight for his head . Kurtz would later remember blinking -- it seemed all he could do to prevent catastrophe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ murder of Artemus Prescott Healey had finished him already . It was not the death itself . Death was as common a visitor in 1865 Boston as ever : infant sicknesses , consumption and unnamed and unforgiving fevers , uncontainable fires , stampeding riots , young women perishing in childbirth in such great number it seemed they had never been meant for this world in the first place , and -- until just six months ago -- war , which had reduced thousands upon thousands of Boston boys to names written on black-bordered notices and sent to their families . But the meticulous and nonsensical -- the elaborate and meaningless -- destruction of a single human being at the hands of an unknown ... Kurtz was yanked down hard by his coat and tumbled into the soft , sun-drenched lawn . The vase thrown by Mrs. Healey shattered into a thousand blue-and-ivory shards against the paunch of an oak ( one of the trees said to have given the estate its name ) . Perhaps , Kurtz thought , he should have sent Deputy Chief Savage to handle this after all . Patrolman Nicholas Rey , Kurtz 's driver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The horses snorted and reared at the end of the carriageway . " He did all he knew how ! We all did ! We did n't deserve this , whatever they say to you , Chief ! We did n't deserve any of this ! I 'm all alone now ! " Ednah Healey raised her clenched hands , and then said something that startled Kurtz . " I know who , Chief Kurtz ! I know who 's done this ! I know ! " Nell Ranney threw her thick arms around the screaming woman and shushed and caressed , cradling her as she would have cradled one of the Healey children so many years before . Ednah Healey clawed and pulled and spat in return , causing the comely junior police officer , Patrolman Rey , to intervene . But the new widow 's rage expired , folding itself into the maid 's wide black blouse , where there was nothing else but the abundant bosom . The old mansion had never sounded so empty . Ednah Healey had departed on one of her frequent visits to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Providence , her husband remaining behind to work on a property dispute between Boston 's two largest banking concerns . The judge bid his family good-bye in his usual mumbling and affectionate manner , and was generous enough to dismiss the help once Mrs. Healey was out of sight . Though the wife would n't do without servants , he enjoyed small moments of autonomy . Besides , he liked a drop of sherry on occasion , and the help was sure to report any temperance violations to their mistress , for they liked him but feared her deep within their bones . He would start off the following day for a weekend of tranquil study in Beverly . The next proceeding that required Healey 's presence would not be heard until Wednesday , when he would railroad back into the city , back to the courthouse . Judge Healey did n't notice one way or another , but Nell Ranney , a maid for twenty years , since being driven out by famine and disease in her native Ireland , knew that a tidy environment was essential for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came in on Monday , which was when she found the first splattering of dried red near the supply closet and another streaking near the foot of the stairs . She guessed that some wounded animal had found its way into the house and must have found the same way out . Then she saw a fly on the parlor drapes . She shooed it out the open window with a high-pitched clicking of her tongue , fortified by the brandishing of her feather duster . But it reappeared while she was polishing the long mahogany dining table . She thought the new colored kitchen girls must have negligently left some crumbs . Contraband -- which is how she still thought of the freedwomen and always would -- did not care of actual cleanliness , only its appearance . The insect , it seemed to Nell , gurgled loud as a train 's engine . She killed the fly with a rolled up North American Review . The flattened specimen was about twice the size of a housefly and had three even black stripes across its bluish green trunk . And what a phizz ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something Judge Healey would murmur over admiringly before tossing the fly to the wastebasket . The bulging eyes , of a vibrant orange color , took up nearly half its torso . There was a strange tint of orange glowing out , or red . Something between the two , something yellow and black , too . Copper : the swirl of fire . She returned to the house the next morning to clean the upstairs . Just as she crossed through the door , another fly sailed like an arrow past the tip of her nose . Outraged , she secured another of the judge 's heavy magazines and stalked the fly up the main staircase . Nell always used the servants ' stairs , even when alone in the house . But this situation called for rearranging priorities . She removed her shoes and her wide feet fell lightly over the warm , carpeted steps , following the fly into the Healeys ' bedchamber . The fire-eyes stared out jarringly ; the body curled back like a horse ready to gallop , and the face of the insect looked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This was the last moment for many years , listening to the monotonous buzz , that Nell Ranney would know some measure of peace . She rumbled forward and smashed the Review against the window and the fly . But she had faltered over something during her attack , and now looked down at the obstacle , twisted on her bare foot . She picked up the tangled mass , a full set of human teeth belonging to the upper chamber of a mouth . She released it at once but stood attentively , as though it might censure her for the incivility . They were false teeth , crafted with an artist 's care by a prominent New York dentist to fulfill Judge Healey 's desire for a smarter appearance on the bench . He was so proud of them -- told their provenance to anyone who would listen , not understanding that the vanity leading to such appendages should prevent any discussion of them . They were a bit too bright and new , like staring right into the summer sun between a man 's lips . From the corner of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that had curdled and caked on the carpet . And near that , a small pile of suit clothes folded neatly . These clothes were as familiar as Nell Ranney 's own white apron , black blouse , and billowing black skirt . She had done much needlework on his pockets and sleeves ; the judge never ordered new suits from Mr. Randridge , the exceptional School Street tailor , except when absolutely essential . Returning downstairs to put on her shoes , the chambermaid only now noticed the splashes of blood on the banister and camouflaged by the plush red carpet that covered the stairs . Out the parlor 's large oval window , beyond the immaculate garden , where the yard sloped into meadows , woods , dry fields , and , eventually , the Charles River , she saw a swarm of blowflies . Nell went outdoors to inspect . The flies were collected over a pile of rubbish . The tremendous scent caused her eyes to tear as she approached . She secured a wheelbarrow and , as she did , recalled the calf the Healeys had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that had been years ago . Both the stableboy and the calf had outgrown Wide Oaks and left it to its eternal sameness . The flies were of that new fire-eyed variety . There were yellow hornets , too , which had taken some morbid interest in whatever putrid flesh was underneath . But more numerous than the flying creatures were the masses of bristling white pellets crackling with movement -- sharp-backed worms , wriggling tightly over something , no , not just wriggling , popping , burrowing , sinking , eating into each other , into the ... but what was supporting this horrendous mountain , alive with white slime ? One end of the heap seemed like a thorny bush of chestnut and ivory strands of ... Above the heap stood a short wooden staff with a ragged flag , white on both sides ; it was flapping with the undecided breeze . She could not help knowing the truth about what lay in that heap , but in her fear she prayed she 'd find the stableboy 's calf . Her eyes could not resist making out the nakedness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the enormous , snowy buttocks , brimming over with the crawling , pallid , bean-shaped maggots above the disproportionately short legs that were kicked out in opposite directions . A solid block of flies , hundreds of them , circled protectively . The back of the head was completely swathed in white worms , which must have numbered in the thousands rather than hundreds . Nell kicked away the wasps ' nest and stuffed the judge into the wheelbarrow . She half wheeled and half dragged his naked body through the meadows , over the garden , through the halls , and into his study . Throwing the body on a mound of legal papers , Nell pulled Judge Healey 's head into her lap . Handfuls of maggots rained down from his nose and ears and slack mouth . She began tearing out the luminescent maggots from the back of his head . The wormy pellets were moist and hot . She also grabbed some of the fire-eyed flies that had trailed her inside , smashing them with the palm of her hand , pulling them apart by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the room in empty vengeance . What was heard and seen next made her produce a roar loud enough to ring straight through New England . Two grooms from the stable next door found Nell crawling away from the study on her hands and knees , crying insensibly . " But what is it , Nellie , what is it ? By Jesus , you ai n't hurt now ? " It was later , when Nell Ranney told Ednah Healey that Judge Healey had groaned before dying in her arms , that the widow ran out and threw a vase at the chief of police . That her husband might have been conscious for those four days , even remotely aware , was too much to ask her to permit . Mrs. Healey 's professed knowledge of her husband 's killer turned out to be rather imprecise . " It was Boston that killed him , " she revealed later that day to Chief Kurtz , after she had stopped shaking . " This entire hideous city . It ate him alive . " She insisted Kurtz bring her to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three hours to slice out the quarter-inch spiraled maggots from their places inside the corpse ; the tiny horny mouths had to be pried off . The pockets of devoured flesh left in their wake spanned all open areas ; the terrible swelling at the back of the head still seemed to pulse with maggots even after their removal . The nostrils were now barely divided and the armpits eaten away . With the false teeth gone the face sagged low and loose like a dead accordion . Most humiliating , most pitiable , was not the broken condition , not even the fact that the body had been so maggot-ridden and layered in flies and wasps , but the simple fact of the nakedness . Sometimes a corpse , it is said , looks for all the world like a forked radish with a head fantastically carved upon it . Judge Healey had one of those bodies never meant to be seen naked by anyone except his wife 