@@26366

Lisa Kleypas Against the Odds There were two ways to pick a husband - with your head or your heart . Being a sensible young woman , Lydia Craven had naturally done the former . Which was not to say that she did n't care for her future husband . As a matter of fact , she was very fond of Robert , Lord Wray , who was kind and affable , with a quiet charm that never grated on the nerves . He was handsome in an approachable way , his refined features providing the perfect framework for a pair of intelligent blue eyes and a smile that was employed somewhat judiciously . There was no doubt in Lydia 's mind that Wray would never object to her work . In fact , he shared her interest in mathematics and science . And he mingled easily with her family - her unconventional , close-knit family , which had been blessed with enormous wealth but possessed a singularly undistinguished pedigree . It was a high mark in Wray 's favor , that he could so easily overlook Lydia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflected wryly , a prospective dowry of a hundred thousand pounds would be a savory condiment to even the most plebeian of dishes . Since Lydia 's come-out at the age of eighteen two years earlier , she had been ardently pursued by a legion of fortune hunters . However , as a peerwho had come into his own sizeable inheritance , Wray had no need of Lydia 's money - another mark on his side . Everyone approved of the match , even Lydia 's overprotective father . The only mild objection had come from her mother , Sara , who had seemed vaguely perturbed by her determination to marry Wray . " The earl seems to be a fine , honorable man , " Sara had said while she and Lydia had wandered through the gardens of the Craven estate in Herefordshire . " And if he is the one that you 've set your heart on , I would say that you 've made a good choice ... " " But ? " Lydia had prompted . Sara had stared thoughtfully at the rich planting of golden kingcups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It had been a warm spring day , the pale blue sky embossed with fleecy clouds . " Lord Wray 's virtues are indisputable , " Sara had said . " However , he is not the kind of man that I imagined you would marry . " " But Lord Wray and I are so much alike , " Lydia had protested . " For one thing , he is the only man of my acquaintance who has actually bothered to read my article on multidimensional geometry . " " And well he should be admired for that , " Sara had said , her blue eyes sparkling with sudden wry amusement . Although Sara was an intelligent woman in her own right , she had freely admitted that her daughter 's advanced mathematical reasoning was far beyond her own understanding . " However , I had hoped that you would someday find a man who might balance your nature with a little more warmth and irreverence than Lord Wray seems to possess . You are such a serious girl , my dearest Lydia . " " I 'm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had smiled . " When you were a little girl , I tried in vain to coax you to paint pictures of trees and flowers , and instead you insisted on making lines to demonstrate the difference between obtuse angles and orthogonal ones . When we played with blocks and I began to build houses and towns with them , you showed me how to construct a dihedral pyramid - " " All right , all right , " Lydia had grumbled with a reluctant grin . " But that only serves to demonstrate why Lord Wray is perfect for me . He loves machines and physics and mathematics . In fact , we 're considering writing a paper together about the possibility of vehicles being powered by atmospheric propulsion . No horses necessary ! " " Fascinating , " Sara had remarked vaguely , leading Lydia away from the paved path and wandering to a wildflower meadow that stretched beyond a grove of fruit trees . As Sara had lifted her skirts ankle-high and waded among the thick carpeting of violets and white narcissi , the sun shining on her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a matron of forty-five . She had paused to scoop up a clump of violets and inhale their heavy perfume . Her speculative blue eyes had regarded Lydia over the brilliant knot of flowers . " In between all these conversations of machines and mathematics , has Lord Wray ever kissed you ? " Lydia had laughed at the question . " You 're not supposed to ask your daughter things like that . " " Well , has he ? " As a matter of fact , Wray had kissed Lydia on many occasions , and Lydia had found it enjoyable . Of course , she had led an extremely sheltered life , and she 'd had no basis for comparison , except ... Suddenly the image of Jake Linley had appeared in her mind , his dark golden head bending over hers ... the sweet , dark fire of his kiss , the pleasure of his hands on her body ... and Lydia had shoved the thought away immediately , as she had a thousand times before . That night had been an anomaly that she would do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her - the kiss had been nothing more than a prank fueled by one glass of brandy too many . She had not seen Linley at all in the three months since then , and when they next met , she would pretend to have forgotten all about the episode . " Yes , " she 'd admitted to her mother , " the earl has kissed me , and it was very pleasant . " " I 'm glad to hear it . " Sara had let the violets spill from her fingers in a vibrant shower of fluttering petals . She 'd rubbed her perfumed fingertips behind her ears and darted a slightly mischievous glance at Lydia ... ( Continues ... )                     