@@28914

London , during the reign of Henry II Handsome as sin and more dangerous than the devil himself , Braden MacAllister had but one affliction in life . He adored all women . At a score and five years , he had claimed more hearts than anyone could count and charmed more women than there were stars in the heavens . It was said that on the hour of his birth , the midwife had been enthralled by the newborn 's playful air . The woman , who had helped bring over three score wee bairns into the world , had instantly proclaimed Braden a bane to any lass foolish enough to give her heart over to one such as he . For the boy had the devil in him . ' T was plain for any to see . Braden himself did n't know why women fascinated him so . He only knew that he adored them all  --  young , old , single or married , beautiful or plain . It mattered not , for each woman possessed a special flame within her that he found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . Wherever he went , feminine heads came together with gasps and giggles as they relayed his reputation to each other . Those who knew his bedroom skills firsthand lorded it over those whoonly knew him by rumor . Braden always responded to the women he met with a roguish smile . Never was he too busy to stop along the way to pass a moment or two with a willing female . Indeed , he lived for the sensual . Lived for the sound of soft , feminine sighs of pleasure whispered in his ear as he reveled in the giving of pleasure to his lover . He could never consider himself well sated until his partner had found her own satisfaction at least three or four times . And Braden loved to be well sated . His family claimed it was a terrible addiction he had . For his life , he did n't know what it was about women that captivated him so . Perhaps it was the smell of them , the feel of their soft , supple limbs sliding against his naked skin . Nay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women he loved best . And right now he was surrounded by three women who were vying for his attention . The Ghent sisters . Well , only two of them were still from Ghent ; the other , Piety , had married Rufus of Nottingham the winter past . And though Braden liked the old earl a great deal , it really was a shame for such a vibrant young woman to be shackled to a man thrice her age . Especially when said man spent more time tending his hawks and hounds than he did doting on his beautiful bride . Piety , in great contradiction to her name , had been making advances toward him ever since his arrival in England three months past to visit with his brother and swear homage for his English lands to King Henry II . Ever one to avoid unpleasantness with the English when he could , Braden had deftly sidestepped the young woman 's seductive contrivances and machinations . When he had received a letter earlier that day from Rufus requesting his presence to talk over some Scottish lands the earl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Until he had arrived to find the three women in residence while the earl and his brothers had departed that very morning for France . Braden 's first inclination had been to leave . But what mere mortal man could refuse such fruits of heaven when they were literally laid bare before him ? It was certainly more temptation than Braden could resist . Not that it took much in the way of temptation for a hedonist such as he . If the women were content to seduce him , then he was certainly content to be seduced . The three women pushed him down on the bed and were starting to make free use of his body for their pleasure . Delighted to let the ladies have their way with him , Braden relaxed and simply enjoyed what they offered . " Milord , " Patience purred as she dropped his dark blue surcoat to the floor . " Tell us again how you slew the Kilgarigon Dragon . " Prudence tugged at his right boot until she bared his stockinged foot . " I prefer the tale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ London . " Piety slid her hands over his thighs to the back of his hips . " And I prefer this tail , right here , " she said as she grabbed two handfuls of his buttocks . " Ah , ladies , ladies , " he sighed contentedly . " Where shall I begin ? " Lifting her kirtle to gift him with a luscious view of her bare bottom , Piety moved to straddle his waist . She wiggled her hips suggestively against his , then settled the yellow material down around her . She peeled back a portion of her kirtle to expose the curvaceous swell of her well-rounded bosom . " Why not begin here ? " she said , brushing her hand over the top of her left breast . " Aye , that looks like a fine place to start , " Braden said huskily . But before he could oblige the countess , the door to the room burst open . " Piety ! " came the outraged bellow . Braden propped himself up on his elbows to see Rufus standing in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was redder than the embers of the fire , which made his well-trimmed white beard all the more apparent . Braden growled low in his throat . Could n't a man have a moment 's worth of fun without some angry father , husband or brother rushing in and demanding his blood ? Well , if you 'd marry the woman first , brother , you 'd not have that problem . Braden flinched at Sin 's familiar words in his head . Och now , what did his brother know of it ? Sin spent just as much time avoiding holy matrimony as Braden did . Piety scooted off his lap with an indignant shriek while the other two women made haste for a nearby corner . The light of the ... Continues ...                     