@@27095

Every breath we draw wards off the death that constantly impinges on us ... Ultimately death must triumph , for by birth it has already become our lot and it plays with its prey only for a short while before swallowing it up . However , we continue our life with great interest and much solicitude as long as possible , just as we blow out a soap-bubble as long and as large as possible , although with the perfect certainty that it will burst . Chapter One Julius knew the life-and-death homilies as well as anyone . He agreed with the Stoics , who said , " As soon as we are born we begin to die , " and with Epicurus , who reasoned , " Where I am , death is not and where death is , I am not . Hence why fear death ? " As a physician and a psychiatrist , he had murmured these very consolations into the ears of the dying . Though he believed these somber reflections to be useful to his patients , he never considered that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , until a terrible moment four weeks earlier which forever changed his life . The moment occurred during his annual routine physical examination . His internist , Herb Katz  --  an old friend and medical school classmate  --  had just completed his examination and , as always , told Julius to dress and come to his office for a debriefing . Herb sat at his desk , rifling through Julius'schart . " On the whole , you look pretty good for an ugly sixty-five-year-old man . Prostate is getting a little swollen , but so is mine . Blood chemistries , cholesterol , and lipid levels are well-behaved  --  the meds and your diet are doing their job . Here 's the prescription for your Lipitor , which , along with your jogging , has lowered your cholesterol enough . So you can give yourself a break : eat an egg once in a while . I eat two for breakfast every Sunday . And here 's the prescription for your synthyroid . I 'm raising the dose a bit . Your thyroid gland is slowly closing down  --  the good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Perfectly benign condition , as you know . Happens to us all ; I 'm on thyroid meds myself . " Yes , Julius , no part of us escapes the destiny of aging . Along with your thyroid , your knee cartilage is wearing out , your hair follicles are dying , and your upper lumbar disks are not what they used to be . What 's more , your skin integrity is obviously deteriorating : your epithelial cells are just plain wearing out  --  look at all those senile keratoses on your cheeks , those brown flat lesions . " He held up a small mirror for Julius to inspect himself . " Must be a dozen more on you since I last saw you . How much time you spending in the sun ? Are you wearing a broad-brimmed hat like I suggested ? I want you to see a dermatologist about them . Bob King 's good . He 's just in the next building . Here 's his number . Know him ? " Julius nodded . " He can burn off the unseemly ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remove several of mine last month . No big deal  --  takes five , ten , minutes . A lot of internists are doing it themselves now . Also there 's one I want him to look at on your back : you ca n't see it ; it 's just under the lateral part of your right scapula . It looks different from the others  --  pigmented unevenly and the borders are n't sharp . Probably nothing , but let 's have him check it . Okay , buddy ? " " Probably nothing , but let 's have him check it . " Julius heard the strain and forced casualness in Herb 's voice . But , let there be no mistake , the phrase " pigmented differently and borders are n't sharp , " spoken by one doc to another , was a cause for alarm . It was code for potential melanoma , and now , in retrospect , Julius identified that phrase , that singular moment , as the point when carefree life ended and death , his heretofore invisible enemy , materialized in all its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never again left his side , and all the horrors that followed were predictable postscripts . Bob King had been a patient of Julius 's years ago , as had a significant number of San Francisco physicians . Julius had reigned over the psychiatric community for thirty years . In his position as professor of psychiatry at the University of California he had trained scores of students and , five years before , had been president of the American Psychiatric Association . His reputation ? The no-bullshit doctor 's doctor . A therapist of last resort , a canny wizard willing to do anything he had to do to help his patient . And that was the reason why , ten years earlier , Bob King had consulted Julius for treatment of his long-standing addiction to Vicodan ( the physician-addict 's drug of choice because it is so easily accessible ) . At that time King was in serious trouble . His Vicodan needs had dramatically increased : his marriage was in jeopardy , his practice was suffering , and he had to drug himself to sleep every night . Bob @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for him . Every therapist he consulted insisted that he enter an impaired physician recovery program , a plan which Bob resisted because he was loath to compromise his privacy by attending therapy groups with other physician-addicts . The therapists would n't budge . If they treated a practicing addicted physician without using the official recovery program , they would place themselves at risk of punitive action by the medical board or of personal litigation ( if , for example , the patient made an error of judgment in clinical work ) . As a last resort before quitting his practice and taking a leave of absence to be treated anonymously in another city , he appealed to Julius , who accepted the risk and trusted Bob King to withdraw on his own from Vicodan . And , though therapy was difficult , as it always is with addicts , Julius treated Bob for the next three years without the help of a recovery program ... Continues ...                     