@@32910

Cecilia Randall had heard of people who , if granted one wish , would choose to live their lives over again . Not her . She 'd be perfectly content to blot just one twelve-month period from her twenty-two years . The past twelve months . Last January , shortly after New Year 's , she 'd met Ian Jacob Randall , a Navy man , a submariner . She 'd fallen in love with him and done something completely irresponsibleshe 'd gotten pregnant . Then she 'd complicated the whole situation by marrying him . That was mistake number three and from there , her errors in judgement had escalated . She had n't been stupid so much as nave and in love andworst of allromantic . The Navy , and life , had cured her of that fast enough . Their baby girl had been born premature while Ian was at sea , and it became immediately apparent that she had a defective heart . By the time Ian returned home , Allison Marie had already been laid to rest . It was Cecilia who 'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while her baby 's tiny casket was lowered into the cold , muddy earth . She 'd been forced to make life-and-death decisions without the counsel of family or the comfort of her husband . Her mother lived on the East coast and , because of a snowstorm , had been unable to fly into Washington State . Her father was as supportive as he knew how to bewhich was damn little . His idea of " being there for her " consisted of giving Cecilia a sympathy card and writing a few lines about how sorry he was for her loss . Cecilia had spent countless days and nights by their daughter 's empty crib , alternately weeping and in shock . Other Navy wives had tried to console her , but Cecilia was n't comfortable with strangers . She 'd rejected their help and their friendship . And because she 'd been in Cedar Cove for such a short time , she had n't made any close friends in the community , either . As a result , she 'd borne her grief alone . When Ian did return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He 'd tried to explain , but by then Cecilia was tired of it all . Only one reality had any meaning : her daughter was dead . Her husband did n't know and could n't possibly understand what she 'd endured in his absence . Since he was on a nuclear submarine , all transmissions during his tour of duty were limited to fifty-word " family grams . " Nothing could have been done , anyway ; the submarine was below the polar ice cap at the time . She did write to tell him about Allison 's birth and then her death . She 'd written out her grief in these brief messages , not caring that they 'd be closely scrutinized by Navy personnel . But Ian 's commanding officer had seen fit to postpone relaying the information until the completion of the ten-week tour . I did n't know , Ian had repeatedly insisted . Surely she could n't hold him responsible . But she did . Unfair though it might be , Cecilia could n't forgive him . Now all she wanted was out . Out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guilt and regret , just out . The simplest form of escape was to divorce Ian . Sitting in the hallway near the courtroom , she felt more determined than ever to terminate her marriage . With one swift strike of a judge 's gavel , she could put an end to the nightmare of the past year . Eventually she would forget she 'd ever met Ian Randall . Allan Harris , Cecilia 's attorney , entered the foyer outside the Kitsap County courtroom . She watched as he glanced around until he saw her . He raised his hand in a brief greeting , then walked over to where she sat on the hard wooden bench and claimed the empty space beside her . " Tell me again what 's going to happen , " she said , needing the assurance that her life would return to at least an approximation of what it had been a year ago . Allan set his briefcase on his lap . " We wait until the docket is announced . The judge will ask if we 're ready , I 'll announce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number . " Cecilia nodded , feeling numb . " We can be assigned any number between one and fifty , " her attorney continued . " Then we wait our turn . " Cecilia nodded again , hoping she would n't be stuck in the courthouse all day . Bad enough that she had to be here ; even worse that Ian 's presence was also required . She had n't seen him yet . Maybe he was meeting somewhere with his own attorney , discussing strategiesnot that she expected him to contest the divorce . " There wo n't be a problem , will there ? " Her palms were damp and cold sweat had broken out across her forehead . She wanted this to be over so she could get on with her life . She believed that could n't happen until the divorce was filed . Only then would the pain start to go away . " I ca n't see that there 'll be any hang-ups , especially since you 've agreed to divide all the debts . " He frowned slightly . " Despite that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cecilia 's stomach , and she clutched her purse tightly against her . Soon , she reminded herself , soon she could walk out these doors into a new life . " It 's a rather ... unusual agreement , " Allan murmured . In retrospect , the prenuptial agreement had been another in the list of mistakes she 'd made in the past year , but according to her attorney one that could easily he rectified . Back when she 'd signed it , their agreement had made perfect sense . In an effort to prove their sincerity , they 'd come up with the idea that the spouse who wanted the divorce should pay not only the legal costs but all debts incurred during the marriage . It could be seen as either punitive or deterrent ; in either case , it had n't worked . And now it was just one more nuisance to be dealt with . Cecilia blamed herself for insisting on something in writing . She 'd wanted to be absolutely sure that Ian was n't marrying her out of any sense of obligation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 've been perfectly content to raise her child by herself . She preferred that to being trapped in an unhappy marriageor trapping Ian in a relationship he did n't want . Ian , however , had been adamant . He 'd sworn that he loved her , loved their unborn child and wanted to marry her . As a ten-year-old , Cecilia 's entire world had been torn apart when her parents divorced . She refused to do that to her own child . In her mind , marriage was forever , so she 'd wanted them to be certain before making a lifetime commitment . How nave , she thought now . How sentimental . How romantic . Ian had said he wanted their marriage to be forever , too , but like so much else this past year , that had been an illusion . Cecilia had needed to believe him , believe in the power of love , believe it would protect her from this kind of heartache . In the end , blinded by the prospect of a husband who seemed totally committed to her and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had acquiesced to the marriagewith one stipulation . The agreement . Their marriage was supposed to last as long as they both lived , so they 'd devised an agreement that would help them stay true to their vows . Or so they 'd thought .... Before the ceremony they 'd written the prenuptial contract themselves and had it notarized . She 'd forgotten all about it until she 'd made an appointment with Allan Harris and he 'd asked if she 'd signed any agreement prior to the wedding . It certainly was n't the standard sort of document ; nevertheless Allan felt they needed to have the court rescind it . Her marriage should n't have ended like this , but after their baby died , everything had gone wrong . Whatever love had existed between them had been eroded by their loss . Babies were n't supposed to dieeven babies born                     