@@32905

Prologue 7 Mayfair Square , London , 1822 Ghost in a post . I ask you , is that any way to address a man of my distinction , a man who would welcome deathagainrather than face the latest developments in the house I built for my family ? That is , my family throughout the generations to follow me , not , I repeat , not for lodgers ! And to turn the knife in the wound of my misery , that knave , Shakespeare , has dubbed me " Ghost in a Post " on account of my dwelling place in an exquisitely carved newel post at the foot of the staircase at Number 7 . He is not enjoying quite the popularity he achieved in his former state , and mortificationI am also known for my dazzling wordplaymakes his tongue vicious . But I am remiss . The late Sir Septimus Spivey at your service . Knighted in 1712 for my architectural achievements ; unparalleled in my vision , skill , innovation , and all-around brilliance . Number 7 was and is my most prized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mine , Lady Hester Bingham , takes in paying guests ? Protgs , she calls them . Poppycock , I say to that . A less compassionate fellow would have tossed aside all regard for the feelings of these wretched interlopers . Not so Sir Septimus . Oh , no , no . From the instant my ghostly skills allowed it , I set about removing the strangers in a most kindly manner . There was n't a single married tenant , so I decided to marry them off . Guide themwith a trace of in-elegant but necessary hasteinto connubial bliss.Elsewhere.There , I am a benevolent spirit if ever there was one . But am I given credit for my efforts , for my accomplishments ? Never . Two former residents , the former Miss Finch More and the former Miss Meg Smiles , are well-wed , well-fixed , and annoyinglyno , I mean gratifyingly happy . All I asked was that Latimer More depart with his sister , who has become Viscountess Kilrood , and that Sibyl Smiles become a member of her sister Meg 's , now Countess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latimer More and Sibyl Smiles , chose to continue living in their respective rooms , meaning of course , that I have not succeeded in emptying a single flat ! That state of affairs is about to change . After the last debacle I needed a good rest . Now I am refreshed and I have selected Miss Sibyl Smiles as my next victimI mean as the next beneficiary of my valuable attention , of course . I have already been hard at work for some time and had thought that at last I had a simple task ahead . Females . I should have known that even so placid an example as Sibyl Smiles could become difficult . Her sister , Meg , is a headstrong creature , a daring and unpredictable specimen if ever I saw one . Sibyl is the pale shadow , or I should say that she used to be the pale shadow . I can not imagine what has come over her , unless it is jealousy of her sister , and a determination to prove that she , Sibyl , is capable of equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain she trembles within . I have seen how she gathers courage to embark on each outrageous step she plans , but embark ; she does . And what if she accomplishes her aim to achieve independence of the most extraordinary kind ? Well , then , I shall not only be foiled again , but doubly foiled again . You see , my plan is that at last that cold fish , Hunter Lloyd , Hester 's nephew and another unwanted wanted occupant at Number 7 , will decide that a man in his positionbarrister , y'know , and about to be knighted , although I can not imagine whymust have a wife and a residence of his own . So , Hunter marries Sibyl . Sibyl marries Hunter . The result is obvious , or so I had hoped . Drat , I see Henry VIII coming this way . Seems to be forever trying to gather all those wives together . Says he wants to make amends . Ca n't imagine why he does n't accept that there are things even a king ca n't put back together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I must make myself scarce . But as to Sibyl and Hunter ? I must n't dash off without telling you the serious problem I must overcome there . I believe Hunter may have noticed Miss Sibyl . His gaze lingers , y'know . But Miss Sibyl 's mind is elsewhere . She is rehearsing ; making ridiculous faces in front of the mirror . Practices walking with a devil-may-care swagger . A strut . The silly chit is determined to put on a self-assured air , a worldly air , even . With her newfound friends , a group of drab , bluestocking creatures destined for the shelf , she is devising a plan to obtain what she wants most in life . Miss Sibyl Smiles wants a child . She does not want a husband . I shall overcome .                     