@@27848

9 Brumaire , Year V of the Republic ( October 30 , 1796 ) Aristide did not often set foot in the Place de Grve . It was an ill-omened place , the Golgotha of Paris , the site of uncounted butcheries across five centuries , and he loathed public executions . He shivered and cast a fleeting glance toward the guillotine , waiting high above the heads of the crowd , as the sharp breeze of a Parisian October whipped lank dark hair into his eyes . Perhaps , he brooded , not for the first time , he was oversensitive for a man who worked for the police . Police officials , his friend and employer Brasseur among them , did their duty and washed their hands of the affair , leaving the rest to the Criminal Tribunal and the public prosecutor . But the police and the law courts , he thought , in their determined efforts to maintain order in a city still unsettled after seven years of revolutionary upheaval , could sometimes be wrong . He elbowed his way onward , through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shabby castoff finery , and craftsmen in work aprons who slouched about , playing truant from their trades for half an hour 's free entertainment . The muddy square between the city hall and the Seine swarmed with spectators , pushing , joking . Here and there a spruce bourgeois or stylish incroyable , flaunting the exaggerated fashions of the season , blossomed like a hothouse flower amid the weeds . Though Aristide wore no tricolor sash , the mark of a police inspector or commissaire , they made way for him , reluctantly parting ranks before the austere black suit that instantly placed him among such traditional dignitaries as police , civil servants , ormagistrates . He shouldered his way through the spectators until he could push no farther against the eager , humming barricade of bodies . He could see well enough ; he stood half a head taller than most of his neighbors . The guillotine loomed above him against the leaden sky like a doorway to nowhere . Two men , silently overseen by a third in a fashionable black frock coat and tall hat , hovered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testing moving parts , greasing grooves and hinges . Aristide offered a silent prayer of thanks that at least the guillotine was far swifter and gentler than the punishment meted out to murderers and bandits in the decades before the Revolution . The crowd stirred and muttered , growing bored with idling . A few fights broke out . Rough-voiced street peddlers sold rolls , oranges , vinegar-water , hot chocolate , and cheap brandy . A pair of mounted gendarmes appeared at the edge of the square . Behind them creaked the executioner 's cart and the murmur grew into an uproar . Those who often attended such free public entertainment self-importantly pointed out the approaching actors : there the attending priest in civilian costume ; there the old executioner , come out of retirement for the day , Old Sanson who had topped the king , and Danton , and Robespierre , and so many others , in those disagreeable years 1793 and 1794 ; there his assistants . Young Sanson , the new master executioner , they told one another , was already waiting on the scaffold : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? In the cart a splash of crimson , a smock the color of blood . The central performers of the show stood between executioner and priest . One of the three condemned men had fainted and was lying nearly out of sight in the bottom of the cart . A shout pierced the crowd 's babble . " I am guilty ! " The man in the crimson smock leaned forward across the cart 's rail , straining at his guard 's tight grip on his bound arms . " I am guilty , citizens ! But Lesurques is innocent ! " " That 's Courriol , " said someone in the crowd , " one of the bandits .... " Aristide swallowed and squeezed his hands together behind his back as a chill crept from the pit of his stomach to the center of his chest . When even a confessed killer insisted upon his comrade 's innocence ... The second man stood erect in the cart , his pale , youthful face betraying neither fear nor hope . His fair hair was cropped short for the blade , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the emblem of a condemned murderer ; waistcoat , culotte , shirt cut open at the neck -- all were spotless white . Absence of the usual formalities betrayed some belated sympathy on the public prosecutor 's part . What must it be like , Aristide wondered , to live in doubt , to have to ask yourself for the rest of your life whether , in the performance of your duty , you had condemned an innocent man ? " Lesurques is innocent ! " Courriol repeated . His crimson smock fluttered in the wind . " I am guilty ! " The cart creaked to a stop before the scaffold . Above , Young Sanson waited silently , hands at his sides , ignoring the wind 's bite . A raindrop stung Aristide 's cheek . Mathieu had died on just such a day as this , he recalled , a bleak autumn morning with a cold , leaden sky and spattering rain . Three years ago ... the last day of October 1793 . Perhaps under the same steel blade . He closed his eyes for an instant at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lowered the cart 's tailboard and lugged the unconscious man up the narrow steps . Carefully impassive , they strapped him to the plank and slid it forward beneath the blade . The wooden collar clapped down over his neck . Young Sanson stepped to the machine 's right-hand upright and tugged at a lever . Aristide blinked . Did anyone ever see the blade in the midst of its fall ? Yet there it hung , at rest at the bottom of the uprights , smeared with glistening red , and blood was weeping between the boards of the scaffold onto the sawdust below . " I am guilty ! Lesurques is innocent ! " shouted Courriol as hands reached for him and swung him down from the cart . He struggled a moment , twisting about to shout once again to the crowd as the executioners marched him toward the waiting plank . " Lesurques is innocent ! " Aristide watched , motionless . Here , at least , simple justice had taken its course . But God help us all , he thought , if the criminal court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The crowd grew silent as Lesurques climbed the steps . Upon reaching the platform , he paused . " I am innocent of this crime . May God forgive my judges as I have forgiven them . " For the third time , the great blade scraped and thudded home . Aristide thrust his way past the gawkers and paused at the edge of the square , gasping for breath . At last he found an upturned skiff on the riverside and dropped down on it , elbows on knees , staring into the murky shallows of the Seine . Had the police he worked for , so determined to keep the peace , instead been so horribly wrong ? He clasped cold hands before him , shivering suddenly , not from the chill river breeze alone . Men made mistakes ; it was the natural way of things . Impossible that you would never make a mistake , accuse wrongly , perhaps unwittingly destroy a life ... He sat brooding a while longer , watching the stray raindrops ripple across the river as it slid silently past . Forget this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing about it . Even if you could somehow learn the truth , and clear his name , he will still be beyond help . There is nothing you can do . He sighed , pushed himself to his feet , and turned his steps westward along the quay , letting the walk and the chill breeze calm him . Like a great ship , the le de la Cit parted the river , the cathedral at one end of the island and the Law Courts at the other . As Aristide passed along the shore of the Right Bank , the brooding medieval towers of the Conciergerie , the ancient prison attached to the courts , caught and held his gaze . All his misgivings returned in a rush . What if I , too , in my time , have sent innocent men to that place , and even to the executioner ?                     