@@32154

Chapter One STANFORD UNIVERSITY APRIL 15 , 1906. 5:30 A.M. The horses woke Hunter Fallon that Easter morning , neighing and kicking in the stalls beneath him . He opened his eyes to a sight as discomforting as the sound : an empty loft that until the day before had been crammed with graphs and charts , measuring devices , Bunsen burners and Petri dishes , microscopes , boxing gloves , leather football helmets , and sporting trophies of every shape and size . Gone , all of it crated and shipped by rail to his father 's house in San Francisco . Hunter lay there a minute , the rolling emptiness inducing a sort of vertigo . He dismissed the fractiousness of his four-legged companions as some sort of equine melancholy , convinced they were as saddened as he was over his departure . The loft where he slept , above the palatial stables on the edge of the campus , had been his home since the recently deceased Jane Stanford , angel of the university , had awarded him a scholarship in the fall of 1900 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had provided loft and board . He had described those years , in a constant stream of letters to his father , as more a miracle than an education . But that was over now . The adventures just ahead would be unlike any he had ever dreamed . A golden beam of sunlight appeared on the redwood ceiling high above him , growing quickly from band to square to rhomboid . Hunter rose and stretched to his full six-foot height , and descended the ladder to the rough mahogany floor , where he quickly offered his good-byes . " Mr. Whitman , " he told a chestnut colt , " do n't tell the others , but I loved you best . " He scratched Mr. Lincoln , nuzzled Mr. Twain , accepted a pink and soggy good-bye kiss from Miss Woodhull , Miss Duncan , Mr. Edison , Mr. Roosevelt , Mr. Caruso . Hunter was , as were his charges , sturdy , handsome , and noble of stock . A decade earlier , when we were both near the age of twelve , I had developed a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the young girls in North Beach , San Francisco 's Latin Quarter . He was , even then , more an element of nature than an adolescent , restless and unyielding as the tide and fog that move through the Golden Gate . He was often seen tearing about on a bicycle he had built from spare parts , stopping to engage even casual acquaintances with dissertations on emerging developments in the telephone or new steering mechanisms in the automobile . His precocity was tolerated by most , as he was the offspring of legends . His grandfather Malachi and granduncle Arthur founded San Francisco 's police department during the Gold Rush , their primary qualification a willingness to battle a gang of former Australian convicts , the Sydney Ducks . As sons and nephews and grandsons followed them , the Fallon/Fagen/Rinaldi clan , more than a dozen of them , earned a city 's reverence as the department 's most honest and fearless officers . The last I had seen of Hunter , his father was marching him home , dragging the pieces of a homemade glider constructed according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had caught Hunter near Sutro Baths just as he was about to launch himself and the contraption off the ocean cliffs . He was fourteen at the time and earned a considerable tarring for his efforts . Age , I was to discover , only enhanced Hunter 's considerable gifts . On that momentous Easter morning , now nearly twenty-three , Hunter sported the dark eyebrows , flawless olive complexion , and impassioned intellect of his Italian mother Isabella . From his Irish father he inherited a square-set jaw , haunting blue eyes , and unflinching determination . Summers in construction work and years of athletics provided a frame straining with muscle . The ache of his bittersweet departure was tinged with apprehension . After all , it is not often that a young man 's final college examination runs the risk of killing him . Hunter donned faded Levi blue jeans , a gray woolen shirt , black leather engineer 's boots , and a Pittsburgh Pirates cap signed by the great shortstop Honus Wagner , twisting the brim backward on his head . Moments later , he pushed a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With an engine shaped like an enormous V , the motorcycle had arrived the previous winter in several hundred pieces and taken Hunter six months to assemble . A quarter-mile away , a crowd of fifty had gathered for his benediction : fresh-faced young men in brown tweed suits and bowler hats , rosy-cheeked coeds in long skirts , square-shouldered jackets , and broad-brimmed bonnets plumed with Easter orchids . Hunter lowered a pair of jockey 's goggles over his Pirates cap and kicked the starter pedal . Three , four , five times , adjusting valves and levers . On the sixth try , the Waltham roared to life . He engaged the gear lever and rode in ever-widening circles , listening for signs the whole thing might explode between his legs . As he circled , staring out at the lush green valley and the creek swollen with spring runoff , he thought of his mother Isabella , who had died a month before he entered the University . It made him tearful that she was not present to witness his finest moment . On Stanford Lane , his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies , fretful and asthmatic Professor Rudy Durand , raised a small red flag . Hunter stopped the Waltham at a white chalk mark and gunned the engine several times . The flag dropped . The motorcycle lurched , throwing the front wheel skyward , spitting a puff of ebony smoke , and slammed back onto the ground , the rear wheel blasting sand and pebbles down the lane . The howling machine gasped , bucked , and bolted forward . In fifty yards , he had it up to thirty . Thirty-five , forty , forty-five . Hunter 's heart pounded as he roared down the quarter-mile stretch , the wind ripping at his leather jacket , flattening the goggles against his eyes . The umbrella of eucalyptus funneled and amplified the sound across the valley . Above fifty , the road threatened to tear the tires from their steel rims . Hunter pushed the throttle lever to the bottom of its transit , fighting desperately for control as he charged toward Professor Durand . Fifty , fifty-five , sixty . Half on and half off , Hunter crossed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gallery cheered and spun like tops as the blast of wind sent hats and bonnets flying . " Sixty-four and one-half miles per hour , " the professor shouted . " That beats the California motorized record of sixty-three miles per hour . " Hunter circled the crowd , pumping his fist like a victorious gladiator , and offered a good-bye wave . He charged across the picturesque quadrangle , past the majestic sandstone buildings , and through the stone Arch of Triumph , slowing briefly to capture a melancholy glimpse of the campus . He was struck by an eerie feeling , a disturbing sense that he might never see his beloved Stanford again . The feeling was so keen that he abruptly turned the Waltham in a wide circle , fixing in his mind the buildings and the great arch , the towering barn and golden-poppy dotted hills , finally offering a pained salute to the memory of Jane Stanford . North he flew , onto majestic El Camino Real , weaving through belching Fords ferrying churchgoers and over-laden wagons hauling the spring harvest from the lush Santa Clara @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the apprehension did not ease . He had rarely returned during those six years , unable to leave his stablemates ; a plan that Byron had secretly arranged , an attempt to dampen Hunter 's interest in the family 's bloody business . On the evening before his son 's return , I suggested to Byron that after a six-year absence Hunter might scarcely recognize the City . Both Hunter and I had been born in 1883 , into a dark and silent world poised for transformation by a flurry of technological wonders such as the world had never seen . In just over two decades the world had changed more than in a millennium . We witnessed the coming of the telephone , electric light , aero plane , automobile , phonograph , antiseptic surgery , the moving picture and the X-ray machine . In 1900 , one of Hunter 's heroes , Samuel Langley , pioneering aviator and director of the Smithsonian Institution , had declared that all of the world 's great inventions had already been discovered . If all of the world 's great marvels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he invent them ? In the six years since he had last lived on Telegraph Hill , those once-wondrous things had become staples in the public diet . San Francisco was bursting at the seams with change . Byron had taken to sharing his son 's frequent letters with me , until I felt I knew him almost as well as his father did . Hunter 's musings included a hodgepodge of ideas : the enhancement of police work by scientific applications , his zeal for the **27;1292;TOOLONG politics of Teddy Roosevelt , theories on wireless communication , fund-raising activities for the defense of I.W.W. lion Big Bill Haywood for his trial in the bombing death of Idaho Governor Steunenberg , fervent support for the clarification of English via the Simplified Language movement , and Hunter 's personal guarantee that the aero plane would soon replace the railroad as the principle transporter of people and goods . In one missive received a week before his return , Hunter argued that Thomas Edison had become more influential than Queen Victoria in the five years since her death ; ragtime and a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replacing opera and helping to bring equality for Negroes ; he finished with a timetable for the triumph of Suffrage and Industrial Unionism ( less than ten years ) . Byron was exhausted when he finished reading this letter aloud . I , on the other hand , though dubious about Hunter 's technological predictions as I considered the march of progress a dehumanizing lockstep toward sooty oblivion , was touched by his impassioned belief in social progress , a commonality of spirit that , I must admit , awakened my former schoolgirl interest . That Sunday , April 15 , as he powered north through the once-rustic Peninsula , Hunter fretted over the proliferation of gabled mansions rapidly replacing the blinds and lodges where he and his father and brother Christian had hunted boar and pheasant . The astonishing wealth of San Francisco , fountainhead of the West , was spilling over and the Peninsula , the puddle beneath the spout , was in danger of becoming an amorphous suburban lump stretching from San Jose to San Francisco . Hunter motored onto the final stretch , the Bayshore Highway , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached back to check the two documents inside his saddlebag . The first was a letter from the San Francisco Police Department , confirming his acceptance . He would be the first college graduate to join the department , provided his father did not kill him first . The second was the engineering survey he had prepared for San Francisco Fire Chief Dennis Sullivan , entitled " An Independent Survey of Tectonic Movement along the San Andreas Fault and Its Effect on Subterranean Water Systems in San Francisco . " In the days that followed , we would realize how those two documents might have changed the fate of nearly half a million souls . Chapter Two TELEGRAPH HILL APRIL 15 , 1906. 5:45 A.M. The San Francisco Police Department was the only life Byron Fallon had ever known . He had joined at age seventeen , believing it God 's calling that he help end violence and corruption in the lawless city . He was a devout Catholic , blessed with a fearlessness and natural intelligence that earned him the rank of detective by age twenty-five . He bore two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of work : a set of cornflower blue eyes so soothing that they sometimes coaxed confessions from reluctant miscreants , and a pair of enormous hands that often worked where the former did not . The fact that the dozen members of the Fallon/Fagen/Rinaldi clan had never taken a dirty dime had long ceased to bother-at least openly-other , less scrupulous police officers . It simply left a larger pot , and fewer hands to be divided among . In 1895 Byron had been promoted to Chief of Detectives for his work in solving the sensational Belfry Murders at the Emmanuel Baptist Church . A church acolyte with a predilection for bathing in chicken blood while engaging Barbary Coast prostitutes had murdered two young girls and left their bodies in the church steeple , a case that became front-page news in all five of the town 's papers . As sunrise approached Easter morning , the bald , thick-limbed , fifty-three-year-old patriarch of the Fallon clan arose after another restless night . He paced his bedroom in the highest house atop Telegraph Hill , a two-story Italianate Victorian with modest dormers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gazed across San Francisco Bay as the water turned a shimmering pink , and a golden crown appeared atop Mount Tamalpais twenty miles away . He lifted a photo taken during vows at Mission Dolores : Isabella in a white lace dress and black velvet choker , silk flowers woven through her upswept hair , and he sporting a gray pinstripe morning coat , red cravat , and well-waxed handlebar . " La luce splendida , " he muttered , as he had every morning since she died of pneumonia . Above the faded cherry chiffonier an electric light suddenly burned . Byron had it installed two years earlier , when he had the house electrified , so that his Cantonese housekeeper , Mr. Lee , could signal his arrival and not be shot as an intruder . Byron took his Colt revolver from beneath the pillow-it is doubtful he had taken a step in more than thirty years without it-and padded across his bedroom on feet akin to bony flapjacks . His hips tilted left , his shoulders twisted right and his right hand , the one that clutched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by scars and divots , he moved like a broken puppet repaired by a drunken craftsman . " I make Hunter room with fresh blanket for him , " Mr. Lee said , as he poured hot water into the basin before hurrying back to the kitchen . Byron stared through the tiny bathroom window to Mount Tamalpais across the bay . " How 's the miracle this morning ? " Isabella 's voice . It had happened often lately : her voice , the rustle of her skirt , the waft of her familiar scent . " Fine , " he answered . He washed and shaved and slid into a boiled shirt , brown bow tie , tan leather galluses , and a brown wool suit , purchased at the Emporium the previous week for the rather indulgent sum of nine dollars . Continues ...                     