@@31948

Chapter One London : a great and prosperous capital , two thousand years old , which in the hands of the magicians aspired to be the center of the world . In size at least it had succeeded . It had grown vast and ungainly on the rich feasts of empire . The city sprawled for several miles on either side of the Thames , a smoke-bound crust of housing , dotted with palaces , towers , churches , and bazaars . At all times and in all places , it thrummed with activity . The streets were clogged and crowded with tourists , workers , and other human traffic , while the air buzzed invisibly with the passage of imps busy about their masters ' errands . On the crowded quays extending into the gray waters of the Thames , battalions of soldiers and bureaucrats waited to set sail on journeys across the globe . In the shadows of their iron-clad sailing ships , colorful merchant vessels of every size and shape negotiated the cluttered river . Bustling carracks from Europe ; sharp-sailed Arab dhows , laden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slim-masted clippers from America-all were surrounded and impeded by the tiny river-boats of the Thames watermen , who competed loudly for the custom of guiding them into dock . Two hearts powered the metropolis . To the east was the City district , wheretraders from distant lands gathered to exchange their wares ; to the west , hugging a sharp bend in the river , lay the political mile of Westminster , where the magicians worked ceaselessly to extend and protect their territories abroad . The boy had been in central London on business ; now he was returning to Westminster on foot . He walked at an easy pace , for though it was still early morning , it was already warm , and he could feel the sweat beading beneath his collar . A slight breeze caught the edges of his long black coat and whipped it up behind him as he went . He was aware of the effect , which pleased him . Darkly impressive , it was ; he could sense heads turning as he passed . On really windy days , with his coat flapping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look quite so stylish . He cut across Regent Street and down between the whitewashed Regency buildings to Haymarket , where the street sweepers were busy with broom and brush outside the theater fronts and young fruit sellers were already beginning to parade their wares . One woman supported a tray piled high with fine , ripe , colonial oranges , which had been scarce in London since the southern European wars began . The boy approached ; as he passed , he flipped a coin dexterously into the small pewter bowl hanging from her neck and , with an extension of the same movement , plucked an orange from the top of the tray . Ignoring her thanks , he went his way . He did not break stride . His coat trailed impressively behind him . At Trafalgar Square , a series of tall poles , each striped with a dozen spiraling colors , had recently been erected ; gangs of workmen were at that moment winching ropes into place between them . Each rope was heavily laden with jaunty red , white , and blue flags . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A laborer passed , sweating under the weight of a mass of bunting . The boy hailed him . " You , fellow . What 's all this in aid of ? " The man glanced sideways , noticed the boy 's long black coat , and immediately attempted a clumsy salute . Half the bunting slipped out of his hands onto the pavement . " It 's for tomorrow , sir , " he said . " Founder 's Day . National holiday , sir . " " Ah yes . Of course . Gladstone 's birthday . I forgot . " The boy tossed a coil of peel into the gutter and departed , leaving the workman grappling with the bunting and swearing under his breath . And so down to Whitehall , a region of massive gray-clad buildings , heavy with the odor of long-established power . Here , the architecture alone was enough to browbeat any casual observer into submission : great marble pillars ; vast bronze doors ; hundreds upon hundreds of windows with lights burning at every hour ; granite statues of Gladstone and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rigors of justice for all enemies of State . But the boy tripped with light steps past it all , peeling his orange with the unconcern of one born to it . He nodded to a policeman , flashed his pass to a guard , and stepped through a side gate into the courtyard of the Department of Internal Affairs , under the shade of a spreading walnut tree . Only now did he pause , gulp down the remainder of his orange , wipe his hands on his handkerchief , and adjust his collar , cuffs , and tie . He smoothed back his hair a final time . Good . He was ready now . It was time to go to work . More than two years had passed since the time of Lovelace 's rebellion , and the sudden emergence of Nathaniel into the elite . By now , he was fourteen years old , taller by a head than when he had returned the Amulet of Samarkand to the protective custody of a grateful government ; bulkier , too , but still lean-framed , with his dark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fashion of the day . His face was thin and pale with long hours of study , but his eyes burned hot and bright ; all his movements were characterized by a barely suppressed energy . Being a keen observer , Nathaniel had soon perceived that among working magicians , appearance was an important factor in maintaining status . Shabby attire was frowned upon ; indeed it was a sure-fire mark of mediocre talent . He did not intend to give this impression . With the stipend that he received from his department , he had bought a tight-fitting black drainpipe suit and a long Italian coat , both of which he considered dangerously fashionable . He wore slim , slightly pointed shoes and a succession of garish handkerchiefs , which provided an explosion of color across his breast . With this outfit carefully in place , he would walk around the Whitehall cloisters with a lanky , purposeful stride , reminiscent of some wading bird , clutching sheaves of paper in his arms . His birth name he kept well hidden . To his colleagues and associates , he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other magicians had borne this name , neither of great renown . The first , an alchemist in the days of Queen Elizabeth , had turned lead to gold in a celebrated experiment before the court . It was afterward discovered that he had managed this by coating gold pellets with thin films of lead , which vanished when gently heated . His ingenuity was applauded , but he was beheaded nonetheless . The second John Mandrake was a furniture-maker 's son who had spent his life researching the many variants of demonic mite . He had amassed a list of 1,703 increasingly irrelevant subtypes before one of them , a Lesser Frilled Green Hornetwing , stung him in an unguarded area ; he swelled to the size of a chaise lounge and so died . The inglorious careers of his predecessors did not concern Nathaniel . In fact , they gave him quiet satisfaction . He intended to make the name famous for himself alone . Nathaniel 's master was Ms. Jessica Whitwell , a magician of indeterminate age , with cropped white hair and a frame that was slender @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the four most potent magicians in the government , and her influence was long . She recognized her apprentice 's talent and set about developing it fully . Living in a spacious apartment in his master 's riverside townhouse , Nathaniel led an ordered , well-directed existence . The house was modern and sparsely furnished , its carpets lynx-gray and the walls stark white . The furniture was made of glass and silvered metal , and of pale wood felled in Nordic forests . The whole place had a cool , businesslike , almost antiseptic feel , which Nathaniel came to admire strongly : it signaled control , clarity , and efficiency , all hallmarks of the dark , brooding places-their books bound in exotic animal skins , with embroidered pentacles or curse runes on the spines . But this look , Nathaniel now learned , was very last century . Ms. Whitwell had requested Jaroslav 's , the printers and bookbinders , to provide uniform bindings of white leather for all her tomes , which were then indexed and stamped with identifying numbers in black ink . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rectangular glass table , and here Nathaniel would sit two days every week , working on the higher mysteries . In the early months of his tenure with Ms. Whitwell , he had embarked on a period of intensive study and , to her surprise and approval , mastered successive grades of summoning in record time . He had progressed from the lowest level of demon ( mites , moulers , and goblin-imps ) , to medium ( the full range of foliots ) , to advanced ( djinn of various castes ) in a matter of days . After watching him dismiss a brawny djinni with an improvisation that administered a slap on its blue rump , his master expressed her admiration . " You 're a natural , John , " she said . " A natural . You displayed bravery and good memory at Heddleham Hall in dismissing the demon there , but I little realized how adept you 'd be at general summonings . Work hard and you 'll go far . " Nathaniel thanked her demurely . He did not tell her that most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already raised a middle-ranking djinni by the age of twelve . He kept his association with Bartimaeus strictly to himself . Ms. Whitwell had rewarded his precocity with new secrets and tuition , which was exactly what Nathaniel had long desired . Under her guidance , he learned the arts of constraining demons to multiple or semipermanent tasks , without recourse to cumbersome tools such as Adelbrand 's Pentacle . He discovered how to protect himself from enemy spies by weaving sensor webs around himself ; how to dispel surprise attacks by invoking rapid Fluxes that engulfed the aggressive magic and carried it away . In a very short space of time , Nathaniel had absorbed as much new knowledge as many of his fellow magicians who were five or six years older . He was now ready for his first job . It was the custom for all promising magicians to be given work in lowly departmental positions as a way of instructing them in the practical use of power . The age at which this occurred depended on the talent of the apprentice and the influence of the master @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too , for it was well known about the coffee bars of Whitehall that the Prime Minister himself was following his career with a keen and benevolent eye . This ensured that , from the outset , he was the object of much attention . His master had warned him of this . " Keep your secrets to yourself , " she said , " especially your birth name , if you know it . Keep your mouth shut like a clam . They 'll pry it all out of you otherwise . " " Who will ? " he asked her . " Enemies you have n't yet made . They like to plan ahead . " A magician 's birth name was certainly a source of great weakness if uncovered by another , and Nathaniel guarded his with great care . At first , however , he was considered something of a soft touch . Pretty female magicians approached him at parties , lulling him with compliments before inquiring closely into his background . Nathaniel fended off these crude enticements fairly easily , but more dangerous methods followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooing gentle words into his ear and asking for his name . Perhaps only the loud toiling of Big Ben across the river prevented an unguarded revelation . As the hour struck , Nathaniel stirred , woke , and observed the imp squatting on the bedpost ; in an instant , he summoned a tame foliot , which seized the imp and compressed it to a stone . In its new condition , the imp was sadly unable to reveal anything about the magician who had sent it on its errand . After this episode , Nathaniel employed the foliot to guard his bedroom conscientiously throughout each night . It soon became clear that John Mandrake 's identity was not going to be compromised easily , and no further attempts occurred . Soon afterward , when he was still scarcely fourteen , the expected appointment was made and the young magician joined the Department of Internal Affairs . Chapter Two In his office , Nathaniel was welcomed by a glare from the secretary and a teetering pile of new papers in his in-box . The secretary , a trim , well-kempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act of leaving the room . " You 're late , Mandrake , " he said , pushing his glasses higher with a swift , nervous gesture . " What 's the excuse this time ? You 've got responsibilities , too , you know , just the same as us full-timers . " He hovered by the door and frowned fiercely down his little nose . The magician threw himself back into his chair . He was tempted to put his feet up on the desk , but rejected this as being too showy . He restricted himself to a lazy smile . " I 've been at an incident scene with Mr. Tallow , " he said . " Been working there since six . Ask him if you like , when he gets in ; he might tell you a few details-if they 're not too secret , that is . What have you been up to , Jenkins ? Photocopying hard , I hope . " The secretary made a sharp noise between his teeth and pushed his glasses higher up his nose . " Keep it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep it up . You may be the Prime Minister 's blue-eyed boy now , but how long 's that going to last if you do n't deliver ? Another incident ? The second this week ? You 'll soon be back scrubbing teacups again , and then-we 'll see . " With something between a scuttle and a flounce , he departed . The boy made a face at the closing door and for a few seconds sat staring at nothing . He rubbed his eyes wearily and glanced at his watch . Only nine forty-five . Already it had been a long day . A teetering pile of papers on his desk awaited his attention . He took a deep breath , adjusted his cuffs and reached out for the topmost file . For reasons of his own , Nathaniel had long been interested in Internal Affairs , a subdepartment of the sprawling Security apparatus headed by Jessica Whitwell . Internal Affairs conducted investigations into various kinds of criminal activity , notably foreign insurgency and domestic terrorism directed against the State . When he first joined the department , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ photocopying , and tea-making . But he did not carry out these tasks for long . His rapid promotion was not ( as his enemies whispered ) simply the product of raw nepotism . It was true that he benefited from the goodwill of the Prime Minister and from the long reach of his master , Ms. Whitwell , whom none of the magicians in Internal Affairs wanted to displease . Yet this would have availed him nothing if he had been incompetent or merely average in his craft . But Nathaniel was gifted , and more than that , he worked hard . His elevation was swift . Within months he had maneuvered his way through a succession of humdrum clerical jobs , until-not yet fifteen-he had become assistant to the Internal Affairs Minister himself , Mr. Julius Tallow . A short , burly man of bullish build and temperament , Mr. Tallow was abrupt and abrasive at the best of times , and inclined to sudden outbursts of incandescent rage , which sent his minions scurrying for cover . Aside from his temper , he was additionally distinguished by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was not known among his staff what had caused this affliction ; some claimed it was hereditary , that he was the offspring of a union between magician and succubus . Others rejected this on biological grounds , and suspected he was the victim of malignant magic . Nathaniel subscribed to the latter view . Whatever the cause , Mr. Tallow concealed his problem as best he could . His collars were high , his hair hung long . He wore a broad-brimmed hat at all times and kept a keen ear open for levity on the subject among his staff . ( Continues ... )                     