@@27277

The Kite Rider Chapter One Testing the Winds Gou Haoyou knew that his father 's spirit lived among the clouds . For he had seen him go up there with a soul and come down again without one . It happened down at the harbor , the day the Chabi put to sea . When she set sail , Haoyou 's father , Gou Pei , would be among her crew and gone for months on end . So Haoyou went with him , down to the docks , to make the most of him on this , their last day together . When I get home this time , said Pei , we must see about you becoming an apprenticed seaman . Haoyou 's heart quickened with fear and pride at the thought of stepping out of childhood and into his father 's saltwater world . For the first time ever , Pei took him aboard'showed him where the anchor was lodged , where the sailors slept , how the ship was steered , where the cargo would be stowed . And the biggest excitement of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ captain would be testing the wind , checking the omens for a prosperous voyage . Farther along the harbor wall , a great commotion started up , as a ship , newly arrived from the south , disembarked its passengers : a traveling circus . For the first time in his life , Haoyou saw elephants ponderously picking their way across the gangplank , while tumblers somersaulted off the ship 's rail and onto the dockside . There were acrobats in jade-green , close-fitting costumes , twirling banners of green and red , and jugglers and stilt walkers , and a man laden from head to foot with noisy birdcages . There were horses , too , ridden ashore across the sagging gangplank as recklessly as if it were a broad , stone bridge by Tartar horsemen in sky-blue shirts . Ragamuffin beggars , grunted Haoyou 's father  --  which made Haoyou laugh , since the gorgeous circus people , finding his father 's tattered rice-straw jacket , would probably have fed it to one of their elephants . The Gou family was not exactly the cream of elegant Dagu society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see the circus perform : Circus people were obviously not respectable  --  especially when they included Tartars . The ship on which his father , Pei , was about to set sail had a Tartar name now . Last season she had had a perfectly good Chinese name , but in an effort to curry favor with the conquering barbarians , the captain had renamed her after the Khan 's favorite wife : Chabi . Pei muttered gloomily about it . Her hull had been retimbered , a new layer of wood hammered on over the old , so that she was beamier than the year before . It looks as if the Khan 's wife has been eating too many cakes , said Pei . He laughed and put a loving arm round Haoyou 's shoulders . Impertinent dog , said a voice close behind them , and the Chabi 's first mate took hold of Pei by his jacket and pushed him over the edge of an open hatchway . It was no great way to fall , but Pei landed awkwardly , his leg twisted under him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rice that were the ship 's provisions . Haoyou went to the hatchway and lowered one leg over its edge , going to help his father . But the first mate took hold of him by the collar , wrestled him along to the gangplank , and threw him off the ship . Haoyou wondered whether to run home and tell his mother , or stay and see what happened . His father injured on the eve of a voyage ? It was not good , not lucky . Lucky for Haoyou ( who hated his father going away for months on a voyage ) , but not for the family dependent on his sailor 's wages . Haoyou decided his mother should know , and turned to run . But he found his way barred by the corpulent bellies of the merchants mustering on the dockside . Word had gone out that the Chabi was testing the wind this morning , and it seemed as if every merchant in Dagu had hurried down to judge the omens for themselves . The prosperity of the whole voyage depended on how the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they entrust their cargoes to the Chabi . If it flew badly , they would use some rival ship . It was for this magnificent sight that Gou Pei had brought his son to the harbor ; Haoyou had asked a hundred times to see it . I 'm not sure , his mother had said . What about the poor soul on the hurdle ? But Pei had only shrugged and said that worse things happened at sea . Haoyou looked back at the ship . He did not want to miss the testing of the wind . Perhaps his father had only twisted his ankle , and would be fit to sail after all . The boy stood on tiptoe to estimate the depth of the crowd , his chances of pushing his way through them . None , he decided , and stayed where he was . A strong , gusty breeze was blowing . Members of the crowd held up wetted fingers and nodded sagely . All the signs were auspicious . A cheerful sunlight brightened all the colors in their silken clothes , bleached the rust-red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowd  --  neither Chinese nor Mongol , but a tan-colored man with eyes shaped like a horse 's or a dog 's . The Chinese man alongside him was explaining the process of testing the wind . A hurdle is hooked to the end of a rope and set flying in the breeze . . . Like a flag ? asked the foreigner . Not a flag exactly . . . more like a kite . Pardon my foolishness : I do n't believe you have the word in your language : kite . ' As the men tug on the rope 's end , the hurdle rises up higher and higher on the wind . If it rises up straight , the voyage will prosper . If it flies out so  --  the guide 's hand , in darting out at an angle , dislodged Haoyou 's cap  --  there may be problems ...                     