@@26426

Blood Lure April 6 , 2:56 P.M. Brooks Range , Alaska Always respect Mother Nature ... especially when she weighs four hundred pounds and is guarding her baby . Matthew Pike faced the grizzly from fifty yards away . The massive she-bear eyed him back , chuffing into the breeze . Her yearling cub nosed a blackberry briar , but it was too early in the season for berries . The cub was just playing in the brambles , oblivious to the six-foot-two Fish and Game officer standing , sweating , in the afternoon sun . But the youngster had little to fear when watched over by his mother . Her muscled bulk , yellowed teeth , and four-inch claws were protection enough . Matt 's moist palm rested on his holstered canister of pepper spray . His other hand slowly shifted to the rifle slung on his shoulder . Do n't charge , sweetheart ... do n't make this day any worse than it already is . He 'd had enough trouble with his own dogs earlier and had left them tethered back at his campsite . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skull . Her back legs bunched as she bounced a bit on her front legs . It was clear posturing , a stance meant to chase off any threat . Matt held back a groan . How he wanted to run , but he knew to do so would only provoke the she-bear tochase him down . He risked taking a single slow step backward , careful to avoid the snap of a twig . He wore an old pair of moosehide boots , hand-sewn by his ex-wife , a skill learned from her Inuit father . Though they were three years divorced , Matt appreciated her skill now . The soft soles allowed him to tread quietly . He continued his slow retreat . Normally , when one encountered a bear in the wild , the best defense was loud noises : shouts , catcalls , whistles , anything to warn the normally reclusive predators away . But to stumble upon this sow and cub when topping a rise , running face-to-face into Ursus arctos horribilis , any sudden movement or noise could trigger the maternal beast to charge . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including hundreds of fatalities . Just two months ago , he and a fellow warden had run a tributary of the Yukon River in kayaks , searching for two rafters reported late in returning home , only to discover their half-eaten remains . So Matt knew bears . He knew to watch for fresh bear signs whenever hiking : unsettled dung , torn-up sod , clawed trunks of trees . He carried a bear whistle around his neck and pepper spray at his belt . And no one with any wits entered the Alaskan backcountry without a rifle . But as Matt had learned during his ten-year stint among the parks and lands of Alaska , out here the unexpected was commonplace . In a state bigger than Texas , with most of its lands accessible only by floatplane , the wildernesses of Alaska made the wild places of the lower states seem like nothing more than Disney theme parks : domesticated , crowded , commercialized . But here nature ruled in all its stark and brutal majesty . Of course , right now , Matt was hoping for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retreat . The she-bear kept her post . Then the small male cub - if you could call a a hundred-and-fifty-pound ball of fur and muscle small - finally noticed the stranger nearby . It rose on its hind legs , looking at him . It shimmied and tossed its head about , male aggression made almost comical . Then it did the one thing Matt prayed it would n't do . It dropped on all fours and loped toward him , more in play and curiosity than with any aggressive intent . But it was a deadly move nonetheless . While Matt did not fear the yearling cub - a blast of pepper spray would surely stop it in its tracks - its mother 's response was a different matter . The pepper spray would be no more than a tenderizing seasoning when her pile-driver strength pounded down on him . And forget about a head shot , even with his Marlin sport rifle . The bear 's thick skull would only deflect the bullet . Not even a shot square through the heart was a safe bet . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bear , and the shooter would be bear scat by then . The only real way to kill a grizzly was to aim for the legs , bring her bulk down , then keep on shooting . And despite the personal danger , Matt was loath to do this . The grizzlies were his personal totem . They were the symbol of this country . With their numbers dwindling to less than twenty-five thousand , he could not bring himself to kill even one of them . In fact , he had come to Brooks Range on his own personal time to help in the cataloging and DNA mapping of the parkland 's population of awakening grizzlies , fresh out of winter 's blanket . He had been up here collecting samples from hair traps stationed throughout the remote areas of the park and freshening their foul-smelling scent lures when he found himself in this predicament . But now Matt was faced with the choice of kill or be killed . The cub bounded merrily in his direction . His mother growled in warning - but Matt was not sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Either way , his retreat sped up , one foot fumbling behind the other . He shrugged his rifle into one hand and unholstered his pepper spray . As he struggled with the spray 's flip top , a fierce growl rose behind him . Matt glanced over his shoulder . On the trail behind him , a dark shape raced at him , tail flagging in the air . Matt 's eyes grew wide with recognition . Bane ! No ! " The black dog pounded up the slope , hackles raised , a continual growl flowing from his throat ... ( Continues ... )                     