@@27075

Bel Canto Chapter One When the lights went off the accompanist kissed her . Maybe he had been turning towards her just before it was completely dark , maybe he was lifting his hands . There must have been some movement , a gesture , because every person in the living room would later remember a kiss . They did not see a kiss , that would have been impossible . The darkness that came on them was startling and complete . Not only was everyone there certain of a kiss , they claimed they could identify the type of kiss : it was strong and passionate , and it took her by surprise . They were all looking right at her when the lights went out . They were still applauding , each on his or her feet , still in the fullest throes of hands slapping together , elbows up . Not one person had come anywhere close to tiring . The Italians and the French were yelling , " Brava ! Brava ! " and the Japanese turned away from them . Would he have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Was his mind so full of her that in the very instant of darkness he reached for her , did he think so quickly ? Or was it that they wanted her too , all of the men and women in the room , and so they imagined it collectively . They were so taken by the beauty of her voice that they wanted to cover her mouth with their mouth , drink in . Maybe music could be transferred , devoured , owned . What would it mean to kiss the lips that had held such a sound ? Some of them had loved her for years . They had every recording she had ever made . They kept a notebook and wrote down every place they had seen her , listing the music , the names of the cast , the conductor . There were others there that night who had not heard her name , who would have said , if asked , that opera was a collection of nonsensical cat screechings , that they would much rather pass three hours in a dentist 's chair . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had been so mistaken . No one was frightened of the darkness . They barely noticed . They kept applauding . The people who lived in other countries assumed that things like this must happen here all the time . Lights go on , go off . People from the host country knew it to be true . Besides , the timing of the electrical failure seemed dramatic and perfectly correct , as if the lights had said , You have no need for sight . Listen . What no one stopped to think about was why the candles on every table went out as well , perhaps at that very moment or the moment before . The room was filled with the pleasant smell of candles just snuffed , a smoke that was sweet and wholly unthreatening . A smell that meant it was late now , time to go to bed . They continued the applause . They assumed she continued her kiss . Roxane Coss , lyric soprano , was the only reason Mr. Hosokawa had come to this country . Mr. Hosokawa was the reason everyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kind of place one was likely to visit . The reason the host country ( a poor country ) was throwing a birthday party of unreasonable expense for a foreigner who had to be all but bribed into attending was that this foreigner was the founder and chairman of Nansei , the largest electronics corporation in Japan . It was the fondest wish of the host country that Mr. Hosokawa would smile on them , help them in some of the hundred different ways they needed helping . That could be achieved through training or trade . A factory ( and this was the dream so dear its name could hardly be spoken ) could be built here , where cheap labor could mean a profit for everyone involved . Industry could move the economy away from the farming of coca leaves and blackhearted poppies , creating the illusion of a country moving away from the base matter of cocaine and heroin , so as to promote foreign aid and make trafficking of those very drugs less conspicuous . But the plan had never taken root in the past , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side of caution . They believed in the danger and the rumors of danger countries such as this presented , so to have Mr. Hosokawa himself , not an executive vice president , not a politician , come and sit at the table was proof that a hand might be extended . And maybe that hand would have to be coaxed and begged . Maybe it would have to be pulled from its own deep pocket . But this visit , with its glorious birthday dinner replete with opera star , with several meetings planned and trips to possible factory sites tomorrow , was a full world closer than they had ever come before and the air in the room was sugared with promise . Representatives from more than a dozen countries who had been misled as to the nature of Mr. Hosokawa 's intentions were present at the party , investors and ambassadors who might not encourage their governments to put a dime into the host country but would certainly support Nansei 's every endeavor , now circled the room in black tie and evening gown , making toasts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his trip was not for the purposes of business , diplomacy , or a friendship with the President , as later would be reported . Mr. Hosokawa disliked travel and did not know the President . He had made his intentions , or lack of intentions , abundantly clear . He did not plan to build a plant . He would never have agreed to a trip to a strange country to celebrate his birthday with people he did not know . He was not much for celebrating his birthday with people he did know , and certainly not his fifty-third , which he considered to be a number entirely without note . He had turned down half a dozen strong requests from ...                     