@@26640

... For I will give you such an unguent distilled upon my lover via Venus and Cupid that when you smell it you 'll be on your knees , begging the Gods to make you All nose . In certain light-suffused mists , Venice deconstructs herself . One sees faint smears of silhouettes , and in these the architect 's early sketches : the skeletons of the palazzi as he saw them on paper when they were only dreams . When the haze lifts , those buildings swell again with substance , as if freshly built . But until that happens the Venetians nose their way around their city . In the thickened air every stink and every fragrance is unbearably intensified . The canals smell of billy goat and grass clippings , the ever-present steam of sea-louse soup smells of dark sea caves , the babies smell of mouse holes , and the women smell of what they desire . When the sea vapor blanked the town in those days , the streets were dark ; only the cesendoli , little shrines to the Madonna , remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until the fourth hour of the night . The unpaved streets lurched rutted and holed ; the wooden bridges were prone to collapse unexpectedly , rendering the mist , already churning with possibilities of dangerous and wonderful encounters , more threatening and more exciting . The fog swallowed noises , belching soft echoes of them . Rocking like a sleeping crib on the water , the city cocked a blind ear , sniffed like a mole . On days like that , men and women shuffled through their town like sleepwalkers , their nostrils flared , their toes splayed and all their animal senses acutely alert . The fog created intimate pockets , making impromptu couples of people who merely passed in the street , uniting for brief moments lantern sellers , fried food hawkers , wool beaters , mask makers , fabric stretchers , caulkers . It parted to reveal instantaneous tableaux that soon disappeared again in the vapor  --  a fat flute player who looked like a constipated but hopeful baby puckering up his lips for the spoon ; scuole of battuti  --  flagellants who , veiled and bare-backed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birch branches ; a cat and her husband in the business of procreation . Or , out of the mist might loom the face of a large , grinning pig . It was not long since the Senate had outlawed the vagrant Tantony boars that still caused havoc in the streets . The pigs , supposed to be fed by the charity of the faithful , were but loosely tended by the monks of San Antonio . The beasts had grown fat and fierce by merely helping themselves to whatever food they wanted . When the mist soused their bristles , they grew skittish , knocking unsuspecting passersby into the freezing canals . On days like that , the men who loved Sosia Simeon wondered what she was about , because they knew her . They knew that on a whim , she would betray them all without a thought . And so she was doing , in the first thick autumn mist of 1467 , with a middle-aged nobleman she had just passed in the fogbound ghost of a back street in the Misericordia . She had seen a needy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his breast as he wove out of the fog : he himself might not know it , but Nicol Malipiero , it was plain to Sosia , was in need of a woman . Instantly , she had opened her cloak just a little so that her warm and somewhat feral smell could visit his nose . Her scent traveled through the soft white vapor , tangible as a prodding finger . Sosia 's nobleman was bulky as a boar himself and awkward with his weight . As Sosia approached him , he gasped . She slowed her pace , lingering on her left foot , looking into his eyes . The nobleman made a whimpering noise , then an unaccustomed swift move , turning around to pull at her wrist . His red senatorial robe spun round them like a wave of blood . " Who are you ? " " I am Sosia . " " Are you ... ? Do you ... ? " " Are you Venetian ? " " Yes . " Sosia smiled . " H-h-how ... much ? " She said nothing , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The mist isolated them in an instant . He shuddered between her legs , staring into her eyes , which she then closed briefly , twisting on his stalk as if trying to pinch a wildflower from its grasses . He cried out , biting his tongue , but it was the most pleasure he had ever experienced . Tears transpired on his cheeks . P He felt no relief , having had her . Nicol Malipiero was still asking , again , When ? How much ? as the liquid cooled on her thighs and they stood breath-close together in the doorway , cocooned in the mist . Sosia said : " Decide what I 'm worth , you do that . " " I can not do this . I must know you . This is ... important . " The tone of his voice rose in an uncertain shameful whine . Silently , she moved to go , restless as a squirrel in his arms . She was as foreign a woman as he had seen or heard . The Venetian courtesans were many and various in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a one before . Her accent disturbed him ; she disturbed him . She had no grace or tenderness to her , none of the motherly kindness of some whores , not even an eye on the commercial possibilities of another encounter . " When will I see you again ? " " How can I know that ? " " Come to my studiolo tomorrow . It will be empty . " He fastened his hand on her wrist and whispered the directions in her ear . " Here 's the key . " She reached out for it , revealing the yellow badge fastened to her elbow . He gasped but she had slipped the key under a wing of her cloak without looking at it , and was gone . Of course she did not arrive the next day , when Nicol Malipiero lay shivering under the blankets of ermine and bear that he had bought to examine and love her upon ... Continues ...                     