@@27131

Guardians of the Lost Volume Two of the Sovereign Stone Trilogy Gustav knew he was being watched . He had no proof , nothing more solid than a feeling , an instinct . Instinct had kept Gustav the Whoreson Knight alive for seventy years . He knew better than to ignore it . He had first experienced the sensation of being watched three days ago , on his arrival in this godforsaken part of the wilderness . He had been following an old trail that ran along the Deverel river . The trail was probably made by animals , although the humans who had once lived in this area might have borrowed it . If they had , they had long since returned the trail to the deer and the wolves , for theirs were the only tracks Gustav saw . Knowing it likely that he was the only person to have set foot in this region for the past hundred years , Gustav was understandably disquieted to awaken his first morning in camp to the distinct impression that he was n't alone . He had no proof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a tent in the wilderness , were quiet , peaceful . He sometimes woke , thinking he heard stealthy footfalls outside , but he found he was mistaken . His well-trained war horse , who would have alerted him had there been anyone lurking nearby , remained placid and calm , undisturbed , except by flies . During the day , while he proceeded with his investigation , Gustav tried every trick in the book  --  a book he could have written  --  to catch sight of the person who was dogging his steps . He watched for the glint that might have been sunlight reflecting off metal , but saw nothing . He made abrupt stops , trying to hear footfalls that continued on after his ceased . He searched for signs that someone else was in the vicinity  --  foot-prints on the muddy river bank where he performed his daily ablutions , fish heads from the stalker 's supper , broken sticks or bent branches . Nothing . Gustav heard nothing . He saw nothing . Instinctively , he felt everything , felt the stalker 's eyes watching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not one to be deterred from his quest by an unsettling feeling , however . He had come here on a search he had begun forty years ago and he had no intention of departing until he had concluded that search . He had been exploring for three days and had found nothing yet . He was not even certain he was searching in the right location . His only guide was a brief description taken from the mummified body of one of the monks of Dragon Mountain . Having quested for years , only to come to one dead end after another , Sir Gustav had returned to the Temple one final time . The monks of Dragon Mountain were the repository of history in Loerem . The monks and their agents traveled the continent , seeing history as it was made and recording it on their own bodies . Preserved after death by the sacred tea the monks drank while they were alive , their bodies and all the knowledge that was recorded thereon were housed in the vaults of Dragon Mountain . Anyone on Loerem could travel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and find it among the slumbering dead . Gustav had studied the historical records dealing with every race on Loerem specific to the time period in which he was interested . He had found innumerable possible sites where the object of his quest might be located . He had visited all those sites and a hundred more and had come up empty-handed . Was there a fragment of information he might have missed ? Anything at all which might provide him with a clue ? Had the monks truly studied all the records ? An acolyte listened to the elderly knight with intense interest and , by permission of the monks , took Gustav to the sacred vault . The two of them examined the mummified remains of the historians who lay there , each with their tattooed histories entwined around the composed limbs . Gustav recognized every corpse . After long years of association , he and these corpses had become friends . " You say you have read them all , " the acolyte stated . " But did you think to include this one ? " The monk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the very end of the long row . Gustav looked at the body and could not recall that he had ever seen her before . " Ah , likely not . " The acolyte nodded . " Her area of expertise was the study of the pecwae race . Your earlier guides probably felt that the pecwae could have no possible connection to the Sovereign Stone . " Gustav considered this . " I can not think that they would , but I have exhausted all other possibilities . " " Have you ? " the acolyte questioned gently . " Have you considered the possibility that the portion of the Sovereign Stone for which you seek was destroyed in the blast that leveled the city two hundred years ago ? " " I have considered that , but I refuse to believe it , " Gustav replied calmly . " The gods gave us our portion of the Stone , as they gave a portion to the other races . Ours is mislaid , that is all . Let us see what this chronicler of pecwae has to tell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body , murmuring to himself and shaking his head . The tattoos were magical . The historian transfered his or her thoughts onto the flesh by means of tattoos that would later transfer those thoughts to the monks trained in the magic . By placing his hand on the tattoo and activating the spell ( the magic is a carefully guarded secret among the monks ) , the acolyte received into his mind all the images and words and thoughts of the monk detailing this portion of history . Gustav watched the acolyte 's face , watched the information pass over it like wind over a still lake . The ripples of thought cleared . The acolyte 's eyes brightened . " I have something , " he said cautiously . " Do not build up your hopes too much . It is nothing more ... " Guardians of the Lost                     