@@27184

When Lizabeth Kane was five years old she wanted to grow up to be a fairy . She wanted skin that was as smooth and white as milkweed silk . And she wanted hair that cascaded halfway down her back in a luxuriant cloud of waves and curls that shone a sunny yellow by day and silver when washed by the light of the moon . She thought she 'd wear a buttercup blossom when she needed a hat , and she 'd go rafting on curled magnolia leaves . At five Lizabeth understood that she was a human child and it would take some doing to shrink herself into fairy size , but she had confidence in falling stars and wishbones and birthday candles . She knew that fairies were tiny creatures , no bigger than a man 's thumb , but it seemed to her that if a girl could grow up , then she could almost as easily grow down . And if she could eventually grow breasts , then probably if she tried very hard she could grow wings instead . Almost all fairies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how comfortable that would be when she wanted to sleep on her back or lean against the gnarled trunk of an enchanted tree to daydream . She supposed that would be part of the price she would pay for growing up to be a fairy . In fact , that was about the only price exacted on an adult fairy , becausefor the most part , fairies did just as they pleased . They were n't stuffed into panty hose and sent off on a bus to earn a living staring at a computer screen . They were n't polite to incompetent employers for the sake of career advancement . And they were n't expected to prepare gourmet feasts for boring men who had only one thing on their minds . . . lasagna . Fairies were indulgent , playful creatures , and even though two decades and several years had gone by since Lizabeth first decided to be a fairy , even though Lizabeth Kane now stood five feet six inches tall in her stocking feet , even though she was thirty-two years old  --  she still had aspirations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cared about whittling herself down to the average fairy height of five inches , or having milkweed skin or gobs of fairy hair . Lizabeth Kane wanted the pluck , the joie de vivre , the perfect thighs of Tinkerbell . Think positive , Lizabeth told herself . If she just put her mind to it she could be plucky , she could have joie de vivre  --  and two out of three was n't bad . She folded the morning paper under her arm and looked at the half-finished house looming in front of her . She had to be positive about getting a job , too . She was a single parent now , and if she did n't get a job soon , meeting her mortgage payment was going to be more elusive than obtaining Tinkerbell thighs . She read the crude Help Wanted sign stuck into the front yard and took a deep breath . She 'd been on fourteen job interviews in the past five days , and no one had even given her a second look . She was overeducated . She was undereducated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtually unemployable . Okay , Lizabeth , she said to herself , pulling her shoulders back , this is a new day . This is your last shot . And this is the perfect job . Perfect hours , perfect location , decent wages . Go for it ! she told herself . Matt Hallahan had been looking out an upstairs window . He 'd watched Lizabeth fold her paper and chew on her lower lip while she stared at the house . Not a buyer , he decided . Buyers came in pairs and usually had a real-estate agent in tow . This woman looked as if she were peddling vacuum cleaners and he was her first customer . She was nervous , she was anxious  --  she was cute as a bug . Even from this distance he could see she had big blue eyes , a little nose , and lots of curly brown hair that hung almost to her shoulders . She was small-boned and slim . Not skinny . Her pink T-shirt stretched tight over full breasts and was tucked into a pair of formfitting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selling , but he admitted to himself that he 'd have a hard time not buying it . Outside , Lizabeth stiffened her spine , pushed her chin forward , and tiptoed through the mud to the front door . " Yoo-hoo , " she called . " Anybody home ? " She gasped and took a step backward when Matt appeared at the head of the stairs and ambled down to her . He was big . He seemed to fill the whole stairwell . He was half-undressed , and he was gorgeous . She felt her heart slam against the back of her rib cage while she made a fast assessment . At least six feet two inches , with broad shoulders and a flat stomach and slim hips . No shirt , jeans that rode low , a red heart tattooed on his left forearm . He had muscular legs . Great quads . And he was tan  --  everywhere . When she finally dragged her eyes up to his face she found he was laughing at her . Smile lines splintered from deep-set blue eyes that were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bushy blond eyebrows . His nose was sunburned and peeling . " Lord , lady , " he said , " last time someone looked at me that close was when I thought I had a hernia and the doctor told me to cough . " Lizabeth felt the flush spread from her ears to her cheeks . Get a grip , she told herself . Thirty-two-year-old mothers do not blush . She 'd delivered two children , she 'd learned to pump gas , she 'd seen Tom Cruise and Cuba Gooding Jr . on screen in their underwear . She could handle anything . She ignored his remark and plastered a smile on her face . " I 'd like to speak to whoever is in charge of this construction project . " " That 's me . Matt Hallahan . " He held out his hand . Continues ...                     