@@36553

Madison 's warning , delivered during the early years of the American Republic in a congressional debate over presidential powers , has been vindicated many times since then . For reasons that the fourth president could not possibly have foreseen , his observation may be even more urgent now . And when he further observed that war empowers the nation 's chief executive with " all the means of seducing the minds ... of the people , " he seemed to anticipate how a modern president might be tempted to exploit a state of " continual warfare " - such as an indefinitely extended " war on terror , " also known as " the long war " - to secure political domination . In American history , authoritarian excess has often accompanied war ( or the fear of war ) , from the Alien and Sedition Acts passed by Madison 's political opponents to Abraham Lincoln 's Civil War suspension of habeas corpus ; from the Red Scare of World War I to the internment of Japanese in World War II ; from Joseph McCarthy 's depredations at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the war in Vietnam . Those wartime encroachments eventually receded , owing to the end of hostilities or the vitality of democratic resistance . But what would happen in a nation beset by continual warfare ? How will liberty and democracy survive what the Pentagon and the president predict will be decades of a long war against terror ? In literature , too , war has been depicted as the precondition for dictatorship . Two of the twentieth century 's most celebrated authors imagined totalitarian societies in which permanent warfare could become the most effective instrument of control . In their very different novels about societies without freedom , Sinclair Lewis and George Orwell portrayed politicians who misled their countries into aggressive military conflict for ulterior motives . The central fact of life in Orwell 's Nineteen Eighty-Four is a perpetual and perplexing battle among three superstates , which may or may not be waged largely for the sake of brainwashing and subduing their own peoples . The action takes place in London , and Orwell 's masterpiece is not only a denunciation of Soviet and Nazi totalitarianism , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of becoming . More than a decade earlier , Lewis satirically depicted the exploitation of the same bloody means to achieve a nefarious end in It Ca n't Happen Here-a story set in the United States . He imagined an elected dictatorship fabricating bogus provocations that would allow America to wage a preemptive war against Mexico . The author of this plan is a presidential adviser who bears a startling resemblance to a certain contemporary figure in attitude , influence , and proximity to the president . It is this crafty , ruthless adviser , Lee Sarason , the creator of President Berzelius " Buzz " Windrip , who first articulates how and why war will prove indispensable to the new regime . Holding forth in a cabinet meeting , Sarason " demanded that , in order to bring and hold all elements in the country together by that useful Patriotism which always appears upon threat of an outside attack , the government immediately arrange to be insulted and menaced in a well-planned series of deplorable ' incidents ' on the Mexican border , and declare war on Mexico as soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough . " Sarason 's scheme elicits an enthusiastic response from Hector Macgoblin , the secretary of education and public relations , a burly boxing fan and nationalistic bully with multiple doctoral degrees ( a character who could have been based on radio blowhard William Bennett , the former drug czar and education secretary ) . He points out that in the past " governments had merely let themselves slide into war , " but that " in this age of deliberate , planned propaganda , a really modern government ... must figure out what brand of war they had to sell and plan the selling campaign consciously . " That scenario will seem startlingly contemporary to anyone who remembers the campaign to sell the invasion of Iraq-including the role of Karl Rove and the White House Iraq Group . That infamous selling campaign was announced in September 2002 by White House chief of staff Andrew Card , who breezily explained the administration 's timing to the press . " From a marketing point of view , " quipped Card , a former auto industry lobbyist , " you do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than four years later , most of that product 's regretful buyers have been left wondering what the sellers were actually selling . By now everyone knows that the purposes proclaimed by the Bush administration at the time of the invasion-to rid Iraq of actual and potential weapons of mass destruction-were fraudulent . Moreover , everyone also knows that during the months leading up to the invasion , the president and his closest advisers were aware that the alleged facts justifying war " had been fixed , " as the British intelligence chief noted in the famous " Downing Street memo " of July 2002 . Some analysts believed that the objective of the war was to gain control of Iraqi oil , although Saddam Hussein had always been willing to sell petroleum to the West at the world price . Others suggested that Iraq was an easy target for the assertion of U.S. military force at a critical moment . And still others insisted that invading Iraq was merely the first stage of a broader plan to remake the Middle East by force that had long been mulled by neoconservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all those elements , but the question of its timing remains . Why introduce this controversial " new product " in September 2002 , only weeks before the midterm elections ? Why call for a congressional vote authorizing the use of military force against Iraq that autumn ? With that demand , Bush reversed the path his father had taken in preparation for the Gulf War in 1990 , asking Congress for authorization only after the U.N . Security Council acted first . Several months earlier , Karl Rove had hinted at the real reason for the rush to war . For this architect of conservative power , with his ambition to inaugurate a generation or more of Republican political domination , the second year of George W. Bush 's first term was a critical and dangerous time . He needed to win the midterm elections , against the historical odds-and nothing would unify the country behind the presidential party like the force of war . Rove , the powerful " Mayberry Machiavelli " who merged policy with politics in the Bush White House , had closely monitored the effect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1991 , he had observed the first President Bush 's popularity rocket upward during the first Gulf War . A decade later he had watched as the approval ratings of his boss , the second President Bush , reached even more impressive heights as he commanded the overthrow of the Taliban . Yet he could also recall how the popularity of the first President Bush plunged after the Gulf War troops came home-and he had measured the ratings of the second President Bush as they dwindled almost thirty points between September 2001 and August 2002 . That is why Bush and Rove departed so radically from the conduct of past wartime presidencies , which struggled to bring the entire nation together against the enemy . Using war to cement Republican political domination means dividing , not uniting . * * * Karl Rove rarely indulges any urge to speak publicly . He knows his own limitations and tends to remain in cloistered offices and back rooms , quite distant from the dangerous limelight . Yet although he is neither an inspiring nor a charismatic speaker , he understands the power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the few occasions over the past several years when he has spoken out , Rove has struck a single chord with growing intensity . His message could be summarized in this way : America is at war . It is a war that will continue indefinitely . Republicans and conservatives possess the moral strength to fight and win , while Democrats and liberals do not . Therefore , the survival of the nation requires that the Republican Party maintain a monopoly of power . To Rove this simple equation represents " the post-9/11 worldview . " In his world , it is the only valid worldview . He may not fully believe every word of it ; in fact , he knows from his own experience that its characterization of Democrats and liberals is false , but that scarcely matters . For him the equation is true in a much deeper sense , because it served Rove 's self-appointed mission of establishing Republican hegemony . The first indication that Rove planned to turn the war on terror into an assault on the loyal opposition came during January 2002 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Committee in Austin , Texas . With President George W. Bush riding a powerful wave of public support and bipartisan unity , his chief political strategist had returned to Texas to discuss the upcoming midterm congressional elections with party leaders . Only months earlier , on the steps of the Capitol , the nation 's elected representatives , from the most liberal Democrats to the most conservative Republicans , had promised to stand with the president against the terrorists who had destroyed the World Trade Center and attacked the Pentagon . " We want America to speak with one voice tonight and we want enemies and the whole world and all of our citizens to know that America speaks tonight with one voice , " said Richard Gephardt , then the House Democratic leader . Tom Daschle , then the Senate Democratic leader , stood with his Republican counterpart , Trent Lott , in a display of unqualified support for the president . " We want President Bush to know-we want the world to know-that he can depend on us , " declared Daschle . Those faithful pledges-fulfilled in unquestioning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House , including the rapid passage of the USA Patriot Act-meant nothing to Rove . He was looking ahead to November 2002 , when he hoped to score a historic victory that would prove the nation 's ideological realignment to the right and mark a milestone for Rove and the generation of right-wing zealots who acknowledge him as their leader . Back then , Grover Norquist , the preeminent conservative strategist , lobbyist , and antitax activist who has known and worked with Rove since they were leaders of the College Republicans , articulated their ultimate objective . " It is n't our job to seek peaceful coexistence with the left . Our job is to remove them from power permanently . " More than taxes , race , abortion , or any of the perennial grievances of the right , permanent war seemed to provide the most compelling means to achieve that lifelong goal . In Austin , Rove told his fellow Republicans , " We can go to the country on this issue , because they trust the Republican Party to do a better job of protecting and strengthening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Those bland phrases hardly reflected his real feelings and intentions . The ensuing campaign against Democratic incumbents included some of the most vicious advertising deployed in many years , with Daschle portrayed as a stooge of the al Qaeda terrorists and Senator Max Cleland , a triple amputee Vietnam war hero and winner of the Bronze Star and the Silver Star , derided as unpatriotic . Both lost their reelection bids . Damaging as the midterm campaign was to national morale , at a time when unity should have been paramount , Rove 's strategy was nevertheless brilliantly successful . The Republicans carried the same precepts forward into the 2004 presidential campaign , which featured the gross exploitation of the 9/11 attacks in advertising and at the GOP convention in New York ; an outrageous smear of the patriotism and navy service of Democratic nominee John Kerry ; a series of conveniently timed terror alerts leading up to Election Day ; and repeated warnings by Vice President Dick Cheney and other party spokesmen that a Democratic victory would signal weakness to the terrorists who are waiting to strike again . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along with popular support for the war in Iraq , Rove returned to the same theme with still greater ferocity . On June 22 , 2005 , he addressed the annual dinner of the New York State Conservative Party-a third party founded by members of the Buckley family and run by hard-line ideologues who consider the state 's Republican Party much too moderate . Rove had traveled north to accept the Conservative Party 's Charles Edison Award . This special honor is named for a deceased New Jersey governor and industrialist who also happened to have been among the first prominent endorsers of the ultraright extremist John Birch Society , which smeared President Dwight D. Eisenhower as a Communist traitor . That old Birch mind-set seemed to have inspired Rove 's remarks . He opened with a few bland paragraphs of congratulation , hailing the great strides in recent decades by Republicans and conservatives , and noting their traditional disagreements with liberals over tax cuts and the role of government . But he had come to dinner to serve red meat , not pablum . First he declared that " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the area of national security . " Then he launched a savagely sarcastic attack on the character of every liberal American and most Democrats : " Conservatives saw the savagery of the 9/11 attacks and prepared for war , liberals saw the savagery of the 9/11 attacks and wanted to prepare indictments and offer therapy and understanding for our attackers . In the wake of 9/11 , conservatives believed it was time to unleash the might and power of the United States military against the Taliban ; in the wake of 9/11 , liberals believed it was time to ... submit a petition . I am not joking . Submitting a petition is precisely what the progressive grassroots organization Moveon.org did . It was a petition imploring the ' powers that be ' to ' use moderation and restraint in responding to the ... terrorist attacks against the United States . ' " I do n't know about you , " Rove continued , " but moderation and restraint is not what I felt as I watched the Twin Towers crumble to the earth ; a side of the Pentagon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in flames and rubble . " Moderation and restraint is not what I felt-and moderation and restraint is not what was called for . It was a moment to summon our national will-and to brandish steel . " The only steel Rove had ever brandished was a fork , but that did n't slow him down . " MoveOn.org , Michael Moore , and Howard Dean may not have agreed with this , but the American people did . Conservatives saw what happened to us on 9/11 and said : we will defeat our enemies . Liberals saw what happened to us and said : we must understand our enemies . Conservatives see the United States as a great nation engaged in a noble cause ; liberals see the United States and they see ... Nazi concentration camps , Soviet gulags , and the killing fields of Cambodia . " This was the legendary dirty fighter of American politics , deliberately distorting the views of liberals and Democrats , freely fabricating " facts " to slander his opponents . He knew that no liberals had urged therapy or understanding for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progressive citizens organized via the Internet , had never circulated any petition demanding restraint against the Taliban . He knew there was no evidence that Howard Dean , the Democratic Party chairman , had opposed the war in Afghanistan or urged " understanding " for al Qaeda . He knew that liberals did n't regard America as the equivalent of Nazi or Communist totalitarians . ( That crack referred to a floor speech by Senator Dick Durbin of Illinois , the Democratic whip , lamenting the mistreatment of detainees in the military camps at Guantnamo Bay , as revealed in a declassified FBI report . ) As Rove well knew , the truth was that the vast majority of American liberals and progressives , including Dean and Durbin and the members of Moveon.org , had concurred with the president in his decision to invade Afghanistan and overthrow the Taliban . <p> ( Continues ... ) <p>                     