@@28483

Chapter One Someone had been sleeping in her bed . Lacey Vedae stepped over the threshold of her deserted cabin - the one located on her property in the thick of the snow-frosted woods - and shut the door . The sudden lack of chilled air caused her to shiver , more from a sense of foreboding than anything else . A fire danced and snapped in the grate , sending waves of shifting light over the simple oak furnishings : two bony chairs , a square table , the rumpled bed ... What in the world was going on ? She removed her fuzzy pink earmuffs , hardly believing someone had broken into this dilapidated structure in the middle of nowhere . None of her possessions had been filched or vandalized , not that there had been much to tamper with in the first place . Shoot . If those darn teenagers from town had come back to use her property as a love shack again she 'd - Lacey grabbed one of those iron thing-a-ma-jigs from the fireplace , just to bolster her confidence . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whistling , flake-laced wind into the room . A voice , the tone chipped with a low , flat-plains drawl , iced her more than the weather ever could . " Who the hell are you ? " it asked . A mix of shock and anger spiraled through Lacey , and she brandished her fireplace tool while turning to meet the intruder . " I 'm the woman who 's going to call the sheriff if you do n't keep your distance . " The figure slammed the door shut , the altered light changing his mysterious silhouette into that of an actual human being . Half abominable snowman with drifts of light snow powdering his heavy jacket , pants and boots . Half cowboy dream with the smooth motion of a wide-brimmed hat being swept off his head in apparent respect . The gesture revealed shoulder-length blond hair and a grim , if not downright sheepish , almost-smile . " Damn , " he said , beating the felt head wear against a thigh . Melting bits of ice flew to the planked floor with every thump . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his general direction to make sure he did n't come any closer . " Damn , you 've been caught in my cabin ? " He stepped nearer , sending her a few stumbles backward . Dang . It would n't do to run away like a fluttery chicken . She 'd faced her share of bullies during her life in Kane 's Crossing , and she was n't about to lose her courage now - especially since she 'd worked so hard to win it back over the years . She 'd learned to overcompensate in the control department . Learned that , every time she asserted herself , the past grew more distant and less threatening . Lacey sauntered forward , wearing her most ornery glare . The ready-to-rumble demeanor , as her step-brother Rick liked to call it . Yeah , definitely in control . " Well ? " she asked , making it clear she expected a straight answer . Something quick and explosive shot across his gaze . Something bluer than the shade of his eyes , warmer than the sputtering fire . She almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a " Damn , I 'm not sorry I got caught in this cabin . I 'm saying , " Damn , you are a mighty hot little number . " " Excellent , Lacey , she thought . No wonder most of the town thinks you still need to be institutionalized . She blinked , erasing those negative thoughts . Think positive , think sunshine , think ... Control . The stranger cleared his throat , startling her . " I did n't mean any trouble , ma'am . " Ma'am ? Did n't he know she was too young for a " Ma'am " ? Jeez . Twenty-seven years old and she was already eliciting matronly respect . " Do n't ma'am me , " she said , narrowing her eyes and clutching her makeshift weapon . He lifted a brow , barely sparing a glance at her war-like stance , his mouth slanting to an angle that belied his exasperation . " How about addressing you as ' missy , " then ? " " You 're pretty cocky for a guy who 's about to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take kindly to that sort of crime . " He shrugged , tossing his hat onto the table as if he owned the place . " Cocky never did me any harm . " Oh , what a voice . If she was n't so suspicious of him right now , that calloused tone might 've already talked her into a million things - all of them bad , too . " Whether or not you meant trouble by commandeering my property , you need to scoot out of here . " She peered around , again noting the canned goods piled on a counter near the stove , a spurt of woolen shirts peeking out of an extra-large leather duffel bag on the floor next to the bed . " Seems as if you 've already gotten cozy . " As he ambled closer to the fire , he spread his hands toward the heat . His hesitation in answering gave Lacey the welcome opportunity for a second lingering once-over . Simply put , he was gorgeous . As still and breath-stealing as a cold night settling over dusk-burnished badlands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mouth . Sharp-edged , rough-and-tumbled . Lacey 's heart hopped away from her . Hold on to it , girl . " So ... " she said . " You 're not going to tell me how many moons you 've camped out here ? " She paused for him to answer . Silence , of course . He slipped off his jacket , revealing a homespun beige shirt that emphasized broad shoulders and a wide , muscled back , crisscrossed by a pair of sturdy suspenders . As he draped the clothing over a chair , Lacey drew in a breath , her pulse beating faster at the sight of his long legs encased by rugged tan pants that covered most of his boots . How had a man like this ended up in her own backyard ? ( Continues ... )                     