@@31280

Dulaney dreamed there was no war . A thousand years had passed and he had come to the end of an endless journey , closing an infinite circle in time and space . But when he opened his eyes it was still Sunday , May 3 , 1942 . He had slept less than two hours . The sky outside his window had just gone dark but the moon was up , shrinking his world to a small silver square on the floor , this eight-by-ten room with bars . His eyes probed the shadows beyond his cell the dark hallway , the line of light on the far side of the bullpen where the office was . He had come awake thinking of Holly . His peace had been shaken . The steadiness born in his soul now drained away , leaving a growing sense of unease . He heard the radio droning in the outer office . Charlie McCarthy had given way to Walter Winchell with no loss of comedy , but even when the jailer laughed at something Winchell had said , even with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt isolated , alone on an alien planet in a time he barely knew . Winchell had a name for Hitler 's gang . The Ratzis had struck again . Exeter had been bombed in retaliation for RAF raids on Lbeck and Rostock . There was an almost imperceptible lull as Winchell hit a word beyond his grade-school vocabulary . Baedeker raids , Dulaney thought as if coaching . They were called Baedeker raids because they were aimed at the guidebook towns that symbolized British antiquity . Winchell blew the word , but by then Dulaney was only half listening . He was thinking about Holly and the last time he had seen her , almost two years ago in New York . He had collected his pay and gone back to his apartment to clear out his stuff , and there she was waiting for him . She had been sitting on the floor all night , in the hallway outside his door . They walked through Central Park and the air was clear and cold , the trees stripped bare in the third week of autumn and the leaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trees and at last she made the effort to say her piece . She looped her arm in his and drew him close . " These things happen , Jack . It 's nobody 's fault , least of all yours . " But he would n't let her get into it any deeper than that , and it was the only time they had touched even the edges of what they both knew had always been between them . She understood then the hopelessness of it . They walked out of the park and stood self-consciously outside the apartment house that in another hour would be his former address . Dulaney offered coffee but she said no , she 'd rather just say good-bye here on the street . She took his hand . " It 's all right , Jack . Everything 's fine . " Just before she walked away she said one last thing to him . " You told me something once and I ca n't get it out of my mind . A man needs something that 's bigger than life , something he 'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night . " " That sounds like me . Sounds a little silly now , does n't it ? " She shook her head , impatient at his attempt to belittle it . " Good-bye , Jack . I wish only good things for you . I hope you find whatever life holds that makes you feel that way . " But he had already found it . He knew it then , in New York ; knew it now , sitting alone in a California jail cell . This thought sank into silence . Then , from the darkness beyond the bullpen , he heard Winchell 's announcer , recapturing the moment for the makers of Jergens lotion .                     