@@26258

Ashley Spencer 's childhood ended the night her father died ; the moment before she fell asleep was the last time she experienced unadulterated joy . Ashley and her best friend , Tanya Jones , were still pumped up from their 21 victory over F.C . Oswego , a perennial state soccer power . Both girls had scored , and the victory would give them a shot at the top seed at the State Cup . They had gotten into bed after watching a video , then talked in the dark until a little after one o'clock . When Tanya went to sleep , Ashley closed her eyes and pictured her goal , a header that had boomed past Oswego 's All-State goalie . She was smiling as she drifted off . Ashley had no idea how long she 'd been asleep when a sudden movement on Tanya 's side of the bed woke her . Tanya was sitting up , staring at the open doorway . Ashley , groggy and not completely certain she was awake , thought she saw someone walking toward Tanya . She was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and toppled to the floor . The man turned as Ashley leaped out of bed , extending his arm like a duelist . Ashley 's muscles spasmed as a bolt of electricity surged through them . She fell sideways onto the bed , confused and unable to control her body . A fist smashed into her jaw , and she tottered on the brink of unconsciousness . Tanya 's head rose over the far side of the bed . The intruder was on her instantly . Ashley saw his fists and legs moving . Tanya fell back on the floor and out of Ashley 's sight . A roll of gray duct tape appeared in the man 's hands . He tore off several strips and knelt next to Tanya . Moments later , he walked around the bed . A black ski mask covered his face . He wore gloves and dark clothing . A vise-like grip closed on Ashley 's throat and her pajama top was ripped open . She made a feeble attempt at self-defense but she could n't control her muscles . A leather-covered hand squeezed Ashley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard before sealing her mouth with a strip of tape . The intruder rolled Ashley onto her stomach and taped her wrists and ankles together . His face was close to her and she could smell his breath and body odor . Once she was bound , the man slipped his hand inside her pajamas and caressed her buttocks . Ashley bucked and received a blow for resisting . She tried to squeeze her legs together but stopped when he grabbed her ear and twisted . A finger slipped inside her , probing , rubbing . Then the finger disappeared and he lowered himself onto her . Ashley 's body trembled violently for a moment more . Then the sexual assault stopped and the oppressive weight disappeared . Ashley turned her head and saw Tanya being dragged into the guestroom that was next to her bedroom . Ashley strained to hear what was going on . Bedsprings squeaked . Tape sealed Tanya 's mouth but Ashley could still hear her friend 's muffled scream . Ashley was gripped by a fear different from any she had ever known . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cutting off her air and paralyzing her limbs . There were more moans and screams from Tanya , but the man who had invaded her home worked in silence . Ashley 's heart was pumping furiously and she could n't get enough air through her nose . She tried not to think about what was happening to her best friend and concentrated on breaking her bonds . It was impossible . She wondered whether her father was dead and the thought galvanized her . If Norman was dead then she could n't count on anyone to rescue her . She would have to save herself . In the next room , the man uttered a primal roar of release and Ashley shuddered . He 'd finished raping Tanya ; next he 'd be coming for her . For a moment , the only sounds from next door were Tanya 's muffled whimpers . Then Ashley heard an animal snarl and the sound of a blade slamming into flesh . Tanya made a strangled cry that was followed by silence . The stabbing continued . Ashley was certain that Tanya was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the intruder emerged , ghostlike , out of the darkness . Only his eyes and lips showed through his ski mask . Ashley 's breath caught in her chest . The man savored her terror . Then he whispered " See you later , " and walked downstairs . Ashley collapsed from relief , but the feeling was short-lived . " See you later " meant that he was coming back to kill her . She struggled to sit up and scanned her room for something she could use to cut her bonds . Downstairs , the refrigerator door opened . The thought that he was going to eat something horrified Ashley . How could he eat after what he 'd done ? What kind of thing was he ? The refrigerator door closed . Ashley grew desperate . She was going to be raped and killed if she could n't get away . A sound from the doorway brought her around . Something covered with blood was dragging itself across the floor . With a great effort , the thing raised its face and Ashley almost blacked out . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his bloodstained cheeks and his hair was in disarray . In his right fist was his Swiss Army knife , the long blade out . Ashley fought the nausea and horror that threatened to disable her and rolled onto the floor . She turned her back to her father and presented her bound wrists . Norman had almost no strength left and he did not speak as he sawed at the tape with feeble strokes . Ashley wept as he worked the knife . She knew that she could not save her father and that he was using all that was left of his life to save hers ... Continues ...                     