@@30392

There are worse places to raise a family than Oakwood , a town a stone 's throw from The City . In some parts of this midsize suburb , you can see The City 's silhouette  --  the wedges , spires , and arcs that compose the web of enterprise where many of Oakwood 's residents prosper as lawyers , accountants , and corporate managers . Oakwood neighborhoods that do n't enjoy city vistas offer the cocoon of well-swept streets canopied by shade trees . In spring and summer , when the light is just right , reflections from the leaves of those trees give the houses , ranging from modest multifamily dwellings to mansions , a greenish tint as well as the usual dancing shadows . But even in peaceful Oakwood  --  where squirrels dart across quiet dappled streets  --  a boy must struggle to become a man . And even in this mostly black town  --  where talk of African-American heritage , the great African past , and the meanings of kente cloth takes on a prideful , almost magical air  --  a black boy needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And so it was with thirteen-year-old Jordan Garrison . On this hot but mercifully dry Saturday afternoon in late August , he sat on the front-porch steps of the modest , three-story colonial house he shared with his siblings  --  eight-year-old Kenny and his twin sister , Lisa-their grandmother , and their widowed father . Jordan 's legs , which did n't seem half so long last month , were doubled up so that his thighs formed a pontoon for each elbow , with his forearms slanted into an A-frame peaked by his clasped hands , upon which he rested his chin . Headphones covered each of his ears with cushioned black circles the size of Ritz Crackers , and a thin cord snaked down connecting them to the M player hooked to his belt . The headphones and player were birthday gifts Jordan had received eight months ago from his father . During that time the M had been virtually glued to Jordan 's hip ; the headphones , through which he listened to the recent and classic hip hop and RB jams , seldom left his ears . Today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long since stopped . Jordan was lost in thought and directed his blind gaze toward the twins . They were standing at a card table draped with a paper tablecloth bordered with a kente-cloth pattern . Taped to the streetward side of the table was a carefully stenciled sign whose bold black letters read : LEMONADE 75 CENTS . COOKIES 25 CENTS EACH . As recently as last Fourth of July , Jordan had worked the stand with the twins . In fact , he had been on that sidewalk selling refreshments in front of his house every Fourth of July since he was five years old . It was the perfect spot , with the Independence Day parade ending about a block from the Garrisons ' house . After the lemonade sold out , and it sold out every Fourth of July , Jordan and the twins had a profit of forty to fifty dollars  --  a king 's ransom for a child . They would open the stand on occasion throughout the summer , even though the absence of traffic on their street meant that without a parade , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , Jordan  --  who had turned thirteen the previous December  --  felt he had outgrown selling lemonade . The idea of working a lemonade stand when there was obviously more fun than profit involved was totally out of the question . So at the end of the day of the Fourth of July celebrated last month , he resolved that he would no longer work the stand and would leave it entirely to his brother and sister . As Jordan watched his siblings chatting with a couple of their friends , he began to cast his mind over the prospects for the coming school year . He would be starting a new school , high school , and as a ninth-grader would be on the school 's lowest rung . While he was proud of graduating to this new school , he was also aware of his impending loss of status . He felt as if he were being sent back to the end of the line . " Jordan ! Jordan ! " The sharp demand of the voice was distinct . Jordan 's attention drifted from his thoughts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . About six feet away stood his father , a muscular forty-year-old who was a rich shade of brown and whose squarish face was haloed by short-cropped black hair . " Jordan ! " his father called one more time , slightly louder and a little more exasperated than before . Jordan snapped to attention when he finally grasped his father 's presence . He quickly pushed the headphones above his ears and joined his father in the outside world . " Go help your brother and sister pack up , Son , " his father continued . " I need all of you to lend a hand with dinner . " Jordan rose from his perch and began to walk over to Lisa and Kenny , who had said good-bye to their friends . Kenny had used a different language for each friend : Adios ; Au revoir ; Ciao ; Auf Wiederselzen . Kenny , always precocious with English , had begun playing with foreign languages about a year earlier , during his daily phone conversations with his father , who had been on a two-week-long business trip in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usual quiet voice . Jordan and everybody else always told Lisa to speak up , but she still spoke reticently , and seldom above a whisper . By the time Jordan reached the twins , they had started to make a mess of dismantling the lemonade stand . Gripping the enormous cooler with both hands , Kenny staggered toward the house , struggling with the container , which was still full of lemonade . Lisa was trying to peel the sign from the table . " Need any help , Kenny ? " Jordan asked his brother . " No , thanks , " said Kenny , who had put down the cooler and was rubbing the pain from his hands . " Be careful , " cautioned Jordan . " You do n't want to hurt yourself . " Continues ...                     