@@31674

Blood Diamonds By Jon Land Tor Books Prologue Tongo , Sierra Leone , 2000 If you 'll follow me , gentlemen , Colonel Masio Verdoon said to the representatives from Parliament , as they huddled in the thin shade of their truck , we 'll get started . The six representatives , personally chosen by President Kabbah , followed Verdoon back into the heat of the midday sun . Tongo was located in the Kono region of Sierra Leone , well east of the coastline 's cooling ocean breezes . The representatives walked with Colonel Verdoon up the slight hill through the steamy air , their shoes crunching over pressed gravel and their noses wrinkling at the stench of sun-baked mud rising from the shores of the river beyond . Perspiration darkened their shirts in widening blotches that looked like huge insects clawing their way through the fabric . As you know , we retook the Tongo diamond fields from the Revolutionary United Front over a year ago , Colonel Verdoon resumed near the crest of the hill . He wore his coarse black hair cropped close to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stoutness further exaggerated by a belly that hung over his gun belt . This , of course , has nearly crippled the rebels ' ability to purchase arms on the black market and has allowed the government to use the profits to make substantial investments in our nation 's infrastructure . The six representatives exchanged frowns . Evidence of such investment remained nearly nonexistent , leading many lawmakers to question the functionality of the once diamond-rich fields . Hence , this tour . A trail had been flattened at the top of the hill , angling down toward a narrow ribbon of water . Government soldiers stood at their posts all along the riverbank , overseeing dozens of workers busily dipping large sieves in the water and scooping up whatever they could . The workers shook the sieves to sift out sediment and dirt , then inspected whatever lay trapped by the screen . The toilsome motion had a choreographed flavor to it , as if it formed the steps of some well-practiced , synchronized dance . These are alluvial diamonds , of course , and the method for mining them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As the tour group approached the river , more workers hurriedly collected the contents of the sieves into wheelbarrows and brought them to a conveyor belt on which the stones and rocks were placed . The conveyor is covered with axle grease , Verdoon explained . Rough diamonds , we 've learned , stick to such grease while regular stones do not . Verdoon failed to add that this had been learned from the rebels who had mined Tongo far more successfully when it had been in their possession . The conveyor belt ferried the stones scooped up from the river to a central location of tables squeezed amidst several high piles of excavated dirt . There , another group of workers , under the even more watchful eye of soldiers , stored the potential diamonds in wooden pails . There have been no incidents here in Tongo since I took over security , Verdoon said proudly . We believe the rebels have totally vacated the area , but we have placed mines and traps in the surrounding woods in case they return . Suddenly an uncovered truck packed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rolled down a service road cut from the surrounding forest . The truck parked at an angle off the steep grade and a pair of soldiers armed with M-16 assault rifles climbed down from the cab . The next shift of workers has arrived , Colonel Verdoon told the government representatives clustered around him . Shifts are eight hours long from sunup to sunset . He checked his watch . This shift appears to be a little early , but ... His voice tailed off as the soldiers herded the workers from the truck , prodding them with the barrels of their M-16s . Near the back several had collapsed from the heat , and the soldiers mounted the truck 's bed to rouse them . Verdoon cleared his throat uneasily , hoping to be saved the embarrassment of one or more of the workers being found dead . He actually breathed a brief sigh of relief when they stirred ; brief because the motion was too sudden and abrupt . Verdoon squinted into the sun and saw the dark gun barrels being hoisted from beneath the workers and tossed outward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had already climbed down . Rebels ! It was the RUF ! The shooting began as Verdoon struggled to shepherd the government representatives back up the hill to safety . Random and wild , punctuated by piercing screams as the rebels fired across the riverbanks , downing soldiers and workers indiscriminately . The prospecting workers tried to run from the river . The soldiers who could fled into the woods . Verdoon drew his pistol , sidestepping up the hill , and fired on the rebels the moment they turned their attention upon him . A pair of the representatives went down screaming . Below , on the riverbank , some rebels whipped machetes from sheaths hidden by their shirts and set off after the workers struggling to flee . Blades whistled through the air . Blood leaped upward . The screams bubbled in Verdoon 's ears . He realized he could n't swallow , realized his pistol 's slide had locked empty and ejected the magazine in favor of a fresh one only to remember his ceremonial gun belt did n't hold any extra clips . A wave of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sunlight . Verdoon was still trying to shove the last standing representatives over the hill when bloodied blades split the air around him . He sank to his knees and absurdly raised his hands to cover his head . Verdoon felt a stinging pain , like ice poking into his flesh , and looked down to see his right arm laying on the dirt . He screamed and gazed up at the tall , lithe figure of a woman looming over him , the machete in her hand soaking the ground with fresh blood . Dragon , he uttered , recognizing her as the blade rose skyward and then chopped down toward him . I spit on A flash exploded before Verdoon 's eyes before he could finish , dragging a sea of red behind it that swallowed the rest of his world .                     