@@31520

Chapter One The palace was over-heated , Mazarini thought . That came of Cardinal Richelieu being a man who had more than his share of ailments , despite being only in middle age . Richelieu felt the cold as an old man did . He had his servants build fires if there was even the slightest chill in the air-and early spring in Paris was considerably more than slightly chilly . Fortunately , the cardinal was a polite man . The wait in the anteroom was brief enough that Mazarini was able to fight off drowsiness . Now Mazarini was in the presence of Richelieu himself , trying to achieve-in spite of the heat-that chilly sharpness a diplomat needed . The cardinal 's hard face , now that the pleasantries had been dealt with , indicated that the real negotiation was about to begin . After only four weeks in Paris , at that ; Richelieu must , Mazarini thought , have something in mind . The protocol of his nunciature had been brief . Mazarini had arrived from Rome with a retinue provided by Cardinal Barberini and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American companion Harry Lefferts had tried to pretend that he saw the likes of the procession through Paris every day back in Grantville , but Mazarini could see him frankly staring at everything . Pressed afterward , Harry had admitted that the twentieth century had not wanted for spectacle , but that it never came to country towns like Grantville . As it was , Harry had gotten only these few short weeks of mayhem , debauchery and drunkenness in Paris before a message that had missed him narrowly in Rome had called him home to Grantville ; he was due to leave in the morning . As much as he would miss Harry , Mazarini would be relieved to see him go . The flamboyant young American made friends everywhere he went . Unfortunately , the friends were concentrated in two classes of people : Flamboyant Italian and French young men , who found the exciting and exotic American something of a role model-to the perhaps everlasting ruin of proper attire for proper young men . ( Their habits had already included brawling and drunkenness , so those sins could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after they 'd arrived in Rome a few months earlier , Harry had gotten a formal suit done to his own specifications by a tailor who 'd done it purely for the chance to take Harry 's old rented tux apart to see how to make the style of trousers his customers were demanding . This time around , Harry had reasoned , men 's formal wear would be done right . Pockets ranked high in Harry 's scheme to anticipate the mistakes of fashion . The gentlemen of this future would not be stuck for somewhere to put a wallet , cigarettes , a few items for personal defense and his companion 's spare lipstick . Jackets were replaced with tailcoats , as Harry had seen enough performances by someone called Lee Van Cleef to appreciate the practicality of the style for a man who wanted to wear a gun-belt . The swordsmen about town in Rome were glad of it , too . The city 's authorities were not . The second category of people who made friends with Harry almost instantaneously were Italian and French young women . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of excitement than the first . Mazarini was still a bit astonished that only two duels had resulted . That was probably because the outcome of the duels themselves . As the challenged party , Harry had been able to choose the weapons . The first duel had been a very informal affair-a tavern brawl which escalated rapidly-he 'd naturally chosen pistols , that being the nature of the weapon carried under his coat . Harry had had the mercy and the good sense not to actually kill his opponents-but it had been blindingly obvious to all who witnessed the affair that he could have easily done so instead of inflicting minor flesh wounds . The second duel , a more formal affair , was worse . Having been accused of cowardice by relying on unfairly superior American firearms , Harry had chosen a different weapon . Another American one , true , but hardly something that could be labeled unfair-a very large knife which he called a " Bowie knife . " He had even grandly allowed his opponent to retain his rapier . The choice had obviated his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no intention of trying to match him . He 'd simply managed to avoid the first lunge and grappled with his opponent , Bowie knife against main gauche . Thereafter , fighting with knives at close quarters , those qualities which Harry possessed in abundance-great athletic ability and an outlook sanguine enough to be the envy of any Mongol khan-had come to the fore . The end result had been thoroughly fatal and incredibly messy . Now that he was in the presence of the cardinal , Mazarini suppressed his sigh . Hopefully , Harry Lefferts would be gone from Paris and on his way back to Grantville before the very wealthy and very belligerent Fasciotti brothers-all five of them-discovered that their sister had been dishonored and came to Paris from Rome to seek satisfaction . There would be no duels , dealing with the Fasciotti . Hiring assassins came as naturally to them as hiring servants . All the more so since the sister in question was not complaining about the episode herself . Awkward , that . But Richelieu was finally speaking . Mazarini pushed aside thoughts of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , after all . Compared to Richelieu , Harry Lefferts was a minor problem . " Monsignor , " said Richelieu , " You have visited Grantville , perhaps ? " " I have , Your Eminence . " Mazarini responded politely , despite the fact that the question was moot . It did not do for one gentiluomo to admit to another that he had had him spied on-or , in his response , for the one spied upon to draw attention to the fact . Mazarini 's trip to Grantville had neither gone unnoticed nor unremarked . The resulting icy blast of Cardinal Richelieu 's displeasure had been directed straight at Cardinal Barberini , who had in his turn deposited the whole lot on Mazarini once he 'd arrived in Rome . Richelieu had a long reach ; his eyes were everywhere and there were few within Europe who could not at least be apprised of his opinions if not made to suffer for his displeasure . He had latterly come to have most of the resources of France at his disposal ; in a sense , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " some things passed between the monsignor and- " Mazarini interrupted him silently , staring with a carefully blank expression and placing his hand on his heart , before casting his eyes down . The gesture of one who , for ritual reasons , could not speak . If ritual had an advantage , it was the language of subtlety it allowed the cognoscenti to converse in . Richelieu sighed . Ritual could also be a shield for those who chose to dissemble . He chose not to look upon the dissimulation . " Monsignor , " he said after a little time , " you are aware , perhaps , of the news of the future brought by the Americans ? " Richelieu rose and took the two steps that carried him to the window . " I ask in a spirit of genuine enquiry ; you need not vouchsafe how much you know or where you have it from . " And such a freight of meaning in that ! Mazarini found himself cold despite the heat , his palms sweating . He had never underestimated an opponent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was possible to do anything else with the cardinal who ruled France . For a wonder , his voice remained under control . " I am aware , yes . " He thanked God silently for the calm ; it was his best weapon at the card table and in negotiations . He had already heard enough to deduce what was coming next . More than a few men had emerged , shocked and grinning , from the Palais in the last few weeks . The cardinal was promoting men , young and unknown men , and it was-well , not the talk of all Paris , but certainly noticed . Richelieu remained at the window , looking out over the garden he had torn down the adjoining buildings to create . He could surely see little , Mazarini reflected . Paris in the spring meant mist and soft , clinging rain as much as fresh air and balmy breezes . The sky was the gray of over-washed linen and the streets a mire , clinging and glutinous . Everywhere was the stink of wet wool . Richelieu let out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half-turned , and addressed Mazarini over his shoulder . " It is more difficult , if you will say nothing ? " Mazarini frowned . Richelieu clasped his hands behind his back and turned further . A long blink , then , both eyes closed for a whole breath before they opened , and he leaned forward a little . Earnestly : " I beg of you , Monsignor , not to take what I said as a suggestion that you might betray a confidence . I fancy we are both " -a little quirk of a smile to underline it- " professionals . Not so ? " Mazarini nodded . Richelieu had used the English word-a word that the seventeenth-century English almost certainly did not have and certainly would not understand the way that up-time Americans did . Mazarini felt his very frame lighten in his chair with the speed of his thoughts . The sheer celerity that came when one matched wits with a master-there was no thrill like it . To gamble all-or-nothing on one 's own genius-and with a man who might say so much with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a clever phrase , a well-parsed statement , these were the common coin of diplomacy . Richelieu was one of a select few in another league altogether . Richelieu closed his eyes again for another breath . " But I must broach a sensitive subject , " he said , and turned back to look out at the dishwater sky . Richelieu said nothing for some time , and it was Mazarini who broke the silence . He knew it was a trap , a trick he used himself . To break a silence without disadvantage was a delicate business . " Sensitive ? " he asked . Richelieu , turning , saw Mazarini 's raised eyebrow and smiled . " Monsignor , you are the man I crossed wits with at Lyons three years ago , not so ? Perhaps I might be candid . Sub rosa , and the understanding between us that neither shall bear rancor for what passes here today ? " " Oh , surely . " Mazarini permitted himself a broad smile . " Do any of those who were present at Lyon bear rancor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ segueing into a worldly , knowing chuckle . " Ah , yes . Two of my dupes . I am sure that neither bear any rancor , where they are now . I feel sure they have more burning concerns . " Mazarini was impressed by that . Discussing the execution of two men who had been to all appearances his faithful allies , Richelieu actually twinkled . " Perhaps , Cardinal . But you were mentioning candor ? " Rubbing it in to begin with would not hurt . After all , the cardinal had asked specifically that neither party take offense . Mazarini harked back to what Cardinal Maurice of Savoy had told him about Richelieu : he must be made to feel that the decision depends on him alone . And there was little to achieve that better than an initial resistance . " Candor , yes . " Richelieu 's eyes grew hooded . " I have something quite outlandish to suggest . " " I am sure , Your Eminence , that this room- " Mazarini waved at a wall at random " - and Servien back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And will again . Does not the delegation from Grantville arrive here in a few weeks ? " Richelieu smiled thinly . " Etienne is behind there , " he said , pointing at the wall opposite that at which Mazarini had waved . " He and his clerk take notes . So much more discreet a man than his cousin at the Ministry of War . " Mazarini noted that Richelieu had neither confirmed nor denied what the Holy See 's spies claimed to have discovered . " And Your Eminence 's proposition ? " " Do you read English ? " " Very well , of late . " " Perhaps I might trouble you- " Richelieu opened a cabinet and took out a thick volume fringed with ribbon bookmarks , " - to read the passage I have marked . " Mazarini frowned at the volume as he took it . It was new , and well-made , apparently the work of a Parisian bookbinder . He riffled the pages ; they were printed on the smooth and slightly marbled Turk's-paper that French bibliophiles loved so well . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frontispiece was-his eyebrows shot up . " From 1991 ? " he asked , looking up at the cardinal . " Just so . I have had printed copies made and more securely bound . " A slight sneer . " Whatever else the next three hundred years may bring , improvements in bookbinding were not among them . The books we have from Grantville began to fall apart quite quickly . I needed copies to refer to , and to distribute to ... various persons . Hand-copying would have engaged every stationer and monk in Paris for weeks and the originals were too fragile to pass around . So I ordered them typeset and the illustrations carefully cut by the best engravers I could find . " " Just so , " Mazarini echoed . " And the passage to which Your Eminence wishes to direct my attention ? " " Ah , I do apologize . I began to muse on other matters . Permit me- " Richelieu leaned over to flip a page open by a bookmark . " Here , " he said , tapping a bold-face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cardinal Jules . Mazarini focused his eyes on it , confirming that-as with other versions he had seen-they had gotten his birth-date wrong . Two days , but still-He looked up at Richelieu . " I have read this . Or one much like it . " " They are all much alike , that I have seen . " To keep silence now , that was painful . Mazarini could not . " I have spoken with-I have spoken with a number of people- " And the words dried up . He felt his palms start again with sweat , his pulse hammer in his ears . The abstract-the dry statement of a textbook that spoke of a future world , that spoke of events that would not happen for years to come-was as nothing next to a living , breathing prince of the church directing that he read the future course of his life . Richelieu took pity on him . " You will have heard , perhaps , that I made a number of promotions rather earlier than " - he took in the cabinet with a languid wave- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " And when last we met you offered then that I might come into- " Again , the sudden drying of the mouth . This time , the words came after only a slight fumble " - your confidence ? " Mazarini wondered that the cardinal did not hear the thunder of his heart . It was like holding the perfect hand at cards , hoping against hope that the betting could be run up to higher and higher levels without-but Richelieu was nodding , slow and liquid , dreamlike , as if under water . " Confidence , " mused the cardinal . " As good a word as any . Knowing what you would do , what you are capable of . I saw some of it at Lyon-I greeted you thinking you came to spy , not to treat , convinced you adhered wholly to my king 's enemies . Continues ...                     