@@34043

Rain lashed through the hellishly hot Saharan sky , hurling itself groundward with chaotic fury only to evaporate before it made contact with the dying earth . The newly dry air was sucked up again into the wet layer to repeat its journey until the storm subsided . An hour later the edge of the desert was as it had been days , months , and years before , revealing no signs of having been changed by the storm . Heat shimmered over still-parched , endlessly shifting sands , sending eddies of fine dust into a sky brilliant with unrelenting light . The very air seemed to glitter as sunlight sparked away from the myriad minute planes of mica and silica particles the earth sacrificed to the sky in convective obedience . Some of the grains of sand and minerals , the spores and bacteria , had already traveled untold distances . Abandoned by winds long since vanquished , they had lain here for days or decades ready to be lifted once again to the sky . Some particles came from the beds of ancient seas and primeval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few millennia ago when the earth writhed , heaving rock and ash into chaotic skies as it gave birth to the African lands , the implacable massifs and the dusty plains encircling them . Smaller than dust andimmeasurably light , the particles were swept upward and overland , floating westward on the hot winds , taking with them the harsh and timeless lessons of the desert . Without will , without desire , they hovered over dunes as the airstream steadied . Silent travelers , they dipped to the earth and rose above it , blinding eddies in a river of wind , and swept over scoured plains that kept untold secrets , that hid the treasures and the miseries of civilizations long dead . As they entered the dense , sticky air above the city , the microscopic particles of dirt and minerals , of pollen , fungi , and bacteria , of long-dead plants and creatures , began to cluster . Unavoidably , they collided with the irresistible , heavy carbonaceous particulates that humankind hurled into the sky . Since humans had discovered fire , they 'd mimicked the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavenward with abandon , dulling the atmosphere , dirtying it . The wind kept the particles aloft , leading them on an endless , nomadic flight , its mission inexorable , its duration eternal . They 'd blown through refugee camps and over embattled lands , embracing the death and desperation that rose in the unholy heat on the fetid air . They swept across wasted fields and villages , depositing remnants of times both better and worse and lifting into their midst both the hope and the destruction that lay beneath them . Mountains rose before the particulates , precipitating many to the earth , sending others ever higher . Lakes and rivers beckoned , swelling the air with moisture unknown to many of the particles for countless ages . Some fell . Some remained aloft , continuing their traversal of savanna and desert , plantation and city . Eventually , the particle plume reached the sea . In a startled tumult it dispersed , broadening its sweep , extending its reach , no longer limited by the boundaries of a landmass beneath it . Like a heat-dazed serpent uncoiling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfurled a lacy haze above the deep blue waters of Africa 's western coastline . Its elegant leading edge undulating toward the lush distant lands of the Caribbean and the Americas , the golden filigree of ancient dust was visible from space . Thousands of unseen eyes began to watch it , waiting and wondering what effect it might have on distant shores and distant lives . Chapter Two May 31 , 4:57 p.m. , eastern coast of Barbados " Did you cut every one of my classes ? " Richard Carlisle-senior meteorologist for a major TV network , professor emeritus of the meteorology department at Cornell , and generally mild-mannered Southerner on the receding edge of middle age-stared at his former student with undisguised disbelief . He might have laughed if his safety were n't at stake . Barely sparing it a glance , Richard pointed , straight armed , to the breadth of paned glass behind him . The window framed the limitless expanse of the Atlantic Ocean from the steep , rugged cliffs dropping below him to a horizon nearly obscured by an encroaching , churning late-afternoon sky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undulating bubble wrap as they stretched across the water . " In case you were asleep at the wheel that semester , Denny , what 's brewing out there is called a tropical storm . The sustained wind speed is fifty-five miles an hour and gusts are hitting seventy-five . Does that mean anything to you , son ? " He paused . " Let me refresh your memory . A person ca n't remain vertical against anything stronger than that . And you want me to go out there-on a rooftop terrace-and do my stand-up ? Are you plumb crazy ? " He would have preferred to say something stronger , but there were too many between-shift waitstaffers bustling through the rooftop dining room of one of Barbados 's most luxurious oceanfront hotels on the eve of hurricane season . The island , the easternmost in the Caribbean and arguably the first that would feel the effects of the season 's weather , was facing the upcoming storm season in typical Caribbean style , with a languid shrug . Twenty-four-year-old Denny Buxton , Richard 's former student and current assistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has seen just enough of life not to realize he has n't seen nearly enough . " Dude , c'm on . The Weather Channel guys do it . Hell , Jim Cantore is somewhere on a beach right now getting his ass sandblasted six ways ' til Sunday . " Denny paused . " Okay , how 's this ? We 'll tie you down . I saw some of those loop things in the floor that they use to tie down tents . " Richard continued to stare at him , dumbfounded . The kid was a fool . Unfortunately , he was also right . Viewership spiked during bad weather , but doing something crazy never hurt . Denny 's idiot grin never faded . In fact , it grew broader . " You want to do it . Holy shit , man , I ca n't believe it . You 're gon na do it . " Laughing , Denny exchanged an exuberant high five with the cameraman , who was not much older and no more sensible . Richard looked over his shoulder at the wall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clouds beyond it . The smooth , caplike pileus cloud had stabilized , as the last radar report had indicated it would , and the storm hovered over the ocean , threatening to come ashore at any moment in a rush of wind and hot rain . The storm would be fast and furious , probably gone within an hour . Not overly dangerous , it would wallop the coastline , annoy the residents , and scare the hell out of the tourists , dousing the hardiest , or foolhardiest , among them who remained outdoors . After the rain ended , the island would return to being steamy and still , the weather a suitably sultry backdrop for its summer season . " C'm on . Let 's mosey . We 're on in thirty . " Denny and the cameraman pushed through the door , and into the wind . Richard took a deep , resigned breath and followed them onto the roof . " We 'll just do the teaser out here . If it gets too bad , we 'll go back inside , " Denny yelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moron could make , " Richard drawled under his breath . Denny squinted at him and mouthed , What ? Richard smiled tightly . " I said , Good idea . ' " Denny nodded . " You stand there , " he shouted , pointing to an open area that afforded no protection from the elements . " That way if you get knocked over , you wo n't fall over the edge . " Shaking his head , Richard moved to his marks and grimaced against the wind as Denny gave him the countdown with his fingers . As the producer 's last finger folded into his palm , Richard flashed his on-camera smile . " Hello , America , from the not-so-sunny Caribbean . On the day before the official start of the hurricane season , we 're already bracing for a close encounter with the second named storm of this year . In what is already shaping up to be a remarkable hurricane season , I 'll be providing you with a bird's-eye view of Tropical Storm Barney from the coast of beautiful- " He stopped speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sag . Microphone in hand , Richard glanced over his shoulder . His gut clenched as he watched the bloated , menacing clouds exploding over the open ocean with the unholy force of a mid-air detonation . Furious plumes burst in all directions and the sea 's dark , choppy swells erupted into a frenzied expanse of boiling , churning whitecaps thundering a crazed ambush on the suddenly puny cliffs and the beach at their base , fifty feet below . Faster than his mind could register what was happening , the wall of wind hammered at Richard , knocking him to the floor and sending him skidding headfirst into the stone skirting wall that surrounded the roof . As unconsciousness rushed over him , Richard remembered the last time , the only time , he 'd witnessed anything like those clouds . The South China Sea in 1971 . Those storms had n't been pretty . They had n't been natural , either .                     