@@27038

London , 1815 John Valentine strummed the fingers of one hand along the bar top while in the other he clenched a tumbler of whiskey . He stared at the clock behind the bartender 's head , watching as the moments bled away one by one . Glowering at the hated timepiece , he let out a string of low curses that did n't raise an eyebrow from the gentlemen and ladies surrounding him in the crowded room . In fact , most did n't even notice his frustration as they talked , kissed , and . . . He shifted as he glanced down the bar to watch one gentleman , a powerful figure in Parliament , lift the young woman in his company up on the bar to have easier access to the swell of her breasts beneath the low curve of her scandalous gown . Valentine could n't help but stare as the woman dipped her head back with a loud sigh . The sigh turned to a moan as her companion pushed the neckline even lower until the dusky rose of one taut nipple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his erection lengthening beneath the bar . Arabella Nichols 's underground haven of sex definitely lived up to the rumors surrounding it . Since his arrival , he had seen so much that this latest exposure to sin and sex seemed tame . How much more did the legendary Miss Nichols think he couldtake ? " Mr. Valentine ? " He started as a feminine voice , along with hot , sweet breath , brushed his ears . He turned to find a lovely auburn-haired woman standing at his elbow , a broad , flirtatious smile on her face . " Yes ? " " Arabella is ready for you . " The young lady 's smile grew as he got to his feet and her gaze swept over him . He ignored her blatant regard . . . and the equally blatant offer in her expression . With a grin , she turned and led him from the room , past a crowded parlor where even more ladies and gentlemen congregated for erotic foreplay , and finally through a ballroom with a stage where scantily clad ladies danced for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Valentine kept his eyes focused straight ahead on the lace-clad back of his companion . His head was n't so addled by drink and sex that he could n't remember this was business . Or at least try to remember . It was n't easy when temptation waited around every corner . His companion led him upstairs and down a long hallway . Through the closed doors , Valentine heard the moans and cries of couples , perhaps even groups in some rooms , acting out the pleasures hinted at below . " Are you warm , Mr. Valentine ? " his pretty guide asked as she glanced at him over her shoulder . His lips thinned at the teasing glimmer in her eyes . " No . " She laughed as she paused at an ornate door at the end of the hallway . " Then you are a stronger man than most . " She clicked the door open . " Arabella ? Mr. Valentine is here . " " Come in . " Valentine did as he was told , even though the response came from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he glanced around . The chamber did n't look like he would have guessed based on the establishment 's reputation . He 'd expected a tacky display of erotic delights . A room dominated by a bed , perhaps clad in red with satin all around . Instead the chamber was tastefully outfitted , from the rich oriental carpet beneath his feet to the expensive furniture and exquisite art that filled the room . There was no bed in the sitting room , but he assumed his hostess 's bedchamber was through the closed doorway across from him . Still , he could not find the infamous Arabella Nichols . " You kept me waiting for over an hour , " he said , his eyes darting from corner to corner . They finally settled on a high-backed wing chair by the fire . It was turned away from him , but a slender female hand lay on the armrest . Still , she did not rise , or even move at all . " I am fully aware of how long you waited , Mr. Valentine . " Irritation sluiced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " So you do n't care how my time was wasted ? Is this how you run your business ? " The hand curled into a fist before its own-er pushed to her feet and turned to face him . Valentine caught his breath . By God , Arabella was even more beautiful than the gossips and rogues said she was . Long golden curls cascaded over her shoulders and down her back , draping over full breasts that were barely covered by a scrap of white satin that might laughingly be called a negligee . The long slit up one side gave him a good look at her slender , lithe limbs , the kind a man could n't help but imagine wrapped around his waist . And then there were her eyes . A stunning , captivating midnight blue that pierced through his own . There was a spark of intelligence , of challenge , in their depths that excited him as much as her exposed skin and husky voice did . " Keeping you waiting is exactly how I run my business , Mr. Valentine , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensual . She obviously knew her full mouth and the words she formed with it were just as much a tool of her trade as the lush curves of her body or the heat of her sex . He folded his arms and carefully , methodically , reined in his shocking animal reaction to this woman . He already knew what those urges could do . He had once vowed to never again be overcome by them . " I am not a man accustomed to being kept waiting , " he growled . She gave him a small and knowing smile before she slid forward in a movement both graceful and enticing . " That I did know about you , though little else . You see , Mr. Valentine , I had to be sure about your character . " Valentine snorted . " My character ? " Continues ...                     