@@28937

The Burning Land Chapter One The rush of water caught Gyalo full in the chest . It felt completely real ; he gasped and leaped aside before he could stop himself , brushing at his face and clothes . Even as he did , he understood the trick , and straightened up again , angry at himself for being taken in . He thought he could see the one who had done it : a skinny postulant with the yellow headband of a trainee Shaper , leaning over the back of a passing parade cart and grinning in Gyalo 's direction . Packed in around him , other trainees tossed blessings to the crowd : a shower of spangles , streamers of transparent gauze , a burst of rainbow brilliance . These were not true shapings , which changed and shifted matter and properly could be performed only in the context of ratist ceremony , but illusions , substanceless manipulations of light and air : a symbolic reminder of the sacred power bestowed by the god on humankind before time began.They vanished even as the spectators laughed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illusory , though . Gyalo could feel dampness on his cheeks , and the fine golden silk of his Shaper stole was spotted with wet . Under other circumstances he might have seen the humor in it  --  the people nearby clearly did , though in deference to his Shaperhood they hid their smiles behind their hands  --  but he had spent time and care dressing himself , and so he was not amused . " Here , Brother . " One of the bystanders , a young Arsacian woman , offered him her stole . " For your face . " She spoke shyly , but laughter twitched the corners of her mouth . Well , Gyalo thought , it was funny . Ruefully , he smiled at her and took the stole . " Thanks for your charity , lady , " he said , giving it back into her hands . " Hopefully I can manage to keep dry the rest of the way . " She giggled . " Great is rata , " she said , making the god 's sign . " Great is his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved on . To his left the spectators were a mass of packed bodies and laughing faces ; to his right the procession trundled along , an exuberant juggernaut of color , noise , and smell : ox-drawn parade carts festooned with ribbons dyed in the god 's colors ; groups of Forceless monks on foot , beating drums and blowing kanshas , great trumpets that curved over the shoulder and made a sound like a mythic beast dying in agony ; drays bearing huge wood-and-gilt statues of rata in his four guises of World Creator , Primal Warrior , Eon Sleeper , and Risen Judge ; litters with smaller images of some of rata 's more powerful Aspects  --  Ddarshi , Patron of luck , Skambys , Patron of war and weather , Hatspa , Patron of fire and weaponry , Tane , Patron of crops and the moon  --  carried by hymn-singing devotee-priests . Between these groups walked postulants with rods of burning incense , and more monks shouting out rhythmically : " Wake , O rata , wake . Wake and deliver your children from exile . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one imagined that all this noise could actually rouse the god . It was meant for the human spectators , to remind them of the waiting that was their lot , that had been the lot of every living creature since rata first lay down to sleep . It echoed deafeningly back from the high blood granite walls that enclosed the avenue ; Gyalo 's ears rang from it , and his eyes burned from incense smoke . Another day he might have ducked through one of the archways that gave access to the tangled side streets , in search of a less crowded way to go . But though he had long known Baushpar 's plan by heart , he had never actually set foot in the holy city until six months earlier , and the map in his head did not always guide him properly . He could not risk , today of all days , getting lost . Which reminded him , with unwelcome sharpness , that he was nervous . The avenue terminated upon a vast walled square paved in russet ironstone , at whose center rose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Temple 's original core had been erected more than eleven centuries before , but it had been expanded many times since then , in a score or more of different styles and motifs lent harmony by the yellow honey granite of which the whole was made . Images and carvings covered every inch of the huge faade , worn to varying degrees of featurelessness by time and weather , but here and there , where the construction was newer or there was protection from the elements , showing sharper and more perfect . Above it all a dozen domes reached toward the sky , like fat lotus buds about to open . Recently regilded , they reflected light even on this overcast day ; when the sun shone , they were blinding . Gyalo had been raised on tales of the First Temple 's magnificence , and it justi fied the stories in every respect , even marred by decades of neglect and the more substantial depredations of the Caryaxists , who had helped themselves to floor tiles and wall inlays and anything made of metal , and scraped all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that reclined at the Temple 's circular core . Still , the Temple was too huge , and  --  even for the Caryaxists  --  too sacred to be razed or ruined , as other temples and shrines and monasteries all over Arsace had been . It rested on the ironstone paving , a golden island atop a russet sea , as colossal and serene as the dreaming god himself . Gyalo and the procession parted company  --  the procession moving left , preparing to round the Temple , Gyalo turning right , toward the square 's western side . The spectators made way for him , dipping their heads respectfully and making the sign of rata as he passed . Elsewhere the square was thickly populated by food vendors and offerings-sellers , but there were none here . The western wall marked the boundary of the Evening City ...                     