@@33793

Chapter One A Man from Her Past I think Mother is flirting with a man from her past who is not Father . I say to myself : Mother ought not to have improper relations with this man " Franz " ! " Franz " is a European . I say she should not see this man improperly while Father is away ! But I am confusing an old reality with a new reality : Father will not be returning home . He will be staying on at Vernon Hall . As for Mother , she is ninety-four years old . How can there be improper relations with a woman of ninety-four ? Yet my confusion must be this : though her body is old , her capacity for betrayal is still young and fresh . Dog and Me An ant can look up at you , too , and even threaten you with its arms . Of course , my dog does not know I am human , he sees me as dog , though I do not leap up at a fence . I am a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hanging open when I walk along . Even on a hot day , I do not leave my tongue hanging out . But I bark at him : " No ! No ! " Enlightened I do n't know if I can remain friends with her . I 've thought and thought about it-she 'll never know how much . I gave it one last try . I called her , after a year . But I did n't like the way the conversation went . The problem is that she is not very enlightened . Or I should say , she is not enlightened enough for me . She is nearly fifty years old and no more enlightened , as far as I can see , than when I first knew her twenty years ago , when we talked mainly about men . I did not mind how unenlightened she was then , maybe because I was not so enlightened myself . I believe I am more enlightened now , and certainly more enlightened than she is , although I know it 's not very enlightened to say that . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willing to postpone being more enlightened myself so that I can still say a thing like that about a friend . The Good Taste Contest The husband and wife were competing in a Good Taste Contest judged by a jury of their peers , men and women of good taste , including a fabric designer , a rare-book dealer , a pastry cook , and a librarian . The wife was judged to have better taste in furniture , especially antique furniture . The husband was judged to have overall poor taste in lighting fixtures , tableware , and glassware . The wife was judged to have indifferent taste in window treatments , but the husband and wife both were judged to have good taste in floor coverings , bed linen , bath linen , large appliances , and small appliances . The husband was felt to have good taste in carpets , but only fair taste in upholstery fabrics . The husband was felt to have very good taste in both food and alcoholic beverages , while the wife had inconsistently good to poor taste in food . The husband @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taste in perfumes and colognes . While both husband and wife were judged to have no more than fair taste in garden design , they were judged to have good taste in number and variety of evergreens . The husband was felt to have excellent taste in roses but poor taste in bulbs . The wife was felt to have better taste in bulbs and generally good taste in shade plantings with the exception of hostas . The husband 's taste was felt to be good in garden furniture but only fair in ornamental planters . The wife 's taste was judged consistently poor in garden statuary . After a brief discussion , the judges gave the decision to the husband for his higher overall points score . Collaboration with Fly I put that word on the page , but he added the apostrophe. (                     