@@26356

Chapter One 1910 The train jolted forward so abruptly that the three passengers in the first-class coach sensed that they had been propelled much farther than a few meters from the Tula station . One of the men ( Gribshin ) felt as if he had been thrust from the era in which he lived . The second man ( Vorobev ) perceived that he had been jerked out of a manner of thought that had become complacent after years of discovery ; now he was poised at the brink of revelation . The third man ( Khaitover ) , who had been resting with his eyes closed , now sprung them wide , as if he had been suddenly brought to life . The three men had not yet made each other 's acquaintance . The initial surge bunched the cars , they paused in repose as the engine strained against them , and then the couplings tensed , there was another , now-anticipated jolt , and the train pressed forward again . The station 's cream-yellow bricks slid past the window , followed by railway sheds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more distant ones . Patches of white , remnants of the first snowfall , dotted the hard fields . The third man , who after a lengthy , restless , and intermittently ruinous residence in Russia now called himself Grakham Khaitover , his name Cyrillicized into something outlandishly guttural , scarcely noticed the first man , Gribshin , who was young and Russian . Of the second man , sitting opposite him , Khaitover remarked only a faint chemical , fungal scent , indefinitely disturbing but not unpleasant . At this crucial moment  --  but why was it crucial ? why had the fog into which he had dozed not yet cleared ?  --  the odor seemed pregnant with a message hecould not read . The second man , Professor Vladimir Vorobev , ignored the first man as some clerk or student , destined to be banished to a green third-class car once the conductor checked his ticket . If Vorobev had been told that Gribshin would someday make a revolution , he would have shrugged and replied that he was a scientist completely uninterested in politics . This practiced denial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time he reached Bulgaria , years later , after fleeing there with former elements of the White Army , and then modified again into one of innocent apolitical ignorance once he returned to the Ukraine at the end of the Civil War . The revelation that had just come to Professor Vorobev had to do with the specific gravity of certain liquid substances , particularly glycerin in respect to distilled water , and then again in respect to the specific gravity of human blood . The other substance to be taken under consideration was potassium acetate , a compound typically used in fabric conditioner . Tula 's outlying settlements glided past , followed by snow-frosted small cottages , grain silos , the brown dome of a village church , and a tableau of peasants frozen in time , leaning away from their carts , against the direction of history . Professor Vorobev turned his attention toward the third man , Khaitover , who was clearly a foreigner . Khaitover was gangly and fair , with a small , yellow mustache . The professor noted the failings of his toilet : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whiskers ; the scuffed shoes ; the drowsy demeanor . As the train picked up speed , rocking through the countryside , the foreigner 's head fell against the mud-specked window and his eyelids began to flicker . Vorobev cleared his throat , as if in a lecture hall , and inquired : " Sir , are you a pilgrim , or a journalist ? " Khaitover opened his eyes , but remained leaning against the window . The professor fairly glowed with the benevolence of his question . Khaitover responded in heavily accented , grammatically awry , snarly Russian . " Do I look like a bloody pilgrim ? " " There are many pilgrims from abroad . Germany , England , America , India . Some have come on foot . " Vorobev offered Khaitover his card , obliging the foreigner , grimacing , to dig one out of his own billfold , which itself had to be excavated from an inside jacket pocket . His living dependent on more than a single occupation , Khaitover carried a variety of cards . He made a selection and gave it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the window . The first man , who at twenty years of age was still called Gribshin , attended the exchange with vague interest . The impulsion forward had left him chiefly occupied with an inventory of the physiological effects induced by accelerated time travel : a retrograde churning of your stomach contents , a searing of your nostril hairs , a sharpening of vision that brought the landscape into almost unbearable relief . You rarely experienced these effects in ordinary life , when you traveled into the future a single moment at a time . Gribshin wondered what new world he found himself in . Vorobev squinted through his pince-nez , studying both the English and Russian sides of Khaitover 's visiting card . The professor was a squat man with a round , sweaty face onto which a glossy black mustache seemed to have been clumsily pasted . " The Imperial . I 'm not familiar with it . Is it an important publication ? What class of person is likely to purchase it ? " Khaitover replied , " The newspaperless class ; that is , that class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desirous of reading one . " He hardly knew more about the paper he wrote for than how much it paid by the column inch . He had been away from England a long time , barren years in which he had ceased to be a young man as he sought to pry his fortune from this impossible empire and its limitless , valueless steppes , its inaccessible forests , its untappable mineral veins ; its teeming , unfished rivers , its lazy and superstitious natives  --  this hyperborean Congo . Or perhaps he had just been born , like today 's newspaper , which had arisen from dust and telegraphic sparks in only twenty-four hours . Or he was only tired : he had just been involved in some very complicated speculative business having nothing to do with journalism .                     