@@28458

Chapter One Colleen Stewart shifted uneasily on the hard chair across from her editor 's large , metal desk , holding back a ragged sigh . Cold , hard dread inched through her . She had to find a way to get out of writing this article . She would never , ever be able to write " The Baby Chronicles " without letting all of those smiling , cooing , bald little toothless angels turn her heart to mush . Mush she did n't need . " I do n't see what the problem is , " Joe said , yanking his stained yellow-and-red tie loose . " All you have to do is write about cute babies . Piece of cake . " Cute babies a piece of cake ? Hardly . " Joe , I turned down this assignment a week ago , " she said , deliberately excluding the reason she 'd talked her way out of the job in the first place . Joe would laugh his head off . " Nothing has changed . I still do n't want to do it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waved a hand in the air . " No can do . Rudy left town for a family emergency and Christy has her hands full covering the budget cuts at the school district . You 're it . " Colleen bit her lip . " What about Angela ? " " On maternity leave . " " Steve ? " " I fired him this morning . " She flinched but kept at it , leaning forward . " Zack ? " " You 're it , Colleen . " He pulled his bushy , gray eyebrows together and scowled . " What 's the big deal , anyway ? Just supervise the shoot and write the story , all right ? " She 'd love to tell Joe why this seemingly harmless assignment was a big deal for her . But she could n't . Joe was a hard-line journalist and a traditional family man from way back . He would never understand her need to stay away from things like endearing babies , cute little animals , large , close-knit families and nice , lovable men . She 'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around things she could never have . Things that made her ache inside . She opened her mouth to refuse , but Joe 's ice-hard glare stopped her and she clamped her lips closed . Further argument was useless . She prided herself on her ability to get through tough situations with strength and self-control , just as she 'd made it through her neglected childhood all by herself . She 'd write this article while remaining unengaged and unfazed by the undoubtedly adorable babies . She had to . Her job as a reporter at the Beacon and her protected little world here in Portland , Oregon , depended on it . " Anything else ? " she asked , trying to sound up-beat . She glanced out the window , hoping the blue-skied , puffy-clouded summer day would cheer her up . " Yeah , actually there is one more thing . We 're bringing in a freelance photographer for this spread . " A psychological cloud moved across the sun . Her gut tightened . Ever since she 'd been shuffled through the foster-care system , meeting knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Really ? Why ? " Joe shrugged . " The guy 's good , and he offered his talent for dirt cheap . Wants to build a career photographing kids . Thought this would be a good opportunity . " He looked over her head and smiled . " Ah . Here he is now . " A barely perceptible , woodsy scent drifted across the air , teasing Colleen 's nose . She froze , momentarily confused , and a long , heart-pounding second later , recognition thudded into place . Only one person she 'd ever known had smelled like a combination of trees and wind and the great outdoors . Aiden . But that was impossible . Aiden was overseas in some godforsaken , war-torn country taking pictures . " Taking pictures , " she mouthed . No . No way . She was imagining that outdoorsy , distinctive , heart-stopping scent , right ? Aiden Forbes was thousands of miles away right now . He was absolutely , positively not standing behind her , ready to take over his new , unlikely job as baby photographer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shaking hand to her fluttering stomach . A chill rushed up her spine , scattering goose bumps over her entire body . Please do n't let it be him , please do n't let it be him . She 'd broken up with Aiden eight years ago because he 'd shown her , by loving her so completely , how incapable of loving she was . Aiden was just a painful reminder of the unfixable flaw inside her and of all of the ramifications that flaw had had in her life . With Aiden around , she 'd never been able to forget the defect that had made her parents ditch her into the foster-care system . A deep , hauntingly familiar voice scraped across her raw nerves like a rusty chainsaw on metal , dashing her stupid hopes . " You must be Joe Capriati . " From the corner of her eye she saw a large , tanned hand reach to Joe over her shoulder . " I 'm Aiden Forbes . " Time slowed to a crawl . In the millisecond it took Colleen to draw a choked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and almost sputtered to a stop . She pressed her other quivering hand to the side of her face and bent her head , ridiculously trying to hide , even though she was dying to look at Aiden and see how the years had changed him . But she did n't look , she could n't even move . Maybe he would n't recognize her . Of course he would . He was n't popping his head in for just a moment . He was the photographer on the story she 'd just been assigned . She was going to have to work with him . Side by side . Photographing precious babies . She closed her eyes and shook her head , wishing the floor would open up and swallow her whole . Aiden Forbes , the only man who had ever been able to crack open the door to her flawed , vulnerable heart , was back . ( Continues ... )                     