@@26284

The Conquest Chapter One The museum is dark tonight . The shadows are cut by a few lamps , which cast a veil of light on the bronzes displayed in this gallery . Naked , shimmering girls and bearded satyrs turn supple in the glow , almost as if they might come alive any moment and turn a discerning eye upon their observer . I move from the room and out of the wing , stepping onto the courtyard with its flower and water gardens floating in blue light . Beyond the precipice of the hill upon which the museum stands lies the black ocean indistinguishable from the sky . It is a white-air , January evening , perfect weather for Jean Paul Getty 's ghost to wander , dazzled , through the limestone halls his money built . I stretch my sweater tighter around my shoulders and enter the library . Even at midnight a few scholars ' lamps burn from various corners , and the silence is threaded by the sound of a pencil on a page . Ancient , magnificent books sleep on the shelves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on leechings and applications of mercury . I pass the fading tenth-century copy of Epicurus , with its recipes for sea urchins with honey and roast flamingo with mint . Here are the fifteenth-century chivalric novels in their lovely cameo bindings . And the eighth-century Aztec calendar with its themes of blood and grain . I reach my desk . I turn on my lamp and pick up the old book that lies here . I run my fingers on the spine , the rotting leather . The tooled headbands and marbled papers , the rippled vellum leaves filled with beautiful script . Centuries ago a tawny fugitive dipped her pen into an inkwell and wrote these words long after the soldiers and bondsmen gave her up for dead . Later , the eons bit their teeth into this book . In a few years it will die unless this hinge is reglued and the tattered parts of the leaves and covers are patched . That is my job . My name is Sara Rosario Gonzlez , and I am thirty-two years old . I 'm a rare book restorer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painstaking work on this volume . It often takes me into the early hours of the morning . As I examine the flaws on a leaf I will become distracted by the words written on it . The story . I have no trouble imagining its author . The tawny woman bent over these leaves , slowly painting the letters in their telling style . After two pages she raised her head to watch a bird outside of her window . The green hills of Spain stretched farther than she could see . A soldier with a red plume in his helmet whipped his steed across the knolls , but such sights did not frighten her any longer , as she had learned to take refuge in disguises . She smiled , and returned to the book that now rests under my hands . It is a late sixteenth-century folio , untitled , and bound in oxblood morocco ; the text of vernacular Spanish is written on vellum in formal Rotunda script . The narrative tells of a female Aztec juggler brought to Europe by Hernn Corts , and she has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the pleasures of Titian 's Venice , and plotting the assassination of the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V. We believe it was composed in Cceres , Spain , circa 1570 , and because of stylographic similarities to other texts most scholars agree that it was authored by one Padre Miguel Santiago de Pasamonte , a hedonistic and probably insane Hieronymite monk who wrote a series of scandalous novels a full twenty years before Cervantes penned Don Quixote . My boss here at the Getty , Teresa Shaughnessey , is in these theorists ' camp . It appears that I am the sole dissenter to their hypothesis . I believe , as I 've said , that a woman wrote this folio , and an Aztec woman at that . Perhaps it is fiction , perhaps not . Historical accounts of Aztec slaves ' passage from Tenochtitln to the Vatican will be found in annals from that era . And although this book contains accounts of magic , it was written in a credulous age , when the passionate still saw spirits and monsters mingling with human neighbors . I 've @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If I prove my hypothesis I will be as clever as any necromancer , for all the dark women of history have lost their tongues . If I show my colleagues that an Aztec woman wrote this book , it will be as if I 'd tapped on the shoulder of the great volcano Ixtacihuatl and bade her speak . And that 's exactly what I 'll do . The night is deepening . Saturday night , so that this place is a clock-stopped island beyond which lies an electric and protean Los Angeles filled with revelers . I am the last of the scholars left here , and it is my favorite time in the museum , when I can fancy the duchesses and devils stepping down from their canvases and waltzing together through the black halls . I can work now with no distraction but my own imagination . My tools are simple . White gloves , a bone folder , knitting needles , glue , and thin , milky sheets of linen and Japanese paper , which I will graft to the book 's body in much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patient whose heart has been punctured by illness . No , I will say that the process reminds me instead of a sweetheart reconstructing a destroyed love letter . The first time I held one of these relics  --  it was a thirteenth-century manuscript of an Aztec poet , for I tend to seek projects that relate to my race  --  I remember the impression that I possessed a message from a revenant suitor pining for the love of a beautiful woman . I glanced up , then , at these shelves of sleeping books and thought how each hid the ember of a hot heart that beat after passions now long forgotten .                     