@@28608

Introduction On a brisk afternoon in September 1922 , a conservatively dressed young man with red hair sat on the upper deck of a Fifth Avenue bus in Manhattan , engrossed in a manuscript . A friend at the literary magazine The Dial had put a long poem into his hands . The Dial was interested in publishing it , and the editors hoped that the young manEdmund Wilsonwould write an essay to elucidate the poem . By the time he reached Greenwich Village , Wilson had completed a first reading of T. S. Eliot 's The Waste Land . Decades later he would recall being " bowled over , " and his essay called the poem " simply one triumph after another . " This recognition of Eliot followed Wilson 's account , in The New Republic , of Joyce 's Ulysses as a masterpiece fusing naturalism and symbolism , re-creating the mind " straining always to perpetuate and perfect itself " and the body " always laboring and throbbing to throw up some beauty from its darkness . " He believed the general reader could absorb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new ways the powers of language . Both Eliot and Joyce , he thought , occasionally tried one 's patience , but he was committed to making them more accessible . Edmund Wilson was twenty-seven . He was fortunate to come on the scene as a critic when he did , but he had trained for this moment . At fifteen he had been sure of his literary vocation , and he absorbed all that liberal education had to offerboth at the Hill School and at Princeton , where extraordinary teachers encouraged his curiosity and enthusiasm for books and about ideas . He emerged from his parents ' uncongenial marriage with emotional scars , but his confidence in his abilities was strong , and he was seasoned by a year as a hospital orderly in France during World War I. Though he hated the suffering he saw , he liked being on a footing of relative equality with Americans of diverse backgrounds , and returned to his country skeptical of institutions and of rank and social privilege . He joined Vanity Fair as an editorial assistant , immediately became its managing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in other magazines . The generation of the 1920s was brought up on the best of the Old World and hoped to equal it , applying the work habiteven as they broke away from Victorian moresthat Americans traditionally brought to commerce . Wilson was indebted to the men of letters of eighteenth- and nineteenth-century England and France as well as to Emerson , and at the beginning of his career owed much to H. L. Mencken and Van Wyck Brooks . While these critics shied away from the transformation of literature after the war , he became the spokesman of writers bringing this about . He found a podium at The New Republic in 1925 , and for ten years his work appeared in almost every issue , often twice , a running account of books and of American culture , alternating with the studies of the new international literature that became Axel 's Castle . The Depression deepened the perspective on his class attained in the army , and he largely put aside criticism to be a reporter on the labor front . He absorbed Marxism while doing the studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union . As the 1930s ended , he came into full possession of his powers as the biographer-historian of revolutionaries in To the Finland Station and the post-Marxist , neo-Freudian critic of The Triple Thinkers and The Wound and the Bow . In Greenwich Village of the jazz age Wilson explored the new found freedoms of booze and sex . He was sexually innocent until twenty-five , then lost his virginity and his heart to one of the most desired women of the period , the poet Edna St. Vincent Millay . His private life became as chaotic as his professional life was discipline . Wilson was the only well-known literary alcoholic of his generation whose work was not compromised by his drinking , but alcohol undermined his marriages . In addition to four of thesehis third , to Mary McCarthy , providing fodder for gossip , attacks , and counterattacks , which survive in their writingshe had many affairs and sexual encounters . As he aged , the once handsome man became physically unattractive , but still had no difficulty as a seducer . When asked how he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answered that he " talked them into it " by discussing subjects in which they were interested . Jason Epstein described Wilson as " by nature a pedagogue . He was always in search of promising student . And this , I believe , is what his love affairs were really all about . " The early forties were his dark period , a midlife crisis not of identity but of morale , due not only to his failing marriage to McCarthyhe was sexually faithful , she notbut to the deaths of friends and the grim spectacle of a second world war . A resilient temperament , a new literary platform , and marriage to Elena Mumm Thornton enabled him to recover and achieve a second career . In The New Yorker he progressed from reviews to long essays and reportage , again trying out the materials of his books in magazine form . He brought a single-minded concentration to everything from nineteenth-century American writing and the Russian classics to Native Americans , Israel , and the ancient texts of the Dead Sea Scrolls . His contemporary Malcolm Cowley wrote that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God 's name he would be doing next . " He turned his literary journalism into chronicles , began editing his diaries , created The Twenties and The Sixties as well as his book about American character and culture in the Civil War , Patriotic Gore . Wilson 's experience as a free-living man of the twenties meant more to him as it became memory and history . In later life he came full circle , embracing " the old provincial America " that the family home in Talcottville , New York , represented . Wilson 's storyin the words of Paul Horgan , who knew him in various settingsis that of the artist " searching for a rational design in the world through his own life and the act of writing . " This story is carried by his letters , verse , fiction , and memoirs , and reflected in his generation , the confession d'um enfant du siclea child of the centurythat Christian Gauss suggested he write but Wilson himself could not see as a whole . His multi-volume journal , a record of American life from 1914 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . Yet the glimpses of Wilson are accurate , though he sometimes gets a detail wrong when he retells the anecdotes of others . Just as he does not spare the women with whom his sexual experiences are eventually made public , he never tries to make himself look good . He describes an outburst in drunken quarrel with his second wife , Margaret Canby , in 1932 exactly as this was overheard and recalled by a neighbor in their building in a memoir published after Wilson 's death and before the appearance of his journal for these years . The stories of othersFitzgerald , Hemingway , and Dos Passos , Malraux , Nabokov , and Auden , along with Millay and McCarthy , Louise Bogan and Dawn Powellwho helped define the literary and intellectual life of Europe and the United States over these fifty years are interwoven in this biography . Their voices in the correspondence complement Wilson 's , and so do those of non-authorsStanley Dell , an early friend , Margaret Canby , Mamaine Paget Koestlerwho have their own eloquence on paper , the mark of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was in many ways more literate . But it is Wilson whose voice is dominant . It is tempting to explain Wilson 's powers in terms of the pain and psychic struggle of his life , which was his method in portraying writers and historical figures . He wished to have made better connections with his father , who died when Wilson was twenty-seven . His youthful affection for his mother faded as , impressed neither by her son 's career nor by what she saw of his private life , she doled out on her terms his share of the estate left by his father , while Wilson haggled with magazines and publishers for money . The critic , journalist , and portraitist never had the success he wanted as a fiction writer or playwright . His first three marriages were failures . One can see WilsonEdgar Johnson , the Dickens scholar , seems first to have suggested thisas the wounded archer of his account of Sophocles ' Philoctetes , a play that offered him metaphors for the tension between the writer and society as well as the relationship of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a magical bow , a gift of the gods on which the conquest of Troy depends . But if Wilson projects himself as Philoctetes , in his portaiture he is also young Neoptolemus , who , sent to acquire the weapon , realizes it will not work without the willing presence of the exiled , sick , irascible warrior . Isaiah Berlin integrated these two figures in his view of his friend . Thinking Wilson by nature " disharmonious , " Berlin linked this to his profound understanding of the artists and public figures he wrote about . " He was always worried about whether he thought this or that was true of false , " Sir Isaiah said . " He was an uncomfortable man , uncomfortable with himself ; and that 's what caused the friction , and the friction caused the genius . " In proposing Wilson as the most important critic of their century , Berlin accounted for his staying power in terms attractive to a biographer : the other critics mostly wrote " just intelligent sentences , " but " everything Wilson wrote was filled with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a figure full of contradictions : a rationalist and classicist who was also a restless romantic , question for more books and writers to investigate , ever more scenes in which to re-create himself ; empiricist who kept coming back to questions of belief and faith ; a man of ideas for whom abstractions lacked the validity of individual figures and particular scenes ; someone self-absorbed in relation to his family , vulnerable to romantic entanglements , endlessly generous with literary friends . Wilson was an explorer , " bold enough " as he remarked of someone else in one of his late self-interviews " to open up a whole new geography of the intellectual world . " Restless and tireless , doggedly thinking through subjects , expanding and recycling his work in some thirty-two volumes that still entertain , and inspire , this determined man gave to books and writing their full weight in the human struggle .                     