@@27175

" A hundred and fifteen rupees , " Ensign Richard Sharpe said , counting the money onto the table . Nana Rao hissed in disapproval , rattled some beads along the wire bars of his abacus and shook his head . " A hundred and thirty-eight rupees , sahib . " " One hundred and bloody fifteen ! " Sharpe insisted . " It were fourteen pounds , seven shillings and threepence ha'penny . " Nana Rao examined his customer , gauging whether to continue the argument . He saw a young officer , a mere ensign of no importance , but this lowly Englishman had a very hard face , a scar on his right cheek and showed no apprehension of the two hulking bodyguards who protected Nana Rao and his warehouse . " A hundred and fifteen , as you say , " the merchant conceded , scooping the coins into a large black cash box . He offered Sharpe an apologetic shrug . " I get older , sahib , and find I can not count ! " " You can count , all right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ca n't . " " But you will be very happy with your purchases , " Nana Rao said , for Sharpe had just become the possessor of a hanging bed , two blankets , a teak traveling chest , a lantern and a box of candles , a hogshead of arrack , a wooden bucket , a box of soap , another of tobacco , and a brass and elmwood filtering machine which he had been assured would render water from the filthiest barrels stored in the bottom-most part of a ship 's hold into the sweetest and most palatable liquid . Nana Rao had demonstrated the filtering machine which he claimed had been brought out from London as part of the baggage of a director of the East India Company who had insisted on only the finest equipment . " You put the waterhere , see ? " The merchant had poured a pint or so of turbid water into the brass upper chamber . " And then you allow the water to settle , Mister Sharpe . In five minutes it will be as clear as glass . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show water dripping from the packed muslin layers of the filter . " I have myself cleaned the filter , Mister Sharpe , and I will warrant the item 's efficiency . It would be a miserable pity to die of mud blockage in the bowel because you would not buy this thing . " So Sharpe had bought it . He had refused to purchase a chair , bookcase , sofa or washstand , all pieces of furniture that had been used by passengers outward bound from London to Bombay , but he had paid for the filtering machine and all the other goods because otherwise his voyage home would be excruciatingly uncomfortable . Passengers on the great merchantmen of the East India Company were expected to supply their own furniture . " Unless you would be liking to sleep on the deck , sahib ? Very hard ! Very hard ! " Nana Rao had laughed . He was a plump and seemingly friendly man with a large black mustache and a quick smile . His business was to purchase the furniture of incoming passengers which he then sold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will leave the goods here , " he told Sharpe , " and on the day of your embarkation my cousin will deliver them to your ship . Which ship is that ? " " The Calliope , " Sharpe said . " Ali ! The Calliope ! Captain Cromwell . Alas , the Calliope is anchored in the roads , so the goods will need to be carried out by boat , but my cousin charges very little for such a service , Mister Sharpe , very little , and when you are happily arrived in London you can sell the items for much profit ! " Which might or , more probably , might not have been true , but was irrelevant because that same night , just two days before Sharpe was to embark , Nana Rao 's godown was burned to the ground and all the goods : the beds , bookcases , lanterns , water filters , blankets , boxes , tables and chairs , the arrack , soap , tobacco , brandy and wine were supposedly consumed with the warehouse . In the morning there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shrieking mourners who wailed that the kindly Nana Rao had died in the conflagration . Happily another godown , not three hundred yards from Nana Rao 's ruined business , was well supplied with all the necessities for the voyage , and that second warehouse did a fine trade as disgruntled passengers replaced their vanished goods at prices that were almost double those that Nana Rao had charged . Richard Sharpe did not buy anything from the second warehouse . He had been in Bombay for five months , much of that time spent sweating and shivering in the castle hospital , but when the fever had passed , and while he was waiting for the annual convoy to arrive from Britain with the ship that would carry him home , he had explored the city , from the wealthy houses in the Malabar hills to the pestilential alleys by the waterfront . He had found companionship in the alleyways and it was one of those acquaintances who , in return for a golden guinea , gave Sharpe a scrap of information which the ensign reckoned was worth far more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred and fifteen rupees which was why , at nightfall , Sharpe was in another alley on the eastern outskirts of the city . He wore his uniform , though over it he had donned a swathing cloak made of cheap sacking which was thickly impregnated with mud and filth . He limped and shuffled , his body bent over with a hand outstretched as though he were begging . He muttered to himself and twitched , and sometimes turned and snarled at some innocent soul for no apparent reason . He went utterly unnoticed . He found the house he wanted and squatted by its wall . A score of beggars , some horribly maimed , were gathered by the gate along with almost a hundred petitioners who waited for the house 's owner , a wealthy merchant , to return from his place of business .                     