@@27210

Chapter One There are those days which seem a taking in of breath which , held , suspends the whole earth in its waiting . Some summers refuse to end . So along the road those flowers spread that , when touched , give down a shower of autumn rust . By every path it looks as if a ruined circus had passed and loosed a trail of ancient iron at every turning of a wheel . The rust was laid out everywhere , strewn under trees and by riverbanks and near the tracks themselves where once a locomotive had gone but went no more . So flowered flakes and railroad track together turned to moulderings upon the rim of autumn . " Look , Doug , " said Grandpa , driving into town from the farm . Behind them in the Kissel Kar were six large pumpkins picked fresh from the patch . " See those flowers ? " " Yes , sir . " " Farewell summer , Doug . That 's the name of those flowers . Feel the air ? August come back . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " that 's a sad name . " Grandma stepped into her pantry and felt the wind blowing from the west . The yeast was rising in the bowl , a sumptuous head , the head of an alien rising from the yield of other years . She touched the swell beneath the muslin cap . It was the earth on the morn before the arrival of Adam . It was the morn after the marriage of Eve to that stranger in the garden bed . Grandma looked out the window at the way the sunlight lay across the yard and filled theapple trees with gold and echoed the same words : " Farewell summer . Here it is , October 1st . Temperature 's 82 . Season just ca n't let go . The dogs are out under the trees . The leaves wo n't turn . A body would like to cry and laughs instead . Get up to the attic , Doug , and let the mad maiden aunt out of the secret room . " " Is there a mad maiden aunt in the attic ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be . " Clouds passed over the lawn . And when the sun came out , in the pantry , Grandma almost whispered , Summer , farewell . On the front porch , Doug stood beside his grandfather , hoping to borrow some of that far sight , beyond the hills , some of the wanting to cry , some of the ancient joy . The smell of pipe tobacco and Tiger shaving tonic had to suffice . A top spun in his chest , now light , now dark , now moving his tongue with laughter , now filling his eyes with salt water . He surveyed the lake of grass below , all the dandelions gone , a touch of rust in the trees , and the smell of Egypt blowing from the far east . " Think I 'll go eat me a doughnut and take me a nap , " Doug said . ( Continues ... )                     