@@30514

Chapter One : Tuesday , March 20 He turned onto the boardwalk and felt the full impact of the stinging blast from the ocean . Observing the shifting clouds , he decided it would n't be surprising if they had a snow flurry later on , even though tomorrow was the first day of spring . It had been a long winter , and everyone said how much they were looking forward to the warm weather ahead . He was n't . He enjoyed Spring Lake best once late autumn set in . By then the summer people had closed their houses , not appearing even for weekends . He was chagrined , though , that with each passing year more and more people were selling their winter homes and settling here permanently . They had decided it was worth the seventy-mile commute into New York so that they could begin and end the day in this quietly beautiful New Jersey seaside community . Spring Lake , with its Victorian houses that appeared unchanged from the way they had been in the 1890s , was worth the inconvenience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the fresh , bracing scent of the ocean always present , revived the soul , they agreed . Spring Lake , with its two-mile boardwalk , where one could revel in the silvery magnificence of the Atlantic , was a treasure , they pointed out . All of these people shared so much the summer visitors , the permanent dwellers but none of them shared his secrets . He could stroll down Hayes Avenue and visualize Madeline Shapley as she had been in late afternoon on September 7 , 1891 , seated on the wicker sofa on the wraparound porch of her home , her wide-brimmed bonnet beside her . She had been nineteen years old then , brown-eyed , with dark brown hair , sedately beautiful in her starched white linen dress . Only he knew why she had had to die an hour later . St. Hilda Avenue , shaded with heavy oaks that had been mere saplings on August 5 , 1893 , when eighteen-year-old Letitia Gregg had failed to return home , brought other visions . She had been so frightened . Unlike Madeline , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mercy . The last one of the trio had been Ellen Swain , small and quiet , but far too inquisitive , far too anxious to document the last hours of Letitia 's life . And because of her curiosity , on March 31 , 1896 , she had followed her friend to the grave . He knew every detail , every nuance of what had happened to her and to the others . He had found the diary during one of those cold , rainy spells that sometimes occur in summer . Bored , he 'd wandered into the old carriage house , which served as a garage . He climbed the rickety steps to the stuffy , dusty loft , and for lack of something better to do , began rummaging through the boxes he found there . The first one was filled with utterly useless odds and ends : rusty old lamps ; faded , outdated clothing ; pots and pans and a scrub board ; chipped vanity sets , the glass on the mirrors cracked or blurred . They all were the sorts of items one shoves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away , and then forgets altogether . Another box held thick albums , the pages crumbling , filled with pictures of stiffly posed , stern-faced people refusing to share their emotions with the camera . A third contained books , dusty , swollen from humidity , the type faded . He 'd always been a reader , but even though only fourteen at the time , he could glance through these titles and dismiss them . No hidden masterpieces in the lot . A dozen more boxes proved to be filled with equally worthless junk . In the process of throwing everything back into the boxes , he came across a rotted leather binder that had been hidden in what looked like another photo album . He opened it and found it stuffed with pages , every one of them covered with writing . The first entry was dated , September 7 , 1891 . It began with the words " Madeline is dead by my hand . " He had taken the diary and told no one about it . Over the years , he 'd read from it almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own memory . Along the way , he realized he had become one with the author , sharing his sense of supremacy over his victims , chuckling at his playacting as he grieved with the grieving . What began as a fascination gradually grew to an absolute obsession , a need to relive the diary writer 's journey of death on his own . Vicarious sharing was no longer enough . Four and a half years ago he had taken the first life . It was twenty-one-year-old Martha 's fate that she had been present at the annual end-of-summer party her grandparents gave . The Lawrences were a prominent , long-established Spring Lake family . He was at the festive gathering and met her there . The next day , September 7th , she left for an early morning jog on the boardwalk . She never returned home . Now , over four years later , the investigation into her disappearance was still ongoing . At a recent gathering , the prosecutor of Monmouth County had vowed there would be no diminution in the effort to learn the truth about what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vows , he chuckled at the thought . How he enjoyed participating in the somber discussions about Martha that came up from time to time over the dinner table . I could tell you all about it , every detail , he said to himself , and I could tell you about Carla Harper too . Two years ago he had been strolling past the Warren Hotel and noticed her coming down the steps . Like Madeline , as described in the diary , she had been wearing a white dress , although hers was barely a slip , sleeveless , clinging , revealing every inch of her slender young body . He began following her . When she disappeared three days later , everyone believed Carla had been accosted on the trip home to Philadelphia . Not even the prosecutor , so determined to solve the mystery of Martha 's disappearance , suspected that Carla had never left Spring Lake . Relishing the thought of his omniscience , he had lightheartedly joined the late afternoon strollers on the boardwalk and exchanged pleasantries with several good friends he met along the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one more blast on its way out . But even as he bantered with them , he could feel the need stirring within him , the need to complete his trio of present-day victims . The final anniversary was coming up , and he had yet to choose her . The word in town was that Emily Graham , the purchaser of the Shapley house , as it was still known , was a descendant of the original owners . He had looked her up on the Internet . Thirty-two years old , divorced , a criminal defense attorney . She had come into money after she was given stock by the grateful owner of a fledgling wireless company whom she 'd successfully defended pro bono . When the stock went public and she was able to sell it , she made a fortune . He learned that Graham had been stalked by the son of a murder victim after she won an acquittal for the accused killer . The son , protesting his innocence , was now in a psychiatric facility . Interesting . More interesting still , Emily bore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her great-great-grandaunt , Madeline Shapley . She had the same wide brown eyes and long , full eyelashes . The same midnight-brown hair with hints of auburn . The same lovely mouth . The same tall , slender body . There were differences , of course . Madeline had been innocent , trusting , unworldly , a romantic . Emily Graham was obviously a sophisticated and smart woman . She would be more of a challenge than the others , but then again , that made her so much more interesting . Maybe she was the one destined to complete his special trio ? There was an orderliness , a rightness to the prospect that sent a shiver of pleasure through him .                     