@@26638

Up the Molena Point hills where the village cottages stood crowded together , and their back gardens ended abruptly at the lip of the wild canyon , a row of graves lay hidden . Concealed beneath tangled weeds and sprawling overgrown geraniums , there was no stone to mark the bodies . No one to remember they were there save one villager , who kept an uneasy silence . Who nursed a vigil of dread against the day the earth would again be disturbed and the truth revealed . On winter evenings the shadow of the tall , old house struck down across the graves like a long black arrow , and from the canyon below , errant winds sang to the small , dead children . There had been no reports for a dozen years of unexplained disappearances along the central California coast , not even of some little kid straying off to turn up at suppertime hungry and dirty and unharmed . Nor did the three cats who hunted these gardens know what lay beneath their hurrying paws . Though as they trotted down into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flower beds , sometimes tabby Dulcie would pause to look around her , puzzled , her skin rippling with an icy chill . And once the tortoiseshell kit stopped stone still as she crossed the neglected flower bed , her yellow eyes growing huge . She muttered about a shadow swiftly vanishing , a child withflaxen hair . But this kit was given to fancies . Joe Grey had glanced at her , annoyed . The gray tom was quite aware that female cats were full of wild notions , particularly the tattercoat kit and her flights of fancy . For many years the graves had remained hidden , the bodies abandoned and alone , and thus they waited undiscovered on this chill February night . The village of Molena Point was awash with icy , sloughing rain and shaken by winds that whipped off the surging sea to rattle the oak trees and scour the village rooftops . But beneath the heavy oaks and the solid shingles and thick clay tiles , within scattered cottages , sitting rooms were warm , lamps glowed and hearth fires burned , and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For despite the storm , it seemed half the village had ventured out , to crowd into Molena Point Little Theater for the week-long Patty Rose Film Festival . There , though the stage was empty , the darkened theater was filled to capacity . Though no footlights shone and there was no painted backdrop to describe some enchanted world and no live actors to beguile the audience , not a seat was vacant . Before the silent crowd , the silver screen had been lowered into place from the high , dark ceiling , and on it a classic film rolled , a black-and-white musical romance from a simpler , kinder era . Old love songs filled the hall , and old memories for those who had endured the painful years of World War II , when Patty 's films had offered welcome escape from the disruptions of young lives , from the wrenching partings of lovers . For six nights , Molena Point Little Theater audiences had been transported , by Hollywood 's magic , back to that gentler time before X-ratings were necessary and audiences had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the obligatory bedroom scene . The Patty Rose Film Festival had drawn all the village back into that bright world when their own Patty was young and vibrant and beautiful , riding the crest of her stardom . Every showing was sold out and many seats had been sold again at scalpers ' prices . On opening night Patty herself , now eighty-some , had appeared to welcome her friends ; it was a small village , close and in many ways an extended family . Patty Rose was family ; the blond actress was still as slim and charming as when her photographs graced every marquee and magazine in the country . She still wore her golden hair bobbed , in the style famous during those years , even if the color was added ; her tilted nose and delighted smile still enthralled her fans . To her friends , she was still as beautiful . When Patty retired from the screen at age fifty and moved to Molena Point , she could have secluded herself as many stars do , perhaps on a large acreage up in Molena @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had , instead , bought Otter Pine Inn , in the heart of the village , and moved into one of its third-floor penthouses , had gone quietly about her everyday business until people quit gawking and sensibly refrained from asking for autographs . She loved the village ; she walked the beach , she mingled at the coffee shop , she played with the village dogs . She soon headed up charity causes , ran benefits , gave generously of her time and her money . Two years ago she had bought an old historic mansion in need of repair , had fixed it up and turned it into a home for orphaned children . Orphans ' home was an outdated term but Patty liked it and used it . The children were happy , they were clean and healthy , they were well fed and well educated . Eightytwo percent of the children went on to graduate from college . Patty 's friends understood that the home helped , a little bit , to fill the dark irreparable void left by the death of Patty 's daughter and grandson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and running the inn , Patty left herself little time for grieving . She took deep pleasure in making the inn hospitable . Otter Pine Inn was famous for its cuisine , for its handsome and comfortable accommodations , and for the friendly pampering of its guests . It was famous indeed for the care that Patty extended to travelers ' pets . There are not so many hotels across the nation where one 's cats and dogs are welcome . Otter Pine Inn offered each animal velvet cushions by a window , a special menu of meaty treats , and free access to the inn 's dining patio when accompanied by a human ... Continues ...                     