@@26935

Chapter The FirstIntroducing Our Heroine , Jennet Stearne , Whose Father Hunts Witches , Whose Aunt Seeks Wisdom , and Whose Soul Desires an Object It Can not Name May I speak candidly , fleshling , one rational creature to another , myself a book and you a reader ? Even if the literature of confession leaves you cold , even if you are among those who wish that Rousseau had never bared his soul and Augustine never mislaid his shame , you would do well to lend me a fraction of your life . I am Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy , after all  --  in my native tongue , Philosophi Naturalis Principia Mathematica , the Principia for short  --  not some tenth-grade algebra text or guide to improving your golf swing . Attend my adventures and you may , Dame Fortune willing , begin to look upon the world anew . Unlike you humans , a book always remembers its moment of conception . My father , the illustrious Isaac Newton , having abandoned his studies at Trinity College to escape the great plague of 1665 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Woolsthorpe . An orchard grew beside the house . Staring contemplatively through his bedroom window , Newton watched an apple dropfree of its tree , driven by that strange arrangement we have agreed to call gravity . In a leap of intuition , he imagined the apple not simply as falling to the ground but as striving for the very center of the Earth . This fruit , he divined , bore a relationship to its planet analogous to that enjoyed by the moon : gravitation , ergo , was universal  --  the laws that governed terrestrial acceleration also ruled the heavens . As below , so above . My father never took a woman to his bed , and yet the rush of pleasure he experienced on that sweltering July afternoon easily eclipsed the common run of orgasm . Twenty-two years later  --  in midsummer of 1687  --  I was born . Being a book , a patchwork thing of leather and dreams , ink and inspiration , I have always counted scholars among my friends , poets among my heroes , and glue among my gods . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Principia Mathematica different from all other books ? My historical import is beyond debate : I am , quite simply , the single greatest work of science ever written . My practical utility is indisputable . Whatever you may think of Mars probes , moon landings , orbiting satellites , steam turbines , power looms , the Industrial Revolution , or the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , none of these things is possible without me . But the curious among you also want to know about my psychic essence . You want to know about my soul . Take me down from your shelf . If you 're like most humans , you 've accorded me a place of prestige , right next to the Bible , perhaps , or rubbing covers with Homer . Open me . Things start out innocuously enough , with eight turgid but not indigestible definitions concerning mass , acceleration , and force , followed by my father 's three famous laws of motion . Continue turning my pages . Things are getting pretty rough  --  are n't they ?  --  propositions proliferating , scholia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centripetal forces of bodies , which by equable motions describe different circles , tend to the centers of the same circles , and are to each other as the squares of the arcs described in equal times divided respectively by the radii of the circles . " Lugubrious , I 'll admit . This is n't Mother Goose . But you ca n't judge a book by its contents . Just because my father stuffed me with sines , cosines , tangents , and worse , that does n't make me a dry or dispassionate fellow . I have always striven to attune myself to the aesthetic side of mathematics . Behold the diagram that illustrates Proposition XLI . Have you ever beheld a more sensual set of lines ? Study the figure accompanying Proposition XLVIII . Have arcs and cycloids ever been more beautiful ? My father set geometry in motion . He taught parabolas to pirouette and hyperbolas to gavotte . Do n't let all my conventional trigonometric discourse fool you , by the way . Determined to keep his methods a secret , Newton wrote out his discoveries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afoot here is that amazing tool he invented for calculating the rate of change of a rate of change . Abide with me , fleshling , and I shall teach you to run with the fluxions . The precise metaphysical procedures by which a book goes about writing another book need not concern us here . Suffice it to say that our human scribes remain entirely ignorant of their possession by bibliographic forces ; the agent in question never doubts that his authorship is authentic . A bit of literary history may clarify matters . Unlike Charles Dickens 's other novels , Little Dorrit was in fact written by The Frie Queene . It is fortunate that Jane Austen 's reputation does not rest on Northanger Abbey , for the author of that admirable satire was Paradise Regained in a frivolous mood . The twentieth century offers abundant examples , from The Pilgrim 's Progress cranking out Atlas Shrugged , to Les Misrables composing The Jungle , to The Memoirs of Casanova penning Portnoy 's Complaint . Occasionally , of course , the alchemy proves so potent that the appropriated author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have accrued to this phenomenon . Every desert romance novel bearing the name E. M. Hull was actually written by Madame Bovary on a lark ; Mein Kampf can claim credit for most of the Hallmark greeting cards printed between 1958 and 1967 ; Richard Nixon 's entire oeuvre traces to a collective effort by the science-fiction slush pile at Ace Books . Now , as you might imagine , upon finding a large readership through one particular work , the average book aspires to repeat its success . Once The Wasteland and Other Poems generated its first Republican Party platform , it could n't resist creating all the others . After Waiting for Godot acquired a taste for writing Windows software documentation , there was no stopping it . In my own case , I started out small , producing a Provenal cookbook in 1947 and an income-tax preparation guide in 1983 . But now I turn my attention to a more ambitious project . . .                     