@@27158

Mortal Love A Novel Chapter One Lost On Both Sides The letter was written in German . Learmont recognized the hand as that of Dr. Hoffmann , head physician at the mental hospital in Frankfurt  --  his friend and colleague , a man who had played host to him three decades earlier , in 1842 . Since then their friendship had been maintained exclusively through correspondence , despite Hoffmann 's written adjurations that Learmont was always welcome at his home , and that Hoffmann 's wife , Therese , wished to be remembered to him with all good grace , and ( more recently ) that the three Hoffmann children were now no longer children but themselves nearly as old as the two physicians had been when first they met . We would not recognize each other now , Thomas my friend , read Learmont . I pray that Time has been gentler to you than it has been to those poor souls in my care . Learmont lifted his head to gaze out the window of the inn where he was staying , near Wallingham in Northumberland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incline toward the moors , all but invisible behind a shifting veil of gray and white . We would not recognize each other now . Thomas Learmont thought wryly that quite the opposite was true : Hoffmann would have no trouble at all recognizing his old friend , because in thirty years Learmont had aged not a whit . With a sigh he glanced back down at the letter . It is a distressing topic I now wish to draw to your attention , dear Thomas , and a puzzling one . I know that you recall many years hence asking me to inform you if ever one of my female patients should exhibit certain traits , of which you have long made practice of examining and treating . My own hospital continues to deal first and foremost with children and young persons whose infirmities cause them great turmoil as they forge their ways into respectability . So it was these five months past that a young woman was commended into my care by an acquaintance who requested that I not question him as to his relationship with her . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a composer , promising though not well known , and this woman had sought him out after hearing a recital of his music at a small party . She gave her name as Isolde , but my friend said this was a romantic affectation , that as a child she had seen the modern opera performed  --  a wicked parental betrayal if true !  --  and that her Christian name was Marta . She had no family in Frankfurt . She told me first that she had been abandoned by a married lover ( as indeed she had ) but at other times suggested that she had in fact abandoned her own husband . She certainly suffered from dementia praecox and seemed to be arrested in that state between maidenhood and womanhood , when girls are most at risk of falling prey to their latent impulses . She displayed clear signs of inversion ; sometimes her facial appearance seemed quite frankly masculine , a puzzling anomaly for which I could find no explanation . Her behavior toward me was wanton , and I administered hydrotherapy hoping to cure it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more extreme , and put me in mind of writing to you . She did not resist her hours in the bathing-closet , nor did she indicate in any way that she noticed when the temperature of the shower-hoses changed , from frigid to hot . Rather , she spoke to the water , and when I began to make note of her conversation , it grew clear that she imagined herself to be an Undine . As in the verses  --  Know you the Nixies , so strange and so fair ? Black their eyes and green their hair ... Learmont felt a familiar pounding in his chest , the taste of green apple on his tongue , the sound of wind in the leaves . Again , I must point to the danger that the fantasias of Opera sometimes present to the female temperament ! Her ravings indicated that she alternately viewed me as her husband , her lover , and her gaoler : not uncommon when dealing with such women in extremis . On the fourth day , her behavior in the bathing-closet became so extreme that I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the last page . ... continued to administer the sedative cure . This arrested her behavior , but she grew increasingly listless . I had begun an earlier draft of this letter to you , Thomas , in hopes of enlisting your opinion and perhaps your services , when very early yesterday morning the matron woke me in my bed at home , screaming that the hospital was ablaze . With all haste I returned , to find that the building  --  thank God !  --  was not ablaze , but only a single room . This was the cell to which Marta had been appointed . And in which , alas , she perished ! And not alone , for in the room I discovered the charred corpse of another patient . The night matron insisted there had been no candle or lantern left in the room and that the man must have brought one with him . I spent many hours sifting through the remains , but of the girl found nothing except her shoes . I have yet to learn whether a key was stolen by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him entry . He was a harmless fellow , given to fanciful writings which I enjoyed , and sadly his stories all seem to have perished with him , as I found no sign of his papers in his cell . Marta 's fate serves to illustrate too clearly the fury which base passion arouses in the female , if untempered by motherlove or the steadying embrace of a husband . Reimerich Kinderlieb might have found some grim humor in her fate , but I do not ! My friend 's grief was well salted with guilt when I brought the news to him ... Mortal Love                     