@@27297

Islands Chapter One I met Lewis Aiken when I was thirty-five and resigned to the fact that I would not marry for love , only , perhaps , for convenience , and he was fifty and had long been married , until fairly recently , for no reason other than love . For a long time after our relationship began , I thought we had turned ourselves about ; that I was the one who loved , clumsily and foolishly , with the passion of one who has never really felt passion before , and Lewis was the one who found in me comfort and convenience . By that time I did not care . He could name the terms . I would be whatever he wanted and needed me to be . We met on an afternoon in April , humid and punishing as spring can often be in the Carolina Low Country , when the air felt like thick , wet steam and the smell of the pluff mud from the marshes around Charleston stung in nostrils and permeated clothes and hair . I was bringing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operated on Saturdays , and we were running late . My old Toyota was coughing and gagging in the heat , and I had turned off the air conditioner to spare its strength , and was running sweat . In the backseat , buckled into her car seat , the child howled steadily and dismally . I did not blame her . I wanted to howl myself . Her feckless mother had dropped her off in my office the afternoon before and faded away for the second time running , leaving me to scramble around for a place for her daughter to spend Friday night and then pick her up the next day and take her to the clinic myself . Back in my office the paperwork that was the effluvia of desperate need mounted steadily . " Sweetie , please stop crying , " I said desperately , over my shoulder . " We 're going to see the nice man who 's going to help get your foot fixed , and then you can run around and jump and ... oh , play soccer . " I had no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obviously was not soccer . The howls mounted . I pulled into the lot next to the beautiful old house on Rutledge Avenue that housed Dr. Lewis Aiken 's Low Country Pediatric Orthopedic Clinic . I knew that Dr. Aiken had long done free diagnostic and referral work with handicapped  --  physically challenged , I could not keep up  --  children from all around the region . He was regarded in my agency as one of the city 's greatest child resources , one of our constant angels . The agency I managed was a part federally , part privately funded sort of clearinghouse for services for needy children and adolescents , and by that time I knew where all the angels were located . I had come to work at the agency just out of the College of Charleston when I was twenty-two , when my duties consisted of manning telephones and running out for emergency meals and diapers for our clients , and somehow had never left . I was head now , and my duties were more often those of an administrator and fund-raiser and public relations director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the children we served ; indeed , I had come to think that that was where all my scant supply of passion went . I had not yet met Dr. Aiken or many of our other care providers , though I knew all their office people on the phone . My small staff of cynically idealistic young men and women did most of the hands-on work now . But it was Saturday , and when the child 's silly mother did not appear at the foster home that had taken in her daughter , the foster parents called me and I had no recourse but to go . Oh , well , I had no plans except the stack of books that had been piling up beside my bed and maybe a Sunday-afternoon movie with Marcy , my deputy . Marcy and I spent some time together on weekends , not so much out of deep friendship , but more out of simple expediency . We liked each other , and it was nice to have someone else to go places with , but we came nowhere near being best friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew some of the junior staff thought us to be . Marcy had a sometimes-boyfriend in Columbia who came over every third weekend , whom she assumed , rather lackadaisically , I thought , that she would eventually marry . I had some men friends , all from the ranks of the vast medical complex that bloomed like kudzu in the center of Charleston , though none were doctors . I seemed to attract the administrator type . My mother could have told me so , and had : I could hear her voice as I struggled with the straps of the wriggling child 's car seat : " If you do n't fix yourself up some and get your nose out of those books , no interesting kind of man will have you . You do n't know anything about anything but wiping noses and doing wash . How sexy do you think that is ? " And whose fault is that ? I would think , but it would have been futile to say it aloud . She was usually drunk when she started in on me  --  she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remembered . I could never quite fathom what kind of man my mother thought was interesting ; it seemed to me that all of them filled the bill . She 'd certainly had a diverse stable . By the time alcohol became her constant lover , I was regularly taking care of my two younger sisters and brother , and overseeing housework and meals , too . Oddly enough , I rather liked it . It made me feel important , needed , and I had a talent for nurturing that was perhaps my strongest gift . And I did and do love my sisters and brother . My mother has been dead for many years now . " Okay , toots , here we go , " I said to little white-blond Shawna Sperry , who was mucus streaked and fretful but had stopped crying ...                     