@@27304

Chapter One My Shrinks In the mid-1950s , when I was fourteen or fifteen , I told my mother I was homosexual : that was the word , back then , homosexual , in its full satanic majesty , cloaked in ether fumes , a combination of evil and sickness . Of course I 'd learned the word from her . She was a psychologist . Throughout my early childhood , she 'd been studying part-time for a master 's degree in child psychology . Since I was not only her son but also her best friend , she confided everything she was learning about me  --  her live-in guinea pig  --  to me . For instance , I was enrolled in an ' experimental ' kindergarten run by Dr. Arlett , my mother 's mentor in the department of child psychology at the University of Cincinnati . Dr. Arlett , however , decided after just one semester that I was ' too altruistic ' to continue in the school . I was dismissed . I suspect that she meant I was weirdly responsive to the moods of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fake concern , just as I 'd learned to do with my mother . No doubt I was judged to be an unhealthy influence on the other kids . But my mother , who chose against all evidence to interpret my vices as virtues , my defeats as victories , decided that whatDr . Arlett really meant was that I was too advanced spiritually , too mature , to hang back in the shallows with my coevals . My reward was a return to loneliness . We lived at the end of a lane in a small , rented Tudor house . My older sister , who disliked me , was attending Miss Daugherty 's School for Girls ; she sometimes brought friends home , but she did n't let them play with me . I played alone  --  or talked to my mother when she was n't at school or studying . My mother was intensely spiritual ; at least she spoke often of her inner life and said she prayed , though I never saw her pray . She 'd been brought up a Baptist in Texas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ please my father but later out of a genuine affinity with the thinking of Mary Baker Eddy . Like Mrs. Eddy , my mother denied the existence of evil ( except as it was embodied by my father 's mistress ) and believed in thinking mightily positive thoughts . She had a pantheistic , nearly Hindu conviction that every living creature was sacred and God a wave cresting out of , then dissolving back into , Universal Mind . When my mother was distraught , which occurred on a daily basis , she found consolation in bourbon and Eddy 's Science and Health and Key to the Scriptures . My mother dismissed Mrs. Eddy 's hostility to medicine as an ideal beyond our grasp given our current state of imperfect evolution . She also detected signs in me of a great soul and highly advanced spirituality . When I was seven my parents divorced . It was a good thing Mom had taken that degree in psychology because now , at age forty-five , she had to go to work to supplement her meager alimony . She labored long hours for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and later in Illinois again , administering IQ tests to hundreds of grade-school students and even ' projective ' tests ( the Rorschach , the House-Tree-Person ) to children suspected of being ' disturbed . ' True to my status as guinea pig , I was tested frequently . She who was so often overwrought at home , given to rages or fits of weeping , would become strangely calm and professional when administering a test . Her hands would make smoothing gestures , as though the lamplit table between us were that very sea of mind that needed to be stilled back into universality . Her voice was lowered and given a storytelling sweetness ( ' Now , Eddie , could you tell me everything you see in this inkblot ? ' ) . I , too , was transformed when tested , but toward anxiety , since a psychological test was like an X-ray or a blood test , likely to reveal a lurking disease : hostility , perversion or craziness or , even worse , a low intelligence . I must have been eight when my mother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our last summer at our big , rambling vacation house on Mullet Lake , Michigan , which our newly imposed poverty made her sell for the disappointing sum of fourteen thousand dollars . I think she wanted to impress me , or herself , with how well she could separate out the scientific precision of administering a professional test from the messy , emotional squalor of our everyday life . She wrote down everything I saw in each plate and exactly where in each inkblot I detected a tomb or a diamond . She then went off for a few hours and consulted her thick dark-blue-bound manual of interpretation with its burgundy label . I was afraid of the results , as absolute and inarguable in their objectivity as they were mysterious in their encoding and decoding . My mother was nearly gleeful when she told me I was a ' borderline psychotic ' with ' strong schizophrenic tendencies . ' Apparently the most telling sign of my insanity was my failure to see anything human in the inkblots . All I saw were jewels and headstones . What remained unclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full-blown psychosis or whether the process was reversible . Did the Rorschach lay bare my essence or my becoming ? Was I becoming better or worse ? In fourth grade , no matter how mentally ill I might have been , I continued to get good grades in every subject except arithmetic ( we moved too often for me to be able to follow a coherent sequence of math courses ) . Perhaps the only public sign of craziness was my obsession with playing a king on stage . In third grade , in Dallas , I wrote and starred in The Blue Bird , a script I 'd plagiarized from Maeterlinck ( my first piece of writing was a plagiarism ) . My mother rented a gold , bejeweled crown , a blue velvet doublet and white knee breeches from a costume shop . Continues ...                     