@@28381

A Sound Like Thunder By Sonny Brewer Random House Sonny Brewer November 1941 Thunder , low and trembling , rolled across the breezeless bay , and I wondered from where I stood on the shaky wooden dock if the sheer weight of the sound could set tiny ripples in motion on the water 's smooth face . The cypress two-by planking beneath my bare feet was weather-cracked and silvered . Many of the narrow wharf 's rusting nails were loosened and backing out of the joists , allowing random boards to cup and twist , and the protruding nails to snag and bloody a boy 's bare toes . Gray dawn had not long since arisen , and my mother would be stirring the house to life , waking my younger brother , just turned ten . She would also awaken my grandmother , who had moved in with us soon after Grandpa Otis died . My father was not at home , and the world was quiet . Along this stretch of Alabama bayfront , no windows I could see were yet yellow with light , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles to the north and west there on the other shore , across the smoky water the city of Mobile was still sleeping . My father was captain of the Mary Foster , a fifty-foot melon schooner on a run to the New Basin Canal-front market out past Hagan Street in New Orleans . He was due back any day , maybe this morning , and usually drove home in his Ford truck from Farragut 's Basin , where he kept the schooner atanchor . The captain called the basin Farragut 's Turn , as did some of the older schoonermen , because it was the spot on Fish River where Admiral David Farragut , after the Civil War Battle of Mobile Bay , had found room enough to turn his gunboats around . Sometimes , if the weather was fine , the captain would leave his truck at Farragut 's and motor his broad skiff up the bay from the pass at Big Mouth , dropping off crew and deckhands at this or that fishing camp strung out down the bay . Now that I was sixteen and legal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skiff to Farragut 's to fetch home the truck , and I looked forward to those little excursions because I loved to drive . The run south down the bay alone in the skiff , my face skinning the wind and my hand twisting the throttle on the Evinrude , was almost as much fun . My name is Rover , named for my father 's beloved shining black Labrador retriever that drowned in the wind-tossed waves of Mobile Bay while chasing a wounded mallard . The dog had paddled madly and happily , one might guess , after the duck through the frothy chop until he sank in exhaustion in five feet of brackish water not a hundred yards offshore from our bayside cottage the day before I was born . The captain , in naming his son after his dog , had revealed a sense of humor that I had failed to inherit . I came up short of laughing each time I fought this or that taunting schoolmate who called me Rover . On my first day of school , I had dropped the last " r " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not mind actually . Anyone who added back the " r " and addressed me so had a fight on his hands . Years later David MacFarland would lift his upper lip with his index finger and show me a chipped tooth , would turn loose his lip , and let it segue into a smile and tell me parents should be more careful what they name their kids . We were fourteen when I punched him in the mouth . I walked away with a torn knuckle on my right hand , a scar to match David 's chip . With this weather building , my father would drive instead of motoring up the bay in the skiff . Even knowing that , I looked south down the bay . I saw no skiff . I let my eyes sweep the horizon and a steam passenger ferry , an elongated black shape some miles across the flat water , was trailing a thin tendril of smoke into the dull pewter sky . It was the only thing moving on Mobile Bay as far as I could see . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neck . The November morning still held the chill from last night 's low temperature which had dipped to near forty degrees . It would storm today . This odd stillness would soon be shattered , rough weather probably setting in before the Bay Queen made the dock at Stedman 's Landing , three or so miles up the shore north of Fairhope . If I did not hurry home I might get caught in the rain , which , in fact , I did not mind . But , on the other hand , if I did not hurry , there was some chance that my father would be already seated at the kitchen table . I did not want to come into the house after him . My preference , in fact , if it were not for leaving Mother alone to deal with the captain , would be to stay away entirely . I had worked the deck on the Mary Foster , and I knew that when the captain sailed home , done with the white-shirted dealers in New Orleans who had haggled down his prices , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , striped melons -- or in other seasons sweet potatoes or turpentine or what have you -- and when his crew had piled them onto waiting trucks , when the captain had heeled to breezes across Lake Pontchartrain , negotiated the currents in the pass at the Rigolets and into Lake Borgne , laid down the lee rail in gusts across the Mississippi Sound , ghosted past Dauphin Island and Fort Gaines to starboard and made his cut northward into Mobile Bay with Fort Morgan off his stern quarter , when he had pointed the bow of the Mary Foster east into the narrow mouth of Weeks Bay , then slid the schooner between Fish River 's twisty and wooded banks , bending around curve after curve those short four miles upstream to Farragut 's Basin , when he had anchored there with the rest of the schooner fleet , then the good captain was ready for a bottle of Scotch whiskey . I also knew , because I overheard the accusations from Mother and heard no attendant denial from my father , that the captain sometimes carried on with Creole whores at Lanaux 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several days instead of coming home when the Mary Foster returned to port . And when he 'd had a sailor 's fill of this merriment , the captain would drive through the farmlands rattling along Baldwin County back roads to our home south of Fairhope near Battles Wharf . Captain Dominus MacNee 's homecomings were usually at the breakfast hour ; they were usually noisy and threatening . In the last two years , that long since the captain seemed to have stepped into an abyss and dragged himself out another man entirely , I had grown to sometimes hate for my father to come home , and sometimes secretly wished he would drown at sea . I believed there was at least some chance it might happen . And nights in my dream-rumpled bed , when that bad thing had there in the dark come to pass , I would awaken in tears already missing him . Because my father might be coming home this morning , and because a profaning drunk at the breakfast table would be enough for Mother to manage without wondering after my whereabouts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain from being first ahead of the captain in Mother 's kitchen , I thought I might better get on home . I should coil my cast net down into the galvanized bucket beside my bare feet on the dock , take up its bail , and begin walking down the bluff overlooking the bay toward home . It was enough of a hardship on my mother that my grandmother was sickly , and enough for her to get my reluctant brother Julian moving in the morning . I should start now walking that way , and then there crossed the plain of my mind a shadow , something wheeling high up and indistinguishable , but bearing some likeness to pain . So I stood stock-still and looked out across the water 's surface , settling my mind into something real , and letting my imaginings slip away .                     