@@26942

Cordelia Packer was the most uncomfortable she 'd ever been . More uncomfortable than when she 'd contracted the chicken pox from Alexis Dunbar , her best friend , in kindergarten . More uncomfortable than when she 'd puked up her hot dog lunch onto Alexis 's shoes during the semifinal round of the fifth-grade spelling bee after being asked to spell " forsythia . " Actually , now that Cordelia thought about it , she was experiencing the most uncomfortable moment of her life , and Alexis was nowhere to be found . Weird . She wished she could call Alexis now . But even weirder was the fact that she was out here camping . Cordelia never slept on anything except a queen-size bed fitted with two layers of **25;428;TOOLONG sheets and a goose down comforter . Now she was lying on the floor of a tent that smelled like wet canvas , trying to reach the stone that had been digging into her back all night . This stone had single-handedly ruined the restful sleep that she had planned , and it was currently threatening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind as the most incredible moment of all time , instead of the most uncomfortable . That certain something was the full-on , hip-grinding make-out session she was having with her exceptionallywonderful and gorgeous boyfriend , Paul . Not only was Paul seriously sexy , he also had a way of convincing Cordelia to put aside her slightly rigid quality-of-life requirements . This time , he had won her over with the fact that Torrey Pines State Reserve was located near the beach . Cordelia had n't heard the word near  --  only the word beach . Cordelia always considered the beach to be her second home  --  she just loved listening to the roaring sound of the ocean waves . But instead of relaxing in the sand , she was nestled in a tepee-like contraption and surrounded by a forest of pine trees . Not exactly what she 'd had in mind . But she tried to refocus her thoughts on the good stuff , like how Paul was now kissing the length of her neck . God , Paul was a good kisser  --  " good " as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important things , like what time it was , her first name , and what planet she was on . " Is this okay ? " Paul asked softly as he pulled her closer . " Mmm , yes , that feels great , " she murmured . Just then Cordelia managed to wiggle so the stone shifted out from underneath her without Paul noticing a thing . What a relief . She could finally enjoy the Paul Morgan lip-lock experience . Yeah , not a chance . Cordelia could never turn her brain off , even if someone paid her a million dollars to throw the switch . While she was thinking about how Paul 's breath was so sweet and his lips were so soft , she was simultaneously obsessing that her own breath might smell like feet , the really sweaty kind . She had n't been able to brush her teeth since last night . She also reminded herself that she usually slept with her mouth open , so who knew what might have flown in there ! Paul stopped nuzzling her neck for a minute to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day go by without mentioning how remarkably blue hers were , but she did n't expect him to say anything nice about the icky white stuff that was surely stuck in the corners of them now . He ran his hands through her long honey-blond hair , which Cordelia assumed felt greasy and disgusting  --  she had n't had a chance to wash out the styling product build-up . Why , oh why did n't I wake up at the crack of dawn to take a shower ? Cordelia thought . Then she remembered the questionable conditions of public campground restrooms and the answer became crystal clear . She tried to distract herself by slipping a hand under Paul 's T-shirt and tracing the shape of a heart on his back with her fingertip . For a non-jock , he had the most amazingly buff swimmer-type body . Ripped abs , arms that were toned ( not jacked ) , broad shoulders . Cordelia had to restrain herself from climbing all over him as if he were a rock wall . Speaking of which , Paul was slightly over six feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even lying down next to him , she felt dwarfed , but that was fine with her . It almost made her feel protected . Protection seemed to be on Paul 's mind , too . As they were pressed up against each other tightly , he stretched out over Cordelia and made a move for his wallet . She knew what was in there . They had talked about this before . He 'd only been with one person , which is very respectable for a seventeen-year-old guy . And noble too . As for Cordelia , she had just turned sixteen a couple of weeks ago and had racked up a big whopping zero conquests overall . She was cool with it , though . She was just waiting for the right person , and the right time and place . Paul leaned back over her and delicately kissed her forehead . " You take my breath away , you know that ? " he whispered . All right , it seems like I have the right guy , chirped the voice inside Cordelia 's head . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months and he was super-hot and incredibly nice . But was this the right time and place ? Highly doubtful . If it happened here and now , it would be an impromptu , spontaneous event , and those never happened to Cordelia Packer , the most structured , organized , type-A teenage girl in San Diego . In fact , Cordelia was the reason the Container Store existed and why Excel spreadsheets had been invented . Even if Cordelia had planned on Paul going into his wallet to dig out something that had a wrapper ( but was n't a piece of gum ) , she had n't planned on being this nervous and sick to her stomach . She did n't feel right . A vision of Alexis Dunbar and the word F-O-R-S-Y-T-H-I-A flashed before her eyes . This was definitely not good . She had to do something quick , or else Paul would be covered in last night 's veggie burgers . Continues ...                     