@@32769

Chapter One Admiral of the Red Lady Dame Honor Harrington , Steadholder and Duchess Harrington , sat beside Vice Admiral of the Red Dame Beatrice McDermott , Baroness Alb , and watched silently as the comfortable amphitheater seating of the huge holographic simulator filled up . It was an orderly audience . It was also quite a bit smaller than it would have been a few years earlier . There were fewer non-Manticoran uniforms out there , as well , and the vast majority of the foreign ones which remained were the blue-on-blue of the Grayson Space Navy . Several of the Star Kingdom 's smaller allies had cut back sharply on the midshipmen they sent to Saganami Island , and there were no Erewhonese uniforms at all . Dame Honor managed-somehow-to maintain her serene expression as she remembered the tight-faced midshipmen who had withdrawn from their classes in a body when their government denounced its long-standing alliance with the Star Kingdom of Manticore . She did n't blame the young men and women , many of whom had been her students during her own time on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could she really blame their government . Part of her wished she could , but Dame Honor believed in being honest with herself , and it had not been Erewhon which betrayed the Star Kingdom 's trust . It had been Manticore 's own government . She watched the final midshipman take his place with a - military precision fit to satisfy even a Saganami Marine . Then Dame Beatrice rose from the chair beside hers and walked with brisk yet measured strides to the traditional podium . " Atttten-SHUN ! " Command Sergeant Major Sullivan 's harsh voice filled even the vastness of the simulator with a projection the finest opera singer would have been hard-pressed to match , and a perfectly synchronized , thunderous " Bang ! " answered as eleven thousand brilliantly polished boots slammed together in instant response . Fifty-five hundred midshipmen and midshipwomen came to attention , eyes front , shoulders square , spines ramrod straight , thumbs on trouser seams , and she looked back at them unblinkingly . They were graduating early . Not as early as some of their predecessors had before Eighth Fleet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier than their immediate predecessors had , now that Eighth Fleet 's triumph had been thrown away like so much garbage . And they were headed not to the deployments of peacetime midshipman cruises , but directly into the cauldron of a new war . A losing war , Dame Beatrice thought harshly , wondering how many of those youthful faces would die in the next few desperate months . How many of the minds behind those faces truly understood the monumental betrayal which was about to send them straight into the furnace ? She gazed at them , a master swordsmith contemplating the burnished brightness of her new-forged blades , searching for hidden flaws under the glittering sharpness . Wondering if their whetted steel was equal to the hurricane of combat which awaited them even as she prepared their final tempering . " Stand easy , Ladies and Gentlemen . " The Academy Commandant 's voice was even , a melodious contralto that flowed into the waiting silence , filling the stillness with its own quiet strength . A vast , sibilant scuffing of boots answered her as the thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gazed at them for several more seconds , meeting their eyes levelly . " You are here , " she told them , " for one final meeting before you begin your midshipman cruises . This represents a custom , a final sharing of what naval service truly is , and what it can cost , which has been a part of Saganami Island for over two centuries . By tradition , the Commandant of the Academy addresses her students at this time , but there have been exceptions . Admiral Ellen D'Orville was one such exception . And so was Admiral Quentin Saint-James . " This year is another such exception , for we are honored and privileged to have Admiral Lady Dame Honor Harrington present . She will be on Manticore for only three days before returning to Eighth Fleet to complete its reactivation and take up her command once more . Many of you have had the privilege of studying under her as underclassmen . All of you could not do better than to hold her example before you as you take up your own careers . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tradition which brings us all together this day , it is she . " The silence was utter , and Honor felt her cheekbones heat as she rose from her chair in turn . The cream and gray treecat on her shoulder sat stock still , proud and tall , and the two of them tasted the emotions sweeping through the assembled midshipmen . Emotions which were focused on her , true , but only partially . For today , she truly was only a part , a spokeswoman , for something greater than any one woman , whatever her accomplishments . The silent midshipmen might not fully understand that , yet they sensed it , and their silent , hovering anticipation was like a slumbering volcano under a cool , white mantle of snow . Dame Beatrice turned to face her and came to attention . She saluted sharply , and Honor 's hand flashed up in answer , as sharp and precise as the day of her own Last View . Then their hands came down and they stood facing one another . " Your Grace , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drew a deep breath , then walked crisply to the lectern Dame Beatrice had yielded to her . She took her place behind it , standing tall and straight with Nimitz statue-still upon her shoulder , and gazed out over that shining sea of youthful eyes . She remembered Last View . Remembered being one of the midshipwomen behind those eyes . Remembered Nimitz on her shoulder that day , too , looking up at Commandant Hartley , feeling the mystic fusion between her and him , with all the other middies , with every officer who had worn the Star Kingdom 's black and gold before her . And now it was her turn to stand before a new arsenal of bright , burnished blades , to see their youth and promise ... and mortality . And to truly sense , because this time she could physically taste it , the hushed yet humming expectancy and union which possessed them all . " In a few days , " she said finally into their silence , " you will be reporting for your first true shipboard deployments . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that experience . You are our best and brightest , the newest link in a chain of responsibility , duty , and sacrifice which has been forged and hammered on the anvil of five centuries of service . It is a heavy burden to assume , one which can-and will-end for some of you in death . " She paused , listening to the silence , feeling its weight . " Your instructors have done their best , here at the Island , to prepare you for that burden , that reality . Yet the truth is , Ladies and Gentlemen , that no one can truly prepare you for it . We can teach you , train you , share our institutional experience with you , but no one can be with you in the furnace . The chain of command , your superiors , the men and women under your orders ... all of them will be there . And yet , in that moment when you truly confront duty and mortality , you will be alone . And that , Ladies and Gentlemen , is a moment no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " In that moment , you will have only four things to support you . Your training , which we have made as complete , as demanding , and as rigorous as we possibly could . Your courage , which can come only from within . Your loyalty to the men and women with whom you serve . And the tradition of Saganami . Some of you , most of you , will rise to the challenge of that moment . Some will try with all that is within you , and discover that all the training and courage in the universe do not make you immortal . And some , hopefully only a very few , will break . " The sound of a single indrawn breath would have been deafening as every eye looked back at her . " The task to which you have been called , the burden you have volunteered to bear for your Queen and your Kingdom , for your Protector and your Planet , for whatever people you serve , is the most terrifying , dangerous , and honorable one in the universe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to place yourselves and your lives between the people and star nations you love and their enemies . To fight to defend them ; to die to protect them . It is a burden others have taken up before you , and if no one can truly teach you the reality of all it means and costs until you have experienced it for yourself , there remains still much you can learn from those who have gone before . And that , Ladies and Gentlemen , is the reason you are here today , where every senior class of midshipmen has stood on the eve of its midshipman cruise for the last two hundred and forty-three T-years . " She pressed a button on the podium before her , and the lights dimmed . For an instant , there was nothing but dense , velvet darkness , broken only by the pinprick glitter of the LEDs on her podium 's control panel , burning in the blackness like lost and lonely stars . Then , suddenly , there was another light . One that glowed in the depths of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There was nothing extraordinary about his appearance . He was of somewhat less than average height , with a dark complexion , a strong nose , and dark brown , slightly receding hair , and his dark eyes had a pronounced epicanthic fold . He wore an antique uniform , two T-centuries and more out of date , and the visored cap which the Royal Manticoran Navy had replaced with berets a hundred and seventy T-years before was clasped under his left arm . " Your Majesty , " he said , and like his uniform , his recorded accent was antique , crisp and understandable , but still an echo from another time . A ghost , preserved in an electronic shroud . And yet , despite all the dusty years which had swept past since that man breathed and slept and dreamed , there was something about him . Some not quite definable spark that burned even now . " I beg to report , " he continued , " that the forces under my command have engaged the enemy . Although I deeply regret that I must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Defiant in action against the piratical vessels based at Trautman 's Star , I must also inform you that we were victorious . We have confirmed the destruction of thirteen hostile cruisers , light cruisers , and destroyers , and all basing infrastructure in the system . In addition , we have captured one destroyer , one light and two heavy cruisers , and two battlecruisers . Several of these units appear to have been of recent Solarian construction , with substantially heavier armaments than most ' pirates ' carry . Our own casualties and damage were severe , and I have been forced to detach HMS Victorious , Swiftsure , Mars , and Agamemnon for repairs . I have transferred sufficient of their personnel to the other units of my command to fully crew each of my remaining vessels , and I have instructed Captain Timmerman , Swiftsure 's commander , as the detachment 's senior officer , to return to the Star Kingdom , escorting our prize ships . " In light of our casualties , and the reduction in my squadron 's strength , it will be necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have identified . I regret to inform you that we have captured additional corroborating evidence , including the quality of the enemy 's warships , of the involvement of both Manpower , Incorporated , and individuals at the highest level of the Silesian government with the so-called ' pirates ' operating here in the Confederacy . Under the circumstances , I do not believe we can rely upon the Confederacy Navy to protect our commerce . Indeed , the collusion of senior members of the government with those attacking our commerce undoubtedly explains the ineffectiveness of Confederacy naval units assigned as convoy escorts . " Given this new evidence , and my own depleted numbers , I see no option but to disperse my striking force to provide escorts in the areas of greatest risk . I regret the factors which compel me to temporarily abandon offensive action , but I fully intend to resume larger scale operations once I receive the reinforcements currently en route to Silesia . " I have prepared a detailed report for the Admiralty , and I append a copy of it to this dispatch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your most loyal and obedient subject . " Saganami , clear . " He bowed , ever so slightly but with immense dignity , and his recorded image faded away . There was another moment of darkness , one that left the watching audience alone with the memory of his message . His final message to Queen Adrienne , the monarch who had sent his squadron to Silesia . And then , the holo display came back to life . This time there were two images , both command decks . One was the command deck of a freighter ; the other , the bridge of a warship . The freighter 's command crew sat at their stations , their shoulders taut , their faces stiff , even terrified . The merchantship 's skipper looked just as anxious as any of his officers , but he stood beside his command chair , not seated in it , looking into the communications screen which linked him to the second ship . The warship 's bridge was quaint and cramped by modern standards , that of a " battlecruiser " smaller than many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were hopelessly out of date . The same almond-eyed officer stood on the command deck , his old-style vac suit far clumsier and bulkier than a modern skinsuit . Battle boards blazed crimson at his ship 's Tactical station , and the flow and rush of his bridge personnel 's disciplined combat chatter rippled under the surface of his voice when he spoke . " My orders are n't open to discussion , Captain Hargood , " he said flatly . " The convoy will disperse immediately and proceed across the hyper limit on least-time courses . Now , Captain . " " I 'm not refusing your orders , damn it ! " Captain Hargood shot back , his voice harsh . " I 'm only trying to keep you from throwing away your own ship and the lives of every man and woman aboard her ! " " The effort is appreciated , " Commodore Saganami said with a thin smile . " I 'm afraid it 's wasted , however . Now get your ship turned around and get out of here . " " God damn it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are six of the bastards , including two battlecruisers ! Just what the fuck do you think you 're going to accomplish ? Unlike us , you 've got the legs to stay away from them , so do it , damn it ! " " There wo n't be six when we 're done , " Saganami said grimly , " and every one we destroy , or just cripple badly enough , is one that wo n't be chasing you or another unit of the convoy . And now , I 'm done arguing with you , James . Continues ...                     