@@27128

Cat Fear No Evil Chapter One During the first week of October , when an icy wind blew off the Pacific , rattling the windows of Molena Point 's shops , and the shops , half buried beneath blowing oaks , were bright with expensive gifts and fall colors , residents were startled by three unusual burglaries . Townsfolk stopping in the bakery , enticed by saffronscented delicacies , sipped their coffee while talking of the thefts . Wrapped in coats and scarves , striding briskly on their errands , they had left their houses carefully locked behind them . Burglaries are not surprising during the pre- Christmas season when a few no-goods want to shop free of entailing expense . But these crimes did not involve luxury items from local boutiques . No handwrought cloisonn chokers or luxurious leather jackets , no sleek silver place settings or designer handbags . The value of the three items stolen was far greater . A **28;162;TOOLONG painting by Richard Diebenkorn disappeared from Marlin Dorriss 's oceanfront home without a trace of illegal entry . A diamond choker worth over a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handsome cottage in the center of the village . And the largest and hardest to conceal , a vintage Packard roadster in prime condition was removed from Clyde Damen 's automotive repair shop , again without any sign of forced entry . Police , searching for the 1927 Packard that was valued at some ninety thousand dollars , combed the village garages and storage units , assisted by Damen himself . They found no sign of the vehicle . Police departments across the five western states were alerted to the three burglaries . Now , three weeks after the events , there were still no encouraging reports , and police had found little of substance to give detectives a lead . And Molena Point was n't the only town hit . Similar thefts had occurred up and down the California coast . With most of Molena Point 's tourists gone home for the winter , and local residents settling in beside their hearths in anticipation of festive holidays , the disappearance of the valuables made people nervous  --  though certainly the victims themselves were above reproach . All three were law-abiding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Damen ran the upscale automotive repair shop attached to Beckwhite 's foreign car dealership . He took care of all the villagers ' BMWs and Jaguars and antique cars as if they were his own children . The owner of the Diebenkorn painting , Marlin Dorriss , was an urbane and wealthy semi-retired attorney , active on the boards of several charities and local fundraisers . Betty Slater and her husband , Kip , who reported the diamond choker missing , ran the local luggage-and-leather shop and were long-time residents who traveled to Europe once a year and gave heavily to local charities . Both residences and the Damen garage had alarm systems . All three systems had been activated at the time of the thefts , but no alarm had been set off . Considering this , the citizens of Molena Point thought to change the locks on their doors and to count the stocks and savings certificates in their safe deposit boxes in the local banks . When there was a lull in the thefts for a few days , people grew more nervous still , waiting for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But maybe the sophisticated thief had moved on , tending to the similar thefts along the California coast . All California police departments were on the alert . The newspapers had a field day . However , Molena Point police captain Max Harper and chief of detectives Dallas Garza offered little information to the press . They pursued the investigation in silence . The MO of the thief was indeed strange . In each instance , he left all valuables untouched except the single one he selected . In the case of the diamond choker , he had ignored pearl-and-ruby earrings , a sapphire bracelet , and five other pieces of jewelry that together totaled several million dollars . In the theft of the painting , only the Richard Diebenkorn landscape had disappeared  --  it was Dorriss 's favorite from among the seven Diebenkorns he owned . And Clyde Damen 's Packard was only one of twelve antique cars in the locked garage , several of them worth more than the Packard . Clyde had purchased the Packard in rusted and deteriorating condition from a farmer in the hills north @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grandfather . It was now a beautiful car , in finer shape than when it had come from the factory . Just before it disappeared , Clyde had placed several ads in collectors ' magazines preparing to sell this particular treasure . At the time of the theft , the gates to his automotive complex had been locked . The lock and hinges did not appear tampered with , nor had the lock on the door that led to the main shop  --  Clyde 's private shop  --  in any way been disturbed . The deep-green Packard with its rosewood dashboard and soft , tan leather upholstery and brass fittings was simply gone . When Clyde opened the shop very early , planning to spend the morning on his own work , the space where the Packard had stood beside a half-finished Bentley was empty . Shockingly and irrefutably empty . A plain , bare patch of concrete . Before calling the cops Clyde did the sensible thing . He locked the shop again and went out into the village to find his housemate , a large gray tomcat . Finding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the local deli , Clyde had swung out of the car and rudely snatched him up . " Come on , I have a job for you ! " " What 's with you ! " Joe hissed . " What the hell ! " He had been headed to Jolly 's Deli for a little late snack after an all-night mouse hunt . He was full of mice , but a small canap or two , a bit of Brie , would hit the spot  --  then home for a nap in his private , clawed-andfur- covered armchair . " I need you bad , " Clyde had said . " Need you now . "                     