@@27271

Certain people have said that the world is like a calm pond , and that anytime a person does even the smallest thing , it is as if a stone has dropped into the pond , spreading circles of ripples further and further out , until the entire world has been changed by one tiny action . If this is true , then the book you are reading now is the perfect thing to drop into a pond . The ripples will spread across the surface of the pond and the world will change for the better , with one less dreadful story for people to read and one more secret hidden at the bottom of a pond , where most people never think of looking . The miserable tale of the Baudelaire orphans will be safe in the pond 's murky depths , and you will be happier not to read the grim story I have written , but instead to gaze at the rippling scum that rises to the top of the world . The Baudelaires themselves , as they rode in the back of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been happy to jump into a pond themselves , had they known what sort of story lay ahead of them as the automobile made its way among the twisting streets of the city where the orphans had once lived . Violet , Klaus , and Sunny Baudelaire gazed out of the windows of the car , marveling at how little the city had changed since a fire destroyed their home , took the lives of their parents , and created ripples in the Baudelaires ' lives that would probably never become calm . As the taxi turned a corner , Violet saw the market where she and her siblings had shopped for ingredients to make dinner for Count Olaf , the notorious villain who had become their guardian after the fire . Even after all this time , with Olaf trying scheme after scheme to get his hands on the enormous fortune the Baudelaire parents had left behind , the market looked the same as the day Justice Strauss , a kindly neighbor and a judge in the High Court , had first taken them there . Towering over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as 667 Dark Avenue , where the Baudelaires had spent some time under the care of Jerome and Esme Squalor in an enormous penthouse apartment . It seemed to the middle Baudelaire that the building had not changed one bit since the siblings had first discovered Esme 's treacherous and romantic attachment to Count Olaf . And Sunny Baudelaire , who was still small enough that her view out the window was somewhat restricted , heard the rattle of a manhole cover as the taxi drove over it , and remembered the underground passageway she and her siblings had discovered , which led from the basement of 667 Dark Avenue to the ashen remains of their own home . Like the market and the penthouse , the mystery of this passageway had not changed , even though the Baudelaires had discovered a secret organization known as V.F.D. that the children believed had constructed many such passageways . Each mystery the Baudelaires discovered only revealed another mystery , and another , and another , and several more , and another , as if the three siblings were diving deeper and deeper into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calm on the surface , unaware of all the unfortunate events in the orphans ' lives . Even now , returning to the city that was once their home , the Baudelaire orphans had solved few of the mysteries overshadowing them . They did n't know where they were headed , for instance , and they scarcely knew anything about the woman driving the automobile except her name . " You must have thousands of questions , Baudelaires , " said Kit Snicket , spinning the steering wheel with her white-gloved hands . Violet , who had adroit technical faculties  --  a phrase which here means " a knack for inventing mechanical devices "  --  admired the automobile 's purring machinery as the taxi made a sharp turn through a large metal gate and proceeded down a curvy , narrow street lined with shrubbery . " I wish we had more time to talk , but it 's already Tuesday . As it is you scarcely have time to eat your important brunch before getting into your concierge disguises and beginning your observations as flaneurs . " " Concierge ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Brunch ? " Sunny asked . Kit smiled , and maneuvered the taxi through another sharp turn . Two books of poetry skittered off the passenger seat to the floor of the automobile  --  The Walrus and the Carpenter , and Other Poems by Lewis Carroll , and The Waste Land by T. S. Eliot . The Baudelaires had recently received a message in code , and had used the poetry of Mr. Carroll and Mr. Eliot in order to decode the message and meet Kit Snicket on Briny Beach , and now it seemed that perhaps Kit was still talking in riddles . " A great man once said that right , temporarily defeated , is stronger than evil triumphant . Do you understand what that means ? " Violet and Sunny turned to their brother , who was the literary expert in the family . Klaus Baudelaire had read so many books he was practically a walking library , and had recently taken to writing important and interesting facts in a dark blue commonplace book . " I think so , " the middle Baudelaire said . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people , even if evil people appear to be winning . Is he a member of V.F.D. ? " " You might say that , " Kit said . " Certainly his message applies to our current situation . As you know , our organization split apart some time ago , with much bitterness on both sides . " " The schism , " Violet said . " Yes , " Kit agreed with a sigh . " The schism . V.F.D. was once a united group of volunteers , trying to extinguish fires  --  both literally and figuratively . But now there are two groups of bitter enemies . Some of us continue to extinguish fires , but others have turned to much less noble schemes ... Continues ...                     