@@32908

Clay Benedict was out cold , his large framesprawled in boneless grace on the worn linoleum ofthe old camp 's kitchen . Janna Kerr stared down athim with her hand pressed to her mouth while onepart of her brain exalted in her success and the otherstood appalled by it . She had him , had Clay Benedict , the one man in the whole world that was of any useto her . The thing was done . She had turned a possibledisaster into certain triumph . It seemed too easy . So few things in her life hadbeen easy in recent years that it made her extremelynervous . He appeared dead , but that was n't possible . Surelyit was n't ? She 'd had no time for careful measurements , however , little time for anything except findinga way to prevent him from leaving . The sedativehad taken forever to kick in , so long that she 'd begun to think feverishly of more desperate measures . Therehad been no need , after all . One moment he 'd beensitting at the cheap wooden table , toying with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fromhis chair . His head had hit the floor as he fell . Janna hadn'tcounted on that . Moving with slow care , she knelt athis side and put out her hand as if to touch him . Thenshe drew it back again , closing her fist so tightly thather short , neat nails dug into her palm . What if he was playacting ? What if his eyessnapped open and he grabbed her ? She was strongfrom years of lifting and caring for her daughter Lainey , also from wringing out yards of water-soakeddye cloth and searching the woods and fields for dyeplant specimens . Still , she did n't much care for herchancesin a wrestling match with the man on thefloor . He was a superior specimen of the male animal ifshe 'd ever seen one , with whipcord muscles and thedeeply tanned skin of an outdoorsman . His chest , underthe blue T-shirt that matched his faded jeans , wasbroad and deep before it tapered into a flat waist andlean hips . Power marked his chiseled features and thefirm line of his lips , though the impression was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fanned from the corners of his eyes . Even in astupor , he appeared self-contained , invincible in hisassurance of exactly who and what he was inside . He was a Benedict . A Benedict of Turn-Coupe , Louisiana , with all the assurance verging on arrogancethat went with the name . Annoyance at the idea steeled Janna 's nerves , andshe reached out again to feel for the pulse in the sideof his neck . The warmth of his skin was startlingagainst her chilled fingers , and she could sense thefaint prickle of his dark beard underneath it . It hadbeen a long time since she 'd actually touched a man.The act felt so intimate that it was a second beforeshe could concentrate on the vigorous and steady beatof his jugular . She counted it for a moment , then letout a sigh and sat back on her heels . She had Clay Benedict , all right . But what in thename of heaven was she going to do with him nowthat she had him ? She would n't need to hold him long , a week , twoat the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contacts , raised the money , moved Lainey andherself into this fishing camp in the back of the beyond.Getting hold of Clay Benedict had been a last , totally unexpected boon , the spun sugar icing on thecake . It was possible that it would make the wholething perfect . Absolutely everything was in place now . Soon itwould be over , all over . She 'd had to improvise when Clay had arrived sounexpectedly at the camp an hour ago . Denise hadasked him to check on Janna and her daughter , he'dsaid . It made sense when she remembered how close-knitthe Benedict clan was , how they looked aftereach other and everything else in what they consideredtheir ordained corner of the world , the Benedictcommunity on Horseshoe Lake and its swamp . Thenhad come the bad moment when he 'd shown toomuch interest in the photos of Lainey scattered overthe table where Janna had been putting them into analbum . She could n't allow that , so had been forcedto act on her half-formed impulse . Now it was beginning to seem that it was meant to be . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his chest wasdeep , his breathing soundless . His cleanly molded lipswere parted a fraction , his hands , with their scatteringof nicks and pale scars , were open and the fingerslax . It gave her an odd feeling around her heart to seehim so defenseless . She could still back out ; it was n't too late . Someexcuse could be found for why Clay had passed outin her kitchen . She could let him sleep off the sedativethen send him on his way . Dr. Gower might notbe too happy with this substitution in the plan , afterall . With so much lead-time , Clay Benedict mightalso figure out what was going on . Suppose he gotaway and moved to stop her ? Buying and selling ahuman organ was illegal , after all , and the penalty forit was n't light . If she actually stole one , they 'd probablyput her under the jailhouse instead of inside it . That Clay would turn the key himself if he wereable , Janna did n't doubt . She knew all about the strictethics of the Benedictsshe 'd heard enough aboutthem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of law and order and strict moral conduct . TheBenedicts , male and female , would never allow someone to be deliberately injured for their benefit , noteven if it meant losing the person they loved most inthe world . Janna was n't made that way , at least not when herdaughter 's life was at stake . She had Clay Benedictand she was going to keep him as long as he wasuseful to her . A low groan came from the man beside her knee.He might not be quite so far gone as she 'd thought.She had to make a move , and fast , if she meant tohold him . The fishing camp had only three rooms , an L-shapedliving room , dining room and kitchen combination , and two bedrooms . Space for a bathroomhad been carved out of one of these , so that the other , the one facing the lake , was larger . Janna and Laineyslept in the big bedroom , since sharing a bed made iteasier for Janna to get up at night with her daughterand to check on the medical equipment . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iron bedstead into a corner . Her workroomwould be the best place , Janna thought . Anyway , it was closer . Dragging Clay Benedict that shortdistance should be possible if she used her leg muscles.The problem would be getting him onto the bed.She was n't exactly petite , but heaving his hard-muscledmass around was beyond her . His airboat also had to be considered . It was sitting in plain sight at the camp 's boat dock , next to the oldaluminum skiff that had come with the camp , Itwould be a dead giveaway if anyone came looking for its owner . What on earth was she going to do withit ? ( Continues ... )                     