@@27149

Ai n't She Sweet ? " I am afraid , " confessed Pen , " that I am not very well-behaved . Aunt says that I had a lamentable upbringing . " Georgette Heyer , The Corinthian Chapter One The wild child of Parrish , Mississippi , had come back to the town she 'd left behind forever . Sugar Beth Carey gazed from the rain-slicked windshield to the horrible dog who lay beside her on the passenger seat . " I know what you 're thinking , Gordon , so go ahead and say it . How the mighty have fallen , right ? " She gave a bitter laugh . " Well , screw you . Just ... " She blinked her eyes against a sting of tears . " Just ... screw you . " Gordon lifted his head and sneered at her . He thought she was trash . " Not me , pal . " She turned up the heater on her ancient Volvo against the chill of the late February day . " Griffin and Diddie Carey ruled this town , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set the world on fire . " She heard an imaginary howl of basset hound laughter . Like the row of tin-roofed houses she 'd just passed , Sugar Beth had grown a little shabby at the edges . The long blond hair that swirled to her shoulders did n't gleam as brightly as it once had , and the tiny gold hearts at her earlobes no longer skipped in a carefree dance . Her pouty lips had lost the urge to curl in flirtatious smiles , and her baby doll cheeks had given up their innocence three husbands ago . Thick lashes still framed a pair of amazing clear blue eyes , but a delicate tracing of lines had begun to make tiny fishtails at the corners . Fifteen years earlier , she 'd been the best-dressed girl in Parrish , but now one of her calf-high stiletto-heeled boots had a small hole in the sole , and her scarlet body-hugging knit dress with its demure turtleneck and not-so-demure hemline had come from a discount store instead of a pricey boutique . Parrish had begun its life in the 1820s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ torches of the occupying Union army , thanks to the wiles of its female population , who 'd showered the boys in blue with such unrelenting charm and indefatigable Southern hospitality that none of them had the heart to strike the first match . Sugar Beth was a direct descendant of those women , but on days like this , she had a tough time remembering it . She adjusted the windshield wipers as she approached Shorty Smith Road and gazed toward the two-story building , empty on this Sunday afternoon , that still sat at the end . Thanks to her father 's economic blackmail , Parrish High School stood as one of the Deep South 's few successful experiments with integrated public education . Once she 'd ruled those hallways . She alone had decided who sat at the best table in the cafeteria , which boys were acceptable to date , and whether an imitation Gucci purse was okay if your daddy was n't Griffin Carey , and you could n't afford the real thing . Blond and divine , she 'd reigned supreme . She had n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seldom been challenged , not even by the teachers . One of them had tried , but Sugar Beth had made short work of that . As for Winnie Davis ... What chance did a clumsy , insecure geek have against the power and might of Sugar Beth Carey ? As she gazed through the February drizzle at the high school , the old music began to drum in her head : INXS , Miami Sound Machine , Prince . In those days , when Elton John sang " Candle in the Wind , " he 'd only been singing of Marilyn . High school . The last time she 'd owned the world . Gordon farted . " God , I hate you , you miserable dog . " Gordon 's scornful expression told her he did n't give a damn . These days , neither did she . She checked the gas gauge . She was running on fumes , but she did n't want to waste money filling the tank until she had to . Looking on the bright side , who needed gas when she 'd reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and saw the empty lot marking the place where Ryan 's house had once stood . Ryan Galantine had been Ken to her Barbie . The most popular boy ; the most popular girl . Luv U 4-Ever . She 'd broken his heart their freshman year at Ole Miss when she 'd screwed around on him with Darren Tharp , the star athlete who 'd become her first husband . Sugar Beth remembered the way Winnie Davis used to look at Ryan when she did n't think anyone was watching . As if a clumsy outcast had a chance with a dazzler like Ryan Galantine . Sugar Beth 's group of friends , the Seawillows , had wet their pants laughing at her behind her back . The memory depressed her even further . As she drove toward the center of town , she saw that Parrish had capitalized on its newfound fame as the setting and leading character of the nonfiction best-seller Last Whistle-stop on the Nowhere Line . The new Visitors Bureau had attracted a steady stream of tourists , and she could see the town had spruced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church no longer buckled , and the ugly streetlights she 'd grown up with had been replaced with charming turn-of-the-century lampposts . Along Tyler Street , the historic Antebellum , Victorian , and Greek Revival homes sported fresh coats of paint , and a jaunty copper weathervane graced the cupola of Miss Eulie Baker 's Italianate monstrosity . Sugar Beth and Ryan had made out in the alley behind that house the night before they 'd gone all the way . She turned onto Broadway , the town 's four-block main street . The courthouse clock was no longer frozen at ten past ten , and the fountain in the park had shed its grime . The bank , along with a half dozen other businesses , sported maroon and green striped awnings , and the Confederate flag was nowhere in sight ...                     