@@28926

May 1824 Somewhere on the road from London to Gloucestershire The middle of the night Dear Miss Bridgerton - Thank you for your kind note at the loss of my wife . It was thoughtful of you to take the time to write to a gentleman you have never met . I offer you this pressed flower as thanks . It is naught but the simple red campion ( Silene dioica ) , but it brightens the fields here in Gloucestershire , and indeed seems to have arrived early this year . It was Marina 's favorite wildflower . Sincerely , Sir Phillip Crane Eloise Bridgerton smoothed the well-read sheet of paper across her lap . There was little light by which to see the words , even with the full moon shining through the windows of the coach , but that did n't really matter . She had the entire letter memorized , and the delicate pressed flower , which was actually more pink than red , was safely protected between the pages of a book she 'd nipped from her brother 's library . She had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reply from Sir Phillip . Good manners dictated as much , although even Eloise 's mother , surely the supreme arbiter of good behavior , said that Eloise took her correspondence a bit too seriously . It was common , of course , for ladies of Eloise 's station to spend several hours each weekwriting letters , but Eloise had long since fallen into the habit of taking that amount of time each day . She enjoyed writing notes , especially to people she had n't seen in years ( she 'd always liked to imagine their surprise when they opened her envelope ) , and so she pulled out her pen and paper for most any occasion - births , deaths , any sort of achievement that deserved congratulations or condolences . She was n't sure why she kept sending her missives , just that she spent so much time writing letters to whichever of her siblings were not in residence in London at the time , and it seemed easy enough to pen a short note to some far-off relative while she was seated at her escritoire . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a Bridgerton , of course , and no one wanted to offend a Bridgerton - never had anyone enclosed a gift , even something so humble as a pressed flower . Eloise closed her eyes , picturing the delicate pink petals . It was hard to imagine a man handling such a fragile bloom . Her four brothers were all big , strong men , with broad shoulders and large hands that would surely mangle the poor thing in a heartbeat . She had been intrigued by Sir Phillip 's reply , especially his use of the Latin , and she had immediately penned her own response . Dear Sir Phillip - Thank you so very much for the charming pressed flower . It was such a lovely surprise when it floated out of the envelope . And such a precious memento of dear Marina , as well . I could not help but notice your facility with the flower 's scientific name . Are you a botanist ? Yours , Miss Eloise Bridgerton It was sneaky of her to end her letter with a question . Now the poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not disappoint her . It had taken only ten days for Eloise to receive his reply . Dear Miss Bridgerton - Indeed I am a botanist , trained at Cambridge , although I am not currently connected with any university or scientific board . I conduct experiments here at Romney Hall , in my own greenhouse . Are you of a scientific bent as well ? Yours , Sir Phillip Crane Something about the correspondence was thrilling ; perhaps it was simply the excitement of finding someone not related to her who actually seemed eager to conduct a written dialogue . Whatever it was , Eloise wrote back immediately . Dear Sir Phillip - Heavens , no , I have not the scientific mind , I 'm afraid , although I do have a fair head for sums . My interests lie more in the humanities ; you may have noticed that I enjoy penning letters . Yours in friendship , Eloise Bridgerton Eloise had n't been certain about signing with such an informal salutation , but she decided to err on the side of daring . Sir Phillip was obviously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would n't have finished his missive with a question , otherwise ? Her answer came a fortnight later . My dear Miss Bridgerton - Ah , but it is a sort of friendship , is n't it ? I confess to a certain measure of isolation here in the country , and if one can not have a smiling face across one 's breakfast table , then one might at least have an amiable letter , do n't you agree ? I have enclosed another flower for you . This one is Geranium pratense , more commonly known as the meadow cranesbill . With great regard , Phillip Crane Eloise remembered that day well . She had sat in her chair , the one by the window in her bedchamber , and stared at the carefully pressed purple flower for what seemed like an eternity . Was he attempting to court her ? Through the post ? And then one day she received a note that was quite different from the rest . My dear Miss Bridgerton - We have been corresponding now for quite some time , and although we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know you . I hope you feel the same . Forgive me if I am too bold , but I am writing to invite you to visit me here at Romney Hall . It is my hope that after a suitable period of time , we might decide that we will suit , and you will consent to be my wife . You will , of course , be properly chaperoned . If you accept my invitation , I will make immediate plans to bring my widowed aunt to Romney Hall . I do hope you will consider my proposal . Yours , as always , Phillip Crane Eloise had immediately tucked the letter away in a drawer , unable to even fathom his request . He wanted to marry someone he did n't even know ? ( Continues ... )                     