@@33916

Italy looms . We make checklists  --  diapers , crib bedding , a book light . Baby formula . Two dozen Nutri-Grain bars . We have never eaten Nutri-Grain bars in our lives , but now , suddenly , it seems important to have some . I stare at our new Italian-to-English pocket dictionary and worry . Is " Here is my passport " in there ? Is " Where for God 's sake can I buy some baby wipes ? " We pretend to be calm . Neither of us is willing to consider that tomorrow we 'll pile onto an Airbus with six-month-old twins and climb to thirty-seven thousand feet and stay there for fourteen hours . Instead we zip and unzip our duffels , take the wheels off the stroller , and study small , grainy photos of St. Peter 's on ricksteves.com . Rain in Boise ; wind in Denver . The airplane hurtles through the troposphere at six hundred miles per hour . Owen sleeps in a mound of blankets between our feet . Henry sleeps in my arms . All the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , glasses tinkle , galley latches open and close . We are moving from Boise , Idaho , to Rome , Italy , a place I 've never been . When I think of Italy , I imagine decadence , dark brown oil paintings , emperors in sandals . I see a cross-section of a school-project Colosseum , fashioned from glue andsugar cubes ; I see a navy-blue-and-white soap dish , bought in Florence , chipped on one corner , that my mother kept beside her bathroom sink for thirty years . More clearly than anything else , I see a coloring book I once got for Christmas entitled Ancient Rome . Two babies slurped milk from the udders of a wolf . A Caesar grinned in his leafy crown . A slinky , big-pupiled maiden posed with a jug beside a fountain . Whatever Rome was to me then  --  seven years old , Christmas night , snowflakes dashing against the windows , a lighted spruce blinking on and off downstairs , crayons strewn across the carpet  --  it 's hardly clearer now : outlines of elephants and gladiators , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had chosen all the wrong colors , aquamarine for chariots , goldenrod for skies . On the television screen planted in the seat-back in front of me , our little airplane icon streaks past Marseilles , Nice . A bottle of baby formula , lying sideways in the seat pocket , soaks through the fabric and drips onto my carry-on , but I do n't reach down to straighten it for fear I will wake Henry . We have crossed from North America to Europe in the time it takes to show a Lindsay Lohan movie and two episodes of Everybody Loves Raymond . The outside temperature is minus sixty degrees Fahrenheit . A taxi drops us in front of a palace : stucco and travertine , a five-bay faade , a staircase framed by topiaries . The gatekeeper stubs his cigarette on a shoe sole and says , in English , " You 're the ones with the twins ? " He shakes our hands , gives us a set of keys . Our apartment is in a building next to the palace . The front gate is nine feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it looks as if wild dogs have been trying to break into the courtyard . A key unlocks it ; we find the entrance around the side . The boys stare up from their car seats with huge eyes . We load them into a cage elevator with wooden doors that swing inward . Two floors rattle past . I hear finches , truck brakes . Neighbors clomp through the stairwell ; a door slams . There are the voices of children . The gate , three stories down , clangs hugely . Our door opens into a narrow hallway . I fill it slowly with bags . Shauna , my wife , carries the babies inside . The apartment is larger than we could have hoped : two bedrooms , two bathrooms , new cabinets , twelve-foot ceilings , tile floors that carry noise . There 's an old desk , a navy blue couch . The refrigerator is hidden inside a cupboard . There 's a single piece of art : a poster of seven or eight gondolas crossing a harbor , a hazy piazza in the background . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reach through a narrow door in the corner of the kitchen , as if the architect recognized the need for a doorway only at the last moment . It squats over the building 's entrance , thirty feet across , fifty feet up . From it we can look between treetops at jigsaw pieces of Rome : terra-cotta roofs , three or four domes , a double-decker campanile , the scattered green of terrace gardens , everything hazed and strange and impossible . The air is moist and warm . If anything , it smells vaguely of cabbage . " This is ours ? " Shauna asks . " The whole terrace ? " It is . Except for our door , there is no other entrance onto it . We lower the babies into mismatched cribs that do n't look especially safe . A mosquito floats through the kitchen . We share a Nutri-Grain bar . We eat five packages of saltines . We have moved to Italy .                     