@@33419

12 February 2314 Assault Detachment Alpha Above Olympus Mons , Mars 1235 hrs , local He was sealed inside a windowless carbotitanium laminate alloy canister so tiny there was scarcely room to breathe , much less move , but his noumenlink gave him a complete three-sixty on the view outside . Gunnery Sergeant Travis Garroway , USMC , was streaking through thin atmosphere , hitting it hard enough to scratch a searing contrail of ionized gas across the night-black sky . His entry pod was surrounded by a faint haze of plasma , but he could still see the surface of Mars spread out beneath him like a map -- all ochers and tans and rust-reds , desert colors achingly reminiscent of the American Southwest back home . Ahead , Olympus Mons rose against the curve of the Martian horizon , enormous , stunning in its size and sweep and grandeur . The crest of Olympus Mons reached twenty-seven kilometers above the Martian desert floor -- three times the height of Everest above sea level . As big as the state of Missouri , it was the largest volcano in the Solar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mountain three months earlier , playing tourist , and hoping to get a look at it from ground level . The results , however , had been disappointing . Olympus Mons was so large that the curve of the Martian horizonactually hid the peak from an observer standing at the mountain 's base . The only way to see , to really feel the size of that monster shield volcano was to see it from orbit , or . . . as Garroway was doing now , on a hot-trajectory re-entry forty kilometers up . " Alpha Two , Alpha Three , " he called . " Do you copy ? Over . " Static hissed in his earphones . " Alpha Two , Alpha Three . Chrome , are you hearing me ? " Still nothing . The re-entry ionization was still too heavy to permit radio communications . Damn . He 'd wanted to share this with Chrome -- Staff Sergeant Angelina O'Meara . A jolt caught the entry capsule , punching the breath from his lungs and eliciting a sharp , bitten-off curse . There was a popular misconception going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an urban legend , to the effect that Olympus Mons was so tall the crest actually extended above the Martian atmosphere . He wished the idiots spreading that nonsense were with him now , enjoying the ride . The average surface pressure on Mars was only about one percent of Earth-normal , and at the top of Olympus Mons , the pressure dropped to two percent of that . By contrast , the atmospheric pressure at the top of Mt . Everest was about twenty-five percent of the pressure at sea level ; the Martian atmosphere was thin -- the next best thing to hard vacuum , as Captain Fetterman liked to say -- but the one-third gravity meant that it did n't get squeezed down as tightly to the surface as on Earth , but extended much farther into space . There was plenty of -- thud !  - -  atmosphere here two miles above the mountain 's caldera-cloven crest to give him a hell of a ride . Mars Military Training Command Stickney Base , Phobos 1236 hrs , local Colonel Robert Ellsworth Lee lay in a couch on the Mars Observation Deck , watching the show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was currently above Elysium , over the horizon from Olympus Mons , but his noumenal link relayed the imagery from a low-altitude robotic satellite positioned to track Alpha 's atmospheric entry and descent . From this vantage point , unfolding within the window of his mind , the orange face of Mars , pitted and wrinkled , stretched across the entire black reach of the sky . A cloud of brilliant stars streaked across that face , trailing white fire . Thirty-two of those stars were the IMACs of the Alpha drop . The rest were decoys , deployed to shield the insertion from enemy radar and laser sensors . IMAC -- the acronym was pronounced " eye-mac "  - -  stood for Individual Marine Assault Craft , a name that seemed a bit grandiloquent for something not much bigger than a large garbage can . Ever since World War II , some 370 years before , the Marine Corps had searched for new and effective ways to deliver combat Marines to the beachhead . On an island atoll called Tarawa , in 1943 , thousands of Marines had died because their landing craft had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forcing the men to wade or swim ashore under devastating machine-gun , mortar , and artillery fire . That near-disaster had resulted in the introduction of the Marine amphibious vehicle -- the AMTRACK -- and , in later years , a whole zoo of armored amphibious vehicles designed to swim Marines ashore and provide them with firepower once they got there . Other innovations had included the helicopter , the tilt-rotor Osprey , and the high-speed hovercraft . As their battlefields began extending into the vastness of space and to the surfaces of alien worlds , those delivery systems had become more and more powerful , more and more complex . The AMTRACKs , LCACs , LVTPs , and AAVs of the twentieth century had given way to various types of planetary landing and assault boats , combat shuttles , and boarding pods . IMACs were only the latest twist , derivations of the standard ship-to-ship boarding pods in use for the past century or so . A boarding pod or an assault boat , however , had one key weakness . It had to get from here to there through enemy point-defense fire , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the craft and every Marine packed on board -- perhaps as many as fifty or more on some of the larger shuttles . The key to survival in modern combat was dispersal . Do n't provide the enemy with a few large targets , each carrying many Marines . Instead , let each Marine have his own landing craft -- many , many small targets , each with one Marine sealed into a tiny , high-tech cocoon . High-energy lasers and missiles with antimatter warheads were going to score a kill if they hit the target , no matter what . Better , then , that each warhead that struck home killed one Marine rather than fifty . Besides , for each one-man pod in flight , there might be a dozen or more decoys which , together with the high-energy electronic jamming going on , was guaranteed to give radar technicians , airspace monitor AIs , and tracking networks complete and utter breakdowns of one kind or another .                     