@@34177

It was not a street anymore but a world , a time and space of falling ash and near night . He was walking north through rubble and mud and there were people running past holding towels to their faces or jackets over their heads . They had handkerchiefs pressed to their mouths . They had shoes in their hands , a woman with a shoe in each hand , running past him . They ran and fell , some of them , confused and ungainly , with debris coming down around them , and there were people taking shelter under cars . The roar was still in the air , the buckling rumble of the fall . This was the world now . Smoke and ash came rolling down streets and turning corners , busting around corners , seismic tides of smoke , with office paper flashing past , standard sheets with cutting edge , skimming , whipping past , otherworldly things in the morning pall . He wore a suit and carried a briefcase . There was glass in his hair and face , marbled bolls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Special sign and they went running by , city cops and security guards running , hands pressed down on gun butts to keep the weapons steady . Things inside were distant and still , where he was supposed to be . It happened everywhere around him , a car half buried in debris , windows smashed and noises coming out , radio voices scratching at the wreckage . He saw people shedding water as they ran , clothes and bodies drenched from sprinkler systems . There were shoes discarded in the street , handbags and laptops , a man seated on the sidewalk coughing up blood . Paper cups went bouncing oddly by . The world was this as well , figures in windows a thousand feet up , dropping into free space , and the stink of fuel fire , and the steady rip of sirens in the air . The noise lay everywhere they ran , stratified sound collecting around them , and he walked away from it and into it at the same time . There was something else then , outside all this , not belonging to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A shirt came down out of the high smoke , a shirt lifted and drifting in the scant light and then falling again , down toward the river . They ran and then they stopped , some of them , standing there swaying , trying to draw breath out of the burning air , and the fitful cries of disbelief , curses and lost shouts , and the paper massed in the air , contracts , resums blowing by , intact snatches of business , quick in the wind . He kept on walking . There were the runners who 'd stopped and others veering into sidestreets . Some were walking backwards , looking into the core of it , all those writhing lives back there , and things kept falling , scorched objects trailing lines of fire . He saw two women sobbing in their reverse march , looking past him , both in running shorts , faces in collapse . He saw members of the tai chi group from the park nearby , standing with hands extended at roughly chest level , elbows bent , as if all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state of abeyance . Someone came out of a diner and tried to hand him a bottle of water . It was a woman wearing a dust mask and a baseball cap and she withdrew the bottle and twisted off the top and then thrust it toward him again . He put down the briefcase to take it , barely aware that he was n't using his left arm , that he 'd had to put down the briefcase before he could take the bottle . Three police vans came veering into the street and sped downtown , sirens sounding . He closed his eyes and drank , feeling the water pass into his body taking dust and soot down with it . She was looking at him . She said something he did n't hear and he handed back the bottle and picked up the briefcase . There was an aftertaste of blood in the long draft of water . He started walking again . A supermarket cart stood upright and empty . There was a woman behind it , facing him , with police tape wrapped around her head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a crime scene . Her eyes were thin white ripples in the bright mask and she gripped the handle of the cart and stood there , looking into the smoke . In time he heard the sound of the second fall . He crossed Canal Street and began to see things , somehow , differently . Things did not seem charged in the usual ways , the cobbled street , the cast-iron buildings . There was something critically missing from the things around him . They were unfinished , whatever that means . They were unseen , whatever that means , shop windows , loading platforms , paint-sprayed walls . Maybe this is what things look like when there is no one here to see them . He heard the sound of the second fall , or felt it in the trembling air , the north tower coming down , a soft awe of voices in the distance . That was him coming down , the north tower . The sky was lighter here and he could breathe more easily . There were others behind him , thousands , filling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people walking out of the smoke . He kept going until he had to stop . It hit him quickly , the knowledge that he could n't go any farther . He tried to tell himself he was alive but the idea was too obscure to take hold . There were no taxis and little traffic of any kind and then an old panel truck appeared , Electrical Contractor , Long Island City , and it pulled alongside and the driver leaned toward the window on the passenger 's side and examined what he saw , a man scaled in ash , in pulverized matter , and asked him where he wanted to go . It was n't until he got in the truck and shut the door that he understood where he 'd been going all along .                     