@@30399

" What do you think of this ? " Kerrin says suddenly , turning away from the counter to face me . Her face is a patchwork quilt of overpriced cosmetics , with stripes of green and blue on her eyelids and blotchy pinks on her cheeks . " Hmm ? " I look up dewy eyed from my reverie . I 've strayed from the circus of colors at the makeup counter to the bath and body products , where I 've been fingering the beautiful bottles and inhaling the citrusy smells of the lotion of the moment . My obsession with bath products borders on the perverse , and my bathroom , a clutter of austere packaging and empty marketing promises , proves it . We are in John Wanamaker 's in Center City , with its hushed department-store atmosphere , high vaulted ceilings , and delicate railings . Wanamaker 's has taken quite a hit in recent years , with Philadelphians instead preferring to go to the colorless local malls in the suburban spread . The sales help stands listlessly on the floors , seemingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do not own many elegant things , but I have a breathtaking box of lace hankies given to me by my great-grandmother when I was about four years old . They were purchased here , and I like to imagine the hustle and bustle of the place back then , before people felt it was their divine right to shop in flip-flops and torn sweatpants . To this day , the hankies sit in their signature Wanamaker 's box in my bureau drawer , a reminder of a time when shopping was glamorous . It 's nearing the end of our lunch break  --  or Kerrin 's lunch break , to be more accurate . As a result of a new touchy-feely employee program at the toy company where I work , we 've been given half-days on Fridays during the summer months . With as much excitement as the CEO could muster , he told us the new policy would allow us to have summertime fun and develop outside interests . So far , it has afforded me more time to pursue lofty and mind-broadening goals , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and conducting a personal taste test of Philadelphia 's best cheesesteaks with my roommate Michael . If today 's makeup shopping goes well for Kerrin , I will add this to my list of potential Friday afternoon outings . Kerrin , on the other hand , must get back to work by one-thirty , to her windowless , suffocating office at University of Pennsylvania Hospital . " Well ? " asks the saleswoman , arching her overplucked eyebrows at Kerrin . Her lab coat and discreet enamel pin on its collar contrast vividly with her red talons , heavy foundation , and shimmery lipstick . " This new summer collection seems perfectly suited to your needs , " she says with conviction , and I make a mental note to ask Kerrin exactly what are the cosmetics needs of a person who writes grants for cancer research . " Ummm . . . that one , " Kerrin says , jabbing a fingertip at an eyeliner pencil . She juts her chin out and tilts her head to one side , Kerrin-speak for " I 've made up my mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stress breaks through the makeup mask of the saleswoman . " Are you sure that 's all you 'll be needing ? Maybe you 'd like me to show you how to blend the eyeshadow colors again ? " She is playing a losing game . Kerrin has n't come here to abuse her or waste her time ; she genuinely wants to sample everything but wo n't be strong-armed into buying anything more than she needs . Try to swindle Kerrin , and you 'll wish you had stayed home exfoliating today , I silently say to the hapless saleswoman . " Can you believe that , Toby ? " Kerrin says moments later as we walk toward her car on 12th Street . She takes a long drag on her cigarette and lets the smoke out through clenched teeth . " Thinking I 'm going to buy all that crap . I told her I only needed one thing . " " Yes , but it 's her job to try and get you to buy more stuff . Plus , you looked like you were really going for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . You looked like Ziggy Stardust or something , " I say , tightly clutching my bag of matching orange-scented bath gel and shampoo in my left hand . " What did you buy ? " she asks , rooting in her bag for her keys . I 've always been amazed at friends who can walk and hunt for things in their purses at the same time . My one such experiment ended up with my checkbook falling down an open manhole , and I 've been fearful ever since . " Oh , just some orange bath gel and shampoo . I really ca n't even afford it , I do n't know what I was thinking , " I rationalize . " You 're weird with that stuff . You need some sensuality in your life . Remember pleasures of the flesh , Toby ? " she grins . " It 's going to be a long , hot summer . I think you should have some fun . And not the kind of fun that comes from "  --  she yanks the bag from my hand and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cosmetic company on Long Island . I 'll call you this weekend . " And with that , she gets into her car and lurches into traffic , nearly colliding with a temporary barrier routing cars around City Hall . How like Kerrin to fight City Hall on her lunch hour . " Hello ? " I call out as I open the front door . " Michael , are you here ? " I plop down on the sofa , thoroughly deflated from the bus ride from Center City . Surely that 's not what the CEO of Toyland had in mind when he told us to enjoy our Friday afternoons , I had been thinking only five minutes earlier while watching the bus driver argue with a passenger about the live eel he was attempting to transport in a flimsy supermarket shopping bag ... Continues ...                     