@@33869

APRIL 1943 It was Kitty 's turn to sleep with her head at the foot of the bed . She did n't mind ; she preferred it , actually . She liked the mild disorientation that came from that position , and she liked the relative sense of privacy-her sisters ' feet in her face , yes , but not their eyes , not their ears , nor the close , damp sounds of their breathing . And at the foot of the bed she was safe from Louise , who often yanked mercilessly at people 's hair in her sleep . Tonight Kitty was last to bed , having been last in the bathroom . Everybody liked it when Kitty was last in the bathroom because , of the eight people living in the house , she always took the longest . Apart from the normal ablutions , she did things in there : affected poses she thought made her look even more like Rita Hayworth-she did look like Rita Hayworth , everyone said so . She filed her fingernails , she experimented with combining perfumes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she used eyebrow pencil to make beauty marks above her lip . She also read magazines in the bathroom because there , no one read over her shoulder . Oh , somebody would bang on the door every time she was in there , somebody was always banging on the bathroom door , but a girl could get a lot done in a room with alocked door . Kitty could do more in five minutes in the bathroom than in thirty minutes anywhere else in the house , where everyone in the family felt it their right-their obligation ! - to butt into everyone else 's business . When Kitty came out of the bathroom , she tiptoed into the bedroom , where it appeared her sisters were already asleep-Tish on her side with her knees drawn up tight , Louise with the covers flung off . Kitty crouched down by Louise and whispered her sister 's name . Kitty wanted to talk ; she was n't ready to sleep yet . But Louise did n't budge . Kitty moved to the bottom of the bed , slid beneath the covers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thinking of Julian , of how tomorrow he would be leaving , off to fight in the Pacific with the Marines , and no one knew for how long . And Michael , Louise 's fianc , he would be leaving , too , leaving at the same time but going in the opposite direction , for he was in the Army and shipping out to Europe . And why were they not in the same branch of the service , these old friends ? Because Julian liked the forest green of the Marine uniforms better than the olive drab of the Army or the blue of the Navy . Also because James Roosevelt , the president 's son , was in the Marines . It seemed so odd to Kitty . So frightening and dangerous and even romantic ; there was an element of romance to this war , but mostly it just felt so odd . As though the truth of all this had n't quite caught up with her , nor would it for a while . No matter the graphic facts in FDR 's Day of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three thousand lives lost , the next day 's declaration of war on Japan , then Germany 's declaration of war on the United States . Kitty 's facts were these : she was Kitty ; he was Julian ; every Saturday night they went downtown for dinner at Toffenetti 's and then to one of the movie palaces on State Street . Sometimes , after that , he would take her to the Empire Room at the Palmer House for a pink squirrel , but her parents did n't like for Kitty to stay out so late , or to drink . Now his leave after basic was up and he was shipping out , he was going over there . And both boys foolishly volunteering for the infantry ! Kitty rose up on her elbows and again whispered Louise 's name . A moment , and then she spoke out loud . " Hey ? Louise ? " Nothing . Kitty fell back and rested her hands across her chest , one over the other , then quickly yanked them apart . It was like death , to lie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She never slept that way , she always slept on her side . Why had she done that ? Was it a premonition of some sort , a sign ? What if it was a sign ? " Louise ! " she said , and now her sister mumbled back , " Cripes , Kitty , will you go to sleep ! " It was good to hear her sister 's voice , even in anger . It soothed and anchored her . She breathed out , closed her eyes , and in a short while felt herself drifting toward sleep . She wanted to dream of Julian on the day she first met him : confident , careless , his blond hair mussed and hanging over one eye , his short-sleeved shirt revealing the disturbing curves of his muscles . She tried to will herself toward that .                     