@@28536

Chapter One RILEY ADDISON froze with her coffee cup halfway to her lips , then leaned forward in her office chair to reread the company e-mail from Jackson Lange , better known as the Bane of her Existence . Will require double the budget your department allotted , i.e. a one-hundred-percent increase , effective immediately . See attached spreadsheet for details . Contact me if any questions . Riley 's brows hiked up , and with a humorless laugh , she shook her head . The new head of Prestige Residential Construction 's marketing department was clearly insane . The terse , robotic way in which Jackson Lange communicated via e-mail and on the phone convinced her he 'd lived a previous life as some sort of despotic dictator who barked out orders and expected the troops to fall meekly into line . " Well , you 've picked the wrong person to bark at this time , " she muttered . " Today I 'm giving out asswhuppings and chocolate cookies , and sadly for you , I 'm fresh out of chocolate cookies . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department was located in the company 's New York offices , while her accounting department was in Atlanta - a safety buffer of over nine hundred miles that prevented her from having to deal with the intolerable Jackson Lange inperson . She blew out a long sigh and rubbed her throbbing temples to alleviate the headache that had plagued her ever since Prestige had hired Lange . Had it been only just a few short weeks ago when all had been right and rosy with her working world ? Yes . Then Jackson Lange had barreled - or was slithered a more apt description ? - into Prestige 's New York office and all hell had broken loose . With the longtime head of marketing retiring , Riley , along with everyone else in her department , had known changes were inevitable . But Riley had expected a Prestige employee would be promoted to the position . So much for expectations . Instead , Jackson Lange was hired from the outside . Company scuttlebutt was that Lange had a reputation in the industry as a barracuda who was n't afraid to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ top . Rumor also had it that he was brought in because he had connections to Elite Commercial Builders - a company the residential-based Prestige 's CEO was interested in acquiring . All the turmoil surrounding Lange 's hiring led to a newfound tense work environment that Riley resented . From day one Jackson Lange had instigated changes to procedures that had been in place for years . He 'd made abrupt , peremptory demands , and thoroughly disrupted the formerly cordial working balance between the accounting and marketing departments . She 'd been forced to tolerate a man she so far found intolerable , and with each passing day the situation grew worse . But she was particularly upset because as demanding as her job was , her career provided the only calm in the storm her personal life had become since her younger sister , Tara , had moved in with her after their mother 's death . At work , Riley knew what she was doing . Numbers , financial statements , budgets - all that she understood . Away from the office , however , her responsibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tightrope above a deep , dark canyon without benefit of a safety net . She needed a break , a change . And she needed it now . Unfortunately now she had to deal with this e-mail from Lange , despite the fact that she 'd already told him last week that no budget increase would be coming his way . " I.e. a one-hundred-percent increase , " Riley muttered . " As if I do n't know what double means . Insulting jerk . " " Uh-oh , " said a familiar voice from the doorway . " You 're talking to yourself . And wearing your ' Jackson Lange ' killer glare . Is it safe to enter ? " Riley 's gaze lifted to Gloria Morris , head of Prestige 's information technology department . Dressed in a tailored , vivid turquoise dress that hugged her slim figure , with a sleek auburn bob brushing her shoulders , Gloria looked fresh and perky , and totally dispelled the typical image of the nerdy IT computer geek . Gloria was the only woman Riley knew who always looked as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ She loved her best friend in spite of that annoying trait . " Safe to enter ? Depends . Do you want your blood pressure to soar into the danger zone ? The veins on your forehead to pop out and throb ? " " Not especially , but since you clearly could use some cheering up , I 'll risk it . " Gloria settled herself in the black leather chair opposite Riley . " So what 's the Barracuda done now ? " " The usual - barked out peremptory demands . Only this time , he hit me before I 'd finished my first cup of coffee . " Gloria shook her head . " Clearly he has no idea how grumpy you are pre-caffeine . " " Clearly not , although I was n't grumpy until I opened Lange 's e-mail . Unfortunately , I suspect my mood is n't going to improve after I look at his attached spreadsheet . " " Ooh , a spreadsheet , too . Must be your lucky day . " " Oh , yeah , lucky . That 's what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head and gave a quick , assessing look . " I do n't think so . You look ... tired . Droopy . " Riley sighed . " Much as I hate to admit it , you 're right . I almost hung an ' out of order ' sign on my bathroom mirror this morning . " She shot Gloria an apologetic look . " Sorry for being a grump . In my efforts to appear outwardly calm and collected to my staff , I let all my frustrations out on you . " " Which is what friends are for . Lord knows I bend your ear enough . " A teasing light lit her eyes . " I 'm just not as grumpy about it as you are . " Riley laughed . " I know . I 'm Grumpy , you 're Happy . Throw in a poison apple and an enchanted mirror and we 'd have a fairy tale . " " I 'd rather throw in a handsome prince instead . " " Would n't we all . Although , at this point , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " " Interested your mind - or your body ? " " Well , both would be nice . But if I had to choose ? Definitely my body . " " Amen , sister . But a somewhat surprising answer from you , Ms. Cautious and Conservative . " Riley winced inwardly at the title , as she knew it did n't aptly describe her - at least not the real her , but instead only the Riley she 'd forced herself to become after Tara moved in . Her willful , impressionable younger sister had badly needed a good example to follow , so Riley had made certain her own behavior could n't be called into question . But now that Tara had finally graduated from college and had announced she was moving out in two weeks , the fun-loving , sometimes wicked , sometimes daring Riley she 'd ruthlessly suppressed was straining at the reins to break free . ( Continues ... )                     