@@28310

1 Raging emotions , dead tissue . Polar opposites was the way Jeremy Carrier had always seen it . In a hospital setting , no two disciplines were less connected than psychology and pathology . As a practitioner of the former , Jeremy prided himself on an open mind ; a good psychotherapist worked hard at avoiding stereotypes . But during all his years of training and clinical work at City Central Hospital , Jeremy had met few pathologists who did n't fit a mold : withdrawn , mumbly types , more comfortable with gobbets of necrosed flesh , the abstract expressionism of cell smears , and the cold-storage ambience of the basement morgue , than with living , breathing patients . And his fellow psychologists , psychiatrists , and all the other soldiers of the mental health army , were , more often than not , overly delicate souls repelled by the sight of blood . Not that Jeremy had actually known any pathologists , even after a decade of passing them in the hallways . The social structure of the hospital had regressed to high school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ castes , cliques , and cabals , endless jockeying for power and turf . Adding to that was the end-means inversion that captures every bureaucracy : the hospital had devolved from a healing place needing funds to treat patients to a large-scale municipal employer requiring patient fees to meet its staff payroll . All that created a certain asocial flavor . A confederacy of isolates . At City Central , like was attracted to like , and only the last-ditch necessities of patient care led to cross-pollination : internists finally admitting defeat and calling in surgeons , gen- eralists taking deep breaths before plunging into the morass of consultation . What reason could there be for a pathologist to contact a psychologist ? Because of all thatand because life 's hellish wrist-flick had turned Jeremy Carrier into a tormented , distracted young manhe was caught off-balance by Arthur Chess 's overture . Perhaps Jeremy 's distractibility formed the basis for all that followed . For nearly a year , Jeremy had seen Arthur once a week , but the two men had never exchanged a word . Yet here was Arthur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room and asking if Jeremy cared for company . It was just before 3 p.m. , an off-hour for lunch , and the room was nearly empty . Jeremy said , " Sure , " then realized he was anything but . Arthur nodded and settled his big frame into a small chair . His tray bore two helpings of fried chicken , a hillock of mashed potatoes glazed with gravy , a perfect square of corn bread , a small bowl of succotash , and a sweating can of Coca-Cola . Staring at the food , Jeremy wondered : Southern roots ? He tried to recall if Arthur 's voice had ever betrayed Southern inflections , did n't think so . If anything , the old man 's baritone was flavored by New England . Arthur Chess showed no immediate interest in conversation . Spreading a napkin on his lap , he began shearing through the first piece of chicken . He cut quickly and gracefully , using long fingers tipped by broad nails stubbed short . His long white lab coat was snowy-clean but for a disturbing spatter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coat was a blue pinpoint Oxford spread-collar . Arthur 's magenta bow tie hung askew in a way that suggested intention . Jeremy figured the pathologist for at least sixty-five , maybe older , but Arthur 's pink skin glowed with health . A neat , white , mustachless beard , which gave insight into what Lincoln 's would 've looked like had Honest Abe been allowed to grow old , fringed Arthur 's long face . His bald head was lunar and imposing under cruel hospital lighting . Jeremy knew of Arthur 's reputation the way one is aware of a stranger 's biography . Once Head of Pathology , Professor Chess had stepped down from administrative duties a few years ago to concentrate on scholarship . Something to do with soft-tissue sarcomas , the minutiae of cell-wall permeability , or whatnot . Arthur also had a reputation as a world traveler and an amateur lepidopterist . His treatise on the carrion-eating butterflies of Australia had been featured in the hospital gift shop , alongside the usual paperback diversions . Jeremy had noticed the single stack of dry-looking , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jackets of lurid best-sellers . The brown stack never seemed to reduce ; why would a patient want to read about bugs that ate corpses ? Arthur ate three bites of chicken and put down his fork . " I really do hope this is n't an intrusion , Dr. Carrier . " " Not at all , Dr. Chess . Is there something you need ? " " Need ? " Arthur was amused . " No , just seeking a bit of social discourse . I 've noticed that you tend to dine alone . " " My schedule , " lied Jeremy . " Unpredictable . " Since his life had gone to hell , he 'd been avoiding social discourse with anyone but patients . He 'd gotten to the point where he could fake friendly . But sometimes , on the darkest of days , any human contact was painful . Life 's little wrist-flick . . . " Of course , " said Chess . " Given the nature of your work , that would have to be the case . " " Sir ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " " That 's true . " Arthur nodded gravely , as if the two of them had reached a momentous agreement . A moment later , he said , " Jeremymay I call you Jeremy ? Jeremy , I noticed you were n't at our little Tuesday get-together this week . " " A situation came up , " said Jeremy , feeling like a child caught playing hookey . He forced a smile . " Unpredictable emotions . " " Something that resolved well , I hope ? " Jeremy nodded . " Anything new come up at T.B. ? " " Two new diagnoses , an adenosarcoma , and a CML . Typical presentations , the usual spirited discussion . To be honest , you did n't miss a thing . " Our little Tuesday get-together was Tumor Board . A weekly ritual , 8 to 9 a.m. , in the larger conference room , Arthur Chess presiding over a confab of oncologists , radiotherapists , surgeons , nurse specialists . Commanding the slide projector , wielding a light wand , and his voluminous memory . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army 's representative . In all that time , he 'd spoken up once . He 'd attended his first Tumor Board years before , as an intern , finding the experience an ironic grotesquerie : slides of tumor-ravaged cells click-clicked on a giant screen , the images obscured by nicotine haze . At least a third of the cancer doctors and nurses were puffing away . Jeremy 's supervisor at the time , an astonishingly pompous psychoanalyst , had wielded a Meerschaum pipe of Freudian proportions and blown Latakia fumes in Jeremy 's face . Arthur had been running things back then , too , and he 'd looked much the same , Jeremy realized . The chief pathologist had n't smoked , but neither had he objected . A few months later , a wealthy benefactor touring the hospital poked her head in and gasped . Soon after , the hospital passed a no-smoking rule , and the mood at subsequent Tumor Boards grew testy . Arthur sectioned a tiny square of corn bread from the host slab and chewed thoughtfully . " No loss for you , Jeremy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " Really . " " Even if you do n't say much , the fact that you 're there keeps the rest of us on our toes . Sensitivity-wise . " " Well , " said Jeremy , wondering why the old man was bullshitting him so shamelessly , " anything that helps sensitivity . " " The time you did speak up , " said Arthur , " taught us all a lesson . " Jeremy felt his face go hot . " I felt it was relevant . " " Oh , it was , Jeremy . Not everyone saw it that way , but it was . " The time he spoke up had been six weeks ago . Arthur flashing slides of a metastasized stomach carcinoma on the big screen , defining the tumors in the precise Latin poetry of histology . The patient , a fifty-eight-year-old woman named Anna Duran , had been referred to Jeremy because of " unresponsive demeanor . " Jeremy found her initially sullen . Rather than try to draw her out , he refilled her empty cup with tea , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down by her bedside and waited . Not caring much if she responded , or not . It had been that way since Jocelyn . He did n't even try anymore . And the funny thing was , patients reacted to his apathy by opening up more quickly . Grief had made him a more effective therapist . Jeremy , flabbergasted , gave the matter some thought and decided patients probably perceived his blank face and statue posture as some sort of immutable , Zen-like calm . If only they knew . . . By the time she finished her tea , Anna Duran was ready to talk . Which is why Jeremy was forced to speak up , twenty minutes into a contentious exchange between Mrs. Duran 's attending oncologist and the treating radiotherapist . Both specialists were voluble men , well-intentioned , dedicated to their craft , but overly focused , baby-bathwater-tossers . Complicating matters further , neither cared for the other . That morning they 'd slipped into an increasingly heated debate on treatment sequence that left the rest of the attendees peeking at their watches . Jeremy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were an annoyance , his turn the result of a mandatory rotation that placed him in too-close proximity to death . But that morning , something propelled him to his feet . The sudden motion fixed fifty pairs of eyes upon him . The oncologist had just completed a pronouncement . The radiotherapist , about to embark on a response , was deterred by the look on Jeremy 's face . Arthur Chess rolled the light wand between his hands . " Yes , Dr. Carrier ? " Jeremy faced the sparring physicians . " Gentlemen , your debate may be justified on medical grounds , but you 're wasting your time . Mrs. Duran wo n't agree to any form of treatment . " From the Hardcover edition .                     