@@30306

Chapter One Greta is naked again . A blue-eyed , thirty-one-year-old sous chef from Berlin , goat-beard wisps of blond hair beneath her arms , she drops her black bikini top and diaphanous , wine-colored sarong onto her towel , strides across the damp sand , and dives into the breakers . Sitting up straight , you gape at the slope of Greta 's breasts and run the back of your wrist across your mouth . Until she disrobed , you 'd been lying flat against a dry dune near the Sendero cabaas , a short Frisbee toss from Greta 's towel , presumably undetected in the shadows of the deserted cove , hands clasped behind your head , your attention directed chiefly towards the cloudless blue sky and a lone schooner bobbing in the calm , gold-flecked Pacific waters a few hundred yards offshore . Over the last three days you 've come to think of this long-legged German woman in specific physical terms , individual pieces of an exotic , big-boned puzzle . Greta is taller than average , heavier than average , ample but in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Raphaelite mop of sandy blond hair . Broad shoulders . Muscular calves . Collarbones you could rope a horse to . A drowsy , full-souled smile . ( Last night , drinking cuba libres and playing chess by the driftwood campfire , as Greta forked your queen with that deliciously slow grin of hers , you thought how perfect is the Spanish word for smile : Sonrisa . Sunrise . ) You ca n't get enough of her smoky German accent . At times she works so hard at finding the correct word in English , her wide , Old World face scrunched from the effort , that you want to take her hand . But you have n't - not once . And thus far you 've managed to stay out of her cabaa , too . Today is the final day of your three-day shoot . All of your photo gear has been repacked in the brushed-silver Anvils in preparation for tomorrow morning 's departure . Less fruitful than it might have been ( you exposed only nineteen rolls of film out of the fifty you brought ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will nonetheless pay much of the balance due on your new $2,900 Minolta laser printer and last month 's $1,800 rent on your East Village apartment . Despite the half-hearted professional effort , you 're in no hurry to leave - the warm winter weather has proven intoxicating . For three days you 've remained barefoot , worn the same pair of oversized Abercrombie &; Fitch canvas cargo shorts , stayed either high or within arm 's reach of a frosty Negra Modelo , and been surrounded by comely beachcombers wearing little more than coconut oil and toe-rings . Your arrival here back on Tuesday now seems like someone else 's dream : New York to Mexico City to Oaxaca on increasingly smaller planes , five hours by rickety bus along the winding mountain roads of the Sierra Madres to the fishing village of Puerto Escondido , hitchhiking to San Augustinillo and then crossing by foot the beachfront dunes that lead , ultimately , to this hedonistic Pacific-coast sanctuary . Zipolite is located on the tip of the country 's southernmost peninsula , about as far from the United States as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A hidden , bohemian paradise with unpaved roads and dreadlocked shopkeepers , shaded by palm trees and palapas and thatched-roof bungalows , Zipolite is an international rainbow of Lonely Planet travelers , Amsterdam meets the Garden of Eden , a tropically exotic and decidedly Dionysian love song . " This is the first line of the 2,700-word article penned by a Details writer named Sandy Tesoros ( who you correctly assume is a woman ) , which you were hired and sent to Mexico to illustrate with your photographs . The sentence , you feel , is an apt description for how you 've come to regard this place - and for the quality you attempted to capture with your cameras . There are no ringing phones or buzzing alarm clocks in Zipolite , no sunburned tourists camcording the pelicans . Here there are tattooed chests and pierced belly buttons , long moonstruck nights of reggae and mescal on the beach . Here all of life seems tribal . For three days you munched watermelon and papaya and mango for breakfast , and at night , by votive candle under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so close to the ocean you could feel its salty spray on your cheeks - savored seared red snapper topped with prawns the size of lobsters . You meditated each morning , hidden behind dunes taller than your outstretched arms . You spotted a stray dog with his ears dyed purple ( trying to get him to sit still for a shot , you pined for Marley , your camera-friendly Rasta-mutt extraordinaire , who at this very moment is gnawing on Mrs. Pierno 's winter galoshes back in Manhattan ) . You exposed an entire roll of film on a young Mexican girl selling fillets of iguana from a bucket balanced atop her head . You slept dreamlessly in your own palm tree-shrouded Sendero cabaa , 100 pesos a night ( roughly $12 ) , monastic and seductive with its whitewashed walls , slow-turning ceiling fan , gauzy mosquito net , and pine-planked porch from which you flung sand dollars into the ocean . You built a bonfire with a South African motorcyclist awaiting , without complaint , the arrival of a brake-pad for his Ducati for six months now . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a coconut . For three days you wandered from one end of Zipolite 's half-mile beach to the other , blissfully stoned , photographing with either your new Mamiya M645 or your rugged little Canon Elan , discreetly and usually with permission , the occasional semi-naked woman lying on the dunes . You discovered that among the semi-naked women you photographed were a Honduran dive- master , a Franco-Czech painter with a name you could n't pronounce , a journalist from Wales covering the Zapatista rebels in the neighboring state of Chiapas , and Greta , a dripping-wet sous chef from Berlin ... ( Continues ... )                     