@@26855

Simon Puttock felt elated , but not without a certain trepidation , as he meandered along the road that led from Tiverton to Crediton , letting his horse take him at a slow walk as he thought about his new position . He had worked for the de Courtenays for many years now , as had his father before him , and he supposed that he should have expected a promotion  --  but he had not . It had been completely unexpected , a sudden shock ; if they had told him he was to be imprisoned for robbery , it could not have surprised him more . Naturally he hoped that his lords were satisfied with his work over the years , but he had never dreamed of being given his own castle to command , especially one so important as Lydford , and every now and again a quick smile cracked the serious expression on his face as his glee momentarily flared , quenching his nervous contemplation . The de Courtenays , the lords of Devon and Cornwall , had been able to rely on Simon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been the seneschal of their castle at Oakhampton for twenty years before his death two years ago , carefully looking after their es-tates and keeping the peace during the long , regular absences when the de Courtenay family went to visit their lands farther north . Before that , Peter 's father had been the family 's chamberlain and had fought loyally with his lord in thetroubled times before King Edward came to the throne . Simon was immensely proud of his forebears ' association with , and honorable service to , this ancient family . But even after so long in the de Courtenay family 's service , the honor of being given the castle of Lydford to look after was still an unexpected delight  --  and a fearsome opportunity . If his tenure was successful and the land was profitable , he could expect to become wealthy , a man of power and influence in his own right . Of course , as the bailiff of the castle , he was also held responsible for any failures : for lower tax revenues , for reduced productivity from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way home to his wife , he was gathering his thoughts , framing the best way of putting to her the possibilities and options that the role presented . Being a realist , he not only felt pride at the recognition he had been offered ; he was also aware of the awesome immensity of the job that he had been given . Ever since the Scots had defeated the English army at Bannockburn two years before , matters had got progressively worse , he knew . It was not just the continual attacks on the northern shires by the Scots or their invasion of Ireland , it sometimes appeared that God himself was angry with the whole of Europe and was punishing it . For two years now the whole country had been blighted , suffering under the worst rainstorms ever known . Last year , thirteen hundred and fifteen , had not been so bad down here in the far west ; his peo-ple had hardly noticed any lack of essentials . Now , though , in the late autumn of thirteen sixteen , the rain had again been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second year . In other counties the people had been reduced to eating their horses and dogs in the vain search for sustenance , although it was not quite so bad yet here in Devon . It did mean that there would be a lot to plan for , though , and in his new job as the bailiff of Lydford castle , Simon intended to do all he could to help the people he was responsible for . Lost in his thoughts , he had a deep frown on his face as he rode . He was a tall and muscular man with a body honed from riding and hunting , in his prime at nearly thirty years old . His hair was thick and a uniform dark brown , with no gray or white hairs to mar the youthful looks that hid his age so well . His complexion was ruddy from the days regularly spent in the open air and the saddle . Fortunately his daily exercise had so far prevented the build-up of fat that he remembered so well hanging under his father 's chin as heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his mastiffs , but he could still feel the early onset of thickening around his waist from the heavy beer that his household was so proud of . From his sun- and wind-burned face his dark gray eyes looked out with a calm confidence . He was fortunate to have grown up near Crediton , and to have been taught how to read and write by his father 's friends in the church  --  a fact that would surely make him unique among the other bailiffs in the district  --  and he was confident that he was fully capable of the responsibilities that had been given to him . Looking up at the sky he could see it was already starting to darken as the sun slowly sank over to the west , and he threw a glance back at his servant , who plodded along behind on his old carthorse . " Hugh , " he called , resting his hand on the rump of his horse as he twisted in his saddle to face backward , " I think we 'll stop off at Bickleigh for the night , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long before we get home to Sandford . " His servant , a lean , morose , dark-haired man with the narrow , sharp features of a ferret , glared back . His demeanor was that of a prisoner being taken to the gallows who had been asked about the weather  --  angry at the interruption of his thoughts and suspicious of the reasons for the comment . Satisfied that the remark was made with no malicious intent , he grunted his assent as he lolled in his saddle . He had no desire to ride any farther tonight , and Bickleigh was known to have a good stock of wine and beer  --  it would be a fine place to rest as far as he was concerned ... Continues ...                     