@@32268

Chapter OneLOVE AMONG THE RUINS What is marriage , is marriage protection or religion , is marriage renunciation or abundance , is marriage a stepping-stone or an end . What is marriage . - Gertrude Stein , The Mother of Us All Between 1989 and the time of this writing , at least thirty-five Hollywood films , seventeen made-for-television movies , and eight national theatrical productions have put a wedding at the center of their plots . In a typical 1990s television season , eleven sitcoms opened or closed their series with a wedding ; many national entertainment magazines produce " wedding issues " featuring celebrities ; both network and cable stations regularly devote hour-long specials to home wedding videos and Hollywood weddings ; talk shows and even the game show " Who Wants to Marry a Millionaire ? " stage live weddings on camera ; and new Internet wedding sites appear and disappear every day . Meanwhile , print and television ads pile up wedding images to sell things unrelated to marriage : a short list might include Pillsbury frosting , Visa Gold cards , Este Lauder 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with new ones appearing every time I try to finish this sentence . This explosion ofwedding images is different than , though obviously related to , the expansion of the bridal service industry or changes in the demographics of marriage . It looks like a national wedding complex in the psychoanalytic sense-America 's terrible case of heterosexual exhibitionism , or perhaps its mass fixation on the primal scene of induction into that most insular relationship , the married couple . Yet many of the weddings cluttering the national mediascape are actually gay : the documentary short film Chicks in White Satin ( dir . Elaine Holliman , 1992 ) won an Oscar for its look at lesbian weddings ; Late Bloomers ( dirs . Gretchen and Julia Dyer , 1996 ) featured two women marrying ; the television shows Roseanne , Friends , and Northern Exposure have all featured same-sex weddings ; and cover stories in the national gay magazines Out , The Advocate , and Girlfriends have focused on the planning and styling of same-sex weddings . Even contemporary representations of " straight " weddings often focus on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its results seems to guarantee heterosexual marriage , as in Four Weddings and a Funeral , Meet the Parents , My Best Friend 's Wedding , The Object of My Affection , and In and Out . This proliferation of gay weddings , and gay people in weddings , hardly reflects a mainstream commitment to the idea of same-sex marriage , which has been rejected in many popular polls and state voting referenda as well as in the 1996 federal Defense of Marriage Act that defines marriage as a union between " one man and one woman . " Even many lesbian and gay people , myself included , feel ambivalent about gay marriage . As I noted in the preface , some of us may believe that straight people should not have privileges that are denied to gay people but also feel that legalizing gay marriage would simply extend a set of privileges to monogamous , long-term , property-sharing couples at the expense of those whose lives can not be so neatly packaged . A state that promotes marriage also disenfranchises people whose primary affinities do not get into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people as isolated failures , as immature and/or sexually indiscriminating , or as part of some mysteriously primitive social system . Yet if ratings and box-office numbers are any indication , many straight , gay , and even queer people may want to watch and participate in weddings for reasons that have little to do with a wish to obtain legal marriage . Audiences seem compelled by the legally nonbinding commitment ceremony , and willing to be both voyeur and witness to the fantastic ritual of people making promises with no legal contract to enforce them . This compulsion may be undergirded by a longing for inclusion or a wish to watch the ceremony collapse under the weight of its own solemnities , but in the case of queers , we may also identify with the expansive , figurally complex sociability suggested by some element of the wedding ritual . Many contemporary weddings , that is , suggest provocative visions of what the wedding itself might do beyond inaugurating a marriage ; indeed , some of the richest contemporary images of weddings have little to do with gay or straight unions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( as in the scuba , nudist , or bungee-jumping weddings of the 1970s and 1980s ) , quite a few mass-mediated wedding spectacles of the last decade or so dramatize ties altogether outside of , beyond , or even antithetical to couplehood itself . For instance , the wedding has become a means of figuring and performing a relationship between persons and objects . A recent television ad for the Mazda automobile features a woman in full bridal regalia , sans groom , promising to " love , honor , and obey " in a vow that cuts two ways : in order to drive the car she must submit to its superior technology , yet that very technology enables the car to respond to her driving technique . This wedding registers the possibility of will , of intentionality , of savoir faire in a material landscape , of mastering consumer culture 's vast terrain . Using the wedding to link people and objects seems also to create a space of permission to publicize other social ties-friendships , extended family , nonparental intergenerational commitments , subcultural alliances , and so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women 's sportswear shows a group of girls playing soccer , accompanied by a voice-over of females chanting wedding vows . Rather than a kiss passing from lip to lip , the soccer ball passing from Nike-clad foot to foot bonds the girls ; the exhortation to " love , honor , and obey " portrays teamwork in terms of emotional ties rather than political or even athletic goals . Accompanied by another chant ( say , the pledge of allegiance ) , the soccer game might be a figure for feminist activism in the civic sphere . But it would lose the erotic torque it gains from the wedding vows , which make the game into a specifically feminine expression of same-sex bonding , both suggesting and deflecting lesbian possibilities . This overproduction of weddings seems odd in a country that has , since the formation of the New England colonies that count as the official beginning of its history , purported to follow a juridical rather than religious model in the making of its marriages . The civil courts have the last word on the validity of nuptial unions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insisted that marriage ceremonies take place in secular spaces , in front of lay officials rather than clergy . Given this history , one would think that residents of the United States could do without weddings altogether , simply registering partnerships the way they register births , voter status , automobiles , and patents ; this is more or less the aim of the contemporary movement to extend legal and economic benefits to domestic partnerships or registered households . One might even expect to see long-term commitment dissociated altogether from state law , so that the decision to share living facilities , property , sexual pleasure , or child-rearing obligations with another person would be irrelevant to the governmental distribution of benefits and privileges . Yet neither the reformist domestic partnership movement nor the more radical argument for disestablishing marriage takes seriously the need for whatever it is that weddings do : at the very least , they at once symbolize and multiply social ties , work in and with time , allow someone to be the star of a show , suggest the possibility of bodily and social transformations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with . Since the mid-1930s , the wedding industry has capitalized on these needs in order to promote an endless variety of goods and services . More recently , the national gay movement has tapped into these needs to advocate for the extension of rights and privileges to same-sex couples . Concurrently , the wedding seems to work as an emblem for the condition of belonging to constituencies beyond ( if also sometimes constitutively connected to ) the male-female couple : to proper gender , extended family , ethnic or religious constituencies , the nation , or a particular niche market . Yet , rather than producing these latter forms of belonging as homologous to couplehood-so that couplehood becomes , as Doris Sommer puts it , " the shorthand for human association " - the wedding often inadvertently plays forms of belonging against one another , so that the icons of one social configuration question the centrality of another . Relatedly , some of the wedding 's specifically temporal operations may actually undermine its seemingly monumental ability to reduce a variety of social matrices to mere extensions of the marital dyad . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wedding , at least provisionally , from its ostensible purpose of inaugurating a marriage . For if marriage is still imaginable without a " proper " wedding-as in a common-law union or courthouse registration-a wedding is supposed to serve as the inevitable precursor to a marriage . Yet the examples above , and most of the texts this book examines , partially or completely sunder the wedding from its legal ramifications , reveling in the expressive , theatrical , and symbolic aspects of the ritual . Focusing on the wedding itself reveals possibilities that are lost when the purpose and result of " wedding " is presumed to be marriage as domestic law defines it : a monogamous , enduring , opposite-sex dyad with biological reproduction as its ostensible raison d'tre . By undoing this presumption , texts that foreground the wedding as a production return to and rework the possibilities embedded in the ritual itself , asking in what ways the kinds of weddings people have , or dream of having , or thought they had , might be indices for forms of social life made possible in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment but not another-or might even be avatars for changes in what Raymond Williams calls " structures of feeling , " new senses of collective being felt viscerally , in advance of their institutionalization in discourse . In short , the desire for the symbolic apparatus that is the wedding and the legal apparatus that is marriage can not be reduced to one another . It is important to at least momentarily unchain the wedding from marriage or even couplehood and to explore the dynamic between weddings and the marriages they supposedly stand for or produce . In 1991 , Su Friedrich made a film that did just that . First Comes Love premiered at that year 's New York Lesbian and Gay Experimental Film Festival , where some audience members complained that it was merely an advertisement for the gay marriage movement . Shot in shimmery black-and-white , 16-millimeter film , this twenty-two-minute montage of four Italian Catholic weddings , interrupted by textual statements about same-sex marriage , does at first glance Seem to traffic in mere envy of heterosexuality rather than critique it and to promote couplehood over other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , the bride and groom are seen from high above , standing at the altar , with the white aisle runner bisecting the frame and Richard Wagner 's " Bridal Chorus " as the sound track . This music fades into the sounds of Gladys Knight singing " It Could 've Been Me . " Here , the filmmaker seems to " fall into line with the ritual , " as one reviewer asserts , aligning bride and groom , image and sound , visual splendor and emotional fulfillment in exactly the way that marriage is supposed to align two people with each other and the state . The altar scene cuts to an intertitle that reads , " If two men or two women wanted to legalize their commitment to each other , for any reason , they would be denied this privilege in the following countries . " This text is followed by a three-minute-long , alphabetized list of nations from Afghanistan to Zimbabwe . In a white typeface against a black background , the intertitle creates a column in the very center of the screen , exactly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and replaces the wedding processional as the words stream upward and out the top of the frame . This text steals the whiteness and symmetry of the wedding to articulate what the viewer can now recognize as a new global political order . The alphabetical listing of these locales in a column aligns them along an axis other than the ones that officially conjoin nations , like geographic proximity , trade agreements , monetary systems , political theory , or religious ideology-specifically , that of monogamous heterosexual marriage . Depicting a " mass wedding " of individual countries into a world ordered by hetero-marital supremacy , First Comes Love is a momentary reminder that marriage is not only a relation between two people but also part of the process by which states ally with one another and create new citizens , especially through reciprocal immigration policies that naturalize " foreign " spouses . Thus Friedrich 's elaborate engagement with the wedding ceremony might in fact serve a certain global sexual imperialism , promoting marital couplehood as a regime of sensation , subjectivity , and social affinity that can cut across existing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sexual orientation to produce something like a spousal planet . But this possibility is exactly what the film slowly unsettles , for it actually dramatizes the wedding as a queer counterpossibility to what it has pointedly demarcated as a multinational association of hetero-supremacist countries . On the formal level , First Comes Love breaks down the wedding , providing opportunities for reading it as a scene in which identity and belonging can be complicated rather than simplified , and alternative affinities between people can be distinguished from rather than merged with a new marital world order . This breakdown begins with the film 's opening . Over the words " First Comes Love ... a film by Su Friedrich , " children 's voices chant a rhyme : " Lisa and George sittin ' in a tree . K-I-S-S-I-N-G . First comes love , then comes marriage , then comes Lisa with a baby carriage . " Narrating a male-female romance that ends as usual , with the woman doing all the child care , this chant is certainly a primer for compulsory heterosexuality . But the title " First Comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ellipsis for the inevitable progression from kissing , to love , to marriage , to reproduction , to the asymmetrical allocation of gendered tasks . On the one hand , Friedrich certainly seems to intend the ellipsis to figure the lack of legal sanction for same-sex couplehood : for lesbian and gay partners , the title suggests , first comes love , then comes nothing . Certainly the chant that follows the title might be filled in with new content , like " Wendy and Lisa " or " Gilbert and George . " Yet the ellipsis also creates a space of possibility wherein the temporal logic of the chant might be undermined : " First Comes Love ... " and next , or before , comes what ? In other words , what is missing is not just the legal status of " marriage " but the seriality and causal logic of " then . " Rather than simply repeating the chant with a lesbian difference , though , Friedrich undermines its progressive narrative with her camera work . She shoots the weddings from the position of what one reviewer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ window . " As an " anthropologist , " of course , she reverses the power relations of ethnographic filmmaking by voyeuristically examining the dominant straight culture from a marginal point of view . But as a " kid , " she also aims to suture the viewer into the " before , " the infantilized subject position of someone who can not enter into the wedding 's symbolics or fits imperfectly into its pageant . From the sound of children 's voices chanting a progression they can not yet enact , the film segues to its opening shot of two children . Later , the image of a little girl climbing rather laboriously up the church steps cuts to one of the bridesmaids ascending much more smoothly . In other scenes , Friedrich focuses on details that only someone of a child 's height would see straight on or she positions the camera from about three feet off the ground . First Comes Love , in short , uses the child as a figure for the polymorphous desires as well as prior personal and collective histories that marriage aims to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below or behind , in a position of longing and incomprehension , halts the developmental logic of the playground chant , for that " first " point of view returns again and again .                     