@@28897

Chapter One Return A bird soared over the city . Its eyes sought out a figure in the throng on the docks , one man amidst the teeming surge of humanity occupying the harborside during the busiest part of the day . The Port of Roldem , harbor to the capital city of the island kingdom of the same name , was one of the most crowded in the Sea of Kingdoms . Trade goods and passengers from the Empire of Great Kesh , the Kingdom of the Isles , and half a dozen lesser nations nearby came and went daily . The man under scrutiny wore the travel clothes of a noble , all sturdy weave and easily cleaned , with fastenings that allowed him to remain comfortable in all weathers . He sported a jacket designed to be worn off the left shoulder , leaving his sword arm unencumbered . Upon his head was a black beret adorned with a silver pin and a single grey feather , and upon his feet he wore sturdy boots . His luggage was being offloaded and would be conveyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ servant , which while unusual for a noble , was not unheard of  --  for not all nobles were wealthy . He paused for a brief second to drink in the sights . Around him people scurried : porters , sailors , stevedores , and teamsters . Wagons loaded so high their wheels appeared on the verge of buckling rolled slowly by him , cargo heading into the city or out to the ferry barges that would load them onto outbound ships . Roldem was a busy port by any standard ; not only were goods delivered here , but also transshipped , for Roldem was the trading capital of the Sea of Kingdoms . Everywhere the young man looked , he saw commerce . Men bargaining over the cost of goods to be sold in distant markets , others negotiating the price of offloading a cargo , or insuring one against pirates or loss at sea . Still others were agents of trading concerns eagerly watching for any sign that might prove an advantage to their sponsors , men who sat in coffee houses as far away as Krondor or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away from where the young man now stood . They would dispatch young boys with notes , who would run to those men who awaited news on arriving cargo , men trying to sense a shift in a distant market before buying or selling . The young man resumed his walk and avoided a gang of urchins dashing past with determined boyish purpose . He forced himself not to pat his purse , for he knew it was still where it was supposed to be , but there was always the possibility the boys were sent by a gang of pickpockets on the lookout for a fat purse to rob . The young man kept his eyes moving , seeking out any potential threat . He saw only bakers and street vendors , travelers and a pair of guardsmen . It was exactly who he would have expected to see in the crowd on Roldem 's docks . Looking down from above , the soaring bird saw in the press of the crowd that another man moved along a parallel course and at the same pace as the young noble . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tall traveler with dark hair who moved like a predator , easily keeping his eye upon the other man , but using passersby as cover , dodging effortlessly through the crowd , never falling behind , but never getting close enough to be discovered . The young noble was fair-skinned but sun-browned , his blue eyes squinting against the day 's glare . It was late summer in Roldem , and the dawn mists and fog had fled , burned off by mid-morning to a brilliant sunny sky , made tolerable by a light wind off the sea . Trudging up the hill from the harbor , the noble whistled a nameless tune as he sought out his old quarters , a three-bedroom flat above a moneylender 's home . He knew he was being followed , for he was as adept a hunter as any man living . Talon of the Silver Hawk , last of the Orosini , servant of the Conclave of Shadows , had returned to Roldem . Here he was Talwin Hawkins  --  distant cousin to Lord Seljan Hawkins , Baron of the Prince 's Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Bellcastle , Baronet of Silverlake  --  estates producing almost no income  --  and he was vassal to the Baron of Ylith ; a former Bannerette Knight Lieutenant under the command of the Duke of Yabon , Tal Hawkins was a young man of some rank and little wealth . For almost two years he had been absent from the scene of his most significant public triumph , winning the tournament at the Masters ' Court , thus earning the title of World 's Greatest Swordsman . Cynical despite his youth , he tried to keep the illusion of superiority in perspective  --  he had been the best of the several hundred entrants who had come to Roldem for the contest , but that hardly convinced him he was the best in the world . He had no doubt there was some soldier on a distant battlement or mercenary riding guard duty somewhere who could cut him up for fish bait given the chance ; but fortunately they had n't entered the contest . For a brief instant , Tal wondered if fate would allow him to return to Roldem in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was but twenty-three years of age , so it would be only circumstance that would prevent him from returning to Roldem . Should he do so , he hoped the contest would be less eventful than the last . Two men had died by his sword during the matches  --  a very rare and usually regrettable outcome . Nevertheless , Tal had felt no regret , since one of the men had been among those responsible for the destruction of his nation , and the other had been an assassin sent to kill him . Memories of assassins turned his mind to the man following him ... Continues ...                     