@@26664

Measle and the Wrathmonk Chapter One The Horrible House Measle Stubbs was ten and a half years old . He was small , thin and bony . He had a short snub nose , a pair of eyes colored a deep emerald green and ( when he felt like it ) a wide and friendly smile . His hair was brown and stood up all over his head in spiky tufts . It was the oddest haircut  --  long where it should have been short , short where it should have been long  --  and the reason it was like this was because Measle cut his hair himself , using a blunt and rusty kitchen knife , with which he sawed and hacked at his hair whenever it got so long that it fell in his eyes . Apart from having the most uneven haircut imaginable , his hair also had n't been washed in a very long time . Neither had his clothes , and sometimes he smelled pretty bad , particularly when the weather was warm . It was n't warm very often where Measle Stubbs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house . The horrible house was at the far end of a dreary , dirty street full of dreary , dirty houses , but three things set it apart from all the others . The first was the way it looked  --  all black , with a tall , pointed roof , tall , dark , narrow windows like blind eyes and tall , soot-caked chimneys that were like dirty fingers pointing at the sky . It looked like something bad had happened in it  --  and , quite possibly , something bad could happen in it again tomorrow . The second thing was that it was the only house that was occupied . All the other houses had been deserted by their owners long ago and their doors and windows boarded over . The third thing was also the strangest : all day and all night , winter , summer , autumn and spring , there was a small , black cloud that hung , never moving , over the dismal roof , dribbling a steady , constant stream of rain that fell only on the house where Measle Stubbs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the street . The house belonged to Basil Tramplebone , and Basil Tramplebone was Measle Stubbs 's legal guardian . Measle lived in the house with just his legal guardian for company , and his legal guardian was n't good company at all . He was very tall and thin and he always wore black clothes . A black coat and a black shirt and a black tie ; black trousers and black socks and black shoes . His greasy hair was black , and he parted it in the middle and plastered it down on his head with black shoe polish . The only things that were n't black about him were his face and his hands : Basil 's face was very white , as though all the blood had been drained out and replaced with milk . His eyes were like fish eyes  --  staring and blank and very , very cold . His long , bony hands were the color of candles , and the skin was so dry that it rustled when he rubbed his palms together , which he did when he was pleased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rustling noise did n't happen very often . If the outside of Basil Tramplebone 's house was grim and gloomy and depressingly ugly , the inside was even worse . All the rooms in the house smelled bad  --  each one in a different way  --  and most of them frightened Measle half to death . He certainly did n't dare go into the room that was supposed to be his bedroom . There was a huge black oak wardrobe in there , full of clothes that were n't his . They felt damp and smelled of mildew . Once Measle had gotten up enough courage to sort through the clothes . He stopped when he found the jacket . It was made of some sort of rough material and it had three sleeves  --  two in the usual places and a third that stuck out at the back . When he finally got up the courage to ask Basil about it , Basil told him to mind his own business  --  but if he must know , all the clothes in the wardrobe had been left there over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were , perhaps , a little different . The wardrobe was in one dark corner of the bedroom , and a great , black bed that looked like a coffin was in the other . There were black velvet curtains over the windows and the glass in the windows was painted black , so you could n't see out at all . What with the black painted walls and ceiling and floorboards , it was one of the gloomiest rooms you can imagine , and one that would certainly give you nightmares if you tried to sleep in it  --  so Measle did n't try at all . Instead , he slept on a pile of old rags in the kitchen , right up by the ancient iron stove , which was the only place in that horrible house that was at all warm . Measle hated Basil Tramplebone and , of course , Basil Tramplebone hated Measle , because Basil hated everybody . He only looked after Measle because Measle 's mother and father had been killed by an encounter with a deadly snake when Measle was four years old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the deadly snake had come from Basil who , in Measle 's experience , always told the truth . His parents had left a lot of money in the bank and now it was all Measle 's , but a judge had said that Measle was too young to have control of all that money and to live by himself and had appointed Basil  --  who said he was Measle Stubbs 's fourth cousin twelve times removed and , therefore , Measle 's closest living relative  --  to look after him and his money . The odd thing was that the judge had looked a little like Basil . The same black clothes , the same cold , fishy eyes , the same white , white face . He 'd even talked a bit like Basil , too  --  and every time he 'd looked at Basil , he 'd smiled like a crocodile , as if he was approving of everything that Basil said .                     