@@26969

Chapter One The Last Link Fidelis walked home from the great war in twelve days and slept thirty-eight hours once he crawled into his childhood bed . When he woke in Germany in late November of the year 1918 , he was only a few centimeters away from becoming French on Clemenceau and Wilson 's redrawn map , a fact that mattered nothing compared to what there might be to eat . He pushed aside the white eiderdown that his mother had aired and restuffed every spring since he was six years old . Although she had tried with repeated scrubbings to remove from its cover the stains of a bloody nose he 'd suffered at thirteen , the faint spot was still there , faded to a pale tea-brown and shaped like a jagged nest . He smelled food cooking  --  just a paltry steam but enough to inspire optimism . Potatoes maybe . A bit of soft cheese . An egg ? He hoped for an egg . The bed was commodious , soft , and after his many strange and miserable beds of the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he 'd shuddered when first lying down . Fidelis had fallen asleep to the sound of his mother 's quiet , full , joyous weeping . He thought he still heard her now , but it was the sunlight . The light pouring through the curtains made a liquid sound , he thought , an emotional and female sound as it moved across the ivory wall . After a while he decided that he heard the light because he was clean . Disorientingly clean . Two nights ago , before he 'd entered the house , he begged to bathe in a washtub out in the tiny roofed courtyard , beneath the grape arbor . They built a fire to warm the water . His sister , Maria Theresa , picked the lice from his hair and his father brought freshclothing . In order to endure all that the war necessitated , including his own filth , Fidelis had shut down his senses . As he opened to the world again , everything around him was distressingly intense and all things were possessed of feeling , alive , as in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sounds , people outside in the streets , seemed marvelous as the chatter of rare monkeys . A thrill of delight crashed through him . Even to put on his clean and vermin-free clothing was a task so full of meaning that the fastening of his grandfather 's gold boar's-head cuff-links nearly made him weep . Breathing low , he collected himself , and stilled his tears with the power of his quietness . Ever since he was a child , when sorrow had come down upon him , he 'd breathed lightly and gone motionless . As a young soldier , he 'd known from the first that in his talent for stillness lay the key to his survival . It had carried him through the war as a pitifully green recruit of whom it was soon discovered that , from a sniping post , he could drill a man 's eye at 100 meters and make three of five shots . Now that he was home , he understood , he must still be vigilant . Memories would creep up on him , emotions sabotage his thinking brain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was far too much to feel , so he must seek , he thought , only shallow sensations . Now he tried to adjust . He must slowly awaken even to this childhood room he knew so well . He sat down at the edge of the bed . On a thick shelf set into the wall , his books stood in lines , or stacked as he 'd left them , marked with thin strips of paper . For a time , though his occupation was assured , he 'd cherished the vision of himself as a poet . Therefore his shelves were stacked with volumes of his heroes , Goethe , Heine , Rilke , and even Trakl , hidden behind the others . He looked at them now with dull curiosity . How could he ever have cared what such men said ? What did their words matter ? His childhood history was also in this room , his toy soldiers still arranged on the sill . And his young man 's pride : his diplomas and his guild papers framed on the wall . These things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survival . In the closet , his bleached , starched , and pressed white shirts hung ready to embrace him . His polished shoes waited on the shelf beneath for the old Fidelis to put his feet into them . Gingerly , Fidelis tried to slide his feet into the open maws of the stiff shoes , but they would n't go . His feet were swollen , tender from frostbite , peeling , painful . Only his hobnailed boots fit , and they were green inside and stank of rot . Slowly , he turned to contemplate the day . His bedroom window was a long , golden rectangle . He rose and opened the window , using the ram's-horn curl of its handle , and looked out , over Ludwigsruhe 's slow , brown river , over the roofs and dead late-fall gardens on its opposite bank , across a patchwork of tender , gray fields , and then a tiny complex of roofs and chimneys beyond . Somewhere in that next town 's maze lived the woman he had never met before , but had promised to visit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intensity . His thoughts formed questions . What was she doing now ? Had she a garden ? Was she gathering the final few dusty potatoes from a small , raised , straw-covered berm ? Was she hanging out her laundry fresh and white on a piece of icy rope ? Was she talking , over tea , to her sister , her mother ? Was she singing to herself ? And his own presence , what he had promised to tell her . How could he go through with it , and also , how could he not ? Eva Kalb , 17 Eulenstrasse . Fidelis stood before the blond-brick walkway , frowning at the frail cast-iron arbor that marked the entrance . The ironwork was threaded with the tough overgrowth of climbing rose stalks ...                     