@@26900

London May 9 , 1810 An Ordinary Wednesday , or at Least One Presumes So If one were going to define what gave a family that air of prestige amongst their peers , set them apart in the bustling ton , first and foremost you would list those admirable qualities of respectability , social standing , and , most importantly , wealth . Of course none of those things described the Earl of Walbrook or any of his five children -- with the possible exception of the earl 's eldest son and heir , Sebastian Marlowe , Viscount Trent . But we 'll get to him in a moment . Luckily for the Marlowes , they rarely noticed their pariah status in Society . Snippy mentions in gossip columns were of no interest to them . And if they had a host of detractors , they had one very enthusiastic admirer . Miss Charlotte Wilmont . She thought them the most glorious family in London . Why , their cluttered house on Berkeley Square , which housed the odd objects that the earl sent home from his travels , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private theatrical productions , Griffin 's scientific experiments , Cordelia 's Roman treasures , and Hermione and Viola 's collections of neatly clipped fashion plates from The Ladies Fashionable Cabinet , was more oddmuseum than house , but it felt like home to Charlotte . Even now , standing in the middle of the foyer , awaiting her best friend , Lady Hermione , and dreading the terrible news she had to tell her , Charlotte could n't help but feel a sense that she , plain and ordinary Miss Wilmont , belonged here . She could just imagine what her mother , Lady Wilmont , or Cousin Finella , with whom they lived , would say about that . Especially when faced with the ornately carved chest that stood front and center in the entryway , decorated as it was with a rather large male fertility statue standing tall and erect atop it . The ebony phallus would have been banished to the dustbin at Cousin Finella 's . Feeling a little bit guilty for even casting a curious glance in its direction , Charlotte forced her gaze over to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was with mail and notes and calling cards for the family . Envy tugged at her heart over the sight of such a friendly pile -- for no one invited her to soirees and parties , called upon her cantankerous mother ( for good reason ) , or sent lovingly penned letters expressing whatever it was one put into such tidings . Surely Charlotte did n't know . No one had ever sent her a letter . And atop it all sat the most coveted missive of all -- an invitation to Lady Routledge 's soiree . Though Hermione had spent the last month expressing dread over having to attend the upcoming event , Charlotte knew her dear friend would have been positively distraught not to be invited . For Lady Routledge 's annual evening had launched any number of young ladies from veritable obscurity onto that very coveted pedestal , the most sought after title a girl could attain : that of Original . But to do that took a lady of some talent -- able to sing , perhaps a dab hand on a pianoforte , or possess the composure to give a stirring and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did n't stop any number of hopefuls from getting up ( or more to the point , being prodded up by their anxious mothers ) and giving a rather , ahem , memorable performance . Having had only lessons from Cousin Finella on the pianoforte , and neither an elocution or singing lesson , Charlotte would rather die than get up before the assembled ladies and lords , gossips and dandies , and make a cake of herself . So perhaps it was a good thing that society had forgotten Sir Nestor Wilmont 's spinster daughter . She was about to turn away from the overladen salver when a note peeking out from beneath the stack caught her attention , a tiding written in a neat feminine hand and addressed to The Right Hon. the Viscount Trent . Sebastian , Charlotte sighed . Hermione 's older brother and the heir to the Walbrook earldom . Even as Charlotte rose up on her tiptoes and tried to spy some sort of indication who this missive was from ( not that she could n't make a very educated guess ) , the door @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ straightened immediately , and to her horror , none other than Lord Trent himself strolled into the foyer . He was lost in thought and did n't even notice her as she shrank into the nearby curtains . With his arrival , Charlotte went into a deep blush and that tongue-tied inability to sputter out any word that could be deemed intelligible . Oh , bother , Charlotte , she chided herself , say something , anything . What was it Hermione always said ? Truly , Charlotte , if you would but talk to him you would discover he is as dull as they come . Mother swears her real son was snatched away at birth and Sebastian left in his stead , for no child of hers could possess such a sensible nature ! A sensible nature ? How could Hermione pronounce such a virtue as if it were a sin ? Charlotte wondered as she peered out from the shadows of the curtains . Certainly Sebastian 's sensibility was one of his most endearing characteristics in her estimation . He 'd taken over the family accounts and properties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his South Seas adventures ten years earlier . While the viscount 's peers and friends had spent the last decade gadding about , Sebastian had kept the Marlowes afloat with careful management and a tight purse over his mother 's and sisters ' propensity for shopping . Why , just look at what had happened to Charlotte and her mother when her own father had died ! There had been no one to manage things , and as a result they lived with Cousin Finella . And when Hermione exceeded her pin money , or one of Griffin 's scientific experiments went awry and left half of Mayfair shaken from yet another explosion , or Viola brought home yet another stray dog , did Sebastian ever complain ? Did he harangue them with lectures ? . . . Continues ...                     