@@33079

Samarkand Update ( after Clark Ashton Smith ) In one corner of the main waiting room of a vast , five-sided bus depot , which is one of thirteen sharply peaked structures rising above the terrain , that highly disciplined bands of hooded and numbered gnomes erected along the Silk Road last spring , two winged creatures squat comfortably within their voluminous cotton robes . Identical yellow and blue diamond patterns , they are not a design but some kind of signal or beacon . Three large red moths hover above them . On each wing there appears to be an eye , almond shaped and outlined in fine black dust , which reminds the figure ( the reader ) , who is sitting almost directly opposite the winged creatures ( pages of text ) , of certain nearly forgotten icons . Huddled at one end of a long wooden bench ( or pew ) , each creature carefully pores over a large oblong octavo , its pages filled with vertical rolls of helical script . Pages reading pages . The beginning of a hall of mirrors into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cantelopes . Symmetrical cerulean blue butterfly stain on wall between two onyx inlaid doors leading to overlapping tings of arrival and departure platforms . Arranged on the flanking windowsills , an anonymous tribute ; two rows of nine emerald-colored lizards lying on their backs . Between these offerings , mounted on the wall directly behind the winged figures , is a row of black-and-white photographs taken in one of the three documentary styles that briefly delighted the inhabitants of thesurrounding villages . Seven celebrated eunuchs stare at the ball of bright air gathered before their unblinking eyes , the formal pose of their bald heads and wrinkled countenances frozen in the photograph 's collective memory of what a locked room crammed with labeled jars preserves for all eternity in the irregularly numbered vaults carved into the granite substrata beneath the palace basement . Outside the bus depot , one can hear a crow singing , possibly the one that has been genetically altered ; it is covered with a cloak of red feathers and punctuated by a long gold beak . It is said that if one listens carefully to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where presence and absence barter over what 's to be exchanged . It is said that he wants to reclaim a body he longer remembers possessing , a body that he believes existed in the cold corridors of his past . Others claim , however , that to satisfactorily interpret the crow 's song is to exile him from this cylindrical forest , its dense calligraphy , and that whatever words one hears in his cawing are the last and first noises you made in your sleep . Copied from the Margins A gouged wall or scratched mirror or both . A pool of brocade swallows in imported smoking jackets . This anthracite shatter was supposed to have been excised pages ago , about the time dinosaurs were abducted by cartoonists in tall rubber boots . Pried loose from every book of handkerchief candy . Copied from the Margin 2 Candle smoke coagulates on uneven surface face of a heavenly cloud , its shifting plumage . We drop the postcard into a box . Later we boarded a cart headed for the airport . A red cart . A red cart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the afternoon sun . When it is a plum floating in peach nectar injected with streaks of delicious poison . Who has time to remember all this someone shouted , arms outstretched , neck muscles pulsing to the digital watch surgically embedded in his right eye . And so we waved good-bye to the dogs before they got too juiced . Swan I drifted through a string of sand-clogged towns , an ejected blue deity . I got plopped on every floor . I toured the shovel factory and kissed a row of obedient mitten warmers . It was n't enough to satisfy the supplicants , their mouths busy forming the platitudes by which they raised themselves from the nearly alive but not quite dead status . I climbed through the rungs in a zoo . I embraced statues after I gouged out their eyes .                     