@@31118

You should always wear a helmet when riding a bicycle . The helmet should fit snugly . The chin strap should hold firmly against the throat . The buckle should be fastened securely . Consider this : last year there were 11 bike accidents in Iceland , 371 in France and 97 in England . I have no statistics from Holland , but surely , if I had been riding my bicycle on its flat land , I would have been spared my tragedy . The same can not be said about my place of origin . Nothing could have prepared me for it . Not even the helmet I took on my impossible tour from Mount Barouk to Beirut : a 71-kilometer calamitous road with a stretch of cedar trees on one side and flustered sheep on the other . There are few bicycles here . The main medium of movement remains the Mercedes 240D , with the runty Fiat coming in a close second . The cars cruise past the woolly sheep , with speeds in excess of an armored Hummer , their wheels rolling over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter . I wanted this trip to be a trying hadj . In the West , you call it a pilgrimage . I 'll spare you the grisly details of my surgery , except to say that the butcher who sent me into my torpid sleep sliced a section of my gray matter like a knife-wielding chef about to serve a cold-cut platter . I now spend my days in a bed . My head is shaved . My limbs are sore and my face , which in normal times has a chocolate hue , is bludgeoned blue . My mouth smells like fermented lentil stew . My portly build has turned pita thin , the round bread I ate as a tubby kid . My diet is more severe than any I ever went on . I 'm fed twenty-four hours a day , intravenously . In the morning , the nurse checks the tracheotomy . By noontime , the spectators flock in : sweet and sour faces from around the world ; more friends , more family . A cauldron of compassion . It 's the most unappetizing part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hard prison of my head I can actually see them and hear everything they say . Little do they know that my typically lucid thoughts still race through my head with unparalleled speed , shifting into a lull only when I fall asleep . On the outside , I 'm cool and composed : unable to swivel my neck or tongue , or , for that matter , any other part of my body . Not even my fiercely autonomous pinky . Yet every afternoon , when Ghaemi Basmati crawls into my room , my heart beats faster . Even before our calculated crime , our fates were intertwined like grapevines .                     