@@33911

Chapter 1 " Oh my God , David . " Alyson Keeler sobbed uncontrollably at her gruesome discovery . " Come here , quickly , " she pleaded , her body trembling . Alyson had soft blond hair with streaks of chestnut , worn slightly above her shoulders . Her large hazel eyes were deeply set above high cheekbones in an oval-shaped face . Her aquiline nose was neatly sculpted , and her lips were drawn up in what seemed to be a perpetual smile . She was very pretty , perhaps even beautiful , but this morning her lovely face was twisted by fear , contorted with revulsion at the sight of what lay on the ground only a few feet away from where she stood . She looked at the bodies lying there and then looked away , only to look back again . She repeated this sequence a few times until her fianc , twenty-three-year-old David Rapp , joined her and held her closely , protectively . The bodies of two young men , who appeared to be in their early thirties , lay there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A brief glance might have suggested that they were lost in contemplation of their majestic surroundings . But on close examination , each man had a bullet hole on the left side of his temple , haloed with a small pool of coagulated , frozen blood . Alyson Keeler , twenty-one years old , was a sophomore at the Stony Brook campus of SUNY , or the State University of New York , located in Long Island 's Suffolk County . She was enrolled in the school 's premed honors program . David was in his third year of premed at the same school . They had driven earlier that morning to Robert Moses State Park , named for New York 's notorious master builder . They arrived early enough to see daybreak . It was their favorite time of day at their favorite place . Alyson 's shocking discovery was two dead men dressed in denim shirts and trousers . They wore canvas jackets with cheap imitation black fur collars and sleeves . Their footwear was worn black work boots . When she had somewhat recovered , Alyson used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Alyson 's call to the Suffolk County 911 Police Emergency Operation Center was transmitted to a police car patrolling the perimeter of the park , every emergency unit with a police monitoring scanner would , with flashing red lights and blasting sirens , begin to roar toward Robert Moses State Park . Police cruisers from both the Suffolk County Police Department and the New York State Police , fire engines , emergency medical vans , and investigators from the Suffolk County district attorney 's office would soon be joined by a full armada of news media . Two murdered men found five days before Christmas in a crime free suburban state park was a twenty-four-hour news story . Who these murdered men were would only increase the interest . The first responding police officers notified their patrol sergeant . " We got two male Hispanics , apparently shot to death with one bullet each to the head . It looks like they were carried here from the main road after they were shot . We found pay stubs-probably their own-from a factory in Brooklyn on each of the bodies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's cable television Channel 21 , was the first reporter to hear the call over his police scanner , which was mounted on the dashboard of his mobile van , along with his unauthorized red police emergency light . Leon had been a police reporter for more than a dozen years , having spent much of his early days with the now-defunct Long Island Press . His heavy drinking and chain-smoking were habits he intentionally acquired trying to fit the image of a hard-bitten , leather-tough street crime reporter . These abuses were having predictable results on Ned Leon , who was afflicted with chronic coughing and bleeding ulcers and the sad and drawn look of an old man . Leon and , for that matter , all so-called police reporters loved the trappings or the instruments of police authority . Some carried phony police badges , and some even carried licensed guns . They flaunted these symbols , without having to deal with the awesome responsibilities and the dangers faced by real cops . Still , Ned was respected by the cops and the other police reporters because he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ability to analyze raw data often led to the solution of a case before an arrest was made . Two Hispanics killed execution style in 1990 meant one of only two things to Ned Leon : These two victims were taken out in a bad drug deal in Brooklyn , or the murders were racially motivated . A veteran reporter like Leon , whose workday went from idle speculation to the ugly reality of homicide , abused wives , and abandoned kids , could not conceive of any other reason . Since the factory where the two murdered brothers , Hiram and Ramon Rodriguez , were employed was in a notorious Brooklyn neighborhood where drug related murder was commonplace , and since race relations in New York City , and even its eastern neighbor counties of Nassau and Suffolk , could not have been worse , Ned Leon 's guesses were not merely cynical . But his conclusion was n't even close . " Jimmy , " said Suffolk County Police Chief of Detectives Phil Pitelli , " my homicide detectives think that those two guys we found in Moses State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " What proof do they have ? " DA James Crowley demanded . " Frankly , " Pitelli responded slowly , " they do n't have much other than a few facts and a cop 's instincts . The ME places the time of death , based on the degree of rigor mortis , sometime between six and eight hours before the bodies were discovered . Since the victims were from Brooklyn , my guys figure that they were killed there and brought to Moses to be dumped . " Pitelli waited for DA Crowley to respond . When he did n't , the chief continued . " The doc retrieved two rounds , one from the head of each victim . Our ballistics lab identified the rounds as those used in a .38-caliber Police Special , which , as you know , is a revolver issued to the NYPD . And then there 's this : A gas station attendant on the Northern State Parkway gave a fill-up to a guy in a van about two in the morning of the twentieth , the day the bodies were found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that the two passengers in the van also looked like cops . Finally , the attendant said that when the driver took out his wallet to pay for the gas he had a gun butt protruding from his waistband . " " Well , " Crowley observed , " now if we only had a confession . " " Now , Jimmy , " Pitelli scolded , " just be patient . My guys are working with the NYPD 's Internal Affairs . Who knows , if we get the right photo maybe we 'll have your confession . " " Why not ? " replied Crowley . " With thirty thousand city cops , maybe you 'll get lucky and give me that confession before my term ends in ' 93. "                     