@@26857

Faith Sibley Fairchild stared out the train window , the book she had brought to while away the trip resting unopened in her lap . The scenery was n't particularly engrossing -- yards backing up to the tracks , some with fences or hedges in an attempt to block the view and every so often a town center , a glimpse of a bandstand in the middle of a green or a white clapboard church with a spire , followed by a row of pines . A New England flip book . The churches reminded Faith of First Parish in Aleford , Massachusetts , where her husband , the Reverend Thomas Fairchild , tended the spiritual needs of the community while Faith quite literally catered to its physical well-being , continuing the business she had started in her native New York City in the late 1980s . Her clientele looked different -- if a man was in a tux and a woman in a gown it was either the opening night of the Boston Symphony or a wedding -- but the food was of the same quality . It was n't a question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serving them at all . June had finally arrived and the flickering shades of green outside were deeply comforting after a winter of record snowfall that had stretched well into April . The cold had clung to May , and Faith found herself placing her palm on the window to feel the warmth of the day 's bright sunshine . She was alonein the row of seats that stretched to both sides of the aisle . Later trains would be packed as Bostonians headed north for weekends by the shore . Alone . This was such an unusual state of affairs that she was n't quite sure what she was feeling . When she was n't involved with Tom and their two children , eleven-year-old Ben and eight-year-old Amy , she was at work with her staff or active in other Aleford pursuits that mostly revolved around the church and the kids ' school . Technology meant she was always within reach . She slipped her cell out of her purse . No service . She smiled . What she was feeling snapped into focus as fast as the TGV , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paris to Lyon . Faith felt absolutely wonderful , suspended for a few brief hours with no responsibilities whatsoever . Wonderful . The book slipped unnoticed to the floor . The train was making that clickety-clack train noise that never failed to excite her , bringing with it the notion of all those other trains -- Trans Siberian , Orient Express , Canadian Pacific -- and trips , some imagined ; some real . She was back in Grand Central Station with her sister , Hope , one year younger , pulling away from their parents to spot Camp Merrydale 's banner , darting toward it squealing excitedly with several dozen other girls , accompanied by counselors who already looked exhausted . Another journey . One of her camp friends lived outside Philadelphia , and twice a year Faith would be placed on the train in Penn Station and be met at the 30th Street Station in Philly . She could still remember the names of the stops on the way and her disappointment when she discovered that Cherry Hill , New Jersey , bore little resemblance to what she had been envisioning -- a town filled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She 'd missed the glory days of train travel , Faith thought regretfully . The Twentieth Century from New York to Chicago . Nick and Nora Charles traveling coast to coast in style with Vuitton steamer trunks and martinis in the club car . And her favorite , Hitchcock 's North by Northwest ; Cary Grant and Eva Marie Saint in a compartment larger than most NYC studio apartments . Faith thought wistfully of the meal they had consumed -- brook trout -- with a Gibson first for Grant . Fine linens , cutlery , china , and glassware -- fresh flowers on the table . The only sustenance offered on this train consisted of prepackaged sandwiches with expiration dates so far in the future they were ready-made time capsules , and a machine that offered the ubiquitous snacks that Americans seemed unable to exist without , despite the absence of either nourishment or flavor . Faith had packed her own lunch -- smoked turkey , watercress , and a dollop of mango chutney on buckwheat-walnut bread , one of her assistant Niki 's delectable blondies , some muscat grapes , and a bottle of Voss water . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the food was like having a few hefty deposits in the bank -- or a number of dinners in the freezer . You were tempted to use them , but it felt equally good just to know they were there . The train swayed slightly from side to side , the motion keeping time with the sound of the tracks . Another movie , Silver Streak . Gene Wilder is in the bar with Ned Beatty , supposedly a vitamins salesman , who is telling Wilder he 's in " for the ride of your life . " Pick a woman , any woman . " It 's something about the movement of the train that does it . " Faith did find herself thinking about Tom , heading by plane in the opposite direction for the weeklong annual meeting of the denomination in Virginia . Beatty strikes out with Jill Clayburgh , who responds to his obvious come-on by pouring her drink in his lap to " cool " him down . And it 's Wilder who gets to eat dinner with her -- another well-appointed table and menu : macdoine of fruit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mode , a bottle of Mouton Cadet 1961 , and several bottles of Korbel in an elegant champagne bucket back in another spacious compartment . Ah , for those days . Faith sighed to herself and resolved to watch all three movies upon her return . Plus Agatha Christie 's Murder on the Orient Express . Another train going in the opposite direction hurtled by and for a moment the sensation of motion was suspended as her car traveled parallel to the next . Then the passing train built up speed . Faith looked at the people in the cars . The train was as empty as the one she was traveling on . There were . . . Continues ...                     