@@27299

Four Spirits Chapter One Stella From many places in the valley that cradled birmingham you could lift up your eyes , in 1963 , to see the gigantic cast-iron statue of Vulcan , the Roman god of the forge , atop his stone pedestal . Silhouetted against the pale blue skyline , atop Red Mountain , Vulcan held up a torch in one outstretched , soaring arm . In other mountain ridges surrounding the city , the ore lay hidden , but the city had honored this outcropping of iron ore named Red Mountain , as a reminder of the source of its prosperity ( such as it was  --  most of the wealth of the steel industry was exported to magnates living in the great cities of the Northeast ) , by raising Vulcan high above the populace , south of the city . Fanciful and well-educated children liked to pretend that Vulcan , who looked north , had a romance with the Statue of Liberty , also made of metal . But she was the largest such statue in the world , and he was second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of romance , for they understood hierarchy in romance to be as natural as hierarchy among whites and blacks . Looking down from Vulcan  --  his pedestal housed stairs , and around the top of the tower ran an observation platform  --  you could see the entire city of Birmingham filling the valley between the last ridges of the Appalachian mountain chain as it stretched from high in the northeast to southwest . In early May 1963 , Stella 's freckle-faced boyfriend , a scant half inch taller ( but therefore presentable as a boyfriend , if she wore flats ) , had persuaded her to drive from their college , across the city , avoiding the areas where Negroes were congregating for demonstrations , to Red Mountain . From the observation balcony just below Vulcan 's feet , Stella and Darl hoped for a safe overview . I believe if outsiders would just stay out ... Darl had told her . Let Birmingham solve ... Do n't you ? But Stella had n't answered . Instead , she 'd said , I 'd like to see . I 'm afraid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Darl had offered , for he was a man who wanted to accommodate women ; a man who loved his mother . Stella had met her . He 'd brought along his bird-watching binoculars . Darl could recognize birds by their songs alone ; he could imitate each sound ; he kept a life list of all the birds he had ever seen . His actual name was Darling , his mother 's maiden name , and though Stella dared not call him Darling , she longed to do so . " Do you know the average altitude for the flight of robins ? " he asked . A spurt of laughter flew from between Stella 's lips . She imagined the giggle as though it had heft and was falling rapidly down from the pedestal , down the mountain , into the valley . " I do n't have the foggiest idea , " she said . " About thirty inches . " " What a waste ! " she said . " To have the gift of flight and to fly so low . " She thought Darl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comic  --  but he did n't . Stella glanced up the massive , shining body of Vulcan , past his classical and bare heinie , up his lifted arm to his unilluminated torch . At a distance , she had often observed that the nighttime neon " flame " made the torch resemble a Popsicle . Cherry red , if someone had died in an auto accident ; lime green , otherwise . Even this close and looking up his skirt , Vulcan 's frontal parts were completely covered by his short blacksmith 's apron . Though it was May and the police were already into short sleeves , on the open observation balcony , Darl and Stella were lifted above the heat into a layer of air with cool breezes . Stella wished she 'd worn a sweater . Darl put his arm around her  --  just for warmth , she told herself with determined navet , but she thrilled at his encircling arm diagonally crossing her back . His fingers fitted the spaces between her curving ribs . They were alone up in the air ; they were n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was what she had been wanting . Perhaps for years . Someone 's arm around her , making her safe . Stella knew her breasts were terribly small . If they had been plumper , Darl 's fingertips might have found the beginnings of roundness . Sex , sex , sex , she thought . His hand slid down to her waist ; her mind careened . Do I feel slender enough there ? Inviting ? With his other hand , Darl trained the binoculars on the city . With one finger , he adjusted the ridged wheel between the twin eyepieces . The black leather strap looped gracefully around the back of his neck . Darl was the complete darling : a lover of nature , a lover of music , a lover of God , considerate , a gentleman  --  if only he loved her . And best of all he was an organist , a master of the king of instruments . When Darl played Bach 's " O Sacred Head , Now Wounded , " creating his own improvisations , Stella felt understood . It was she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she missed and needed . The way Darl played promised wholeness , profundity . Almost it seemed that the spirit of her father was hovering around Darl and her on this high place . She placed her hand just below Darl 's waist ; she shivered as though to say " I only seek closeness for warmth , against the chill . " Her palm loved the unfamiliar grain of the cloth of his trousers , and underneath , the firm flesh of his buttock just beginning to flare . How tantalized her hand felt , the hand itself wishing it dare move down to know the curve of his butt . She glanced again at the side of his cheek , the binoculars trained on the city . His hair was a rich brown , and his freckles almost matched his hair . She wanted to brush the field glasses aside , to stand in front of him ...                     