@@26668

Masquerading the Marquess Chapter One London , 1823 What was a caricaturist to do when she ran out of material ? Calliope Minton observed the pitch and sway of an aging duke and a newly launched debutante as the two waltzed across the terrazzo floor . She could cast the duke as a tortoise and the young girl as a fresh minnow . No , what about the duke as a long-toothed wolf and the girl as a sheep ? Calliope grimaced . The duke and debutante were about as appealing as the ideas floating through her brain . Calliope was prepared to do something drastic . Even if she had to strip to her shift in the middle of the Killroys ' lavish ballroom , at least the ton could discuss something besides the weather . " Spring certainly has kept its grip on winter . Is it going to be warmer anytime soon ? " Miss Sarah Jones asked the small group gathered on the fringe of the Killroys ' crowded ballroom . Clasping her hands to keep from shaking the pretty debutante , Callio pe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had long since decided the foliage was the most interesting thing in attendance . A mousy girl stepped into view , looking nervous and uncomfortable . Calliope smiled , prompting the girl to straighten her shoulders and tentatively smile in return . Beneath the girls ' self-conscious exterior was a warm and intelligent spirit . Next time one of the fashionable girls criticized her , maybe they 'd be in for a surprise . That image was one Calliope dearly wished to publish in the London papers . Too long had the same insipid ladies and feckless gentlemen reigned supreme over the ton . Just once she wanted to see the plain but intelligent girls and lads give back as good as they got . Perhaps if they were to do it en masse ... She could form a group , create a revolution of sorts . Rise up , normal young people ! Break down the social barriers ! Overthrow the haughty elite ! Calliope 's thirst for vengeance against the upper classes took root in the idea . Yes , she could lead them . Overthrow one noble at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the room , interrupting her thoughts . Lady Killroy motioned for someone to join their group and Calliope froze as she registered the man 's jet-black hair and intense onyx eyes . The too-handsome Marquess of Angelford prowled toward her . Dark locks framed his patrician features , and wealth and privilege clung to him like a winter cloak . He was looking directly at her , his gaze washing over her . Calliope 's heart skipped several beats and she tried to still her racing pulse . Matrons and debutantes preened as Angelford passed . Calliope shifted her feet , caught between irritation and anticipation . The only thing she detested more than his conceit was her own physical response to him . One noble at a time , a voice in the back of her head said . He reached their group and acknowledged their hostess , Lady Killroy . " I am so pleased you could attend our gathering , Lo rd Angelford , " Lady Killroy gushed . Angelford 's arrival marked her ball a complete success . One noble at a time , the voice urged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lord , " Sarah said , " Is n't it wretched ? " " Mmm , yes . We were unable to run the horses last weekend . " His rich voice sent warm ripples down Calliope 's spine . Sarah giggled along with Lucinda Fredericks , another pretty young debutante who tried Calliope 's patience . One noble at a time . The voice became more insistent . She plunged into the conversation . " Considering the inconvenience , I ca n't believe Aeolus did n't command the winds for you , my lord . " There was a collective gasp . Her once-brave internal voice hesitated and then fled . Calliope wanted to retract the sarcastic comment , but Father Time refused her entreaty . Lady Simpson looked irate . Her fan hammered against her leg . Calliope could have sworn a fleeting smile crossed Angelford 's features , but his expression became even more arrogant . " Perhaps someday he will . Sometimes behavior must be taught . " His deep , dark eyes mocked her . She willed the redness from her cheeks and inclined her head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to arms and her finest adversary . A disastrous combination . What had she been thinking , to berate him in front of the others ? He drove her mad , but she should have waited to discreetly slice him . The titters from Sarah and Lucinda grated . " No better than you deserve , " Sarah said just loudly enough for Calliope to hear . Her fingers itched for ink and paper . The mass call to arms once again returned to a personal vendetta . Sarah would lose her smile when she saw the rendition of her vapid look and tart tongue in print , the image of which was already forming in Calliope 's mind . Lady Simpson snapped her ever-present fan closed , interrupting Calliope 's thought . " Sometimes a bad apple sneaks past even my watchful gaze , my lord . I do try to be ever vigilant , but from time to time recommendations from some of the gentry are suspect . They tend to be less discerning than those of us with higher standards . " Worry crept into Calliope 's mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and probably compromised her position as Lady Simpson 's companion . Lord , how she hated society . It was a game she could never win . Lady Killroy seized the pause , obviously eager not towaste the opportunity of having Angelford at hand . " Yes , it ' s always hard to find good help . On a more interesting note , Mi ss Jones was commenting on the new Italian marble being used at the palace . She and Miss Fredericks were recently presented at St. James 's . " Sarah took her cue . " Oh , yes . The marble is the loveliest shade of gray . And they found these lovely plants . They looked lovely in the ... " Calliope blotted out Sarah 's lovely voice , which could continue inane conversation for hours . She noticed Angelford 's boredom and felt a dash of good humor return at the thought of his being cornered by the two twits all evening ...                     