@@29170

Introduction Here in the year 2000 we lack a proprietary critic of the short story as , for example , Professor Helen Vendler is a proprietary critic of the lyric poem . Given the great story writers Chekhov , or Joyce , or Hemingway we might wonder about this , except that Hemingway turned to novels after In Our Time just as Joyce didafter Dubliners . Chekhov in his maturity turned to drama . While there are exceptions Isaac Babel or Grace Paley , for example , writers-for-life of brilliant , tightly sprung prose designedly inhospitable to the long forms we may say that short stories are what young writers produce on their way to their first novels , or what older writers produce in between novels . The critic of fiction will hold title to all its estates , and the novel is a major act of the culture . Apart from that , it may be that the short story , as it has shifted historically from the episodic tale to the compressive illumination , ca n't sustain that much formal analysis . Some years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genre entitled The Lonely Voice . O'Connor , himself a masterful writer of short stories , wanted to find some means of distinguishing the form from the novella and the novel . His title suggests the nature of his conclusion : it is not any particular technique of the short story that sets it apart , because as a selective rather than an inclusive art , it can construct itself in an endless number of ways . Nor is its length definitive , for , as he points out , not a few of the great examples of the genre are quite long . What makes the short story a distinct literary form , says O'Connor , is " itsintense awareness of human loneliness . " Sprung from Gogol 's seminal story " The Overcoat , " in which an impoverished clerk in winter manages to buy a warm overcoat only to have it stolen , a disaster that drives him to his death , the modern short story is a genre that deals with members of " submerged population groups , " excluded by one means or another from living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outsiders , marginalists , for whom society provides no place or means of self-respect . By contrast , according to O'Connor , the fiction of the novel assumes that man is " an animal who lives in community , as in Jane Austen and Trollope it obviously does . " But one can think immediately of stories rising from nonsubmerged populations , stories of people centrally located in community as they are in many of Katherine Mansfield 's or Henry James 's stories who are not of the alienated and marginalized , though they may come to be from their own actions . Perhaps anticipating this problem , O'Connor modifies his thesis to include in his submerged population groups people who are notmaterially but spiritually isolated artists , dreamers , idealists , antiheroes , visionaries , and so forth . But then who does not belong to a submerged population group ? The lonely voice is a universal chorus , and we are left with the not terribly useful truism that the story as a form deals with the human condition . Besides which , one is immediately able to cite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Trollope 's : Sartre 's Nausea , for example , or Richard Wright 's Native Son , or Samuel Beckett 's Molloy trilogy , among others . These works bring their awareness of loneliness to a pitch that the word " intense " hardly begins to describe . So finally O'Connor 's attempt to differentiate the short story as a genre by virtue of its sociology does n't hold up under examination . On the other hand , if we deny it as a thesis , we can still accept it as an insight . We can acknowledge the tendency of the short story to isolate the individual paradoxically , perhaps , from the technical factors Frank O'Connor has dismissed . The story as a particular kind of fiction may not be definable by its construction or its length , but what is critical is its scale . Smaller in its overall dimensions than the novel , it is a fiction in which society is surmised as the darkness around the narrative circle of light . In other words , the scale of the short story predisposes it to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of loneliness is the literary dignity he grants his characters in spite of their circumstances the same dignity or moral consequence that , according to the critic Walter Benjamin , is granted even to the humblest person on the occasion of his death . We can say , then , that the subjugated population of a short story is likely to be , before anything else , a population of one . And whoever in a short story is deprived of the certainties of civilization may attribute it , among other things , to the author 's concise attentions . It was the Freudian disciple Wilhelm Reich who realized that extensive dream analysis was not necessary to uncover a patient 's psyche : anywhere you looked in actions taken , habits of thought , tone of voice , body language you would find the typified self . That about describes the working principle of the short story as practiced by James Joyce and Ernest Hemingway . Joyce , who brought the modern short story to perfection , showed us that its point of entry can be quite close in time to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look in on someone 's life as it just happens to reach its moment of inexorable moral definition . Hemingway added to that the technique of composing a story whose suspense derives from the withheld mention of its central problem . I have read perhaps 140 stories to make this selection of 21 for the year 2000 . Here is the news : the writers of today are drifting away from the classic model of the modern short story . They seem more disposed to the episodic than the epiphanic , and so their stories sometimes point to the earlier model of the tale . Stories in this mode tend to be longer , their points of entry can be quite distant from their denouements , and their central problem is made quite explicit . But if the twenty-one outstanding stories in this volume are an indication , the art of the story hardly seems to have suffered . Oddly , the reader discerns a nice sense of freedom in what has to be thought of as a conservative tendency , one that glances back to the nineteenth century . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made of gold , admittedly , but a shackle nevertheless . And there is more news : although my coeditor , Katrina Kenison , and I have functioned as plain and modest readers , going from story to story to find the pleasure or excitement or truth in them , and although we have chosen them one at a time with no thought for their effect overall or their relationship to one another , they turn out as a collection to reflect the evolving demographics of ourliterary republic . Their protagonists are Latino , African American , Chinese , Israeli , Indian , Bosnian , Bengali , Hawaiian , and Trinidadian in greater numbers than they are native white middle-class . This brings us back again to Frank O'Connor 's untenable theory but useful insight . I do n't mean to suggest that the tones or moods or states of mind of the stories are uniform . Humor , wonder , serenity , horror , sadness , stoicism , and love come off these pages . Geniuses are portrayed , as are the brutally retarded and the Alzheimer-ridden . Parables are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ page . I think it is possible to see in this collection the universality of theliterary conscience . You may find proof too of the vibrant , revivified energies given to this country by its immigrant infusions . But above all , here is the felt life conferred by the gifted storyteller ... who always raises two voices into the lonely universe , the character 's and the writer 's own . E.L . Doctorow                     