@@26436

Watery shafts of light sliced through the bare trees as Fireheart carried his leader to her final resting place . With his teeth clenched firmly in her scruff , he retraced the route the dog pack had taken as the brave warriors of ThunderClan lured them to the gorge and their destruction . His whole body felt numb , and his head spun with the terrible realization that Bluestar was dead . Without his leader , the forest itself seemed different , even stranger to Fireheart than the day he had first ventured into it as a kittypet . Nothing was real ; he felt as if the trees and rocks could dissolve like mist within a moment . A vast , unnatural silence covered everything . With the rational part of his mind Fireheart realized that all the prey had been scared away by the rampaging dog pack , but in the grip of his grief it seemed that even the forest was stunned into mourning for Bluestar . The scene at the gorge replayed over and over in his head . He saw again the slavering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt its sharp teeth meet in his scruff . He remembered how Bluestar had appeared out of nowhere , flinging herself at the dog , driving it  --  and herself  --  over the edge of the gorge and into the river . He flinched again at the icy shock of the water as he leaped in to rescue his drowning leader , and their hopeless struggles until two RiverClan warriors , Mistyfoot and Stonefur , came to help them . Most of all , Fireheart recalled his dismay and disbelief as he crouched beside his leader on the riverbank , and realized that she had sacrificed her last life to save him and all of ThunderClan from the dog pack . As he bore Bluestar 's body home , with the help of Mistyfoot and Stonefur , he kept pausing to scent the air for fresh traces of dog , and he had already sent his friend Graystripe to scout the territory on either side of their trail , searching for signs that the dogs had caught any of the ThunderClan cats in their desperate race for the gorge . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing . Now , skirting a bramble thicket , Fireheart set down his lifeless leader once more and raised his head to drink in the air , thankful to taste only the clean scents of the forest . A moment later , Graystripe appeared around a clump of dead bracken . " Everything 's fine , Fireheart , " he reported . " Plenty of broken undergrowth , but that 's all . " " Good , " Fireheart meowed . His hope rose that the dogs that had escaped the fall into the gorge had fled in terror , and the forest once again belonged to the four Clans of wild cats . His Clan had lived through three terrible moons , when they had become prey in their own territory , but they had survived . " Let 's keep going . I want to check that the camp is safe before the Clan comes back . " He and the RiverClan warriors took up Bluestar 's body again and carried it through the trees . At the top of the ravine that led down to the camp entrance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when he and his warriors had followed the trail of dead rabbits that Tigerstar had laid to lure the dog pack to the ThunderClan camp . At the end of the trail they had found the body of the gentle queen Brindleface , slaughtered to give the savage dogs a taste for cat blood . But now everything seemed peaceful , and when Fireheart tasted the air again he could detect only cat scent coming from the camp . " Wait here , " he meowed . " I 'm going to take a look . " " I 'll come with you , " Graystripe offered instantly . " No . " It was Stonefur who spoke , flicking out his tail to bar the gray warrior 's way . " I think Fireheart needs to do this alone . " Flashing a grateful look at the RiverClan deputy , Fireheart began picking his way down the ravine , his ears pricked for any sound of trouble ahead . But the strange silence still reigned over the forest . As he emerged from the gorse tunnel into the clearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible that one or more of the dogs had never made it to the gorge , or that Tigerstar had sent ShadowClan warriors to take over the camp . But all was quiet . Fireheart 's fur prickled with the strangeness of seeing the camp deserted like this , yet there was no sign of danger , and still no scent of dogs or ShadowClan . To be sure the camp was safe , he rapidly checked the dens and the nursery . Memories came unbidden : the bewilderment of the Clan as he told them about the dog pack , the heart-pounding terror of the chase through the forest with the breath of the pack leader hot on his fur . At the foot of the Highrock , listening to the wind whispering through the trees , Fireheart thought back to the time Tigerstar had stood here , boldly facing his Clan as they discovered the true depth of his treachery . He had sworn undying vengeance as he was sent into exile , and Fireheart was sure that his bloodthirsty attempt to set the dog pack on the cats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his oath . Last of all Fireheart prowled cautiously through the fern tunnel to Cinderpelt 's den . Glancing through the entrance , he saw the medicine cat 's healing herbs neatly ranged beside one wall . The strongest memory yet flooded over him , of Spottedleaf and Yellowfang , who had been ThunderClan medicine cats before Cinderpelt . Fireheart had loved them both , and grief for them swept over him again to mingle with his grief for his leader . Bluestar is dead , he told them silently . Is she with you now , in StarClan ? Retracing his steps along the fern tunnel , he returned to the top of the ravine . Graystripe was standing on watch while Mistyfoot and Stonefur gently groomed the dead leader 's body . Continues ...                     