@@26842

I was not meant to be a dissident . I was not supposed to live outside of China . I never intended to be a guest , for an entire year , in the home of strangers , dependent on their charity and kindness . Who would have imagined , watching me grow up in Harbin -- sitting quietly with my father in our old apartment behind the Russian church , or clutching my mother 's hand as she haggled good-naturedly with Old Yang over the price of scallions -- that I would wind up in Los Angeles , living in the guest room of people who could not find the province of Heilongjiang on a simple English map ? I am tempted to say it was an accident . Certainly I would not have gotten involved in politics , or in the artistic community of the Beijing East Village , had it not been for my cousin , also an artist -- I will call him X. ( Because of his continuing activity in China , I am forced to conceal his identity here . ) But it also began with my mother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and go abroad , and with my father , who sent me to have drawing lessons with his old friend , the painter Wang Laoshi . Quite possibly it began with Wang Laoshi , who saw my early efforts , and encouraged me to pursue absolutely any other profession . But I hesitate to putresponsibility on others . In the end it 's my fault that I am so easily persuaded . I have always been impressionable , skilled at mimicry . I am , as my teacher admitted , a brilliant copyist . On paper , I could reproduce Audubon 's and Bada Shanren 's birds ; I could make my mother laugh by imitating the gestures and mannerisms of people we knew ( for example , my father 's postprandial expression of despair ) ; even the pronunciation of foreign words was not difficult for me . In school , English was my best subject , not only because of this talent for imitation but because of my mother , who had been born in Seattle , Washington , and much later became a teacher of Business English at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went to China for the first time in 1953 , three days after her twelfth birthday , when her parents decided to return to their motherland and do their part for the glorious new People 's Republic . My grandfather , an electrical engineer with the Boeing company , had been deeply honored by a personal invitation from Zhou Enlai . As it turned out , however , my grandfather 's timing was n't good . A little more than a decade later , my grandmother and my mother were sent to separate " cadres ' schools " to be reeducated , while my grandfather eventually went to a much harsher place -- a work camp in the Great Northern Wilderness -- where he died , six years before I was born . When I told this story -- as if it had happened to distant relatives rather than to my immediate family -- my American hosts were horrified . I think they were also a little thrilled by the tragic irony : it was as if , Cece Travers said , my relatives had been American Jews , returning unknowingly to Germany in 1939 . I could n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think of the 1960s and ' 70s in this way : that those years represented a perversion of our own ideals , some of which we still cherished , rather than an atrocity visited on us from outside . The fact that my relatives had been in a work camp was enough for Cece . " Perhaps they are n't telling you everything , " she said , in a way that made it clear she thought I was being callous about the sufferings I described . In fact the opposite was true . I had my reasons for concealing my background from the Traverses , but I have never been comfortable telling the story of things that happened before I was born . I always feel that I 'm making things up . In Los Angeles , I found out how much easier it was to tell my own history as if it belonged to someone else : at the end of my account , I was surprised ( and a little proud ) to find tears in the eyes of my American audience . After the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1975 ) my mother became an English teacher , if a reluctant one . Her former passion for literature , in particular the Romantic poets , was not relevant to the business English courses she was assigned , and she never returned to the original poems and translations she 'd begun as a university student in the early 1960s . Her talents as a teacher were thus primarily focused on me , so that by the time I was in high school , I already spoke English more fluently than my classmates and even my teachers . My mother and I used to laugh at the book I used in school , Idiomatic English , which purported to teach us how to speak like real Americans . The book was full of dialogues between John , Mary , and ( inexplicably ) someone named " Batty , " of which the following is an approximate but unexaggerated example : John : I am thinking to get a gift for our friend Batty . Monday is her birthday . A necklace or a bracelet would truly fit the bill . Mary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But you had better not have a chat with Batty before the big day . That is to say , you are a chatterbox . You will certainly let the cat out of the bag . John : Mary , you are a strict taskmaster ! Why do you say that I am a bean-spiller ? I am as silent as the mouse , and also the grave . Mary : Because right now , John , you are talking my ears off ! When I finally met my cousin X in Beijing , I found him studying from this same textbook , practicing John , Mary , and Batty 's lines quite seriously . This was midway through my first year at Beijing Normal , when my cousin still imagined he might go abroad and study . He had come to . . . Continues ...                     