@@27865

The click of the key card eased his late-night entrance into the Wilmont Suite at the Au Contraire Resort in San Diego . Built three years earlier for the spa crowd , the castle-towered resort was now a favorite of high-end business travelers . The same discretion that attracted wealthy stars who were drying out , slimming down , or simply ducking their spouses appealed as well to deal makers who wanted to negotiate potential takeovers -- -or choose a new CEO -- -outside journalists ' glare or brokers ' speculation . Wisps of moonlight illuminated the room through the beveled glass that led to the suite 's private garden . He set down his faded cotton duffel bag next to her monogrammed Louis Vuitton hatbox , right inside the door . As he passed the antique coatrack , the scent of her perfume radiated from the embroidered burgundy shawl hanging from one of the pegs . The door to the bedroom was ajar , and he stood in the entryway for a moment , tongue darting over his top lip . The tousled sheet that covered her sleeping body dipped below @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Her short dark hair spiked in all directions , punk rock -- style . Quite a contrast to the buttoned-up photo of her in last month 's Forbes . The hum of the ceiling fan disguised his approach.He began to pull the sheet gently back . She stirred slightly but did n't awaken . He bent over her , staring intently at her face as a tiny furrow creased her forehead . A bad dream perhaps ? He dipped his head down and lightly licked her inviting nipple . The furrow vanished . Then he raked his top teeth gently over the nipple and her eyes squinted open . Her mouth formed a scream , but his hands were quicker . Within seconds , he slid his fingers behind her neck , thumbs positioned in front . He rocked the weight of his body forward with 180 pounds of pressure on her fragile windpipe . A small thwack , like the sound of a light being extinguished , signaled that he 'd crushed her trachea . Her head fell violently to the side and he began to whistle . He returned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the bed next to her , and unzipped it . The Crystal Method song did n't lend itself to whistling . Few techno songs did . But he continued forming the discordant notes . Accustomed to being alone , he 'd stopped noticing that his tastes were far different from most people 's . With a strong tug , he unpeeled the sheet , exposing her entire body . He looked intently over her , cataloging each slope and nook of her frame . Her wrists were exceedingly thin , he thought , and her earlobes asymmetrical . Once he had memorized her form , he took an antibacterial wipe from the bag and cleaned off the breast he had licked . Then he began his work . Continues ...                     