@@28317

The Night Guide Eighteen fifty-nine was the devils own year for gales along the Sur coast , but their raucous zenith was registered near the end of April . Crashing up from the south-southwest with piratical ferocity , the cycle of gales unburdened enough water to send the Little and Big Sur Rivers four to six feet over their banks . The runoff from Pico Blanco alone kept the Little Sur at near flood for two weeks . Sadly , every mortal creature that made the rugged coast a refuge suffered from the shattering blows of an outraged sea . Cresting rollers twenty feet high and two miles long mined into the impenetrable cliffs and rocks for days on end . Inevitably , every rookery , bower , haul-out , and nesting sight on the Monterey coast was swept away . The corpses of every known species of coastal life littered what shore there was left . The sharks enjoyed abundance for days after each gale . The evidence of destruction was to be had from all quarters . Salmon Creek to Santa Cruz reported roads , byways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trees . The prodigious rains , sometimes so heavy and horizontal that simple breathing became hazardous , drilled the soil so incessantly that broad landslides were abruptly carved from the mountainsides . Several large rockslides unalterably isolated the more remote mining claims . It was during a blessed lull between the repetitive coastal tempests that Boy Bill Post moved his wife from Monterey to a newly purchased piece of land bordering Soberanes Creek . His land formed a part of the old San Jose y Sur Chiquito land grant , and he had fixed it in his mind that his acres would be prime for cattle . Thereappeared to be abundant grazing in the hills and pastures , and the splendid ocean views gave him constant pleasure . Serious anxiety regarding the recent inclination of weather set Boy Bill Post to hurriedly construct a cabin to shelter his new family . This urgency was magnified by the impending birth of the Posts first child . Boy Bill Post had married a handsome Rumsen Indian girl . Her name was Anselma Onesimo and her people had lived along Carmel Valley and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tribe had sprung from beneath the earth on the day of creation . The Rumsen people considered the Sur Mountains as spiritual ground and spoke of Mount Pico Blanco as the navel of the world . The constraints of time were suddenly made more per-tinent by the return of the southern gales . Bills plans for their cabin were instantly altered to accommodate present needs and it quickly became a slant-roofed , one-room hut near Soberanes Creek . This proved not to be the most favorable of locations . The expectant father desperately hand split cedar shakes by the hour without recourse to food or rest . Anselmas lying-in time was uncomfortably close at hand , and Boy Bill Post desperately raced his hammer against the lightning-rent tempest that momentarily threatened to descend upon their heads . Anselmas cries from within the rude shelter informed Bill Post that his firstborn and the gale might possibly arrive simultaneously . Then a sudden explosive crash of thunder heralded the initial , pelting pebbles of rain . It also proclaimed the welcome cries of his first child . Post managed to secure the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greet Charles Francis Post . Bills gift to his burgeoning family was a tight shelter and dry stores . Not much in the way of a defense against the wrath of God perhaps , but better than canvas and poles in those wilds . March 1 , 1859 , the day the majestic gales attended the birth , also marked the sad loss of four sound ships . To seal the bargain , the coast of Monterey was sorrowfully altered by rock-grinding waves and carnivorous tides . There were other unique signs accompanying the birth , according to the mother , but it wasnt for some time that anyone realized that young Frank was also the first child born in the high Sur under the American flag . In any event , the childs nativity was accredited as genuinely auspicious , and it was noted by family members that unusual events occurred on the anniversary of that particular date every year . By the first of June that same year , Bill Post had built his new family a credible home higher up on the banks of the Soberanes , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ livestock to see how they fared before establishing a larger herd . Bill Post had grown into a man of relatively broad experience . He was the son of a successfully retired sea captain from New London , Connecticut , and the family counted itself honored to have had ancestors aboard the Mayflower . A typical Yankee , both innovative and practical , Bill always felt equal to any task he set for himself . In 1858 Bill Post had had the good sense to marry Anselma , and though he appraised his life as rich in experience , nothing had quite prepared him for fatherhood . He found himself looking for direct reflections of his own instincts and manner in the person of the child . This seemed only natural to Anselma , though Bills observations took on an unsettling character the more he studied the matter . Baby Charles Francis Post seemed remarkably self-absorbed and uncommonly introspective for an infant . Anselma quietly insisted there was absolutely no reason for concern . It was the childs Rumsen Indian blood at play . Indian babies were rarely clamorous unless soiled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great interest in her childs reflective temperament . She said it was a sign of great insight . This did little to assuage his fathers concern , however , and Bill continued focusing closely on his firstborn for signs of some subtle indisposition . Bill never ascertained anything beyond his own overanxious concerns , for Frank bloomed quite normally , though he remained quiet when he had nothing of importance to say . The child retained information easily and brought a fixed and patient concentration to every new experience . By the time the boy was three , Bill Post was forced to accept Anselmas elementary appraisal of the situation . Little Frank assuredly perceived and understood more than most tykes his age , but he kept his insights to himself , as did all his mothers people . Little Frank loved to trail behind his mother as she drifted off into the barrens or high passes on one of her herb and medicine-gathering expeditions . Sometimes they would come across other parties of foraging Rumsen and happily move along together for a day or two exchanging news , gathering pine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opportunity presented itself . This singular practice made Bill Post extremely uncomfortable from the outset , and he voiced innumerable objections to the custom . But if he thought for a moment he might discourage his wifes basic Indian compacts and traditions , he was pitifully mistaken . Anselma considered foraging as an important part of an ancient and magic family responsibility . The very process required vast knowledge and humble reverence , and Heaven help anyone who interfered . After a while Bill came to see that thorny point for himself and , with his usual Yankee practicality , let Anselma do as she pleased . He just got used to it , as he was meant to . He also became acclimated to little Frank , who sometimes looked at his father as though they had met somewhere else , in another timea very disconcerting air when adopted by a child . Bill also became accustomed to his sons long , ruminative pauses when asked a question . Little Frank seemed to ponder every inquiry seriously , regardless of magnitude . He always answered with disarming simplicity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his son to disavow in favor of thoughtless social spontaneity , so he adopted a circumspect manner when conversing with the child on any important subject . From little Franks perspective the whole world made sense . A moments balanced reflection always served to place every reality on an even plane . The truth always made itself brightly evident to him . Even awash in a sea of distortion , the truth was easily defined and understood . His reluctance to speak about all he knew was bred in the bone , as his mother had always contended . The fixed symmetry evident in all things , spiritual and physical , was perfectly resolved to little Franks way of thinking . It was with his mother that Frank shared the greatest and most diverse of dialogues . Oddly , much of it was nonverbal and needed little in the way of physical inflection to disclose infinite subtleties . The boy fairly exercised himself in all the languages at hand without showing much preference for any one in particular . English , Spanish , and Rumsen phrases were all the same to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all three languages simultaneously . Though he found it peculiar , it never disturbed the child when his father failed to hear or discern the more enchanted particulars that always appeared so obvious to the boy , but he possessed a native discretion and never discussed that part of his world with anyone but his mother and then only in their own special dialects . There could be little doubt of Franks Indian inheritance , but this was not to say that Bill Post had not left his mark . The child displayed evident qualities of ingenuity , endurance , and courage typical of a Connecticut Yankee . The boy even possessed the amiable aspect and rolling gait of a Grand Banks seaman as irrefutable proof of his fathers bloodline . Little Frank also shared his fathers passion for birds and the broad vistas of the Pacific . Father and son spent many evenings watching the sunset beyond the opalescent horizon while the gulls wheeled and called overhead . Bill would try to explain what lay beyond the oceans , but his son focused only on what could be seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boy if nothing whatsoever lay over the horizon . He loved the beauty of the sea for its own sake and asked nothing more of it . Bill noticed that prolonged contemplation of the bright ocean panoramas occasionally made his son almost giddy . It was then that little Frank would talk mysteriously of the Ancients who had once lived in these mountains , the humans who had stared out over those same bright waters before time was recorded . Bill Post often found his sons manner of expression curious ; the object of the boys focus was so unlike that of other children his age . If Bill Post ever required valid proof of his sons native predispositions , it materialized on a dangerous night in mid-March . It was a night rent with contrary gales , hazardous winds , and lightning that owned the skies for minutes on end . It was a night not unlike that of Franks birth , with its attendant natal pyrotechnics . The boy was a hardened veteran of tempests of equal ferocity since that auspicious night , but storms inspired curiosity rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoyed a really spirited southwester . He would ask his father to take him to watch the monstrous seas cleave themselves against the great rocks of the coast . On this particular night , little Frank took no joy in the storms , nor in the safety and warmth afforded by his soft bed and downy quilt . His mother had departed on one of her usual hunting expeditions into the mountains three days earlier . She had promised to return before the weather broke . Franks father had heartily regretted letting Anselma continue with her usual native routines because she was carrying another child . He felt uneasy about the effects her strenuous endeavors and the wilderness might have on mother and unborn child alike . At any other time little Frank would have thought nothing of his mothers departure except to feel slightly neglected because he could not accompany her . He had come down with a slight cold , and his father had insisted that the boy stay at home until the symptoms subsided . The shattering tempest grew in intensity , and it was about midnight when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to check the barn and the frightened stock . It was then that a feeling of apprehension and barren anxiety settled on the boys soul like a wet hide . It made him shiver . Something was wrong , and little Frank was at a loss to know why he felt so distraught . Sitting up , he looked out the rain-streaked window . In the distance , he could see the light of his fathers storm lantern moving about inside the barn , so he knew that his father was fine . But he worried sorrowfully about his mother . He was almost sick wondering where she was on such a raging night . The boy closed his eyes tight to drive away the unwelcome images , but he became aware of an even stronger light trying to edge its way past his closed lids to gain his attention . At first the child thought it was his fathers lantern , but when he opened his eyes he realized the light came from a different source altogether . This light shimmered in the corner of his room , shimmered with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before . He had noticed the wakes of passing ships glow with the same quality in the moonlight , and this pale glow , akin to the waters strange radiance , shed little of itself on the immediate surroundings . The glow took the form of a tapered pillar at first , but when his eyes became accustomed to the subtle and wonderful color variations emanating from the luminescence , he became convinced that the light was a who and not a what . This realization infused him with a warmth and confidence that seemed totally natural and admissible . It was as if he had always known about this phenomenon even though he had never experienced it before . The glowing pillar moved slowly toward the door to Franks room , and there it waited shimmering with green , blue , and violet pulses of brilliance . The boy nodded with instant comprehension , jumped from his cot , and quickly dressed . A lightning flash suddenly raced across the sky . The crash of its thunder followed almost immediately . Alert to the storm once more , the boy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wearing shoes of any description . He was happiest with the soft dirt between his toes , but he obeyed the thought as it came to him . The glowing pillar floated through the cabin to the front door and waited . Grabbing his jacket and rabbit-skin cap , Frank followed the light out into the storm . There was no sign of his father anywhere , so the boy followed the radiance without further pause . The brilliance guided the boy precisely over well-used paths through the eastern pastures until it reached the mountain . There the guide waited for the boy before slowly ascending a craggy trail that led to the high ridges . Frank had followed his mother over many of those same paths gathering medicinal plants . As the boy began to climb the trail , the storm , which had been furious for the past six hours , turned dangerous in the extreme . Lightning fingered across the sky in every direction at once . The explosions of thunder made the earth tremble beneath the childs feet , and the rain pelted down like hail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never distorted or wavered from the path , so Frank followed without fear . The winds rose to the tenor of plaintive screams , so that every limb and leaf , every blade and bush was helplessly torn and wrenched in obedience to its whims . As he climbed , Frank witnessed ancient trees cleaved down the center by the stress of contrary winds first raging from the west and then rounding the compass . Sometimes the gusts appeared to sweep from all directions at once . Downed tree limbs and torn vegetation became more dense the higher he climbed , but still the glowing guide remained constant and reassuring , never deviating a degree from the center of the trail , never disordered by wind or the cutting sheets of rain . Near the top of the track a shallow dale gave spartan shelter to a grove of ancient and distorted oaks . Little Frank struggled over the rise and , clutching his collar against the rain , watched as the light moved to the center of the grove and then stopped . As the boy followed , he noticed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooler , calming colors , the light now became resplendent with bright streaks of yellow and gold . Vibrant flashes of crimson amplified the sense of urgency . Then , within the briefest moment , the guide flared brilliantly and was gone , leaving only its ghost image imprinted on the boys eyes . Little Frank waited a few seconds for his vision to clear and then walked to the spot in the grove where the flickering pillar had last stood . Bursts of lightning conveniently illuminated his way so that the path was well defined . At the bottom of the path little Frank spotted a fallen tree , its great mass of roots exposed and waiting for death . Another flash of lightning and the boy sighted something else : a figure pinned under a lattice of heavy limbs and branches . The boy instantly recognized his mother reaching out and calmly calling his name . Frank ran to her , gripped her hand , and began sputtering questions in their special dialect . Anselma quieted her son and said that she was unhurt , just trapped . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raised for her to slide free under her own power . The limb was sixteen inches broad and with the attendant branches , a considerable mass of wood for anyone to move . Without thinking further , the boy attempted to raise the limb , but his little arms were no match for its girth . Then he remembered watching his father clear tree stumps from the pasture . He looked about until he found a stout broken limb . He wedged the hefty bough under the offending limb in such a manner that , should he have the strength to push the branch up over his head a short ways , his mother might pull herself free . But the weight of the limb precluded a four-year-old boy from doing anything of the kind . A standard contention of the ages asserts that the bonds between mother and child may easily accommodate the insuperable . So , lacking all sense of the improbability of the task at hand , little Frank pushed up on his makeshift lever and moved forward . He managed to push the branch up over his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before he knew it his mother was standing by his side saying that it was safe to release the limb . The boy let go and smiled up at his mother . Anselma knelt to see to her son . They were both soaked to the bone , but once satisfied that her child was not injured in any way , Anselma shouldered her bag and shepherded Frank down the steep trail by the incessant flashes of blue-white lightning . When they at last neared the house , Anselma saw her husbands storm lantern approaching from the direction of the road . Bill Post ran forward , gathered his little family in his arms for a moment , and then quickly ushered them toward the safety of the house . The relief in his eyes almost came to tears . Back under shelter , Bill quickly stoked the fire and went to fetch fresh towels from the cupboard . While Anselma saw to dry garments , Bill retrieved a bucket of rainwater from the overflowing butts on the porch . He hung a small cauldron from its iron hook over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bathe the child and prevent further chill . Bill Post at last spoke of his anxiety . When he returned to the house and found the front door wide open and little Frank gone , he had not known where to look . He had searched for two hours without a sign . Happily , Bill observed that his wife and child seemed hardly fazed by their wild adventure . So while he fed them honey and warm bread , he asked them to recount what had happened . There was never a note of reproach or recrimination in his voice . Bill Post was far too happy to have his loved ones safe at home for gratuitous displays of troubled indignation . True to her pure Rumsen nature , Anselma leaned toward the taciturn . Her speech was known for its veracity and brevity , and Bill did not live in hope of a colorful or detailed explanation . She spoke of coming down the trail when a great wind tore a tree from the earth and trapped her beneath its branches . Then her son found her and helped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing more to say for the moment . Bill shook his head and looked to his son , though he entertained little hope of much help in that direction . Even before his father spoke , Frank piped up with his mixed patois of English , Spanish , and Rumsen . It always took a moment to coax Frank to pick one language and stick with it . The boy told his father that he had been in bed when his mothers spirit had come for him in a light . She had led him up the mountain to move the tree so she could come home . Frank said his meager piece with an air of all-inclusive acceptance , as though this kind of experience was an everyday occurrence . Again Bill shook his head , but he was patient enough to realize that it might take days to secure all the details of the story . As Anselma tucked her child under his goose-down quilt that night , the boy looked at his mother and asked whether he could someday learn to call her with the light when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caressed his face , and told him that the light was not something one learned how to do . Love made it happen . Little Frank smiled , blinked once or twice , and fell asleep , content with the answer . The next day , after the storms had passed well east , Bill Post rode out with the Ortiz brothers to survey the general damage and do what they could to clear the trails . Bill eventually had to rig two mules with a wagon harness to help move the heavier debris . Later that day and only out of curiosity , Bill and his men rode up the ridge trail to inspect the site his wife and son had spoken of . It was just as they had said , possibly worse to Bills way of thinking . The local damage was extensive due to the erratic winds . That evening over supper Bill asked Anselma about the boy lifting the tree to let her escape . Could she by any chance have been mistaken ? Could the tree not have moved in the wind ? Anselma looked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued in a rather abashed manner . With just a tinge of a blush , Bill said he had asked only because it had required the labor of two sturdy mules and a horse just to haul the offending snag a few feet off the trail . Anselma smiled , shrugged , stroked her husband reassuringly on the forearm , and kissed away the small tears of relief that scrolled down his cheeks .                     