@@28132

Chapter One Nikki Robinson SEVENTEEN AND CRIMINALLY CUTE , Nikki Robinson sulks through the sultry afternoon trying to keep from staring at her useless shocking-pink cell phone . She has n't heard from Feifer in three days and is getting the awful feeling she 's already been dumped and just has n't been told yet . So when Nikki 's cell rings while she 's waiting in line to pay for her drink at Kwik Mart , her heart goes off with it . She grabs for the phone so fast her best friend , Rowena , behind the counter flashes her a disapproving look that says , " Chill , girl . " Rowena is all about maintaining dignity under romantic duress , and as usual , she 's right . It 's only Maidstone Interiors calling about a cleaning job for Nikki out in Montauk . Nikki has been working for Maidstone all summer and likes it okay , but the thing about Maidstone is that she never knows where they 're going to send her . It takes Nikki forty minutes to drive from Kings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find the hilly neighborhood perched just above Route 27 where all the streets are named for dead presidents-and not the recent ones , the ones who have been dead awhile . Forty-one Monroe is neither a mansion nor a dump , but somewhere in between , and as soon as she gets through the door , she sees it 's nothing catastrophic and was probably rented by a couple , maybe a small family . Besides the steady money , what Nikki likes best about this job is that she 's alone . She may be cleaning white folks ' houses , but at least they are n't standing over her shoulder , watching and supervising her every move . Plus she can dress how she wants , and so she pulls off her jeans and T-shirt , revealing a skimpy two-piece bathing suit underneath . She puts on her headphones and some R. Kelly , and gets busy . Nikki starts with the ground-floor bedroom . She gathers the dirty towels and strips the sheets , balls them up in a giant damp pile , and wrestles it down the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wash running , then races all the way up to the second floor , and by now her dark skin , which she sometimes loves and sometimes hates , is shimmering . When she reaches the landing , there 's a funky smell in the air , as if someone 's been burning incense or , now that she gets a better whiff , smoking reefer . That 's nothing too out of the ordinary . Renters can be stoners too . But when Nikki swings open the door to the master bedroom , her heart jumps into her mouth , and yet somehow she manages to scream and to think , The white devil . ( Continues ... )                     