@@26645

Chapter One Fire and Rain November 14 , 01:33 A.M. The British Museum London , England Harry Masterson would be dead in thirteen minutes . If he had known this , he would 've smoked his last cigarette down to the filter . Instead he stamped out the fag after only three drags and waved the cloud from around his face . If he was caught smoking outside the guards ' break room , he would be shit-canned by that bastard Fleming , head of museum security . Harry was already on probation for coming in two hours late for his shift last week . Harry swore under his breath and pocketed the stubbed cigarette . He 'd finish it at his next break ... that is , if they got a break this night riotous volley of hail , followed by a deluge that threatened to wash London into the Thames . Lightning danced across the skies in forked displays from one horizon to another . According to the weatherman on the Beeb , it was one of the fiercest electrical storms in over a decade . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a spectacular lightning barrage . And as fortune would have it for Harry , it was his half of the city that went dark , including the British Museum on Great Russell Street . Though they had backup generators , the entire security team had been summoned for additional protection of the museum 's property . They would be arriving in the next half hour . But Harry , assigned to the night shift , was already on duty when the regular lights went out . And though the video surveillance cameras were still operational on the emergency grid , he and the shift were ordered by Fleming to proceed with an immediate security sweep of the museum 's two and a half miles of halls . That meant splitting up . Harry picked up his electric torch and aimed it down the hall . He hated doing rounds at night , when the museum was lost in gloom . The only illumination came from the streetlamps outside the windows . But now , with the blackout , even those lamps had been extinguished . The museum had darkened to macabre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lamps . Harry had needed a few hits of nicotine to steel his nerve , but he could put off his duty no longer . Being the low man on the night shift 's pecking order , he had been assigned to run the halls of the north wing , the farthest point from their underground security nest . But that did n't mean he could n't take a shortcut . Turning his back on the long hall ahead , he crossed to the door leading into the Queen Elizabeth II Great Court . This central two-acre court was surrounded by the four wings of the British Museum . At its heart rose the great copper-domed Round Reading Room , one of the world 's finest libraries . Overhead , the entire two-acre courtyard had been enclosed by a gigantic Foster and Partnersdesigned geodesic roof , creating Europe 's largest covered square . Using his passkey , Harry ducked into the cavernous space . Like the museum proper , the court was lost to darkness . Rain pattered against the glass roof far overhead . Still , Harry 's footsteps echoed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the sky . The roof , divided into a thousand triangular panes , lit up for a blinding moment . Then darkness drowned back over the museum , drumming down with the rain . Thunder followed , felt deep in the chest . The roof rattled , too . Harry ducked a bit , fearing the entire structure would come crashing down . With his electric torch pointed forward , he crossed the court , heading for the north wing . He rounded past the central Reading Room . Lightning flashed again , brightening the place for a handful of heartbeats . Giant statues , lost to the darkness , appeared as if from nowhere . The Lion of Cnidos reared beside the massive head of an Easter Island statue . Then darkness swallowed the guardians away as the lightning died out . Harry felt a chill and pebbling of gooseflesh . His pace hurried . He swore under his breath with each step , " Bleeding buggered pieces of crap ... " His litany helped calm him . He reached the doors to the north wing and ducked inside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was grateful to have solid walls around him again . He played his torch down the long hall . Nothing seemed amiss , but he was required to check each of the wing 's galleries . He did a fast calculation . If he hurried , he could complete his circuit with enough time for another fast smoke . With the promise of a nicotine fix luring him , he set off down the hall , the beam of his torch preceding him . The north wing had become host to the museum 's anniversary showcase , an ethnographical collection portraying a complete picture of human achievement down the ages , spanning all cultures . Like the Egyptian gallery with its mummies and sarcophagi . He continued hurriedly , ticking off the various cultural galleries : Celtic , Byzantine , Russian , Chinese . Each suite of rooms was locked down by a security gate . With the loss of power , the gates had dropped automatically . At last , the hall 's end came into sight . Most of the galleries ' collections were only temporarily housed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anniversary celebration . But the end gallery had always been here , for as far back as Harry could recall . It housed the museum 's Arabian display , a priceless collection of antiquity from across the Arabian Peninsula . The gallery had been commissioned and paid for by one family , a family grown rich by its oil ventures in that region . The donations to keep such a gallery in permanent residence at the British Museum was said to top five million pounds per annum . One had to respect that sort of dedication . Or not ... Continues ...                     