@@26902

Chapter One Foam Fight ! It was a hot , sunny day . The green grass gleamed under a clear blue sky . Birds twittered in the rotten apple trees . My pals Feenman and Crench were walking across the Great Lawn with me . We had our cans of Foamy Root Beer raised high . And we were toasting one another and singing the Official Rotten School Song : " Rah rah Rotten School ! I 'd rather be in Rotten School  - -  Than NOT in school ! " I have to admit it . Those tender words always bring tears to my eyes . I 'm Bernie Bridges , and I love my Rotten School . You probably go home every day after school . But our school is a boarding school , and we live here . Why do I love it so much ? If only I were n't so modest , I 'd tell you that I 'm the KING here ! I 'd tell you that it 's my PURE GENIUS that makes me the king . Maybe you 've heard other people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never say it about myself . " Rah rah Rotten School ! " We sang and slapped our root beer cans together . Feenman , Crench , and I love Foamy Root Beer . You know their slogan  --  " It 's So Foamy , It Stays on Your Face for Hours ! " We tilted the cans to our mouths and took long drinks . Then we wiped the foam off our facesand did the Official Rotten School Burp . Feenman holds the school record for the Three-Minute Burp . Is he proud of it ? Does a weasel have feathers ? Crench is a talented burpsman , too . Every time our teacher , Mrs. Heinie , turns her back , Crench lets out loud , disgusting belches  --  until the instant she turns around again . So far , she has n't caught him once . Hey , my guys are talented ! " Rah rah Rotten School ! " I turned and saw that Feenman had a devilish look on his face . He shook his root beer can and sprayed foam down the front of Crench @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do that ? " Crench screamed . Feenman shrugged . " No reason . " Crench shook his soda can and shot a spray at Feenman . But Feenman ducked , and I got a Foamy Root Beer shower . " Whoa  --  ! " I shook my soda and let Crench have it in the face . In a few seconds all three of us were soaked . We were wrestling on the ground , licking the foam off one another . " Dudes ! Stop ! " I shouted , wiping root beer foam from my hair . I saw my archenemy walking toward us . That spoiled , rich kid , Sherman Oaks . And what was that shiny thing he was carrying ? I jumped to my feet and hurried over to check it out . And that 's when all the fuss about the Heinie Prize began . Continues ...                     