@@33466

Cold Lunch The thing that really irks me is that I paid for Ethan 's funeral . At the time it seemed like the right thing to do , seeing as he had made me his heir . Had I known then what I know now , I would n't have put out a single sou , much less the small fortune I spent to see to it that he had a proper send-off . But Ethan knew me all too well and knew I would tidy things for him , that I would n't be able to live with the thought of his remains ending up in some unmarked grave or as an anonymous pile of ash in the county morgue . Looking back , much of his deception should n't have come as a surprise . There were inconsistencies about him all along , starting with his awkward table manners and ending with the seedy area in which he lived . These are not customarily the ways of one to the manner born . But Ethan was a writer , and since writers are known for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his literary bent . Thus , not only did Ethan 's charade take me completely unaware but the depth of it was as unanticipated as an earthquake in the Midwest . Now I 'm getting ahead of myself . Though Ethan 's story really begins the moment he was conceived , it became my undoing the day I went to his apartment and found the body . Prior to that , the thought of Ethan as anything other thanmy best friend would never have crossed my mind . What followed afterward just shows how little we know those we think we know best . It was the rare spring day in Chicago , a city whose climate can best be summed up in two words : winter and August . The sky was a cloudless silky blue , the air wrung dry by a westerly wind that whisked the city 's notorious humidity out over the lake . The swollen buds on the trees looked ready to burst their seams , and the sweet scent of cherry blossoms perfumed the breeze . Venus rising from the foam , spring coaxed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was exceptional as I stepped from my co-op building onto the short costly street known as East Lake Shore Drive . Across the busy lanes of the outer drive , Lake Michigan stretched endlessly before me , her slate blue waves folding gently onto the shore . The public beach bristled with humanity as the prisoners of Midwestern winter took advantage of the unexpected parole . Joggers and bicyclists crowded the paved trail while sunbathers sprawled across the sand , guilelessly soaking up the sun 's disfiguring rays . Apart from the crowd , two lovers were entwined on a hastily thrown blanket , groping each other with abandon . Indifferent to the presence of other beachgoers or the vantage point of the high-rise buildings that loomed above them , they acted as though they were the only souls on earth . I watched their antics with a pang of envy , realizing that far more than a few lanes of asphalt separated our worlds . I turned and walked away at a leisurely pace , past the tulip-filled gardens and Beaux Arts facades of the city 's priciest real estate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the block , the doorman nodded at me in polite recognition . " Good afternoon , Mrs. Cook , " he said , tipping his hat . He swept the door open with a gloved hand . " Beautiful day , is n't it ? " " It is indeed , Raymond . " I acknowledged him with a polite smile . Ethan and I had a standing twelve-thirty reservation in the Cape Cod Room every Wednesday afternoon , so our faces were well known at the hotel . Our ritual had been established after our very first meeting more than five years before , and was never broken unless one of us was out of town -- or if something of greater urgency came up . I stopped inside the arcade to check my watch and noted with satisfaction that the time was one o'clock , making me precisely thirty minutes late for my lunch date . I seldom arrive anyplace on time . I feel it makes one look desperate . Farther down the corridor , a couple of attractive men in business suits were locked in what appeared to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their heads pivoting as their eyes followed me to the restaurant entrance . When one is a five-foot-ten redhead with extremely long legs , one becomes accustomed to such responses . Although I 'm certain it did n't hurt that I was wearing my new magenta suit from Feraud 's spring collection , an acquisition that cost far more than I had any right to spend at the time . But it fit me as though it were designed with me in mind , and besides , I 'm a winter . Bright colors flatter me . As a woman ages , she must learn to become less dependent on her looks and more dependent on her style . With my half-century mark looming ominously before me in the coming year , mere days before the world would pass into the new millennium , I had already learned to appreciate how one 's clothes can carry the day as the other attributes fade . Not that I conceded to fading quite yet . One thing I had to thank my mother for was good genes . From her side of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a compact , slightly upturned nose ; luminous skin ; and an ample bosom . I say ample , not large , thankfully . Nothing like those dreadful drooping appendages Sunny Livermore was cursed with or the overinflated balloons Whitney Armstrong had surgically installed . Finding couture to hang properly over bustlines like those must be challenging at best . The only thing I inherited from my father was my eyes . Ironically , many say they are my best feature . Deep-set and emerald green , they tilt slightly upward at the corners like a cat 's . When we first met , Henry used to tease me about their color , saying he thought my eyes could n't possibly get any greener until he saw them reflect money .                     