@@34315

December Twenty-Third When I was a young girl , the glorious celebrations of the Christmas season were a very different affair than they are today . Of course , I am as old as Methuselah . Ninety-three . When I got out of bed this morning , every bone in my body creaked like the loose boards in the front staircase of this ancient house . Can you even imagine what it would be like to have lived so many years ? It was hard to believe that I had done it myself . But there it was . I was an old nanny goat at last . However , I much preferred to be thought of as a stylish dowager , the doyenne of Murray Boulevard , staving off her dotage . The fact was that if dotage and incapacitating decrepitude could n't take me down in ninety-three years , I might squeak my way to Glory unscathed . Hallelujah ! Another blessing ! My , my ! The world has certainly changed , although many other , more important things have remained the same . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all traditions worthy of preservation . For example , it was 2006 , I was still living in my family 's home , as my mother and grandmother had done . Probably my great-grandmother before them , too . My memory is a little bit fuzzy about that . Regardless , the point is , I never left . Why would I ? Unfortunately , our home has become a little threadbare . Everything from the plaster to the plumbing could use some attention . It was not that my offspring or their offspring could n't gather the resources to correct the creaks and leaks ; it was that no one seemed to be worried about how this state of dilapidation looked to outsiders . What kind of Charlestonian no longer cared about appearances ? Apathetic slackers , I 'm afraid to say . It made me sick in my heart . The house deserved better . Like any classic Southern stately home , ours has massive white Corinthian columns strung along the front portico . The foundation and the portico flooring is handmade brick , as is most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much that they added lots of detail-handrails , a balcony , and so forth . Each generation-that is , until now-added some distinction to the house and grounds . I was the one who commissioned the gates forged by Charleston 's greatest blacksmith , Phillip Simmons , himself ! Yes , it 's true . I will never forget the day he came with his men to install them on the sidewall of the house . They are superb , like black iron lace , with delicate snowy egrets set in ovals in the center of each side . He brought with him a small plaque bearing his name-P . SIMMONS . He asked me if I thought it was all right to affix it to the bottom . I said , you go right ahead , Mr. Simmons , because you are truly an artist ! So he did . In the yard are sprawling magnolia and live oak trees dripping with great sheers of Spanish moss . In the rear gardens are azalea and camellia bushes that are as old as Noah 's house cat . Most of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few things we lost during hurricanes , disease , or because of hostile visitors , if you know what I mean . Naturally , we have fig ivy crawling up the front steps that grows so quickly it makes me wish I carried pruning shears in my purse . Truth ? Everything needs pruning and a good coat of paint . I could n't dwell on it . What was I supposed to do about renovations and repairs when my life had come to a place where I was practically a guest in my own home ? Not much , I 'm afraid . In any case , I was determined to maintain a positive attitude . I was preparing to celebrate Christmas with my darling daughter , Barbara , her family , and their spouses and children , who had all arrived for the holidays . To give you the family map , Barbara and her husband , Cleland , who are both in their early sixties , live here with me . Their grown children have children and live in their own homes in Atlanta and Charlotte . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do . Bless their hearts , they are a truculent bunch . Yes , they are , but I mean that in the nicest possible way . It might interest you to know how the house retaliated against their presence . Every time my whole family gathers under this roof , the walls rattle , the chandeliers downstairs flicker , and every portrait goes crooked on its nail . You see , along with the living comes the dead . Yes , our house is very haunted . It certainly is . Or it is sinking . Or perhaps both . I was never quite certain which because Charleston , especially the tip of the peninsula where we live , was built on plough mud . However , I can see Fort Sumter from my bedroom window . Knowing all that the mighty fortress represented gives me ample strength to deal with them . All I can do all day is cluck to myself . I am clucking for a good reason . This was supposed to be a time of great joy . Unfortunately , Barbara 's family always does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ celebration that I wind up disheartened . In her defense , at her age Barbara can only do so much on her own and the rest of them are clueless . Sadly , no one else appears to see anything wrong with the ramshackle way things are thrown together . Truly , I do n't mean to judge them so harshly , but somehow it seems to me that they have allowed the whole spirit of the season to erode into blatant commercialism . I could have told them plenty of ways to revive the beauty of the past . I have tried many times ; however , who wants to listen to an old coot like me ? I worry that it is too late . When I close my eyes for the last time , an entire library of instructions for genuinely rewarding living will go with me.                     