@@29524

Colonel David Hudson leaned his tall , athletic body against the squat , battered trunk of one of New York 's Checker-style taxis . Raising one hand to his eye , Hudson loosely curled his fingers to fashion a " telescope . " He began to watch morning 's earliest light fall on the Wall Street scene . He carefully studied 40 Wall Street where Manufacturers Hanover Trust had offices . Then , No. 23 Wall , which housed executive suites for Morgan Guaranty . The New York Stock Exchange Building . Trinity Church . Chase Manhattan Plaza . Once he had it all vividly in sight , Colonel Hudson squeezed his fingers tightly together . " Boom , " he whispered quietly . The financial capital of the world completely disappeared behind his clenched right fist . Boom . Seconds before 5:30 on that same morning , Sergeant Harry Stemkowsky , the man designated as Vets 24 , sped down the steep , icicle-slick Metropolitan Avenue Hill in the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn . He was riding in a nine-year-old Everest and Jennings wheelchair , from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chair was a Datsun 280-Z , silver metallic , with a shining T-roof . " Aahh-eee-ahh ! " He let out a banshee screech that pierced the deserted , solemnly quiet morning streets . His long thin face was buried in the oily collar of a khaki Army fatigue parka replete with peeling sergeant 's stripes , and his frizzy blond ponytail blew behind him like ribboning bike streamers . Periodically , he closed his eyes which were tearing badly in the burning cold wind . His tightly pinched face was getting as red as the gleaming Berry Street stoplight he was racing through with absolute abandon . His forehead was burning , but he loved the sensation of unexpected freedom . He thought he could actually feel streams of blood surge through both his wasted legs again . Harry Stemkowsky 's rattling wheelchair finally came to a halt in front of the all-night Walgreen 's Drugstore . Under the fatigue jacket and the two bulky sweaters he wore , his heart was hammering wildly . He was so goddamn excited-his whole life was beginning all over again . Today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The drugstore 's glass door , which he nudged open , was covered with a montage of cigarette posters . Almost immediately , he was blessed with a draft of welcoming warm air , filled with the smells of greasy bacon and fresh-perked coffee . He smiled and rubbed his hands together in a gesture that was almost gleeful . For the first time in years he was no longer a cripple . And for the first time in more than a dozen hard years Harry Stemkowsky had a purpose . He had to smile . When he wrapped his mind around the whole deal , the full , unbelievable implications of Green Band , he just had to smile . Right at this moment , Sergeant Harry Stemkowsky , the official messenger for Green Band , was safely at his firebase inside New York City . Now everything could begin .                     