@@33574

If you dream the same dream three nights in a row , it will come true . Folklore She took his hand and turned it over , settling it gently into her palm . His fingers curled as though he were cupping water . His skin was smooth , cool . Awareness surged through her like the aftershocks of a deep earth tremor . She struggled to center her emotions , allowing him in on one level , on another keeping him out . His brown eyes smiled , suggested , connected . " Close your eyes , please , " she said . He stared at her for a heartbeat , then his lids drifted down . " Good . Now take a deep breath . Relax . When you 're ready , tell me your dream . " He was a new client and , judging from his hesitation , uneasy about putting words to personal , private , possibly intimate thoughts . She was not only a stranger to him , but a woman . Would he be able to move past his defenses and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of raw honesty ? She tried to get a sense of how important this was to him , how badly he needed to know , but his energy seemed to be turned in another direction , and she came up empty . His eyes were closed ; she studied his face . Strong bones , handsome features . Earlythirties . Light brown hair streaked golden by the sun , dark lashes , strong jaw . He wore glasses , and even though his eyes were shut , he 'd kept them on . She let her own lids drift down as he began to speak . His voice was deep , interesting , boyishly sexy . She focused on his words-and the pictures materializing inside her head . A sense of uneasiness skittered across her skin , prickling the nape of her neck . Where she had felt comfortable a moment ago , now she felt . . . exposed . His voice changed , deepened , roughened . Impressions formed behind her closed lids , but they were as fragmented as his words , as though he were forcing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain calm , to listen , to see , but her nerves were beginning to fray , and when she lost hold of the bizarre images , she felt relief . She opened her eyes to study him . Blinking in shock , she jerked her hand away , holding it to her as if she 'd been burned . His hand remained in the air , frozen , fingers curled grotesquely . He slowly opened his eyes , stared into hers , then let his knuckles hit the table with a dull thud , as though his hand had no life in it at all . Swallowing , she stared back at him . Gone were the light hair and glasses , the handsome , youthful features . His hair was dark now . His eyes , black and empty as night , transfixed her . He continued speaking , his thin lips forming words , but what she heard made no sense . Terrified , she pushed her chair away , but before she could stand and run , he lunged , grabbing her throat with one hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gasped , clawing at his fingers , fighting for breath . He shoved her down to the floor , tightening his grip , his eyes telling her what he intended to do to her . . . Tabitha March struggled with her twisted bedsheet as though it were a pink muslin anaconda eager to squeeze the life out of her . Finally throwing it off , she sat up and gulped for air , raising her hand to her neck , making sure the fingers around her throat had dissolved along with the dream . Her heart pounded in her ears ; perspiration beaded her forehead . She reached for the water bottle on the bedside table , twisted off the cap , and downed its contents . Wiping her mouth with the sleeve of her coral sleep shirt , she used a wad of bedsheet to dab at her brow and rub the back of her sweaty neck . Finally , after taking ten or so deep breaths , she felt her shoulders relax , her heartbeat slow to normal . In her head , the terrible images faded . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes stared warily at her . Obviously awakened by Tabitha 's abrupt movements , Winkin looked at her like he wanted to offer her comfort , while Blinkin just looked peeved . The difference between dogs and cats , she mused . " The next time I feel the urge to munch on pepperoni pizza before bedtime , stop me , okay ? " She was fairly sure the Jack Russell terrier and the green-eyed Siamese agreed , but it was hard to tell , what with Winks licking his haunches and Blinks scratching an itch behind her ear . " You guys are some comfort . " Her sarcasm was wasted on the pair . She looked over at her bedside clock . Seven-fifteen . Scooping up her daytimer , she flipped to Tuesday , April the tenth . Nothing at eight , but . . . Oh , right , right . She had a new client coming at nine . Nathan Damon . On the phone , he 'd sounded a little shy . He said he 'd never consulted a psychic dream interpreter before , so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apprehensive before seeing someone new , though she had little choice but to take on new clients since her livelihood depended on expanding her client base . Her part-time legal transcribing service did n't come close to providing the income she needed . The Victorian she 'd inherited from her grandmother was so expensive to maintain , the repairs so constant , the taxes so outrageous , it took every penny she made each month just to stay ahead of her creditors . Most people who sought out her services did so because they understood how psychic dream interpretation worked . But there were the occasional clients who reacted badly to her revelations , either because they did n't get what they wanted from a reading or got too much . Three weeks ago , Ed Figueroa had been just such a man . After his reading , his round cheeks had become flushed , his bald head damp with perspiration .                     