@@29817

So the theory has it that the universe expanded exponentially from a point , a singular space/time point , a moment/thing , some original particulate event or quantum substantive happenstance , to an extent that the word explosion is inadequate , though the theory is known as the Big Bang . What we are supposed to keep in mind , in our mind , is that the universe did n't burst out into pre-existent available space , it was the space that blew out , taking everything with it in a great expansive flowering , a silent flash into being in a second or two of the entire outrushing universe of gas and matter and darkness-light , a cosmic floop of nothing into the volume and chronology of spacetime . Okay ? And universal history since has seen a kind of evolution of star matter , of elemental dust , nebulae , burning , glowing , pulsing , everything flying away from everything else for the last fifteen or so billion years . But what does it mean that the original singularity , or the singular originality , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , that was to voluminously suddenly and monumentally erupt into concepts that we can understand , or learn-what does it mean to say that ... the universe did not blast into being through space but that space , itself a property of the universe , is what blasted out along with everything in it ? What does it mean to say that space is what expanded , stretched , flowered ? Into what ? The universe expanding even now its galaxies of burning suns , dying stars , metallic monuments of stone , clouds of cosmic dust , must be filling ... something . If it is expanding it has perimeters , at present far beyond any ability of ours to measure . What do things look like just at the instant 's action at the edge of the universe ? What is just beyond that rushing , overwhelming parametric edge before it is overwhelmed ? What is being overcome , filled , enlivened , lit ? Or is there no edge , no border , but an infinite series of universes expanding into one another , all at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself , an infinitely convoluting dark matter of ghastly insensate endlessness , with no properties , no volume , no transformative elemental energies of light or force or pulsing quanta , all these being inventions of our own consciousness , and our consciousness , lacking volume and physical quality in itself , a project as finally mindless , cold , and inhuman as the universe of our illusion . I would like to find an astronomer to talk to . I think how people numbed themselves to survive the camps . So do astronomers deaden themselves to the starry universe ? I mean , seeing the universe as a job ? ( Not to exonerate the rest of us , who are given these painful intimations of the universal vastness and then go about our lives as if it is no more than an exhibit at the Museum of Natural History . ) Does the average astronomer doing his daily work understand that beyond the celestial phenomena given to his study , the calculations of his radiometry , to say nothing of the obligated awe of his professional life , lies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this conclusion of our historical intellects so hideous to contemplate-that even one 's turn to God can not alleviate the misery of such profound , disastrous , hopeless infinitude ? That 's my question . In fact if God is involved in this matter , these elemental facts , these apparent concepts , He is so fearsome as to be beyond any human entreaty for our solace , or comfort , or the redemption that would come of our being brought into His secret . - At dinner last night , code name Moira . After having seen her over the course of a year or two and having spoken to her only briefly , always with the same sign within myself , I have come to recognize some heightened degree of attention , or a momentary tightness in the chest , perhaps , or a kind of , oddly , nonsexual arousal , that usually gives way in a moment to a sense of loss , to a glimpse of my own probably thrown away life , or more likely of the resistant character of life itself in refusing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I found myself her dinner partner why , finally , it was worthwhile to endure a social life in this crowd . She wears no makeup , goes unjeweled , and arrives habitually underdressed in the simplest of outfits for an evening , her hair almost too casually pinned or arranged , as if hastily done up at the last minute for whatever black-tie dinner she has been dragged to by her husband . Her quiet mien is what I noticed the first time I met her-as if she were thinking of something else , as if she is somewhere else in all our distinguished surroundings . Because she did not demand attention and was apparently without a profession of her own , she could seem entirely ordinary among the knockout women around her . Yet she was always the object of their not quite disguisable admiration . A slender , long-waisted figure . Fine cheekbones and dark brown eyes . The mouth is generous , the complexion an even ecru paleness that , unblemished by any variation , seems dispensed over her face as if by lighting . This Slavic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hair , may account at least in part for the reigning calmness I have always felt from her . She nodded , smiled , with a clear direct look into my eyes , and took her place at the table with that quietness of being , the settledness of her that I find so alluring . Things went well . Let me entertain you .... I spoke my lines trippingly on the tongue . She was responsive , appreciative in her quiet way . On my third glass of Bordeaux , I thought , under cover of the surrounding conversations , I should take my chances . My confession drew from her an appreciative and noncommittal merriment . But then color rose to her cheeks and she stopped laughing and glanced for a moment at her husband , who sat at the next table . She picked up her fork and with lowered eyes attended to her dinner . Characteristically , her blouse had fallen open at the unsecured top button . It was apparent she wore nothing underneath . Yet I found it impossible to imagine her having an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of myself . I wondered bitterly if she elevated the moral nature of every man around her . But then , when dessert was about to be served , the men were instructed to consult the verso of their name cards and move to a new table . I was seated next to a woman TV journalist who expressed strong political views at dinner though never on the screen , and I was not listening , and feeling sodden and miserable , when I looked back and found ... Moira ... staring at me with a solemn intensity that verged on anger . She will meet me for lunch up near the museum and then we 'll look at the Monets.                     