@@26365

A Gift for Pissing People Off The cartoon showed a close-up of the pope wearing a button emblazoned with the words " No Women Priests . " An arrow pointed from the inscription " Upon This Rock I Will Build My Church " to his forehead . Once I hit upon the idea , I drew it up quickly , faxed a copy to the Long Island office , sent the original to production by messenger , and forgot about it until it ran the next day in both the city and island editions of the Sun , as all my cartoons did . I knew it was a decent lick  --  not especially outrageous by my lights , but effective . After two decades drawing political cartoons it was pretty much second nature to me , and I could usually feel how they were going to land . And though I knew I 'd drawn cartoons with more raw voltage , more reader irritation potential per square inch , I felt pretty good about this one . It was a Pick Cantrell cartoon all right . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say it quite that way . I thought it would set off some tremors and rearrange the landscape a bit . Was it good for me ? That 's the only question any artist can ask himself about his work . The earth moved all right . But I did n't anticipate all the aftershocks . As a political cartoonist , I have a gift for pissing people off . I receive hate mail on a regular basis , and sometimes death threats . The raw , visceral quality in my work comes naturally to me and has always surprised me . Sometimes it feels as if I 'm merely a conduit , channeling somebody else 's anger and attitude . My talent is like a pit bull on a verylong leash , and each day when I take it out for a stroll I hold on for dear life . In fact , there has always been something " non sequitur " about my drawings , as if their edge and meanness do not follow logically from me and my personality . " You do n't look like your drawings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I always pictured you as short , dark , and bearded . " My work seems angry , anarchistic , dangerous . But " sweet " was the word I most often heard used to describe me personally . On the surface I seem mild-mannered and easygoing . Physically , I am lanky , standing six-feet , two inches , blond , and blue-eyed , with the countenance of a child . Even now , as the crow's-feet impinge , and my hairline recedes , and my chins multiply , I appear open-faced , and harmless , like some Sunbelt Rotarian . I feel like an assassin . " Man , that was a mean cartoon , " say readers . " Thank you , " I reply . " You 're just saying that . " Had I not come of age in the tumultuous sixties I probably would have wound up drawing a comic strip about cats . But the temper of those times set off something in me that sought expression in political cartoons . Bad times for the Republic are great times for satire . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when campuses across the nation were in upheaval over the war in Vietnam . Even a sleepy college town like Tallahassee was ablaze with insurrection when I arrived my freshman year at Florida State . Mass demonstrations , ROTC building takeovers , and bomb threats were nearly daily occurrences at the " Berkeley of the South . " You could not pass through the student union without being accosted , harangued , and leafleted by partisans from SDS to Campus Crusade for Christ . After the dullness of my hometown , the volatility of campus life was thrilling , even more bracing than the drills and calisthenics I endured at afternoon practice . Freshman year brought two catastrophic personal blows that would change my life in ways I had never dreamed . First , my mother died , just before my eighteenth birthday . Not long after , I injured my knee badly during a game . I would never be able to play football again . Whether or not these two events were connected I 'll never know , but in some perverse way , they seemed serendipitous . My @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knee injury I lost my identity as an athlete , honed over the previous four years . I kept my scholarship , but with neither my mother nor football to anchor me I was bereft and directionless and immediately began looking beyond the classroom for an outlet for my numerous frustrations . Art became a way to hold on to the woman who had first encouraged my talents . I signed up for courses in still life and figure drawing and I soon started doodling caricatures of campus celebrities and prominent politicians in the margins of my notebooks and sketchpads . After a friend showed my satirical sketches to the editor of the student newspaper , the Seminole , I became the political cartoonist for the antiwar campus daily . I had found a home . The newsroom , chock-full of bright , funny student radicals , was combustible . My work exploded . I drew three cartoons a week for the rest of my college days , and made a name for myself in the arena of opinion and ideas in a way my football exploits never had afforded me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the university to the president of the United States . When Disney announced plans to build Disney World in the middle of Florida 's orange groves , I drew a cartoon showing a Mickey Mouse in tourist getup asking impoverished migrant workers , " Which way to the Magic Kingdom ? " It caught the attention of editors from the St. Petersburg and Miami newspapers , both of whom reprinted it and expressed interest in hiring me after graduation . I was on my way . Six months out of college , after being lucky enough to draw a high number in the first draft lottery , thus obviating my need to choose between jail and Canada , and after a brief stint working night paste-up at ...                     