@@26866

Map of Bones Chapter One Behind the Eight Ball JULY 24 , 4:34 A.M. FREDERICK , MARYLAND The saboteur had arrived . Grayson Pierce edged his motorcycle between the dark buildings that made up the heart of Fort Detrick . He kept the bike idling . Its electric engine purred no louder than a refrigerator 's motor . The black gloves he wore matched the bike 's paint , a nickel-phosphorous compound called NPL Super Black . It absorbed more visible light , making ordinary black seem positively shiny . His cloth body suit and rigid helmet were equally shaded . Hunched over the bike , he neared the end of the alley . A courtyard opened ahead , a dark chasm framed by the brick-and-mortar buildings that composed the National Cancer Institute , an adjunct to USAMRIID , the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases . Here the country 's war on bioterrorism was waged across sixty thousand square feet of maximum-containment labs . Gray cut the engine but stayed seated . His left knee rested against the satchel . It held the seventy thousand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open courtyard . He preferred the dark . The moon had long set , and the sun would not rise for another twenty-two minutes . Even the stars remained clouded by the shredding tail of last night 's summer storm . Would his ruse hold ? He subvocalized into his throat mike . " Mule to Eagle , I 've reached the rendezvous . Proceeding on foot . " " Roger that . We 've got you on satellite . " Gray resisted the urge to look up and wave . He hated to be watched , scrutinized , but the deal here was too big . He did manage to gain a concession : to take the meeting alone . His contact was skittish . It had taken six months to groom this contact , brokering connections in Libya and the Sudan . It had n't been easy . Money did not buy much trust . Especially in this business . He reached down to the satchel and shouldered the money bag . Wary , he walked his bike over to a shadowed alcove , parked it , and hooked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alley . There were few eyes awake at this hour , and most of those were only electronic . All of his identification had passed inspection at the Old Farm Gate , the service entrance to the base . And now he had to trust that his subterfuge held out long enough to evade electronic surveillance . He glanced to the glowing dial on his Breitling diver 's watch : 4:45 . The meeting was set for fifteen minutes from now . So much depended on his success here . Gray reached his destination . Building 470 . It was deserted at this hour , due for demolition next month . Poorly secured , the building was perfect for the rendezvous , yet the choice of venue was also oddly ironic . In the sixties , spores of anthrax had been brewed inside the building , in giant vats and tanks , fermenting strains of bacterial death , until the toxic brewery had been decommissioned back in 1971 . Since then , the building had been left fallow , becoming a giant storage closet for the National Cancer Institute . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under this roof . He glanced up . The windows were all dark . He was to meet the seller on the fourth floor . Reaching the side door , he swiped the lock with an electronic keycard supplied by his contact at the base . He carried the second half of the man 's payment over his shoulder , having wired the first half a month before . Gray also bore a foot-long plastic , carbonized dagger in a concealed wrist sheath . His only weapon . He could n't risk bringing anything else through the security gate . Gray closed the door and crossed to the stairwell on the right . The only light on the stairs came from the red EXIT sign . He reached to his motorcycle helmet and toggled on the night-vision mode . The world brightened in tones of green and silver . He mounted the stairs and climbed quickly to the fourth floor . At the top , he pushed through the landing 's door . He had no idea where he was supposed to meet his contact . Only that he was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breath at the door , surveying the space before him . He did n't like it . The stairwell opened at the corner of the building . One corridor stretched straight ahead ; the other ran to the left . Frosted glass office doors lined the inner walls ; windows slitted the other . He proceeded directly ahead at a slow pace , alert for any sign of movement . A flood of light swept through one of the windows , washing over him . Dazzled through his night-vision , he rolled against one wall , back into darkness . Had he been spotted ? The sweep of light pierced the other windows , one after the other , passing down the hall ahead of him . Leaning out , he peered through one of the windows . It faced the wide courtyard that fronted the building . Across the way , he watched a Humvee trundle slowly down the street . Its searchlight swept through the courtyard . A patrol . Would the attention spook his contact ? Cursing silently , Gray waited for the truck to finish its round @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure that rose from the middle of the courtyard below . It looked like some rusting spaceship , but was in fact a million-liter steel containment sphere , three stories tall , mounted on a dozen pedestal legs . Ladders and scaffolding surrounded the structure as it underwent a renovation , an attempt to return it to its former glory when it was a Cold War research facility . Even the steel catwalk that had once circumnavigated the globe 's equator had been replaced . Gray knew the giant globe 's nickname at the base . The Eight Ball .                     