@@33022

Picture the room where you will be held captive . You know there is oneeveryone carries this room with them . A basement room from your childhood , shelves cluttered with forgotten toys and yellowed files . A classroom from your student days , each wall lined with blank blackboards . A bright apartment with a view of the city , the night avenues glistening with rain . The corner room of an old hotel , the glass transom over the door half open . Any room can become a prison . All it takes is a key and someone to turn it . Perhaps you will do the turning yourself . My father spent his days in the cell of his choicea fine office in a sandstone building on the outskirts of Roanoke . My mother was high-strung and had trouble staying in the house for long . The sight of one insignificant item missing from our household would send her on a series of interlocking errands that could last all day . As a boy , I was a poor student and painfully shy , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than chronic . I often found myself at home , reading in my bed , soup cooling on a wooden tray next to a tall glass of flat Coca-Cola laced with brandy , my mother 's universal remedy . I would close the door to my room and imagine myself confined not by illness or false illness , but by someone else . Bart , the blond bully from school with his huge hands and dead gray eyes . Or my father , perpetually frustrated with the laziness he found in me and my brother Darby . It could be him behind the door , turning the key and holding me in my room until I learned to respect all the blessings that we hadbeen given . The captor was n't important . It was the prisoner who concerned me . I had read tales of pioneers held by Indian tribes , soldiers imprisoned in Andersonville , criminals stranded on the rock island of Alcatraz . The small scale of their lives entranced me the way that lead soldiers had when I was younger and that astronauts would when I was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be confined to a small place , that the Battle of Culloden Moor could be reenacted on the living-room rug , that three men could live and work in a capsule even smaller than my room . Through these boundaries I learned the virtue of restraint , always the quiet boy 's excuse for not hurtling headfirst into the world . When the light faded , giving way to the slow gray winter afternoon , I would leave the lamps off , waiting in the dark to see who would be the first to come home . My father returning from the office . My mother back from her errands . My brother done with football practice . Each would enter our house with footsteps of varying strengths . My father 's boots thumped along as he went from room to room turning on lamps . My brother 's cleats stayed only in the kitchen , where he stood in front of the open refrigerator and scanned its contents . My mother 's heels clicked like a metronome . Eventually , one would climb the stairs to my room and twist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I would stare , paralyzed , at the rattling brass knob . My captor had arrived , bringing food and water , a scolding , presents , further confinement . Which would it be this time ? Then I would break the spell and walk slowly toward the door , reaching up to throw the deadbolt that would let them in , let me out . As the door swung open , the prison walls would vanish as quickly as they had been created and I would be set free . But on another day , behind another door , a new captor waited along the golden horizon , for fear attracts its object as surely as desire . With my imaginary confinements , I set the stage for another , more peculiar imprisonment . Lone Wolf A Biography of Vladimir ( Ze'ev ) Jabotinsky By Shmuel Katz BARRICADE BOOKS TAILER                     