@@32907

Prologue The whole town of Trinity Harborprobably the whole state of Virginiawas buzzing like a swarm ofbees , and whose fault was it ? His daughter 's . RobertKing Spencer slammed down the phone for what hadto be the fifteenth time that morning and rued the dayhe 'd ever bred such an ungrateful lot of kids . Daisy , of all people , his beautiful , headstrong , butpreviously sensible thirty-year-old daughter , was stirringup gossip like a rebellious teenager . It was exasperating.No , King thought , it went beyond that . It washumiliating . He had half a mind to go charging over to her placeand put a stop to things before she tarnished the Spencername with her shenanigans , but he 'd learned hislesson on that score . A father interfered in his children'slives at his own peril . Better to handle thingsfrom the sidelines , subtly . King could all but hear the laughter of his familyand friends at that . It was true , subtlety was n't exactlyhis style . Never had been , but for once he could seethe value in using other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Tucker and Bobby ought to be able to straighten outthis mess . Tucker was the sheriff , for goodness ' sakes.Maybe he could wave that badge of his around and getDaisy to see reason . King sighed . Not likely . Tucker took his duties seriously.He was n't likely to use his office to carry outhis daddy 's personal wishes . And Bobby ... well , Bobbywas an enigma to him . No telling what he would doprobablythe exact opposite of what King wanted . That was the way it hadbeen lately . Not one of hischildren paid a bit of attention to him , or to their Southernheritage . What kind of respect could a man expectin his golden years if his own children went aroundstirring up the kind of trouble Daisy had gotten herselfinto ? Respect was important to a man . King had alwaysliked being a mover and shaker in Trinity Harbor . Hefigured he deserved it , since his very own ancestors hadwandered over from Jamestown to start the town . Thatpretty much gave him the right to have his say abouteverything that went on , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Most people actuallylistened . Being a Spencer in this town still meantsomething . Or it had until a few hours ago . Nope , it was clear that Daisy did n't give two hootsfor tradition or bloodlines or any of the other thingsthat made the South great . She was just hell-bent ongetting her own way , no matter what it did to herdaddy , her brothers or the family reputation . It was her mother 's fault , of course . Mary MargaretGodrest her soulwas the one with the modernideas . Let her shoulder the blame for Daisy 's behavior , even if she had been dead for twenty years . Sheshould have done somethingthough he could n't saywhatbefore she went and abandoned them all . Since Mary Margaret was n't around to fix things , though , it was up to King to save Daisy from herself.He prided himself on being clever when clever wascalled for , and today certainly seemed to be one ofthose days . He had the headache to prove it . Daisy Spencer had always wanted children . She justhad n't expected to wind up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She had n't exactlystolen Tommy Flanagan . The way she saw it , nobodywanted the boy . His father was long gone and hispitiful , frail mother had had the misfortune to die inthe recent flu epidemic . The story was the talk of TrinityHarbor and had been for weeks now . While they searched for relatives , Social Serviceshad placed Tommy with three different foster familiesin as many weeks , but Tommy would n't stay put . Hewas scared and angry and about as receptive to love asthat vicious old rooster Daisy 's father insisted on keepingover at Cedar Hill . Despite all that , Daisy 's heart just about broke whenshe thought of all the pain that ten-year-old had gonethrough . She figured she had more than enough love tospare for the little boy who 'd been one of her brightestSunday school students , a boy who was suddenly allalone in the world , a boy who 'd lost his faith in Godon the day his mother died . Daisy 's own faith had been tested half a dozen yearsago when she 'd been told she would never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her.It had destroyed her relationship with Billy Inscoe , theonly man she 'd ever loved . All Daisy had cared about was having children shecould shower with love . Adoption would have suitedher just fine . But Billy had n't been able to see beyond the factthat his fiance was barren . Billy had wanted sons anddaughters of his own . He 'd wanted his blood runningthrough their veins , proof of his manhood runningthrough the streets . He 'd wanted to start a dynasty asproud as the Spencers ' . When Daisy could n't give himthat , he 'd taken back his ring and gone looking forsomeone who could . With the exception of Daisy 's minister , nobodyknew the truth about what had happened between herand Billy . Daisy kept quiet because she 'd been so humiliatedby the discovery that she was n't womanenough to give Billy what he thought he needed froma wife . Billy had been discreet for his own reasons . Her own father thought the broken engagement wasthe result of some whim on her part , as if she 'd turnedher back on marriage because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hecould n't conceive of the possibility that his handpickedchoice for her had been the one to walk out , and Daisyhad let him have his illusions . And so , until this morning Daisy had pretty muchconsidered her dream of a family dead and buried , rightalong with every bit of respect and love she 'd ever feltfor Billy Inscoe . ( Continues ... )                     