@@30307

Fanny : A Fiction Chapter One Now that her life is over I have decided to write it . To be sure I knew her only for a few intense years , but our friendship was central to both of us , if only to indicate the direction each of us did not choose to take . We spent time together on the high seas and in the United States ( which she admired and I despised ) . We seldom agreed on anything and her followers , if there be any left , will doubtless question my right to be her Boswell . But her numerous enemies , not her few friends , are the readers I address in the hope of vindicating her honor . Nor will I pretend that this is the complete account she merits ; I am too burdened with other literary projects to be able to track down the minutiae or verify even the main dates of her passage on earth . And I am writing here in the French countryside , far from a library or the confirming or abetting reminiscences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the road outside this cottage is dusty , the peasant farmer with whom I stay for the moment shouts all day in an incomprehensible patois , there 's a particularly boisterous rooster ... Fortunately in a few days I will be on my way to Florence and my beloved Villino Trollope . Fanny Wright had undeniable virtues develop this thought by the bye . But she had , just as undeniably , some faults which I , as her friend and confidante , was particularly privileged to observe . Picture a blazing , ten-log fire sans fire-screen and you 'll have a notion of Fanny Wright 's heat and intensity ( some would say her glare ) . She had red hair , she was tall and slender , her complexion was as pale and lucent as opals  --  but she was the good kind of redhead , without freckles , though she did have that distinctive scent of the true red-head , when she was overexerting herself , or as the French would say , en nage . Delete remark on her bodily scent ? In dubious taste ? Though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wet collie when she was sweating . But I anticipate . I am sitting here en dshabill on a broken straw-bottomed chair in a room so noisy with clucking and the farmer 's screeching to his fowl and the ripe scent of damp straw ( this house is covered with thatch ) that I might as well lay an egg myself , except I am not up to it and am waiting here until my fever subsides and my son Tom sends additional funds to complete my overland trip to Tuscany . Frances Wright ... Well , I should begin at the beginning . Her problems began with her parents and then their early exit from her life . She was born on September 6 , 1795 verify ? I 'm certain this is correct in Dundee , a city almost as crowded and filthy as Edinburgh before the New City was constructed . In Edinburgh , in the Old City , though the streets were only five feet wide and the buildings ten stories tall , the " gentle folk " waited until ten of the evening and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permission to throw their slops out the window onto the street below . Whoever was passing would be foully bespattered and the rising stench was so great one could sleep only with rose petals pressed to the nostrils . Mind you , Dundee was just as dark and densely settled as Edinburgh , but the Wrights lived on a floor of an ancient house , since torn down , by the Nethergate , I believe , whence the fields and gardens were visible and where the citizens would descend and bathe directly in the cold waters of the Tay . Fanny was preceded by an older brother and followed by her beloved little sister Camilla , but when Fanny was only three her mother died and her father passed away three short months later . Despite this early disappearance her father , James Wright , a prosperous Dundee merchant , left his mark on the child , for James was the worst sort of freethinker . He had paid to have Thomas Paine 's The Rights of Man reprinted in a ha'penny edition available to the poor , and this infamous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condemned the rash man to Botany Bay had he not been so well-connected . Mr. Wright belonged to several numismatics clubs and possessed very valuable coins ; typical of his Jacobin views , he wondered why the public mints employed " the silly morsels of heraldry " in designing coins rather than " emblems of industry and commerce . " Doubtless he wanted our shillings not to present the royal profiles but to show milkmaids plying swollen teats , and our crowns to enshrine dustmen wading through ordure . Mr. Wright would also have been arrested for belonging to the infamous Friends of the People , a communistical phalanstery in Edinburgh , had he not ridden , all alone , one misty night , out into the murky Tay , where he drowned his devilish papers ... Years later , Fanny Wright read through the few notes her father had jotted down that had not been destroyed that night  --  and naturally found surprising similarities in their turn of mind . He had written , " The spirit of law and the tenor of the conduct of governments in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human affairs ought continually to change according to existing circumstances and the temper of the age . " Notice his emphasis on mutable Circumstance rather than eternal Nature and its Laws . Fanny later told me she marveled at the " coincidence in views between father and daughter , separated by death when the first had not reached the age of twenty-nine , and when the latter was in infancy . " I , too , alas , find a terrifying symmetry there , a family habit of reckless disregard of tradition and a total capitulation to Wanton Flux !                     