@@26230

Love With the Proper Husband Chapter One Men are untrustworthy , disloyal swine who care for nothing save their own pleasures and the perpetuation of their line . Gwendolyn Townsend No good ever came of a summons from a solicitor . Gwendolyn Townsend stiffened her already ramrod straight posture and ignored the urge to pick at the worn cuff of her pelisse . She was the daughter of a viscount , and regardless of her current circumstances , she would not be intimidated by a mere solicitor . Furthermore , she was not at all pleased to be kept waiting . She ignored as well the fact that , in spite of her lineage , she was nothing more than a governess at the moment and an unsuccessful one at that . No good ever came of a summons from a solicitor . It was harder to ignore the long-forgotten warning that had surfaced in her mind with a vengeance and refused to let her be . It had echoed in the back of her thoughts ever since the letter from her late father 's man of affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York . And why should n't it ? She 'd heard the servants at Madame Chaussan 's Academy for Young Ladies say it often enough through most of the first sixteen years of her life , and indeed , had n't it always proved true ? The last time Gwen had had anything whatsoever to do with a solicitor had been five years ago when Mr. Whiting 's nephew , taking up his uncle 's business , had informed her she was penniless . She still recalled that moment  --  the discomfort of the young man , a scant few years older than she , at his announcement , and the sympathy in his brown eyes . She remembered the look in his eyes as clearly as she remembered his words . " Miss Townsend , forgive me for keeping you waiting . " A gentleman of distinguished appearance stepped into the room and crossed to her chair . Gwen knew his name , but they 'd never had occasion to meet before now . He extended his hand , and she accepted it cautiously . " Your appearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you for several days yet . " " I thought it best to return to England at once . " " Of course . " He withdrew his hand and nodded toward the door . " You remember my nephew , Albert ? " Only now did she note the younger man standing by the open door , a decidedly apologetic expression on his face . There was no sympathy in his eyes today but an odd look nonetheless . " Of course . " She smiled politely and waited . If there was one thing , and indeed there might well be only one thing , she had learned through seven positions of employment , it was how to give the appearance of patience . Mr. Whiting took his place behind his desk and nodded dismissively at his nephew . Albert started toward the door , then abruptly turned back . " Miss Townsend , please accept my most heartfelt apologies . " At once she recognized the look in his eye as guilt . He stepped closer . " This is entirely my fault , and I can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ error was first discovered . I have been most concerned about your  --  " " That 's quite enough , Albert , " Whiting said firmly . Error ? Gwen 's gaze slid from Albert to his uncle and back . " What error ? " she said slowly . " It was a mistake . " Albert shook his head . " Quite inexcusable , and I shall never forgive  --  " Mistake ? " Albert . " Whiting 's voice cut through the room . Albert ignored him . " Miss Townsend , please understand I consider myself at your service from this moment forward . Should you need anything whatsoever , up to and including the benefits that can only be derived from marriage , I should be honored to offer my  --  " " Albert , " Whiting snapped . " I will take care of this . I 'm certain you have other duties to attend to . " Albert hesitated , then nodded . " Of course , Uncle . " He squared his shoulders and met her gaze . " Again , Miss Townsend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Gwen stared after him . A hundred myriad thoughts swirled through her mind , but not one made any sense . Whiting cleared his throat . " Miss Townsend , I  --  " " What mistake ? " Her gaze snapped to his . Whiting paused as if considering his words . He was distinctly ill-at-ease , and for the first time since her father 's death , a glimmer of what might have been hope surfaced within her . When she 'd received Whiting 's letter she 'd been curious , of course : it was accompanied by an already paid passage back to England . But he 'd said nothing more than that there was a matter of importance regarding her family that required her immediate return . She 'd been only too glad to bid her employers and their annoying offspring goodbye and had sailed on the first ship home . " Mr. Whiting ? " She 'd assumed Whiting 's summons had to do with the signing of papers regarding her father 's estate or the transfer of ownership of his property , matters she 'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whatever it was , it was significant enough , in Whiting 's eyes , to provide her with a way back to England , and that was all she really cared about . Now , looking at the solicitor 's obvious discomfort , coupled with his nephew 's abject apology and strange proposal of marriage , Gwen realized the " matter of importance " was far more significant than she 'd imagined . " Miss Townsend . " Whiting folded his hands on the desk in front of him . " My nephew should never have informed you of the state of your finances in the manner in which he did . Nor should he have said anything whatsoever so soon after your father 's demise . " Gwen 's heart sank . " It was most thoughtless of him and  --  " " Mr. Whiting , as much as I appreciate ... "                     