@@28030

PART ONE THE STORMY PETRELS Summer 2001 " The name ' petrel ' is said to be a diminutive of Peter : when feeding the bird flits and hovers just above the water , often with feet pattering on the surface , appearing to ' walk on water ' as St. Peter did in the Bible story . " - Field Guide to the Birds of Britain Evan Hughes stood in the middle of the fashion floor of Harte 's department store in London 's Knightsbridge . It was seven o'clock in the morning , and nothing stirred . By eight the cleaners would be moving around this vast space , and by nine a few of the dedicated sales staff would be arriving to prepare for the store doors opening at ten . Now , though , she was totally alone . She loved this store and this floor in particular . It was her domain . And hers alone . Last week she had been made head of fashion , a big promotion which had thrilled her . But in her personal life , Evan had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the floor , making for the new haute couture fashion displays , she could n't help thinking about the first day she had walked into Harte 's . January 2001 . Eight months ago now . She had been very lucky that day . Quite by chance she had met the man of her dreams and found the job of her dreams . She had certainly never thought her dreams would come true that day . But in some ways , they did . Pausing for a moment , Evan glanced around , her intelligent , light gray-blue eyes devouring everything : the fashion displays under bright lights , the elegance of the whole floor , such an important one in this prestigious department store , considered the greatest in theworld . Harte 's of Knightsbridge had been founded by one of the most famous merchant princes ever known : Emma Harte . She had been dead now for thirty years , and the store was run by Emma 's granddaughter Paula O'Neill . Paula , an elegant woman in her mid-fifties , had inherited her grandmother 's skills and brilliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were following in her footsteps . Both of them worked at the store ; Tessa was in charge of the first three floors , which sold cosmetics , perfumes , leisure wear , lingerie , and active sports clothes . Linnet , Tessa 's half sister , was in charge of the fashion floors and worked with Paula on public relations . It was Linnet O'Neill who had hired Evan to be one of her assistants , and for the first few months Evan had helped Linnet put together a retrospective of fashion , which had been a huge success and pulled many new customers into the store . Linnet . Tessa . Ambitious and complicated , they were now part of Evan 's life . As a reward for all her hard work and dedication , Linnet had given her this promotion ... and Evan was in her element . Evan stood in front of the couture fashion displays which had been finished late last night . They were great , she decided . The display staff had done a good job with the clothes she had selected . Turning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her office . Tall , slender , and dark haired , she was good looking , elegant . Back at her desk she glanced at the photograph of Gideon Harte . She had fallen in love with him , and he with her , that first day when he had bumped into her in the corridor . She had been looking for the management offices , and he had led her there , all the while firing questions at her . And it was Gideon who had told his cousin Linnet about her ; Linnet had subsequently interviewed her and given her a job . Sitting back in her chair , Evan thought about the past eight months and all that had happened . She had never expected to find a second family in England . Only a year ago the only family she knew were her mother and father , and her two adopted sisters , who lived in Connecticut . But all that had changed because of her grandmother Glynnis Hughes . On her deathbed her grandmother had told Evan to go to England to find Emma Harte , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And Evan had done exactly that , only to discover Emma was dead . But she had fallen in love with the store and decided to get a job there . And now here she was , working at Harte 's , planning a future with Gideon , and struggling to adapt herself to a whole new family ... because she herself was actually a Harte . It was Paula who had discovered through Emma 's diaries that Evan was another great-granddaughter of Emma Harte 's , because Evan 's grandmother Glynnis had given birth to a son fathered by one of Emma 's sons . And that child was Evan 's father . They had welcomed her , treated her kindly and with enormous understanding , but at times things had been difficult for Evan . So many things to unravel , so much to accept , so many people to get to know . Sometimes it seemed endless to her . Most troubling of all was the knowledge she had about her father 's biological father ... which she had been afraid to relay to him . Would her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he really want to know that the man who had brought him up was not his father after all ? She did n't know , and she continued to wrestle with these questions . Evan knew she had to come to a decision . Her mother and father were coming to London in a week or so , to spend time with her and have a vacation . Could she look her father in the eye and not tell him the truth ? Could she keep it a secret ? And should she ? Nobody could advise her really . Gideon had told her to do what she thought best , and everyone else had been noncommittal . The ball was back in her court . Then there was Robin Ainsley , her new grandfather , the man who had been her grandmother 's lover during the Second World War . He had been a pilot in the Royal Air Force , a Battle of Britain pilot , and her grandmother , Glynnis Jenkins then , had been a young woman from Wales who worked as Emma Harte 's secretary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feelings were even stronger than that . And she knew only too well that he longed to meet his son Owen Hughes . But would her father want to meet this " stranger " ... a stranger who was his real father ? His mother 's lover . ' Oh God . ' Evan turned on her computer and after a few moments started to work on it , but within an hour the troubling thoughts about Robin , Glynnis , and her father 's imminent arrival began to intrude . Turning the computer off , she made her decision . She would take Linnet 's advice and go to Yorkshire after all for a week 's rest . And she would go to see Robin Ainsley , still needing to know about his relationship with her grandmother , and most of all to truly understand why Robin and Glynnis had never married .                     