@@26917

1812 Meredith Sinclair held her breath as she knelt before the safe , a lock pick clamped between her teeth and a candle flickering on the floor as she gave the door a pull . Her lips tilted into a smile around the pick as the safe door swung open , revealing two identical velvet boxes . Withdrawing them both , she pulled a tiny magnifying glass from the pocket of the fitted gentleman 's trousers she wore as a disguise and removed the first necklace from its box . She barely held back a gasp of pleasure at the beauty of the piece . The diamonds sparkled in the glow of the candlelight and the amethysts reflected a violet so rich and deep that it was worthy of a king . She dipped her head and examined the piece . When she did n't find what she had been looking for , she opened the second box , to reveal a necklace that was identical to the first in all ways . " All ways but one , " she murmured to herself with a smile as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a forgery . She replaced the real necklace in its case and put it into her bag , then got to her feet . Carefully , she slipped from the room and down the dim hallway to the servants ' entrance she had paid a disgruntled footman to leave open for her . The home was silent as a grave , its occupants at a party across London , where they were no doubt scouting out their next piece of jewelry to steal . The servants had the night off or were in their quarters . It was all too easy . Meredith stifled another smug smile as she made her way into the garden behind the estate . In a few short steps she would be in her waiting carriage hidden around the corner and on her way back home . Another case solved . The thought had no more than passed through her head when she heard a shout behind her . She glanced over her shoulder to see three men burst from the home in her direction . " Damn it , " she muttered as she started @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the street was still a good twenty feet away . That was when the first shot whizzed past her ear . Without breaking stride , Meredith looked back to see the second man lifting his gun as the first man fell behind to reload . She dropped her shoulders and darted to the left as she reached the garden door , just as a second bullet slammed into its wooden face and splintered wood flew in all directions . She grabbed the door handle and pulled . . . Only to find it had been relocked since her entry into the home not half an hour before . A wide variety of curses passed through Mer-edith 's mind , but she did n't utter them . For one , she had to save her breath for running , and two , since she was in disguise , she did n't want her pursuers to know she was a woman . That would only complicate matters . She bounded along the garden wall in hopes she would find something to be her salvation . And then it appeared . A wheelbarrow propped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you patron saint of spies , " she murmured as she jumped onto the rounded top of the wheelbarrow , balanced for a brief moment , then braced her hands along the garden wall and pushed herself over the top . She hit the cobblestone below with a jarring force that made her teeth rattle , but was instantly on the move again . Her carriage was parked in sight in the dark shadow of a nearby building , and her driver had turned , looking for her . Likely he had heard the gunfire inside the garden , for his own rifle was raised to cover her if need be . With a yank , Meredith pulled the carriage door open and dove inside . " Go , Henderson ! " she called as another bullet shattered the glass window on the door . She reached back and pulled the damaged door shut as she flattened herself against the floor in case her pursuers fired again . " Drive ! " The horses had already begun to move before the second order left her lips . They roared forward under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their loud curses echoing along the quiet streets . Ah , the life of a lady spy . Running from gunmen at midnight , overseeing a charity meeting by tea time . Meredith smiled . Somehow she doubted that the gentlemen who protected the Empire were doing the same . " That is all the old business we have to review , " Anastasia Whittig , one of her partners , said as she removed her wire-rimmed spectacles . " As always the Sisters of the Heart Society for Widows and Orphans ' charity ball was an enormous success . " Their other partner , Emily Redgrave shrugged . " These events always are . But who cares about some stuffy ball ? " She turned her sparkling blue stare on Meredith . " You have new business , do n't you ? " Meredith could n't suppress her wicked grin . She 'd been fighting the urge to crow from the rooftops since her arrival . " I do . " As her friends watched , she reached into her reticule and withdrew the box she 'd pilfered the night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she removed the top and held up the necklace that lay within the folds of protective velvet . The jewels flashed sparkles in the afternoon sun . For a moment a heavy silence hung in the room , but then Emily let out a sigh of delight and carefully took the piece from Meredith 's hands . She held it against her throat . " My God , Merry , it 's beautiful ! Even more exquisite than the sketches led us to believe , " Emily squealed as she turned to the mirror above the mantelpiece and examined herself with the diamonds draped around her neck . " Yes . I could scarcely draw breath when I took the piece from the safe . " Meredith sighed . Anastasia eyed the two women with a purse of her lips . " Is it wise to bring the jewelry here ? It 's against protocol . " Continues ...                     