@@26875

I 'm In No Mood For Love By Rachel Gibson HarperCollins Publishers , Inc . Rachel Gibson The first time Clare Wingate found herself in a strange bed , she 'd been twenty-one , the victim of a bad breakup and too many Jell-O shooters . The love of her life had dumped her for a blond art student with an impressive rack , and Clare had spent the night at Humpin ' Hannah 's , holding down the bar and nursing her broken heart . The next morning she woke in a bed smelling of patchouli oil and staring up at a poster of Bob Marley , the guy snoring beside her drowning out the pounding in her head . She had n't known either where she was or the snoring guy 's name . She had n't stuck around long enough to ask . Instead , she 'd grabbed her clothes and bolted . As she 'd driven home in the cruel light of morning , she told herself there were worse things in life than random sexual encounters . Bad things like flunking out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , those were bad . Still , a one-night stand was n't for her . It had left her feeling disgusted and disturbed . But by the time she reached her apartment , she 'd chalked the whole thing up to a learning experience . Something a lot of young women did . Something to learn from , and something that was good to know for the future . Something she vowed would never happen again . Clare had not been raised to reach for a shot glass and a warm body to make herself feelbetter . No , she 'd been raised to curb her impulses and contain her feelings behind a perfect facade of warm smiles , kind words , and impeccable manners . Wingates did not drink too much , talk too loud , or wear white shoes before Memorial Day . Ever . They did not wear their hearts on the sleeves of their cashmere sweater sets , and they most certainly did not jump into bed with strangers . Clare may have been raised on restraint , but she 'd been born a romantic . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first sight and instant attraction , and had a bad habit of leaping into relationships before she looked . She seemed destined to suffer repeated heartache , painful breakups , and the occasional drunken one nighter . Fortunately , by her late twenties she 'd learned to put into practice the restraint she 'd been taught . For her reward , at the age of thirty-one , destiny blessed her and she met Lonny . The love of her life . The man she 'd met at a Degas exhibit , and who swept her off her feet . He was beautiful and romantic and not in the least like the heartbreakers she 'd dated in the past . He remembered birthdays and special occasions , and was brilliant when it came to floral arrangements . Clare 's mother loved him because he knew how to use a tomato server . Clare loved him because he understood about her work and left her alone when she was under a deadline . After a year of dating , Lonny moved into Clare 's home , and they spent the next year in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they both loved pastels and had a passion for texture . They never fought or even argued . There was no emotional drama with Lonny , and when he asked her to marry him , she 'd said yes . Lonny really was the perfect man . Well . . . except for his low sex drive . Sometimes he did n't want sex for months at a time , but really , she told herself , not all men were horn dogs . Or so she believed , right up to the moment she 'd rushed home unexpectedly the day of her friend Lucy 's wedding and found him in flagrante delicto with the Sears service technician . It had taken her several stunned moments to process what was happening on the floor of her walk-in closet . She 'd stood there with her great-grandmother 's pearls in hand , too shocked to move , while the man who 'd fixed her Maytag the day before rode her fianc like a cowboy . And none of it seemed quite real until Lonny glanced up and his shocked brown gaze met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she 'd said stupidly , and then , without another word , gathered up the hem of her silk and tulle bridesmaid 's dress and ran from the house . The drive to the church was a blur , and she 'd been forced to spend the rest of the day in a pink puff of a dress , smiling like her life had n't jumped the rails and sailed off a cliff . While Lucy read her vows , Clare felt her heart break piece by piece . She 'd stood at the front of the church , smiling as she fell apart inside until she was hollow and empty , except for the pain squeezing her chest . At the wedding reception , she pushed the corners of her mouth up and raised a glass to her friend 's happiness . She felt it was her duty to make a suitable toast , and she did . She would rather have died than ruin Lucy 's day with her own problems . She just had to remember not to get toasted . She told herself that one small glass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knocking back straight shots of whiskey , after all . Too bad she listened to herself . Before she opened her eyes the morning after Lucy 's wedding , a feeling of dj vu crept into her pounding head . It was a feeling she had n't experienced in years . Clare peeked through scratchy eyelids at morning light falling through a wide crack in the heavy curtains and spilling onto the gold and brown quilt weighing her down . Panic tightened her throat , and she quickly sat up , the sound of her pulse beating in her ears . The quilt slid down her bare breasts and fell to her lap . Within the lighter shadows of the room , her gaze took in the king-sized bed , a hotel desk , and wall lamps . In the armoire across from her , a Sunday morning news program was on television , the sound turned down so low she could . . . Continues ... by Rachel Gibson                     