@@26358

September On the way to Newark Joyce received a call : the talks in Berkeley had collapsed , conclusively . She closed her eyes for a few moments and then asked the driver to turn around and head back through the tunnel . It was still early morning . She went directly to her office on Hudson Street to sort out the repercussions from the negotiations ' failure  --  and especially how to evade blame for their failure . About an hour later colleagues were trickling in , passing by her open door , and Joyce thought she heard someone say that a plane had flown into the World Trade Center . The World Trade Center : the words provoked a thought like a small underground animal to dash from its burrow into the light before promptly scuttling back in retreat . She was n't sure she had heard the news correctly ; perhaps she had simply imagined it , or had even dozed off and dreamed it after less than five hours of sleep the night before . Fighting distraction , she pondered the phrasing of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time she wondered whether something had just happened that would dominate the news for months to come , until everyone was sick of it . In that case there would be plenty of time tofind out what it was . She presumed the plane had been a small one , causing localized damage , if it was a plane at all , if the World Trade Center had been involved at all . The towers were n't visible from her office window , but she could see several of the company slackers in the adjacent roof garden , smoking cigarettes and looking downtown . She worked for a few minutes and then suddenly she heard screaming and shouts . She thought someone had fallen off the roof . Even now Joyce moved without hurrying , careful first to save what was on her screen . If someone had fallen she would shortly learn who , and the consequences would play out either with or without her . But as she stepped through the door to the roof she understood from their continuing shrieks what her colleagues had just witnessed : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face of every man and woman on the roof was twisted by fear and shock . One belonged to the unyielding , taciturn company director , who had never before been seen to express emotion ; now his mouth dangled open and blood rushed to his face as if he were being choked . Among her colleagues tears had begun to flow only a moment earlier . Women buried their faces in the chests of coworkers with whom they were hardly friendly . " No , no , no , no , " someone murmured . Joyce turned and saw the two pillars , one with a fiery red gash in its midsection , the other with its upper stories sheathed in heavy gray smoke . Sirens keened below . She could hear the crackle and chuffing of the burning buildings more than a mile away . Nearly everyone in the firm had now come onto the roof , crowding shoulder to shoulder . Joyce stood among her colleagues rapt and numb and yet also acutely aware of the late summer morning 's clear blue skies that mocked the city below @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleagues haltingly speculated about what had happened , the size of the planes , how two planes could possibly have crashed in the same place at the same time . Their conversations withered in the heated confusion and terror spilling from the radio . After a while one of the towers , the one farther south , appeared to exhale a terrific sigh of combustion products . They swirled away and half the building , about fifty or sixty stories , bowed forward on a newly manufactured hinge . And then the building fell in on itself in what seemed to be a single graceful motion , as if its solidity had been a mirage , as if the structure had been liquid all these years since it was built . Smoke and debris in all the possible shades of black , gray , and white billowed upward , flooding out around the neighboring buildings . You had to make an effort to keep before you the thought that thousands of people were losing their lives at precisely this moment . Many of the roofs in the neighborhood were occupied , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their faces , either at their mouths or at their temples , but none covered their eyes . They were unable to turn away . Joyce heard gasps and groans and appeals to God 's absent mercy . A woman beside her sobbed without restraint . But Joyce felt something erupt inside her , something warm , very much like , yes it was , a pang of pleasure , so intense it was nearly like the appeasement of hunger . It was a giddiness , an elation . The deep-bellied roar of the tower 's collapse finally reached her and went on for minutes , it seemed , followed by an unnaturally warm gust that pushed back her hair and ruffled her blouse . The building turned into a rising mushroom-shaped column of smoke , dust , and perished life , and she felt a great gladness . " Joyce , oh my God ! " cried a colleague . " I just remembered . Does n't your husband work there ? " She nodded slowly . His office was on the eighty-sixth floor of the south tower , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth . She covered the lower part of her face to hide her fierce , protracted struggle against the emergence of a smile . They had been instructed to communicate with each other only through their lawyers , an injunction impossible to obey since Joyce and Marshall still shared a two-bedroom apartment with their two small children and a yapping , emotionally needy , razor-nailed springer spaniel Marshall had recently brought home without consulting anyone , not even his lawyer . ( The children had been delighted . ) In the year since they had begun divorcing , the couple had developed a conversation-independent system for their day-to-day lives , mostly centered on who would deposit the kids at day care ( usually Joyce ) and who . . . Continues ...                     