@@26423

Almost Perfect Moment , An A Novel Chapter One In Brooklyn , in a part of Brooklyn that was the last stop on the LL train and a million miles away from Manhattan , a part of Brooklyn  --  an enclave , almost  --  composed of modest homes and two-family houses set on lawns the size of postage stamps , out front the occasional plaster-of-paris saint or a birdbath , a short bus ride away from the new paradise known as the Kings County Mall , a part of Brooklyn where the turbulent sixties never quite touched down , but at this point in time , on the cusp of the great age of disco , when this part of Brooklyn would come into its own , as if during the years before it had been aestivating like a mud fish , lying in wait for the blast , for the glitter , the platform shoes , Gloria Gaynor , for doing the hustle , for its day in the sun , this part of Brooklyn was home to Miriam Kessler and her daughter Valentine , who was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither here nor yet there as far as life is concerned . Therefore , on this Tuesday afternoon , mid-November , it was in a way both figurative and literal that Valentine stood at the threshold between the foyer and the living room , observing Miriam and her three girlfriends  --  she , Miriam , called them that , despite their middling years , my girlfriends , or simply , The Girls  --  who were seated around the card table , attending closely to their game . Four Bam against Six Crack , the mah-jongg tiles clacking into one another sounded like typewriter keys or fingernails tapping on a tabletop , something like anticipation , as if like Morse code , a message would be revealed , the inside track to the next step on the ladder to womanhood , such as the achievement of the big O or the use of feminine hygiene products , things Valentine had heard tell of but had yet to experience , things for later , when you 're older . For Miriam and The Girls , mah-jongg was not recreation , but passion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artic- ulation , they were able to play while carrying on a conversation , which was not so much like juggling two oranges , because , for them , talking was as natural as breathing . " Am I telling the truth ? " Judy Weinstein said . " I 'm telling the truth . Could she be a decorator or what ? " " She 's right , Miriam . You could be a decorator . Two Dragon . It 's a showplace here . " " When I 'm right , I 'm right . She could be a decorator . " Even if her taste was n't to your liking , there was no doubt Miriam had an eye for placement and color . The living room , recently redecorated , was stunning , in an Oriental motif . Red plush carpeting picked up the red of the wallpaper that was flocked with velveteen flowers . A pair of cloisonn lamps capped with silk bell-shaped shades sat on black enamel end tables flanking the gold brocade couch . A series of three Chinese watercolors  --  lily pads and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far wall . A bonsai tree , the cutest little thing that grew itty-bitty oranges which were supposedly edible , was the coffee-table centerpiece . " This room takes my breath away . I ask you , does she have the eye for decorating or what ? " " They make good money , those interior decorators . " Waving off foolish talk , Miriam asked , " Are we playing or are we gabbing ? " To fix up her own home was one thing . To go out in the world as a professional , who needs the headache ? Miriam took one tile  --  Seven Dot  --  which was of no help at all , from Sunny Shapiro , while Sunny Shapiro with a face that , in Miriam 's words , could stop a clock , applied , on a mouth that was starting to wizen like a raisin , a fresh coat of coral-colored lipstick , the exact shade of coral as the beaded sweater she wore . Studying her tiles , a losing hand if ever there was one , Miriam Kessler fed a slice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she was performing a magic trick , Miriam could make a slice of cake , indeed an entire cake , vanish before your very eyes . Miriam swallowed the cake , her pleasure , and then there was no pleasure left until the next piece of cake . Her grief cloaked in layers of fat , Miriam Kessler was pushing 239 pounds when she last stepped on the bathroom scale back in September or maybe it was August . Mostly she wore dresses of the muumuu variety , but nonetheless , Miriam Kessler was beautifully groomed . Every Thursday , she was at the beauty parlor for her wash and set , forty-five minutes under the dryer , hair teased and sprayed into the bouffant of her youth ; the same hairdo she 'd had since she was seventeen , only the color had changed from a God-given warm brown to a Lady Clairol deep auburn . Despite that Miriam never skimped on the heat , rather she kept the thermostat at a steady seventy-two degrees , Edith Zuckerman snuggled with her white mink stole , and so what if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago , hardly with-it . The white mink stole was the first truly beautiful thing Edith had ever owned and she wore it as if the beauty of it were a talisman . As if nothing bad could ever happen to a woman wearing a white mink stole , never mind that she had the one son with the learning problems and her husband 's business having had its share of ups and downs . Oh-such-glamorous dames , adorned in style which peaked and froze at their high-school proms , The Girls were as dolled up as if on their way to romance or to the last nights of the Copacabana nightclub , as if they refused to let go of the splendor . Almost Perfect Moment , An                     