@@26757

The Confusion LTD Barbary Coast October 1689 He was not merely awakened , but detonated out of an uncommonly long and repetitive dream . He could not remember any of the details of the dream now that it was over . But he had the idea that it had entailed much rowing and scraping , and little else ; so he did not object to being roused . Even if he had been of a mind to object , he 'd have had the good sense to hold his tongue , and keep his annoyance well-hid beneath a simpering merry-Vagabond faade . Because what was doing the waking , today , was the most tremendous damned noise he 'd ever heard  --  it was some godlike Force not to be yelled at or complained to , at least not right away . Cannons were being fired . Never so many , and rarely so large , cannons . Whole batteries of siege-guns and coastal artillery discharging en masse , ranks of ' em ripple-firing along wall-tops . He rolled out from beneath the barnacle-covered hull of a beached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nap , and found himself pinned to the sand by a downblast of bleak sunlight . At this point a wise man , with experience in matters military , would have belly-crawled to some suitable enfilade . But the beach all round him was planted with hairy ankles and sandaled feet ; he was the only one prone or supine . Lying on his back , he squinted up through the damp , sand-caked hem of a man 's garment : a loose robe of open-weave material that laved the wearer 's body in a gold glow , so that he could look directly up into the blind eye of the man 's penis  --  which had been curiously modified . Inevitably , he lost this particular stare-down . He rolled back the other way , performing one and a half uphill revolutions , and clambered indignantly to his feet , forgetting about the curve of the hull and therefore barking his scalp on a phalanx of barnacles . Then he screamed as loud as he could , but no one heard him . He did n't even hear himself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even then he heard naught but the sound of the cannons . Time to take stock of matters  --  to bring the situation in hand . The hull was blocking his view . Other than it , all he could see was a sparkling bay , and a stony break-water . He strode into the sea , watched curiously by the man with the mushroom-headed yard , and , once he was out knee-deep , turned around . What he saw then made it more or less obligatory to fall right on his arse . This bay was spattered with bony islets , close to shore . Rising from one of them was a squat round fortress that ( if he was any judge of matters architectural ) had been built at grand expense by Spaniards in desperate fear of their lives . And apparently those fears had been well founded because the top of that fort was all fluttery with green banners bearing silver crescent moons . The fort had three tiers of guns on it ( more correctly , the fort was three tiers of guns ) and every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sixty-pounder , meaning that it flung a cannonball the size of a melon for several miles . This fort was mostly shrouded in powder-smoke , with long bolts of flame jabbing out here and there , giving it the appearance of a thunderstorm that had been rammed and tamped into a barrel . A white stone breakwater connected this fort to the mainland , which , at first glance , impressed him as a sheer stone wall rising forty or feet from this narrow strip of muddy beach , and crowded with a great many more huge cannons , all being fired just as fast as they could be swabbed out and stuffed with powder . Beyond the wall rose a white city . Being as he was at the base of a rather high wall , he would n't normally expect to be able to see anything on the opposite side thereof , save the odd cathedral-spire poking out above the battlements . But this city appeared to 've been laboriously spackled onto the side of a precipitous mountain whose slopes rose directly from the high-tide mark . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by some tidy God who wanted to make all the shit finally run out of it . At the apex , where one would look for whatever crowbar or grapple the hypothetical God would 've used to accomplish this prodigy , was , instead , another fortress  --  this one of a queer Moorish design , surrounded with its own eight-sided wall that was , inevitably , a-bristle with even more colossal cannons , as well as mortars for heaving bombs out to sea . All of those were being fired , too  --  as were all of the guns spraying from the several additional fortresses , bastions , and gun-platforms distributed around the city 's walls . During rare intervals between the crushing thuds of the sixty-pounders , he could hear peppery waves of pistol-and-musket-fire rolling around the place , and now ( beginning to advert on smaller things ) he saw a sort of smoky , crowded lawn growing out of the wall-tops  --  save instead of grass-blades this lawn was made up of men . Some were dressed in black , and some in white , but most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brilliantly hued swathes of silk , and brightly embroidered vests  --  frequently , several such vests nested  --  and turbans or red cylindrical hats . Most of those who were dressed after this fashion had a pistol in each hand and were firing them into the air or reloading . The man with the outlandish johnson  --  swarthy , with wavy black hair in a curious ' do , and a knit skullcap  --  hitched up his robe , and sloshed out to see if he was all right . For he still had both hands clamped over the sides of his head , partly to stanch the bleeding of the barnacle-gashes , and partly to keep the sound from blowing the top of his skull out to sea .                     