@@28899

The Pirate Round Book Three of the Brethren of the Coast Thomas Marlowe was not studying a chart of the Indian Ocean . True , it was laid out in front of him , along with dividers and parallel rule and all those tools that a mariner might use to study a chart . A dagger , formerly the property of a lieutenant in the Spanish navy , held down the lower right corner of the rolled vellum . Holding the left corner were the sailing directions for that area , a volume he had picked up in Port Royal over ten years before , when he had first considered a jaunt against the Moors . But he was not considering it again . It was foolhardy , unethical . It was piracy , and that was not what he did . He was not studying the chart . He assured himself of that . He sighed , tossed the dividers aside , leaned back in the chair . August , hot and sultry in Virginia , a steamy heat after two days of rain . The windows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of breezes found its way in , rustling the papers on Marlowe 's desk . Accounts that needed settling , mostly . Unencouraging reports from his merchant in England . Marlowe ran his fingers through his shoulder-length hair , scratched his scalp . Until just the past few months he had worn it close-cropped to accommodate one of the many elaborate periwigs that his station in Virginia society had dictated he wear . Finally , a combination of creeping age ( he was nearing forty ) , a secure position in Tidewater society , and a general disgust with the expense and discomfort of the things had led him to abandon the fashion and allow his own hair to grow back , as he had worn it in his days at sea . With periwig gone and coat tossed over the seat of a straight-backed caned chair , Marlowe was about as comfortable as he was going to get on such a day . He stared out the window , across the wide expanse of lawn to the lush , green line of trees in the distance . It was his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pushing him down . Today was a day for packing tobacco for shipment to England . Through the open window he could hear the squeak of the lever arm used to prize the air-cured hands of tobacco into the hogsheads . Marlowe smiled as he thought of it . When he arrived in Williamsburg in 1700 , determined to give up a former life of piracy , he understood none of that . He did not know that tobacco had to be left suspended in a curing house to dry in the air after it was cut , did not know that it was bound up into little bundles called hands and then forced , or " prized " into hogsheads . He knew only that he wanted a plantation , wanted to be lord of the manor . Money procured that . Once he owned the plantation , he set free the slaves that had come with the bargain and hired them to take care of the cultivation . That part of plantation owning , the agriculture part , did not interest him . Besides , the former slaves had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The squeaking stopped , followed a moment later by the peevish voice of Francis Bickerstaff saying , " No , no more . There is a finite amount these hogsheads will hold , you know . We shall blow it apart if we put one more hand in there . Affix the head now , cooper , and let us have another . " He sounded like a schoolmaster lecturing a recalcitrant student . That was hardly surprising . Bickerstaff had been a tutor to a wealthy man 's children up until the moment his ship had been captured by the pirate vessel aboard which Marlowe was sailing . Marlowe had forced Bickerstaff to sail with him , to teach him to read , to speak properly , to pass as a gentleman . The two had become friends , the closest of friends , and remained so . Bickerstaff had a curious mind , as befitted a scholar . While Marlowe was happy to ride around the plantation and enjoy his lordship over it , Bickerstaff felt the need to learn all he could about raising , curing , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House , he knew as much as any planter in the Tidewater . Between Bickerstaff and the freed slaves , Marlowe 's plantation produced as much and as good tobacco as any plantation in Virginia or Maryland . Thomas drew a deep breath . Along with the sounds of prizing , the breeze carried the scent of the air-dried tobacco being readied for shipment . It was the smell of money in the Tidewater . Or had been , until now , the Year of Our Lord 1706 . Now it was hard times for the once-prosperous colony . Queen Anne 's War had dragged on for four years , with not the least indication that it would let up . The markets of Europe were closed to English tobacco , just when the planters in Virginia and Maryland were enjoying record yields . Marlowe stared and pondered and idly massaged his right forearm . It had been broken four years before in an ill-advised attack on a French East Indiaman , and it still bothered him on occasion . He had forsworn piracy , but on a few occasions since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sweet trade  --  and had made a fair amount of money in doing so . That booty had carried him through the hard times , had allowed him to keep out of debt and to pay his former slaves , as he had promised them he would . But his cache of loot was nearly exhausted now , and there was little money to be made from tobacco , and he did not know what he would do . He sighed again , glanced down at the tempting chart and its promise of fat Moorish treasure ships running down the Red Sea and through the straits of Bab el Mandeb . Somewhere off in Europe , armies were beating each other bloody to determine who would sit on the ... The Pirate Round                     