@@33697

Backlit , their faces dark , five men stand spaced apart like gunslingers , their long distorted shadows thrown by streetlight to her feet . She stands up straight and clasps both hands in front of her , hoping her voice holds . Gracias . No one hears her . No one cares . They 've reached the perimeter where her spilled luggage begins , picking items up like carrots , shaking them triumphant in the air . A man with clipped hair and dark blue jeans leans down to grab her sweatshirt and instead tips over , falling heavily on his side . He rolls onto his back snorting like a happy hog and stretches out his arms and lies there peacefully contemplating sky . His friends roar . On a scale of one to ten , she 's about to shit her pants . You need to take care of your things , my love , says a guy in a yellow cap . He holds out one big fist and opens it . The thick fingers curl back , and a pair of Crayola red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He waits for her but she does n't move . You got the wrong girl , she whispers . Your pretty things , Yellow says . Splays his fingers through the elastics , a childhood cat 's cradle , keeping his eyes on her all the while . So little for a big girl like you . They both stare at the red underwear as if it 's a crystal ball . You do n't want to lose them . Why do n't we make a trade ? Please , she says . Please do n't . A fair trade . Give me . Yellowstares at her belt . He has clear ideas where this is headed but then his buddy comes to life , reaching out one doughboy arm and plucking the panties gently from his friend , grinning like electroshock . The big man brings the red panties to his nose and presses them against his face , inhaling deeply . He holds the panties out in front of him and lets out a big hum before he stretches out the waistband and snaps them on his head like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no one , not a dog on the block or a star in the sky , not until he yanks them down over his face like a wrestling mask , his eyes bugging from the leg holes , and that 's it , that 's the last straw , all of them are laughing and staggering like the drunks they are . She runs . She runs . Her undergarments dance and sing as she somehow hits the main street with its lanes of traffic , raises her hand to stop a cab or swear in faith and make all of them , all of Mexico , disappear .                     