@@27811

It was the time of the big boom and everyone figured the prosperity would last forever . There had been other booms before , but those had always been followed by calamity -- a bust that took away everything the good times had given , then kept on taking . This boom would be different , people said . The Transamerica Pyramid at the end of Kearney seemed almost to glow , and the bankers who worked inside issued a stream of proofs and prognostications . Meanwhile the streets swelled with new arrivals . The old-timers found the new enthusiasm insufferable , but the old-timers found everything insufferable . The truth was , you could see a certain gleam in their eyes , too , and at night the streets along North Beach echoed with the sounds of pleasure : from Tosca 's to the Cafe Sport to the old U.S. Restaurant . The lines were long and there was a restive , animal smell . Those with pressing reservations left their cars along Kearney , double-parked , to be fetched from impound in the morning by couriers who specialized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the circumstances . The bounty of the moment was infinite , after all -- if only you could reach out and extend your grasp . Meanwhile it was still possible -- strolling down Columbus , perhaps , orturning a corner on Grant -- to meet the plaintive stare of someone not sharing in the general prosperity . Sometimes at night , alone on your mattress , you might hear a soft cry . If you went to the window , though -- nothing . Just the fog and the darkened row houses and the arc lamp casting its blue light on the corner . It was possible to experience doubt at such moments , of course , even if you realized such doubts would inevitably give way in the morning to the knowledge that the old order was evaporating . That soon everything would be transformed . If you continued to doubt , all you had to do was glance at the Pyramid for reassurance . Or at the newspapers . Or at the people absorbed in their handheld devices . So , after a while , if you heard those soft cries at night , you did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you did not meet those plaintive glances . You did not notice . Just as no one noticed , this particular evening , the corpse floating in the water . The corpse surfaced at the end of the pier , floating in the manner that corpses float , face down , arms dangling . The corpse wore a silk blouse , the pearls still about the neck , the skirt ballooning from the flesh . There were a number of people out strolling , stopping at the railing , gazing at the bay , at the numinous reflections skittering across its black surface . But no one noticed the dark form in the water , or if they did , they did not attach to it any significance . Perhaps their eyes were focused on the distance , on the lights glittering on the horizon . Or perhaps on something within -- some notion they could not quite possess . Meanwhile , a steamer passed , and the corpse rocked with the swells , the head gently thudding against the pilings . Sometime in the morning , just as the sky was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but just enough to slip beneath the pier . The morning crowds came . They disembarked from the ferry , walked along the wooden planks , ate on the benches . The corpse floated beneath them , lodged on the piling , just out of view . A stench rose -- masked in part by the water , it was true , by the smells of the bay -- but no one went to look . Perhaps no one would have discovered it at all if not for a fisherman -- a boy , really , a kid from the Chinatown projects -- who two days later got his line , his favorite lure , tangled in the darkness beneath the pier . Continues ...                     