@@27307

Twelve Times Blessed Chapter One February My Funny Valentine We challenge you to find more soul-satisfying chocolates than these , packed inside a red satin keepsake box ( maybe to hide those first lost teeth , after the Tooth Fairy comes ? ) . That 's for you alone . Baby will snuggle in a white-and-red striped hooded pullover , suitable to the season , and each of you will sport a size-appropriate pair of seasonal socks , edged with golden arrows for boys , and hearts and beads of pink and red ( impossible for even the most curious little fingers to remove ) for girls . Romance missing in your life since the advent of you-know-whom ? Not after you relax to this CD . " Bolero " is only the beginning . A familiar place , when you have gained heft of life , can feel as confining as a familiar pair of pants when you 've put on weight . True Dickinson has gained both , and her discomfort is as much the pinch of regret as the bitterness she feels when she has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As the crow flies , which is how people like to put it , True Dickinson lives only a mile from Nantucket Sound . But recently , and with regret , she has been unable to see the pewter of its winter billowing with customary awe , just as she has stopped looking at her friends with gratitude , at her success with pride , at her small family with surprised contentment . Not since she came from her birthplace in Amherst to the Cape , first as a sitter during college summer breaks , then as a bride with her husband , a pilot for the commuter airline , has she felt such unaccustomed restlessness . Stray and strange thoughts of moving away sometimes escape her purposeful days like loose strands that occasionally escape from her tight and sensible French braid , which True is so accustomed to plaiting every morning she could do it in the dark . She catches herself thinking , I 'll blow town , light out for the territories , just my son and me , leave the Cape altogether for a someplace with more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is misplaced . It is situational , not locational . For just as crows do n't really fly straight  --  they are so curious , always swooping off on avian tangents to explore something shiny or smelly , that it probably takes a crow longer to get anywhere than it takes a human being in a car obeying the speed limit  --  True feels trapped not by the lack of space in the life around her but by the profusion of empty space of life within her . She is lonely . The ends of her life are working their way loose . Her son , whom she is accustomed to thinking of as a little child , is nearly ten , middle-aged , in kid years . Thus , True can no longer pretend she is a " young widow . " Her mother is growing older ; her longtime assistants speak of plans to relocate , to take on new adventures . She is beginning to see herself as the point from which other things depart . Would she describe herself in this way ? Perhaps under hypnosis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And ' t is the season for that . February is no less lonely a month in a resort community , where every view is a watercolor landscape , than it is anywhere else , and may be more so . The closed lids of shops shuttered until summer are depressing to those who pass them , even to locals who rave about having their streets and churches all to themselves . It 's a common misconception that people who are inclined to take their own lives do so at Christmas . The truth is that fingers itch for a strong piece of rope or a stash of sedatives starting in February , when the holidays have failed to deliver on their promise , and when the unbearable renewal of life brims just around the corner . It is a particularly bad month for True . The month of her birth , it is also the month of her husband 's long-ago death . Peter Lemieux , who flew eight-seater Cessnas through rowdy coastal weather for a living , died ironically , struck by a motorist on an icy night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a woman whose car had blown its radiator . A moving van had mowed him down . For years , True has been unable to remember the sound of Pete 's voice , and she has no idea whether the image of him she can summon to her mind is a mental snapshot of the wedding photo that she dusts along with her lamp and her hand lotion , or a true memory of the way he looked . True 's mother , Kathleen , also widowed young , also by a car accident , nods in solemn empathy when True keeps refusing to bring out and watch the few videotapes she and Pete made during their son Guy 's babyhood . Kathleen periodically suggests watching the tapes together , as if an erased life were something to be reveled in , like a great exfoliating bath . True knows that , even after eight years , the sight of Pete 's platinum crewcut and square-cut face with its pilot 's crinkled tan , perpetually young , will shatter her complacency , which she maintains by carefully separating before from after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what she really can not bear to see is the infant image of Guy , the only child she likely will ever have  --  miniature , mirthful and trustful , his cheeks drooping , round as peach halves , wider than his forehead . That velvety baby touch True can remember , and it grieves her to think it will quite probably be a touch that , for the rest of her life , she will only borrow . She also knows that , while not quite the merry widow , she is not like her mother , not like the other young widows at the group she attended briefly , who had vied with each other to claim which limbs and digits and months of life they would trade for an hour in the arms of their husbands ...                     