@@29453

Chapter One The man finished the champagne in the fragile crystal stem and set it on the silver tray deftly held aloft by a passing servant . The tuxedoed waiter paused momentarily for the man to avail himself of another glass of the bubbly wine , then disappeared into the chattering crowd . Reeves Grant sipped at his fresh glass of champagne , wondering why he had even taken it . He did n't want it . Everything had suddenly gone sour . Even the world 's most expensive vintage left a brassy taste in his mouth . Derisive green eyes swept across the august assembly of celebrities and VIPs , surveying it with tolerant boredom . An aging but still beautiful French film star was strategically draped on the arm of her new husband , an oil tycoon from Tulsa , Oklahoma . West Germany 's gold-medal-winning Olympic downhill racer was earnestly hustling a sulky , sensuous princess from a Mediterranean country , but she studiously ignored him . A New York designer and his " companion and protg , " both dressed in flaming pink tuxedoes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ malicious tale about a former cover girl model who had gained forty pounds and had come to them for a figure-camouflaging wardrobe . All in all , the crowd were rich , famous , or important . Or a combination of all three . Or merely outrageously notorious for one reason or another . Greeting them all with dignified graciousness was the host of the lavish reception . Tall , strong , and lithe of figure , he looked to be exactly what he was , a Swiss industrialist of incalculable wealth . His blond , blue-eyed good looks secured his position on the list of the world 's " beautiful people . " Disobedient green eyes refused a cerebral command and unerringly moved to the woman standing beside the millionaire . She was dressed in a stunning white gown . White , for God 's sake ! he thought snidely . Twenty-four hours had n't dimmed Reeves Grant 's memory of how beautiful she was . The one-shoulder Dior sheath was worthy competition for any other gown there . The opal and diamond necklace around her slender throat was as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women in the room , and its simplicity was almost virtuous by comparison . Her hair came close to being styled too casually for the formal occasion . It was n't loose and flowing as Reeves had last seen it . Instead it was swept up into a knot at the top of her head . But the secreted pins seemed to have a tenuous hold on those dark , thick , glossy strands , a few of which had already escaped their confines . With the least amount of encouragement-say , a man 's caressing fingers-the whole mass would probably come tumbling down around his lucky hand . Dammit ! What the hell is the matter with you ? he demanded of himself . He had been suckered , but good . Yet , like some masochistic fool , he could n't keep his eyes away from her . The question kept repeating itself in his brain : What had she been doing in that bookshop last night ? Or better still , what was she doing here ? Among all this ? These people ? With that man ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reception room with its frescoed and gilded ceiling , its marble floors , its glittering chandeliers , had nothing to do one with the other . She did n't belong here . She belonged in that infinitesimal kitchen with its cheery percolator and the smell of fresh coffee . He could still see her curled up in the corner of that short sofa , one of the comfortable pillows hugged to her breasts ... Damn ! Leaving the dregs of the champagne , he set the glass on a small table . His Nikon camera hung around his neck by its thin leather cord , and he adjusted it now . He was so accustomed to the camera being like an extension of himself that it did n't seem incongruous with his evening clothes . The crowd , well used to being photographed , seemed not to notice the camera either as Reeves threaded his way through them , his eyes intent on the cameo profile of the woman as she shook hands with a Belgian diplomat . The man at her side had just introduced him to her . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke courteously to him , though her words eluded Reeves as he brought the camera up to his expert eye . He adjusted the ring around the lens until the delicate features of her face sprang into focus . She was accepting the diplomat 's officious kiss on the back of her hand when the photographer snapped the shutter . The automatic flashing device on his camera startled her , and she turned her head in the direction from which it had come . Quickly , he rolled the focus ring again as her face now filled his lens . Her smile was tentative , shy , and self-conscious as he pressed the shutter release . This time the flash hit her full in the eyes and she was momentarily blinded . A dark forest of lashes blinked over gray eyes several times before she could clearly see . The photographer slowly lowered the camera away from his eyes , green eyes that impaled her with a ferocious , accusatory glower . Her gracious smile froze for an instant before it totally collapsed . The eyes widened perceptibly . The mysterious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tongue flicked over lips suddenly gone dry . Then the lips formed a small , round , surprised O. Reeves had seen that same expression of wonder and caution just last night . It had been raining . The thunder had echoed through the narrow alleys and bounced off the stone walls of the ancient buildings of Lucerne , Switzerland . Rain had pelted his bare head . But suddenly the storm had ceased to matter . When he saw her face through the glass door of the bookshop his other senses had rested while his vision reigned supreme , devouring her image . ( Continues ... )                     