@@28895

The request had come , as usual , in the form of a telegram slipped under her door . AUNT HARRIET AILING . REQUIRE YOUR IMMEDIATE ASSISTANCE . TAKE THREE O'CLOCK TRAIN TOMORROW . UNCLE FRANK . " Aunt Harriet " was her brother , James Bond . " Uncle Frank " was N. , head of the notorious double-0 department of Her Majesty 's Secret Service . " Immediate assistance " meant that Jane Bond would soon be packing her spy kit for another appearance as her brother , 007 . Whether she was at the opening of a new branch office or the retirement luncheon of a beloved Secret Service secretary , she had only simple tasks that required little more than donning a special suit and spending a few hours smiling , smirking , and sneering . She had wrenched her neck once attempting all three at the same time , while trying to inject some humor into the typically dull assignments . Still , it was better than being on the dole . Since her work for the Secret Service was strictly top-hush , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in cash and put her on his expense account under the heading of " Necessary Evil . " In the past year , since agreeing to the charade , Jane had averaged one assignment a month and was still making three times what she had earned at her last job as a bookshop clerk . Thirty-two years old and she was back in her brother 's shadow , working for a man she detested , for an organization whose policies she abhorred , all for that envelope of crisp pound notes shoved under her door every Monday morning that allowed her to live as she pleased . Her James Bond kit contained a suit , a martini glass , stick-on scars , and The Bachelor 's Guide to 101 Pickup Lines , but no Walther PPK , Bondmobile , or state-of-the-art spy gadgets . She knew that her appearances were meant to undercut rumors of her brother 's decline ; she was window dressing , her brother 's stand-in when he drank himself into a coma or broke both legs while mixing martinis on skis . She had been content with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. Claire came along and offered , among other things , to make her a real secret agent . And the double-agent aspect appealed to Jane 's twin nature . After six weeks of G.E.O.R.G.I.E . spy school , spent learning to mix incendiary devices from biscuit powder and invisible ink from commonly available citrus fruits , becoming a topnotch shot and a fair cryptographer , she was eager for her first real assignment . She had waited long enough . But not for this . When N. announced she would be attending the Spy Convention in Las Vegas as her brother , in hospital recovering from a nasty burn , her first reaction was to decline the job . It was too risky ; her true identity would surely be revealed the minute she walked into a room filled with her brother 's colleagues . " I 'll be with you all the way , " said Agent Pumpernickel from underneath N. 's desk , where he was searching for a boiled sweet he had dropped . Cedric was technically retired after twenty-five years ' service , and when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front of the telly in his dressing gown and slippers , eating Violet Crumbles and wondering why love had passed him by . " And I could stand a holiday , " he said , holding up a sourball covered in gold carpet fuzz . Jane had left N. 's office unconvinced . The next day Miss Tuppenny contacted Jane and made it clear that her days as a simple stand-in were over ; she was as skilled , if not as practiced , as any G.E.O.R.G.I.E . agent , and it was time to get her out into the field . No beginner was sent on a mission alone , however , and especially not that far from headquarters ; Jane 's backup , Agents Bridget St. Claire and Bibi Gallini , would fly to Las Vegas with her ( but not with her ) and maintain undercover status while remaining available should the mission prove more difficult than expected . Jane was to behave as if she were on her own , calling on Bridget and Bibi only in a pinch . Miss Tuppenny had also ordered that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having spent the majority of his career behind a desk ordering office supplies , should happen upon the invention first  --  an unlikely scenario  --  Jane should let him have it . There was no sense putting her job with the Secret Service in jeopardy when Miss Tuppenny could arrange for the invention to " disappear " from the weapons closet . This way nothing could possibly go wrong . It was , Miss Tuppenny was convinced , a perfect way for Jane to stretch her double-agent wings . When Jane heard this , her reservations about the mission were replaced with a determination to prove herself by securing the invention for G.E.O.R.G.I.E . without involving Bridget and Bibi . She would not ring them on her spy phone  --  a plain , black men 's wallet that became a telephone with the addition of a ballpoint-pen antenna and receiver hidden in a Kennedy half-dollar  --  until she had the invention in her hands . So , on the fifteenth day of September , Agents Jane Bond ( as James ) and Cedric Pumpernickel boarded a British Airways 707 . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the International Association of Accident-Prone People , heading for their organization 's convention in Las Vegas . Their mission : to approach the unidentified creator of a top-secret invention and secure exclusive rights for Britain . After they 'd settled themselves in their seats , Jane turned and looked seven rows back at her lover , G.E.O.R.G.I.E . Agent Bridget St. Claire , disguised as a bored Italian contessa , and winked . Bridget smiled and then quickly ducked behind her Italian Vogue when Cedric turned around to ask the child behind him to please refrain from kicking his seat . At Bridget 's side was her partner , Agent Bibi Gallini , disguised as the bored Italian contessa 's pouty French maid . Bibi was a compulsive womanizer ... and a practiced thief ... Continues ...                     