@@26305

The problem , one of them , was that circumstances had split her life down the middle . She was always of two minds , the hopeful half versus the skeptic , optimist against pessimist . Or maybe it evened out and what she was now was a relativist , a contingency artist . Either way , it did n't help that at this late date a theme was taking shape , a motif or whatever you called it , a pattern , consisting of Anna walking in on trusted loved ones in bed with each other . Then again , two times probably made a soap opera , not a pattern . She tried to lift her situation out of the excessively banal by imagining she had a connection with Sylvia Plath . Not that Anna was suicidal . Over Jay ? Please . But it did help to think that she and Sylvia  --  she called her Sylvia ; that 's how bonded Anna felt  --  shared a context , a setting . Really , if anything , her circumstances were worse , because that London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colder than Buffalo after a blizzard in early April  --  early April , for God 's sake  --  and poor Sylvia 's flat could n't have been any icier than the windy , rattling loft Jay had left Anna to huddle in by herself while he cavorted with the voluptuous Nicole , whose apartment had a fireplace and central heat . Jay 's idea , the loft . They 'd lived in a scruffy corner of it during the first year , the happy time , while he 'd used the drafty rest for a studio . Eventually his metal sculptures outgrew it , though , went from enormous to dinosaurian , the ceiling was n't high enough for the really monstrous ones , they needed a barn of their own . So he 'd leased space in an oldwarehouse on the lake for a studio , and since then , almost another year , they 'd had the whole basketball court of an apartment to themselves . Except for the summer months , they 'd spent most of the time in bed . Sleeping , reading , eating , having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep warm . Had ice crusted on the insides of Sylvia 's windows ? Had she huddled close to a ticking space heater with a blanket over it and her like a hot tent , and worried about setting herself on fire ? If so , Anna could see why the kitchen stove had started to call to her , whisper that it was the warm answer . Lay your head flat on the metal rack , like a turkey roaster , close your eyes . Try not to mind the gas smell . Go to sleep . Again , not that Anna was contemplating suicide . But she 'd been betrayed in the cruelest way a woman could be ( no , second cruelest ; that life-dividing time at age twenty , that was still worse ) , and at least Ted Hughes had had the decency to conduct his affairs out of Sylvia 's direct line of sight , with women she was n't friends with or employed by . Some decorum had been observed . A little British restraint , missing in her case . Anna had walked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up together in her own bed , three hours after she 'd woken up from a laparoscopy for an ovarian cyst . A hospital procedure . Outpatient , yes , but still , she could 've died from the anesthesia , people did . If Jay had been worried about her , he 'd found a stimulating distraction . Oh , it was such a stale , tired story , but here was another way she was trying to inject a little dignity into it  --  by casting herself in the role of tragic heroine . In a play by ... some Greek , Sophocles , Aeschylus , she was vague on her classical playwrights this many years after freshman English . Her mother had died of ovarian cancer at the age she was now , thirty-six , and Anna had discovered Jay 's infidelity on the very afternoon she was fully , fatalistically , expecting a call from the surgeon telling her she had the same disease . She did n't , her cyst was benign , nothing to worry about , would probably go away by itself  --  but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it all just too much , too full of awful significance , as if indifferent gods were playing with her life , making literature out of it , throwing in metaphors and parallels and corny portents -- No , it was n't . It was just soap opera . Her life was like a Greek play only if you imagined a collaboration between Homer and Harold Robbins . And now here she was , trying to keep warm in the big , wide scene of the crime , listening to sleet peck at the frosted-over windows and wind slam them around in their uncaulked sockets , trying not to think about Jay and Nicole . But it was hard when they 'd been here so recently . Enjoyed themselves so thoroughly . They must 've enjoyed themselves , otherwise they 'd have heard the slow rise of the clanking elevator , at least noticed when the rickety metal doors squealed apart . The loft was wide open and wall-less , but Jay had built a two-sided partition to shield the bed from the view of  --  well , people like Anna . Intruders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of steel , like tree trunks , and painted them with bright birds and winding greenery  --  ah , a bower , you thought , how romantic . Until you went closer and saw that the birds had human heads with crazed eyes and mad grins , and they were doing lewd things with each other in the greenery . Then , how surreal , you thought , how sardonic and Boschian . How Jay . She remembered very little , almost nothing of what she 'd seen over the partition of the lovers in bed . Situational amnesia , no doubt , the way a car crash survivor ca n't remember a thing after the light turned red . Jay must 've been on the bottom , because she had a vague picture in her mind 's eye of his Rasputin hair crosshatching the pillow like an etching ...                     