@@30164

Foreword As a fan of mystery fiction for what is now approaching a half century ( good grief ! can it be ? ) , I have read what some might regard as an inordinate number of short stories . It is impossible to count the thousands , but it is possible to count the great ones . For me , it has always been the short story . It started when I was just a kid and loved the surprise endings of O. Henry , the bizarre situations of a Sherlock Holmes adventure , and the deliciously creepy nightmares of Edgar Allan Poe . My appreciation of the short form was enhanced when I discovered the quirky humor of Damon Runyon and Ring Larder , clearly at their peak in a twenty-page sidesplitter . Finally , my devotion was complete when I learned that Stanley Ellin needed a full month to polish his little masterpieces , explaining their meticulous perfection . Most classic detective stories rely on a single clue , or gimmick , or bit of legerdemain , or realization ( the " aha " moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ novel , when it was good , created a universe with a population about whom the reader cared . An antisocial act , usually murder , occurred to disrupt the comfortable progress of that universe , and the remainder of the narrative illustrated the consequences of that crime on the population and the efforts made to apprehend the villain . With the identification of the perpetrator of the very bad deed ( or deeds , as it was common for the culprit to commit additional crimes in order to cover up the first one ) , the universe was restored to its original peaceful state . And the villain was always caught because , no matter howbrilliant he was , he invariably made one small mistake , which was spotted by the hero detective ( but rarely by the reader ) . Because the entire denouement relied on the uncovering of that single element to complete the jigsaw puzzle , it is clear that many of those novels could have been told in short story form with no loss of cleverness by the protagonist . Some of those novels , stripped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this volume . But do not misunderstand me . Originality and felicitousness of language , development of memorable characters , even the texture of a created universe , can not all be condensed into a short story . The best mystery novels , just as the best in all literature , are far richer than their plots . The story line is merely a single element , albeit a vital one , of any good crime novel , just as it is of any novel . In many cases , the tighter constrictions of the short story enable , or even force , an author into an economy of words that produces a crisper , superior work . Searching for these gems of storytelling led me to Ellery Queen 's Mystery Magazine as a young reader in my twenties . Making its first appearance in 1941 , it is still being published , carrying the banner of the mystery story longer than any magazine in history . By the 1940s , the pulp magazines had begun their plunge into oblivion . These nickel and dime story magazines , which once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the training field for scores of writers who went on to distinguished careers as novelists and screenwriters . Called " pulps " because of the cheap newsprint on which they were printed , they were the major reading material for masses of America 's readers . The rest read the " slicks , " which were produced on superior paper , were illustrated throughout , often partially in color , and paid writers tremendous fees . While a writer for Black Mask , Dime Detective , or The Shadow , for example , might be paid a penny or two a word ( if he was a big name ) , such mainstream authors as F. Scott Fitzgerald and John P. Marquand were paid $10,000 for stories in The Saturday Evening Post or Scribner 's . The slicks , too , were dying at the same rate as the pulps . The increased availability and popularity of radio shifted America 's use of its leisure time , and the creation of the inexpensive paperbacks completed the task . The introduction of television on a large scale in the 1950s pretty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that was designed to be read by millions . Ellery Queen 's Mystery Magazine battled terrific odds by offering a digest-sized periodical containing only mystery fiction , thereby giving up that substantial portion of readers who preferred more diversity . By commissioning new stories from the best mystery writers on both sides of the Atlantic , and reprinting classic ( though frequently forgotten ) fiction , the magazine flourished . It is a tribute to Frederic Dannay , one half of the writing team of Ellery Queen , that he devoted so much time and energy to the risky venture . His was not a celebrity endorsement or franchised name on a masthead . For nearly half a century , Dannay edited stories , corresponded with authors , suggested new ( and usually better ) story titles , and had his hand in every phase of the editorial content of what can only be regarded as his magazine . Dannay was also a superb anthologist , breaking ground in a variety of fashions . Perhaps the finest anthology of mystery stories ever conceived and executed is his 101 Years ' Entertainment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a teenager . It introduced me to so many of the detectives and authors who became a major part of my reading life that I still regard it as one of the half dozen most influential books in my development as a lifelong addict of the written word . It is largely Dannay 's tireless efforts to preserve distinguished mystery fiction in his numerous anthologies ( more than two hundred bear his name as editor ) that rescued so many first-rate writers from obscurity , lifting a story from the futurelessness of an ephemeral magazine appearance to the enduring substance of a hardcover book . I doubt that any good stories escaped Dannay 's eye , making it dramatically easier to produce this volume of the century 's greatest American mystery stories . It would have been virtually impossible to locate every fiction magazine of the twentieth century in order to identify which works were appropriate for consideration , much less read them all . Other anthologies proved useful , too , of course , notably The Best Detective Stories of the Year series , begun in 1946 ( and now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the aegis of the Mystery Writers of America ; and numerous solo efforts , but nothing approaches the contributions made by Frederic Dannay . Having read many hundreds of these anthologies over the years , I had a pretty good idea of many of the stories that deserved consideration for inclusion in this important volume . Or I thought I did . The memory can play nasty tricks . Stories that I remembered with tremendous affection turned out , on rereading , to be disappointing , sometimes astonishingly so . Where was my taste , I wondered , when I reread two or three collections of stories by an author I 'd once admired and could n't find a single story that held my interest or that had even one important thought or original use of language ? What surprised me is how few pulp stories hold up today . Most are dated , both in outlook and in language . Characters are seldom multidimensional , dialogue is stilted as everyone tries to be tougher than a two-dollar steak . Chandler , arguably the greatest mystery writer who ever lived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does Hammett , and even the purple prose of Woolrich remains intensely readable a half century or more after it was written . But the fast- paced adventures of Carroll John Daly , Raoul Whitfield , Frank Gruber , Frederick Nebel , Norbert Davis , and Erle Stanley Gardner , once read with such avidity , do n't stay in the memory a day later . They remain entertaining , like a television sitcom , but they lack the timeless magic of significant writers . In spite of their enormous popularity for three decades ( the 1920s , 1930s , and 1940s ) , there are few examples in the present volume . An entirely different problem arose when I weighed the work of the truly wonderful authors . How many Chandler stories deserved to be included here ? A half dozen , maybe , or more . And how many of Woolrich ? A full dozen ? And Stanley Ellin ? Half his opera sounded about right . But we decided to limit the collection to no more than one story by an author , enabling readers to sample a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you from searching out more stories by the authors you enjoy the most . Another surprise , though it probably should n't have been , is how many of the best mystery , crime , and suspense stories were produced by authors not generally regarded as " mystery writers . " Ernest Hemingway , William Faulkner , John Steinbeck , Damon Runyon , O. Henry , Joyce Carole Oates , Ring Lardner , James Thurber , and others dipped their toes into the mystery waters and , as they did with their other work , excelled . The process of list-making is , obviously , subjective . There are no scientific instruments that can tell a reader which of Harlan Ellison 's two Edgar-winning short stories is better . It is a coin toss , and it ca n't be anything else . Let 's just live with it . Reducing the list of distinguished stories from several thousand stories to a few hundred required a good deal of rereading and weeding . Getting that list down to a manageable number from which Tony Hillerman made the final selection was like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like another incision , one painfully deeper than another . Some Edgar winners made the final cut , and some did not . For the life of me , I can not fathom how some Edgar committees , filled with smart and caring and honorable people , could have selected some of the stories they did while ignoring obviously superior ones . And yet ESPN recently chose the fifty greatest athletes of the century and actually picked Secretariat ahead of Mickey Mantle . Such choices are clearly subjective . So here they are . Are these truly the best American mystery stories of the century ? Almost . Tony Hillerman left out some I 'd have wanted , but it would have been boring if we had agreed on everything . And while I 've been reading mystery fiction for about four decades , Tony Hillerman has been reading it even longer . He was clearly the right person to serve as the editor for this distinguished collection . He has been , for three decades , the quintessential American mystery writer , as well as being a most learned scholar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published by Harper and Row in 1970 and was nominated for an Edgar . His third book , Dance Hall of the Dead , won that prestigious award , the Oscar of the mystery world , as the best novel of the year . Since then , his sensitive and intelligent portrayals of the Navajo Indians and the two policemen who served as their guardians , Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee , have been given every imaginable accolade ( and it 's not hype to state unequivocally that they are fully deserved ) . They have also enjoyed the ultimate testament to their ability to reach readers in a meaningful way - frequent appearances on the bestseller list . As final acknowledgment of his preeminence in the mystery writing world , the Mystery Writers of America selected him to be a Grand Master , joining the elite company of such giants as Raymond Chandler , James M. Cain , Ed McBain , Ross Macdonald , and Elmore Leonard . Finally , the careful consideration that went into the selection of these stories should go unnoticed . This very large volume should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into which the reader can slip at any moment for a time of pleasure . Will you disagree with some of the choices ? We expect so . However , because this is my bit of preamble , I hide behind the collaborative effort . If you approve of the choices , thank you . If you do n't , it 's only because Tony left out the stories that you 'd have wanted to see included . - Otto Penzler Introduction If I , alone , were stuck with the Herculean task of selecting the best mystery stories of the twentieth century , I 'm afraid they would be clustered in periods . I 'd give you a lot of tales from the years between the wars when thousands of good writers were supporting their families with yarns spun for the pulps . I 'd pick out a dozen or so from those slick magazines that paid living-wage prices for short stories until television destroyed both them and national literacy . Finally , I 'd give you another bunch from the 1990s , when enough folks had been turned off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short story form . In other words I would impose upon you my personal taste . Fortunately , Otto Penzler was also involved in the selection process . To those of you who bring a mature love of mystery and detective fiction to this book , the Penzler name means the Mysterious Press , the Mysterious Bookshops , and other key contributions to the field , recognized by an Edgar for the Encyclopedia of Mystery and Detection and an Ellery Queen Award from the Mystery Writers of America for lifetime achievement in the publishing world . Penzler helped select works that give us a broader outlook than I 'd have managed on my own . All the eras in which the American mystery took its special form , wresting leadership from the British , defying the academicians , and - more than any other genre - making popular American literature dominant worldwide are represented between these covers . For a quick glimpse of the progress that American popular literature has made in the twentieth century , first read " The Problem of Cell 13 , " published in 1905 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I 'm asking you to skip O. Henry 's " A Retrieved Reformation " and Willa Cather for the moment . O. Henry , being a genius of the short form , was too far ahead of his time to be typical , while Futrelle 's tale is a fine example of what American writers were doing at the turn of the century . At that time , American mystery writers generally copied the British , who were copying Edgar Allan Poe . They produced puzzles involving the wealthy educated leisure class . That was logical because the educated leisure class included the folks with the ability to read , the time to do it , and the money to buy the stories . Was Futrelle himself upper-class ? He drowned ( heroically saving others ) when the Titanic hit an iceberg , and he was n't traveling steerage class . Thus it 's no accident that " The Thinking Machine " character he invented reminds one of Sherlock Holmes and that his characters are n't likely candidates for AFL-CIO membership . But in 1905 the characters in mysteries were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ahead to 1998 and " Poachers . " In Tom Franklin 's story , the puzzle matters hardly at all . Here you meet real people - three orphaned and brutish brothers who live as predators in the wet woods of the Gulf Coast south , the old widower who loves them , and the sheriff who pitied them all . Who killed two of these brutal boys and blinded the third ? You never really know . If you care , you can take your pick . In any case , the muddy river , the endless rain , the half-wild hunting dogs , are more important than the plot . Futrelle and most of his contemporaries produced puzzling whodunits as pastimes for the educated few . But , even as he wrote , the market was changing . Pulitzer , Hearst , Greeley , McCormick , Nelson , and a host of other publishers were building their empires with the so-called " Penny Press , " published for blue-collar workers . Public education was making the hod carriers , farmers , miners , maids , and millers as literate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " Yellow Journalism " days published short mystery stories , helping set the stage for the golden years of the pulp magazines . By the second decade of the century ( and on through the third and fourth ) , virtually every drugstore in the nation big enough to have its own soda fountain had a magazine rack made glorious and alive by the gaudy reds , yellows , greens , and blues favored by the publishers of such journals as Black Mask , Hollywood Detective , Spicy Detective , and so on . They usually boasted " bodice- ripper " illustrations and promised as much blood , violence , and raunch in their headlines as the mores of the times would allow . With the pulps , American writers made the big break from the British . The pay scale ranged from two cents a word downward ( though a really spectacular yarn might merit three cents a word ) . As a young fellow making $1.25 per ten-hour hay-baling day when I first paid a dime for a detective pulp , two cents a word sounded generous . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but many of the writers herein did well with them - especially Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler . The pulps took the mystery story out of the parlors and drawing rooms and onto the " mean streets " among the people who were actually the victims of the crime . One of the old rules had been " the butler did n't do it , " implying that the criminal , as well as the victim , must be an upper-crust person - someone the well-bred reader would care about . Such rules made no sense when neither you , nor those for whom you were writing , had ever seen a butler . By midcentury the American mystery genre was generally being written in American English . It had left the manicured lawns of the manor houses behind to focus on those folks I like to call " real people . " Local color had crept in ( though rarely as emphatically as in " Poachers " ) , as well as social issues . The tales of pure ratiocination still thrived in the form of U.S. versions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American fiction devoted to crime and its solution was not only booming , it was developing in a variety of channels . Most important of all - certainly for me - mystery fiction was elbowing its way from the shelves that bookstores reserve for mere tales to the front , where the novels are stocked . In this volume , you 'll encounter many writers who had a hand in this movement - including the great Raymond Chandler . I consider Chandler the Thomas Paine of this twentieth-century American revolution . That analogy makes Professor Jacques Barzun and Wendell Hertig Taylor the spokesmen for the counterrevolution in their landmark A Catalogue of Crime , but the first blast fired by the Tories came from Edmund Wilson , who in the 1940s was America 's most portentous literary critic . Someone had called his attention to The Maltese Falcon , which I consider Hammett 's masterwork . Wilson rated it on the level of newspaper serial comic strips and wrote a New Yorker essay denouncing the entire mystery-detection field as trash that served only to worsen the wartime paper shortage . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should read an Agatha Christie , he did , and wrote " Who Cares Who Killed Roger Ackroyd ? " While I agree that 's a fair enough question , I disagree with his summary judgment that the entire genre was devoid of value . ( Those too young to remember Wilson might like to know that he 's the fellow most responsible for introducing Americans to Marcel Proust and James Joyce , causing untold thousands of college students to suffer through Remembrance of Things Past and Joyce 's stream of consciousness . ) Chandler 's rebuttal " The Simple Art of Murder " was published by The Atlantic Monthly in 1944 , a sort of declaration of independence from the British detective form and an argument that mystery fiction was as likely to have social importance as any other work of fiction - the implication being that literature did n't have to be boring . " The British may not always be the best writers in the world , " he said , " but they are incomparably the best dull writers . " One of Chandler 's points was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of turning out mystery stories in which the whole purpose was the puzzle - avoiding character development or any real effort at realistic settings or situations . S. S. Van Dine , America 's best-selling mystery writer of the 1920s and 1930s , created Philo Vance , probably the most insufferable snob in all of literature , and gave him an upper-class British accent and foreign cigarettes . Van Dine even used phony footnotes to underline Philo 's intellectual superiority . Chandler argues that unless the plots really worked in such books ( and they rarely did ) , the reader received nothing for his two dollars . Dorothy Sayers had just published an essay stating that detective fiction could never attain " the loftiest levels of literary achievement " because it was literature of escape and not " literature of expression . " Chandler rated this critical jargon as nonsense . This is n't the place to reprint " The Simple Art of Murder , " but as you read this book you 'll note that Chandler 's position - that detective fiction could , and should , include the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - was adopted by most of the writers who followed him . In their introductory essay to A Catalogue of Crime in 1971 , Barzun and Taylor fired their broadside in favor of preserving mystery fiction in its classical form . Mystery stories should be " tales of ratiocination , " written for those who wish to entertain themselves with amusing intellectual exercises . They should be set in quiet havens without intrusions of realism to distract the reader from the puzzle . Detective fiction , said Barzun , is a tale , not a novel . It should deal with the intellect , not with emotions . It should not pretend to have social importance . " The characters it presents are not persons but types , as in the gospels : the servant , the rich man , the camel driver ( now a chauffeur ) . " As you will note in the short stories that follow , the argument did n't end in the 1970s . It still has n't . It never will . There will always be room under the tent for the classic form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I 'd guess that approximately half of the audience for mysteries today still prefers the puzzle to the novel . What 's important is the example Chandler gave us with his own novels . His use of the work of a private detective to illuminate the corruption of society has attracted into the genre many mystery writers who wish to produce " literature of expression " and shoot for lofty literary goals . Driven out of the so- called mainstream of American writing by the academic critics and the academic trends - minimalism , deconstructionism , and whatever is next - we have found a home in the mystery form . - Tony Hillerman                     