@@26990

Chapter One Christmas Creeps Christmas crept into Pine Cove like a creeping Christmas thing : dragging garland , ribbon , and sleigh bells , oozing eggnog , reeking of pine , and threatening festive doom like a cold sore under the mistletoe . Pine Cove , her pseudo-Tudor architecture all tarted up in holiday quaintage  --  twinkle lights in all the trees along Cypress Street , fake snow blown into the corner of every shop 's windows , miniature Santas and giant candles hovering illuminated beneath every streetlight --  opened to the droves of tourists from Los Angeles , San Francisco , and the Central Valley searching for a truly meaningful moment of Christmas commerce . Pine Cove , sleepy California coastal village  --  a toy town , really , with more art galleries than gas stations , more wine-tasting rooms than hardware stores  --  lay there , as inviting as a drunken prom queen , as Christmas loomed , only five days away . Christmas was coming , and with Christmas this year , would come the Child . Both were vast and irresistible , and miraculous . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Which is not to say that the locals did n't get into the Christmas spirit . The two weeks before and after Christmas provided a welcome wave of cash into the town 's coffers , tourist-starved since summer . Every waitress dusted off her Santa hat and clip-on reindeer antlers and checked to make sure that there were four good pens in her apron . Hotel clerks steeled themselves for the rage of last-minute overbookings , while housekeepers switched from their normal putrid baby-powder air fresheners to a more festive putrid pine and cinnamon . Down at the Pine Cove Boutique they put a " Holiday Special " sign on the hideous reindeer sweater and marked it up for the tenth consecutive year . The Elks , Moose , Masons , and VFWs , who were basically the same bunch of drunk old guys , planned furiously for their annual Christmas parade down Cypress Street , the theme of which this year would be Patriotism in the Bed of a Pickup ( mainly because that had been the theme of their Fourth of July parade and everyone still had the decorations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Salvation Army kettles down in front of the post office and the Thrifty-Mart in two-hour shifts , sixteen hours a day . Dressed in their red suits and fake beards , they rang their bells like they were going for dog-spit gold at the Pavlov Olympics . " Give up the cash , you cheap son of a bitch , " said Lena Marquez , who was working the kettle that Monday , five days before Christmas . Lena was following Dale Pearson , Pine Cove 's evil developer , through the parking lot , ringing the bejeezus out of him as he headed for his truck . On his way into the Thrifty-Mart , he 'd nodded to her and said , " Catch you on the way out , " but when he emerged eight minutes later , carrying a sack of groceries and a bag of ice , he blew by her kettle like she was using it to render tallow from building inspectors ' butts and he needed to escape the stench . " It 's not like you ca n't afford a couple of bucks for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard right by his ear and he spun around , swinging the bag of ice at her about hip level . Lena jumped back . She was thirty-eight , lean , darkskinned , with the delicate neck and finely set jawline of a flamenco dancer ; her long black hair was coiled into two Princess Leia cinnabuns on either side of her Santa hat . " You ca n't take a swing at Santa ! That 's wrong in so many ways that I do n't have time to enumerate them . " " You mean to count them , " Dale said , the soft winter sunlight glinting off a new set of veneers he 'd just had installed on his front teeth . He was fifty-two , almost completely bald , and had strong carpenter 's shoulders that were still wide and square , despite the beer gut hanging below . " I mean it 's wrong  --  you 're wrong  --  and you 're cheap , " and with that Lena put the bell next to his ear again and shook it like a red-suited terrier shaking the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the sound and swung the ten-pound bag of ice in a great underhanded arc that caught Lena in the solar plexus and sent her backpedaling across the parking lot , gasping for breath . That 's when the ladies at BULGES called the cops  --  well , cop . Bulges was a women 's fitness center located just above the parking lot of the Thrifty-Mart , and from their treadmills and stair-climbing machines , the BULGES members could watch the ins and outs of the local market without feeling as if they were actively spying . So what had started as a moment of sheer glee and a mild adrenaline surge for the six of them who were watching as Lena chased Dale through the parking lot , turned quickly to shock as the evil developer thwacked the Latin Santa-ette in the breadbasket with a satchel of minicubes . Five of the six merely missed a step or gasped , but Georgia Bauman  --  who had her treadmill cranked up to eight miles per hour at that very moment , because she was trying to lose fifteen pounds by Christmas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had bought for her in a fit of sexual idealism  --  bowled backward off her treadmill and landed in a colorful spandex tangle of yoga students who had been practicing on the mats behind her . " Ow , my ass chakra ! " " That 's you 're root chakra . " " Feels like my ass . " " Did you see that ? He nearly knocked her off her feet . Poor thing . " " Should we see if she 's all right ? " " Someone should call Theo . " The exercisers opened their cell phones in unison , like the Jets flicking switchblades as they gaily danced into a West Side Story gang-fight to the death . Continues ...                     