@@27100

Swenson waits for his students to complete their private rituals , adjusting zippers and caps , arranging the pens and notebooks so painstakingly chosen to express their tender young selves , the fidgety ballets that signal their weekly submission and reaffirm the social compact to be stuck in this room for an hour without real food or TV . He glances around the seminar table , counts nine ; good , everyone 's here , then riffles through the manuscript they 're scheduled to discuss , pauses , and says , " Is it my imagination , or have we been seeing an awful lot of stories about humans having sex with animals ? " The students stare at him , appalled . He ca n't believe he said that . His pathetic stab at humor sounded precisely like what it was : a question he 'd dreamed up and rehearsed as he walked across North Quad , past the gothic graystone cloisters , the Founders Chapel , the lovely two-hundred-year-old maples just starting to drop the orange leaves that lie so thickly on the cover of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so blindly focused was he on the imminent challenge of leading a class discussion of a student story in which a teenager , drunk and frustrated after a bad date with his girlfriend , rapes an uncooked chicken by the light of the family fridge . How is Swenson supposed to begin ? What he really wants to ask is : Was this story written expressly to torment me ? What little sadist thought it would be fun to watch me tackle the technical flaws of a story that spends two pages describing how the boy cracks the chicken 's rib cage to better fit the slippery visceral cavity around his throbbing hard-on ? But Danny Liebman , whose story it is , is n't out to torture Swenson . He 'd just wanted something interesting for his hero to do . Slouched over , or sliding under , the seminar table , the students gaze at Swenson , their eyes as opaque and lidded as the eyes of the chicken whose plucked head the hero turns to face him during their late-night kitchen romance . But chickens in suburban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to mention this detail later . " I do n't get it , " says Carlos Ostapcek . " What other stories about animals ? " Carlos always starts off . Ex-navy , ex-reform school , he 's the alpha male , the only student who 's ever been anywhere except inside a classroom . As it happens , he 's the only male student , not counting Danny . What stories is Swenson talking about ? He suddenly ca n't recall . Maybe it was some other year , another class completely . He 's been having too many moments like this : a door slams shut behind him and his mind disappears . is this early Alzheimer 's ? He 's only fortyseven . Only forty-seven ? What happened in the heartbeat since he was his students ' age ? Maybe his problem 's the muggy heat , bizarre for late September , El Nio dumping a freak monsoon all over northern Vermont . His classroom-high in the college bell tower-is the hottest spot on campus . And this past summer , workmen painted the windows shut . Swenson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too busy fixing sidewalk holes that could result in lawsuits . " Is something wrong , Professor Swenson ? " Claris Williams inclines her handsome head , done this week in bright rows of coiled dyed-orange snails . Everyone , including Swenson , is a little in love with , and scared of , Claris , possibly because she combines such intelligent sweetness with the glacial beauty of an African princess turned supermodel . " Why do you ask ? " says Swenson . " You groaned , " Claris says . " Twice . " " Nothing 's wrong . " Swenson 's groaning in front of his class . Does n't that prove nothing 's wrong ? " And if you call me Professor again , I 'll fail you for the semester . " Claris stiffens . Relax ! It 's only a joke ! Euston students call teachers by their first names , that 's what Euston parents pay twenty-eight thousand a year for . But some kids ca n't make themselves say Ted , the scholarship students like Carlos ( who does an end run around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kids like Jonelle , the black students like Claris and Makeesha , the ones least likely to be charmed by his jokey threats . Euston hardly has any students like that , but this fan , for some reason , they 're all in Swenson 's class . Last week they discussed Claris 's story about a girl who accompanies her mother on a job cleaning a rich woman 's house , an eerily convincing piece that moved from hilarity to horror as it chronicled the havoc wreaked by the maid stumbling through the rooms , chugging Thunderbird wine , until the horrified child watches her tumble downstairs . The students were speechless with embarrassment . They all assumed , as did Swenson , that Claris 's story was maybe not literal truth , but painfully close to the facts . At last , Makeesha Davis , the only other black student , said she was sick of stories in which sisters were always messed up on dope or drunk or selling their booty or dead . Swenson argued for Claris . He 'd dragged in Chekhov to tell the class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideal world , but only describe the actual world , without sermons , without judgment . As if his students give a shit about some dead Russian that Swenson ritually exhumes to support his loser opinions . And yet just mentioning Chekhov made Swenson feel less alone , as if he were being watched over by a saint who would n't judge him for the criminal fraud of pretending that these kids could be taught what Swenson 's pretending to teach them . Chekhov would see into his heart and know that he sincerely wished he could give his students what they want : talent , fame , money , a job . After the workshop on her story , Claris stayed to talk . Swenson had groped for some tactful way to tell her that he knew what it ...                     