@@27141

Chapter One The baby was the White Bead Baby . . . and her cradle is called natsi'lid eta cote , the rainbow cut short .  --  Sandoval , Hastin Tlo'tsi hee The Twins The Ute horseman had seen their stern faces in all seasons . Whether bathed in blazing sunshine or veiled in a lace of softly falling snow , they were always the same . Massive . Silent . Awaiting the End of Days . On this day , Julius Santos had taken no notice of the towering sandstone monoliths . The rider was blissfully beguiled by those sweet things a spring morning brings . On the mossy stream bank , startled willows trembling with excitement at the arrival of an unexpected breeze . A flood of melted snow crystals rippling over an avenue strewn with slippery cobblestones . The crisp whisper of a magpie 's wing , a startled darting of rainbow-dappled fishes . He was distracted by these pleasures . Any thought of trouble was far from him . But the giants were infinitely patient . Relentlessly , they pulled at the corner of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Santos turned his face toward Companion and Chimney Rocks . Separated by a three-hundred-yard gap , the towering brothers seemed isolated in stony loneliness . But it was all a matter of how one looked at them . The Ute knew of a special place  --  a unique , elevated point of view . From the Crag , it was possible to see the Twin War Gods as the ancients had seen them - standing near enough to exchange whispers . On horseback , the sacred overlook was barely an hour away . It would be necessary to cross GhostWolf Mesa , a knobby formation dotted with kiva and pit-house ruins . A dozen winters had passed since he hadventured near that silent , sinister place where old bones moldered under lichen-encrusted rubble . But there was no other way to approach the Crag . A narrow , precipitous causeway of crumbling sandstone connected the mesa rim to that upraised , wedge-shaped platform where the Old Ones had built a splendid temple to honor the Goddess of the Moon . During his last visit , Santos had stood on the very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of White Shell Woman . While he 'd stared at the Twins , something outlandish had happened . He had found himself leaning heavily on one leg . . . then the other  --  as if a trillion tons of sandstone pitched and swayed under his feet . The tartled pilgrim had been overwhelmed by the illusion that he was on the deck of an enormous , storm-tossed ship . It seemed the illusory vessel was under full sail , toward some dark , alien harbor . But that had been years ago . He sat in the saddle , squinting at the distant mesa  --  that dark , haunted space that must be crossed to approach the sacred platform . In the Ute 's lurid imagination , the lumpy sandstone formation was a massive hand reaching up from Lower World  --  with all fingers folded except one . That long , crooked digit pointed suggestively toward the Twins . And on this morning , it beckoned to the lone horseman . To ward off this enticement , Santos closed his eyes . In doing so , he encountered the inner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enveloped him . He is on the Crag , standing on the very tip of the soaring bow . Santos gazes over interlocked waves of space and time . A splendid illusion grips his mind . Just ahead  --  separated by the merest slice of sky  - -  the towering giants stand shoulder to shoulder , knee-deep in petrified talusdunes . They are anchored to the depths of a ghostly sea , waiting fortheir mother 's pale face to appear between them . These are the slayers of monsters . Ready to take on sinew and muscle over bones of stone . And  --  as in the Beginning of Days  --  slay those unspeakable monstersthat feed on human flesh . Santos 's peculiar fantasy was interrupted by a sudden stamping of the horse 's hoof ; a heavy shudder rippled through the animal 's frame . The rider took a deep breath , and turned his face away from the Twins . He assured himself that the vision was nothing to be concerned about . It was a mental deception  --  a mystical mirage . The Ute turned his mount south . Toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . The giants whispered their urgent summons . You are needed . Today you are needed . The long finger beckoned . Come . Come quickly . Santos pretended not to hear the call . But he turned his horse toward the mesa . Though he was not a traditional Ute , Julius Santos did accept those particular elements of his culture that he considered helpful . This included sage advice on maintaining mental balance . And so  --  to the extent that he was able  --  he did not think bad thoughts . Not that a healthy man could possibly submerge his soul in gloom on such a fine day as this . The breeze was crisp as a new dollar bill and refreshingly cool against his face , the morning sun a warm smile on his back . He had a good horse between his knees . Moreover , he was feeling uncommonly young for his years . The moderately vain fellow considered himself a fine figure of a man . And believing so , he was . Santos was long and lean ; his spine straight as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  a fluid , graceful rider who seemed grafted to his mount . Having ascended to the crest of the mesa , his spirit was likewise lifted . This was not really a bad place . There were purple and yellow blossoms blooming in splashes of sunlight ; patches of melting snow hiding in the shadows of fragrant juniper . The rider directed his mount to the rim of the sandstone cliff . Snuffy was a steady beast who would step over a prairie rattler without so much as a shudder . She approached the edge of the precipice.                     