@@30437

Chapter One Saturday , July 7 My day . 8:00 A.M. Arise . 8:008:15 . Light stretching . Do n't forget those hamstrings . A few push-ups to warm the blood . 8:20 . Out the door , hit Central Park Reservoir . Do six laps . Pace : seven minutes per mile . That 's ten and a half miles in seventy-five minutes . 9:45 . Back home . Shower , reread The Brothers Karamazov ( " Grand Inquisitor " episode only ) . 11:45 . Call Mom . 12:30 . Lunch . Grilled quail , wild rice , spinach salad , fresh-squeezed oj. 1:00 . To the Met . Check out Vermeer exhibit . Strike up conversation with cute twenty-five-year-old Dutch graduate student I meet standing in front of Woman Wearing Doily Around Her Neck ; obtain her numerals , agree to meet for drinks at the Carlyle " early next week . " 4:00 . Back home . Work on my novel till dinner . One interruption : call from superagent. 8:30 . Quiet dinner with a few friends at Le Bernadin . No really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know about my huge advance . We laugh about it . 11:45 . Village Vanguard to hear some jazz . Exchange dirty jokes with compadres , trade saucy banter with cocktail waitress who , as I sweep out the door , slips me her digits . 2:00 . Cab back home , practice piano for half an hour , and so to bed . If ca n't sleep , read a chapter of that John Adams bio everyone 's talking about . ( Was he really cooler than T. Jefferson ? ) That 's what it says in my Yahoo ! appointment book for today , anyway . But back here on Planet Manhattan , I creep out of bed as dawn breaks over Honolulu and skulk in the shower for forty-five minutes . ( I know it was forty-five minutes because I had Pink Floyd 's The Wall in my Raindance CD player , and I got all the way through disc one . ) Then I pick , off the floor , a few more dead flower petals from The Dinner and plant myself on the sofa that still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my twenty-first-century entertainment- and sodium-delivery devices : four fiendishly over-complicated , girl-proof remote controls ; two near-spent crinkly bags of salty snacks . There 's a white crumb on the couch . I am too civilized to just leave it there , so I pick it up . And I put it in my mouth . Pfft . Dandruff . At best . Some notes on me . The name is Tom Farrell . I 'm from That generation . You know the one I 'm talking about . The one after the one that discovered the Beatles and nonbinding sex , the one before the one where seventeen-year-olds asked to be excused from Phys . Ed. so they could launch their IPOs . Yeah , that 'd be us : the Lamest Generation . Cultural anthropologists of the future will remember us primarily for nonblack tuxedos , Valerie Bertinelli , and Men at Work . Our grandfathers won World War II . We ca n't even tie a bow tie . I 'm not in great shape . I do , occasionally , complete one gasping lap around the reservoir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . My abs are a one-pack . My arms are steamed licorice . My teeth are carved of wax . I 've been compared to a redheaded Winnie the Pooh , an Oompa Loompa without the self-tanning lotion , a slightly elongated Teletubby . For one formative grade  --  fifth  --  I was known exclusively as " Doughboy . " The first time some playground wit poked my tummy hoping to elicit a girlish giggle , it was funny . The 100th time it was less so . By the 500th time , I was developing a complex , and at 603 ( I counted , oh how I counted ) , I entered therapy . At 607 , my late father opened a glassine-windowed envelope , began a five-second argument with my mother ( " What the hell is this shit ? " ) , and therapy was concluded . I 'm defiantly average , studiously okay , the Gap of bachelors . You know how when you go into Duane Reade and there 's a generic product next to the one with a logo and a memorable back story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ANTIHISTAMINE . That 's me : the man without a brand . The one you would never pick after you won the lottery . I contain all the same ingredients , and I 'm a bargain . But I have no shelf appeal . If someone saw me in your medicine chest , you 'd die . I 'm thirty-two , as healthy as any other Spam-raised American male . I look pretty young . Hair is disappearing from my scalp , but fortunately it has n't deserted me : It 's just relocating to my nostrils and ears . My face  --  my patriotic mug of red hair , white skin , blue eyes  --  is doing okay . I have no laugh lines ( what 's funny ? ) . I 'm not short , not really . I stand the Minimum Acceptable Height for an Adult Male . ( Some celebrities I know to be shorter than myself : Redford . Stallone . Pitt . ) But the only way I could ever be labeled tall would be if I became a Starbucks beverage . I do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watching extra sports on TV . Australian Rules golf , anyone ? Need a rundown of the favorites at this year 's Tour de Luxembourg ? I have a one-bedroom apartment , a refrigerator containing ( solely ) beverages and condiments , a Manhattan-sized mini-microwave deployed only for popping corn , a supply of Cheez-It crumbs that I store under my sofa cushions , stacks of dusty black stereo equipment , and an increasingly avalanchable Matterhorn of CDs . ( Single women in their thirties accumulate cats ; I stockpile home electronics . ) I 've got the requisite panoply of Banana Republic shirts in assorted colors ( dark blue , light blue , blue ) . I own forty-three T-shirts . I watch The Simpsons 3.7 times a week , and I floss 3.7 times a year . When the house lights go down before a rock concert , I am often the first to shout , " Freebird ! " Continues ...                     