@@28535

Chapter One JOSIE SINCLAIR HELD HER BREATH as she opened the apartment door , wincing at the slight squeal of the hinges . After slipping inside , she did n't breathe again until she 'd closed the door behind her , locking it once more . Then she pocketed the key , debating the risk of switching on a light . She did n't want to do anything that might alert Adam to her presence . Not until she was ready for him . A full moon shone through the high-rise window , illuminating a shadowy path into the living room . A sudden hiss permeated the deep silence and Josie 's hand flew to her chest . But it was only Horatio , her boyfriend 's temperamental Siamese . She bent down to pet the cat , her heart still racing in her chest . Her reaction had more to do with nerves than fear . She 'd never done anything like this before . Horatio seemed to sense her anxiety , jerking away from her and bounding underneath the sofa . As she rose to her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the list she 'd made on the flight from Tempe . Lists always made her feel in control and she began to calm down as she found a pen in her bag to check off the first item . 1 . Go to Adam 's apartment . He 'd given her a key weeks ago , but she had n't worked up the nerve to use it until tonight . Doubts had assailed her on the long drive from the Denver airport , but she 'd stuck one of her motivational tapes into the car 's cassette player and now she was ready for action . Almost . Her gaze moved to the second item on the list . 2 . Undress . With trembling fingers , she untied the silk scarf around her neck , then dropped it into the small bag she 'd brought with her from the airport . The fluttering fabric enticed Horatio , who leaped out from under the sofa and pounced on it immediately , batting at the scarf with his paws . She tried to take the scarf away from him , but his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lost cause . Ignoring the cat and his new toy , Josie kicked off her shoes before shedding her slacks and blouse . She tucked them all neatly into the bag , then pulled out a sheer red negligee , holding it up in front of her . The transparent fabric and baby-doll design left little to the imagination , but the saleswoman at the boutique in Tempe had assured her that any man would find it irresistible . Maybe she should n't wear anything at all . Josie discarded that idea almost as soon as it entered her head . She was n't that motivated . Her body was far from perfect , with her average bust and full hips . That was one of the reasons she wanted to surprise Adam in the dark . The negligee would n't provide much cover , but it was definitely better than nothing . After slipping off her cotton bra , she dropped the negligee over her head . The hem whispered against the top of her thighs and a shiver rippled over her bare skin . Feeling overexposed , Josie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slashing a line through the second item . She had left Denver a week ago , after Adam had told her he wanted to take their relationship to the next level . She 'd needed time to think about it , to debate all the pros and cons in her head before making a final decision . Josie had learned the hard way that acting strictly on emotion usually led to disaster . Now bored with the scarf , Horatio leaped into a chair to watch her as she glanced at Item Three on her list . 3 . Perfume . The tiny but expensive perfume bottle she 'd purchased in Tempe lay at the bottom of the bag , padded with several layers of bubble wrap to keep it from breaking . According to her research , this particular perfume was the most popular brand on the market . Josie dabbed the fragrance behind her ears , then touched her pulse points as the subtle aroma of jas-mine filled the air . The cat sneezed once , then jumped off the chair and disappeared into the kitchen . She just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adam . They 'd been dating for three months , which was almost a record for her . Most men did n't stick around for more than one date , once she made it clear that she would n't be hopping into bed with them anytime soon . Passion too often made people irrational and she was n't about to let herself fall into that trap . A trap that had destroyed her family . She mentally shook herself , not allowing the past to interfere with the present . Her decision to sleep with Adam was based on logic as well as emotion . She liked him and he seemed to possess the qualities she was looking for in a man . Stability , common sense and a good work ethic . If it turned out they were physically compatible , she could start thinking about a future with him . But first things first . After checking off Item Three , her gaze moved down the list to Item Four . 4 . Protection . No doubt Adam had his own supply of condoms , but she was n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a drugstore just outside the airport and had spent twenty minutes comparing the different brands before finally making her purchase . Retrieving the shopping bag from the side compartment of her bag , she hesitated , wondering if carrying the entire box of two dozen condoms into his bedroom might be too intimidating . She took out one and tucked the flat foil package into the waistband of her new red-lace panties , then dropped the box back into the bag . Only one item remained . She took a deep breath , quickly scanning the list to see if there was something else she might have forgotten . Now that the moment was at hand , more doubts began to assail her . What if Adam did n't like surprises ? What if he was n't in a romantic mood ? What if she did n't please him ? Or he did n't please her ? ( Continues ... )                     