@@26452

When Bear came to tell him that Ginny 's body had been found raped and dismembered in a creek six miles from his house , that her remains had required three biohazard bags to depart the scene , that they were currently sprawled on a pathologist 's slab awaiting further probing , Tim 's first reaction was not what he would have expected of himself . He went ice cold . There was no grief - grief , he 'd learn , takes perspective , recollection , time to unfurl . There was just the news slapping him , dense and jarring like face pain . And , inexplicably , there was embarrassment , though for whom or what , he was not sure . The heel of his hand lowered , searching out the butt of his Smith &; Wesson , which of course he was n't wearing at home at 6:37 in the evening . To his right Dray fell to her knees , one hand clutching the door frame , fingers curling between the jamb and hinges as if seeking pain . Beneath the razor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her neck . For an instant everything was frozen . Rain-heavy February air . The draft guttering the seven candles on the pink-and-white-frosted birthday cake that Judy Hartley held poised for revelation in the living room . Bear 's boots , distressingly carrying the crime-scene mud , blotting theaggregate porch , the pebbles of which Tim had meticulously smoothed on his hands and knees last fall with a square trowel . Bear said , " Maybe you want to sit down . " His eyes held the same guilt and attempted empathy Tim himself had used in countless situations , and Tim hated him unjustly for it . The anger dissolved quickly , leaving behind a dizzying emptiness . The small gathering in the living room , mirroring the dread emanating from the hushed doorway conversation , gave off a breath-held tension . One of the little girls resumed recounting Harry Potter Quidditch rules and was hushed violently . A mother leaned over and blew out the candles Dray had lit in eager anticipation after the knock on the front door . " I thought you were her , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Her voice wavered hard . Hearing her , Tim registered an aching remorse that he 'd pressed Bear so hard for details right here at the door . His only way to grasp the information had been to try to contain it in questions and facts , to muscle it into pieces small enough for him to digest . Now that he 'd taken it in , he had too much of it . But he 'd knocked on enough doors himself - as had Dray - to know that it would have been only a matter of time until they 'd known it all anyway . Better to wade in fast and steady and brace against the cold , because the chill was n't going to leave their bones anytime soon , or maybe ever . " Andrea , " he said . His trembling hand felt the air , searching for her shoulder and not finding it . He could n't move , could n't so much as turn his head . Dray bent her head and started to weep . The sound was one Tim had never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her crying - confused , instinctive mimicry . Bear crouched , both knees cracking , his form broad but huddled on the porch , his nylon raid jacket sweeping low like a cape . The yellow lettering , pale and faded , announced U.S. DEPUTY MARSHAL in case someone cared . " Darlin ' , hold on there , " he said . " Hold on . " His immense hands encircled her biceps - no small feat - and drew her in so her face pressed against his chest . Her hands clawed the air , as if afraid to set down on something for fear of what they might do . He raised his head sheepishly . " We 're gon na need you to ... " Tim reached down , stroked his wife 's head . " I 'll go . " The three-foot tires of Bear 's chipped-silver Dodge Ram hiccupped over seams on the roadway , shifting the broken-glass dread in Tim 's gut . Composed of twelve square miles of houses and tree-lined streets about fifty miles northwest of downtown L.A. , Moorpark was renowned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state 's largest concentration of law-enforcement residents . It was a low-rent country club for the straight arrows , a post-shift refuge from the streets of the off-kilter city they probed and fought for most of their waking hours . Moorpark radiated an artificial fifties-TV-show feelno tattoo parlors , no homeless people , no drive-bys . A Secret Service agent , two FBI families , and a postal inspector lived on Tim and Dray 's cul-de-sac . Burglary , in Moorpark , was a zero-growth industry . Bear stared dead ahead at the yellow reflectors lining the center of the road , each one materializing , then floating downward in the dark-ness . He 'd forgone his usual slouch , driving attentively , seeming grateful for something to do . Tim sifted through the mound of remaining questions and tried to find one to serve as a starting point . " Why did you ... why were you there ? Not exactly a federal case . " " Sheriff 's department took prints from her hand ... " From her hand . A separate entity . Not from her . Through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bags had carried away her hand , her arm , her torso . One of Bear 's knuckles was smudged with dried mud . " ... the face was tough , I guess . Jesus , Rack , I 'm sorry . " Bear heaved a sigh that bounced off the dash and came back at Tim in the passenger seat . " Anyways , Bill Fowler was in the handling unit . He firmed the ID - " He stopped , catching himself , then reworded . " He recognized Ginny . Put in a call to me , since he knows how I am with you and Dray . " " Why did n't he do the advise next of kin ? He was Dray 's first partner out of the academy . He just ate barbecue at our house last month . " ( Continues ... )                     