@@30995

Introduction Around 10 P.M. on Friday , February 27 , Gary Searle died in the gymnasium at Middletown High School . After the bullet smashed through the left side of his skull and tore into his brain , he probably lived for ten to fifteen seconds . The brain is a fragile organ suspended in a liquid environment . Not only does a bullet destroy whatever brain tissue is in its path , but the shock waves from the impact severely jar the entire organ , ripping apart millions of delicate structures and connections . In the seconds that follow , the brain swells with blood and other fluids . The parts of the brain that control breathing and heartbeat stop . One doctor described it to me as " an earthquake in the head . " At the moment of Gary 's death I was in the library at the state university , where I was a sophomore studying journalism . As soon as I heard the news , I went home to Middletown , determined not to leave until I understood what had happened there . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of bewilderment , fury , agony , and despair . For weeks I staggered through it , searching out other lost , wandering souls . Some were willing to talk to me . Others spoke because they felt a need to defend themselves even though no one had pointed an accusing finger at them . Some even sought me out because they wanted to talk . As if speaking about it was a way of trying to figure it out , of beginning the long , painful process of grieving and moving ahead . Some refused to speak because it must have been too painful . For others , I suspect it was because they had learned something about themselves that they were still struggling to accept or to conceal . I spoke to everyone who would speak to me . In addition I studied everything I could find on the many similar incidents that have occurred in other schools around our country in the past thirty years . The story you are about to read is really two stories . One is about what happened here in Middletown . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around our country  --  in a world of schools and guns and violence that has forever changed the place I once called home . The quotes and facts from other incidents are in a different-style print . What happened in Middletown is in plain print . This , then , is the story of what I learned . It is told in many voices , in words far more eloquent and raw than any I could have thought of on my own . It is a story of heartbreak and fear and regret . But mostly it is a warning . Violence comes in many forms  --  guns , fists , and words of hate and contempt . Unless we change the way we treat others in school and out , there will only be more  --  and more horrible  --  tragedies .  --  Denise Shipley                     