@@34078

Hi ! Howya Doin ! Good-looking husky guy , six foot four , in late twenties or early thirties , Caucasian male as the initial police report will note , he 's as solid-built as a fire hydrant , carries himself like an athlete , or an ex-athlete , just perceptibly thickening at the waist , otherwise in terrific condition , like a bronze figure in motion , sinewy arms pumping as he runs , long muscled legs , chiseled-muscled calves , he 's hurtling along the moist wood-chip path at the western edge of the university arboretum at approximately 6 p.m . Thursday evening and there comes , from the other direction , a woman jogger on the path , in her late thirties , flushed face , downturned eyes , dark hair threaded with gray like cobwebs , an awkward runner , fleshy lips parted , holds her arms stiff at her sides , in a shrunken pullover shirt with a faded tiger on its front , not large but sizable breasts shaking as she runs , mimicked in the slight shaking of her cheeks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , frowning at the wood-chip path before her , Madeline 's exasperating habit of staring at the ground when she runs , oblivious of the arboretum though at this time in May it 's dazzling with white dogwood , pink dogwood , vivid yellow forsythia , Madeline is alab technician at Squibb , lost in a labyrinth of her own tangled thoughts ( career , lover , lover 's learning-disabled child ) , startled out of her reverie by the loud aggressive-friendly greeting Hi ! Howya doin ! flung out at her like a playful slap on the buttocks as the tall husky jogger passes Madeline with the most fleeting of glances , big-toothed bemused smile , and Madeline loses her stride , in a faltering voice Fine , thank you but the other jogger is past , unhearing , and now on the gravel path behind the university hospital , now on the grassy towpath beside the old canal , in the green lushness of University Dells Park where , from late afternoon to dusk , joggers are running singly and in couples , in groups of three or more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students , white-haired older runners both male and female , to these the husky jogger in skintight mustard yellow T-shirt , short navy blue shorts showing his chiseled thigh muscles , size-twelve Nikes , calls out Hi ! Howya doin ! in a big bland booming voice , Hi ! Howya doin ! and a flash of big horsey teeth , long pumping legs , pumping arms , it 's his practice to come up close behind a solitary jogger , a woman maybe , a girl , or an older man , so many " older " men ( forties , fifties , sixties and beyond ) in the university community , sometimes a younger guy who 's sweated through his clothes , beginning to breathe through his mouth , size-twelve Nikes striking the earth like mallets , Hi ! Howya doin ! jolting Kyle Lindeman out of dreamy-sexy thoughts , jolting Michelle Rossley out of snarled anxious thoughts , there 's Diane Hendricks who 'd been an athlete in high school , now twenty pounds overweight , divorced , no kid , replaying in her head a quarrel she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ angry ! goddamn she 's not going to call Ginny back this time ! trying to calm her rush of thoughts like churning , roiling water , trying to measure her breaths Zen-fashion , inhale , exhale , inhale , and out of nowhere into this reverie a tall husky hurtling figure bears down on her , toward her , veering into her line of vision , instinctively Diane bears to the right to give him plenty of room to pass her , hopes this is no one she knows from work , no one who knows her , trying not to look up at him , tall guy , husky , must weigh two-twenty , works out , has got to be an athlete , or ex-athlete , a pang of sexual excitement courses through her , or is it sexual dread ? even as Hi ! Howya doin ! rings out loud and bemused , like an elbow in Diane 's left breast , as the stranger pounds past her , in his wake an odor of male sweat , acrid-briny male sweat and an impression of big glistening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mock grin , death's-head grin ? - thrown off stride , self-conscious and stumbling , Diane manages to stammer Fine-I 'm fine as if the stranger brushing past her is interested in her or in her well-being in the slightest , what a fool Diane is ! - yet another day , moist-bright morning in the University Dells along the path beside the seed-stippled lagoon where amorous-combative male mallards are pursuing female ducks with much squawking , flapping of wings and splashing water , there comes the tall husky jogger , Caucasian male , six foot four , two-twenty pounds , no ID as the initial police report will note , on this occasion the jogger is wearing a skintight black Judas Priest T-shirt , very short white nylon shorts revealing every surge , ripple , sheen of chiseled thigh muscles , emerging out of a shadowy pathway at the edge of the birch woodsto approach Dr. Rausch of the university 's geology department , older man , just slightly vain about being fit , dark-tinted aviator glasses riding the bridge of his perspiring nose , Dr. Rausch panting as he runs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rivulets of sweat like melting grease down his back , sides , sweating through his shirt , in baggy khaki shorts to the knee , Dr. Rausch grinding his jaws in thought ( departmental budget cuts ! his youngest daughter 's wrecked marriage ! his wife 's biopsy next morning at 7 a.m. , he will drive her to the medical center and wait for her , return her home and yet somehow get to the tenure committee meeting he 's chairing at 11 a.m. ) when Hi ! Howya doin ! jolts Dr. Rausch as if the husky jogger in the black Judas Priest T-shirt has extended a playful size-twelve foot onto Dr. Rausch 's path to trip him , suddenly he 's thrown off stride , poor old guy , has n't always been sixty-four years old , sunken-chested , skinny white legs sprouting individual hairs like wires , hard little potbelly straining at the unbelted waistline of the khaki shorts , Dr. Rausch looks up squinting , is this someone he knows ? should know ? who knows him ? across the vertiginous span of thirty years in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but before he can see who this is , or make a panting effort to reply in the quick-casual way of youthful joggers , the husky jogger has passed by Dr. Rausch without a second glance , legs like pistons of muscle , shimmering sweat-film like a halo about his body , fair brown , russet brown hair in curls like woodshavings lifting halolike from his large uplifted head , big toothy smile , large broad nose made for deep breathing , enormous dark nostrils that look as if thumbs have been shoved into them , soon again this shimmering male figure appears on the far side of the Dells , another afternoon on the institute grounds , hard-pounding feet , muscled arms pumping , on this day a navy blue T-shirt faded from numerous launderings , another time the very short navy blue shorts , as he runs he exudes a yeasty body odor , sighting a solitary male jogger ahead he quickens his pace to overtake him , guy in his early twenties , university student , no athlete , about five eight , skinny guy , running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his head a swirl of numerals , symbols , equations , quantum optics , quantum noise , into this reverie Hi ! Howya doin ! is like a firecracker tossed by a prankish kid , snappishly the younger jogger replies I 'm okay as his face flushes , how like high school , junior high kids pushing him around , in that instant he 's remembering , almost now limping , lost the stride , now life seems pointless , you know it 's pointless , you live , you die , look how his grandfather died , what 's the point ? there is none , as next day , next week , late Friday afternoon of the final week in May along the canal towpath past Linden Road where there are fewer joggers , looming up suddenly in your line of vision , approaching you , a tall husky male jogger running in the center of the path , instinctively you bear to the right , instinctively you turn your gaze downward , no eye contact on the towpath , you 've been lost in thought , coils of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the very pain , anguish , futility of your thoughts , for what is your soul but your thoughts ? upright flame cupped between your hands silently pleading Do n't speak to me , respect my privacy please even as the oncoming jogger continues to approach , in the center of the path , inexorably , unstoppably , curly hairs on his arms shimmering with a bronze roseate glow , big teeth bared in a smile Hi ! Howya doin ! loud and bland and booming mock-friendly , and out of the pocket of your nylon jacket you fumble to remove the snub-nosed .22-caliber Smith &; Wesson revolver you 'd stolen from your stepfather 's lodge in Jackson Hole , Wyoming , three years before , hateful of the old drunk asshole , you 'd waited for him to ask if you 'd taken it , were you the one to take his gun that 's unlicensed ? and your stepfather never asked , and you never told , and you lift the toylike gun in a hand trembling with excitement , with trepidation , with anticipation , aim at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and fire , and the bullet leaps like magic from the toylike weapon with unexpected force and short-range accuracy and enters the face at the forehead directly above the big-nostriled nose , in an instant the husky jogger in the mustard yellow T-shirt drops to his knees on the path , already the mustard yellow T-shirt is splashed with blood , on his belly now , brawny arms outspread , face flattened against the path , fallen silent and limp as a cloth puppet when the puppeteer has lost interest and dropped the puppet , he 's dead , That 's how I 'm doin . Requests for permission to make copies of any part of the work should be submitted online at www.harcourt.com/contact or mailed to the following address : Permissions Department , Harcourt , Inc. , 6277 Sea Harbor Drive , Orlando , Florida 32887-6777.                     