@@29532

The Big Bad Wolf By James Patterson Little , Brown James Patterson THE PHIPPS PLAZA shopping mall in Atlanta was a showy montage of pink-granite floors , sweeping bronze-trimmed staircases , gilded Napoleonic design , lighting that sparkled like halogen spotlights . A man and a woman watched the target - " Mom " - as she left Niketown with sneakers and whatnot for her three daughters packed under one arm . " She is very pretty . I see why the Wolf likes her . She reminds me of Claudia Schiffer , " said the male observer . " You see the resemblance ? " " Everybody reminds you of Claudia Schiffer , Slava . Do n't lose her . Do n't lose your pretty little Claudia or the Wolf will have you for breakfast . " The abduction team , the Couple , was dressed expensively , and that made it easy for them to blend in at Phipps Plaza , in the Buckhead section of Atlanta . At eleven in the morning , Phipps was n't very crowded , and that could be a problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a world of her own , a tight little cocoon of mindless activity , buzzing in and out of Gucci , Caswell-Massey , Niketown , then Gapkids and Parisian ( to see her personal shopper , Gina ) , without paying the slightest attention to who was around her in any of the stores . She worked from an At-a-Glance leather-bound diary and made her appointed rounds in a quick , efficient , practiced manner , buying faded jeans for Gwynne , a leather dop kit for Brendan , Nike diving watches for Meredith and Brigid . She even made an appointment at Carter-Barnes to get her hair done . The target had style and also a pleasant smile for the salespeople who waited on her in the tony stores . She held doors for those coming up behind her , even men , who went out of their way to thank the attractive blonde . " Mom " was sexy in the wholesome , clean-cut way of many upscale American suburban women . And she did resemble the supermodel Claudia Schiffer . That was her undoing . According to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of three girls ; she was a graduate of Vassar , class of ' 87 , with what she called " a degree in art history that is practically worthless in the real world - whatever that is - but invaluable to me . " She 'd been a reporter for the Washington Post and the Atlanta Journal-Constitution before she was married . She was thirty-seven , though she did n't look much more than thirty . She had her hair in a velvet barrette that morning , wore a short-sleeved turtleneck , a crocheted sweater , slim-fitting slacks . She was bright , religious - but sane about it - and tough when she needed to be , at least according to the specs . Well , she would need to be tough soon . Mrs. Elizabeth Connolly was about to be abducted . She had been purchased , and she was probably the most expensive item for sale that morning at Phipps Plaza . by James Patterson                     