@@30580

Chapter One June 10 , 2000 The Moroccan Coast Nina Kirov stood at the top of the ancient stairway , eyes sweeping the nearly stagnant green waters of the lagoon , thinking she had never seen a coast more barren than this isolated stretch of Moroccan shoreline . Nothing stirred in the oppressive , ovenlike heat . The only sign of human settlement was the cluster of putty-colored , barrel-roofed tombs that overlooked the lagoon like seaside condominiums for the departed . Centuries of sand drifting through the arched portals had mingled with the dust of the dead . Nina grinned with the delight of a child seeing presents under the Christmas tree . To a marine archaeologist , these bleak surroundings were more beautiful than the white sands and palm trees of a tropical paradise . The very awfulness of the mournful place would have protected it from her biggest fear : site contamination . Nina vowed to thank Dr. Knox again for persuading her to join the expedition . She had refused the initial invitation , telling the caller from the University of Pennsylvania 's re-spected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Every inch of Moroccan coastline must have been explored with a fine-tooth comb by now . Even if someone did discover an underwater site , it would have been buried under tons of concrete by the Romans , who invented waterfront renewal . As much as Nina admired their engineering skills , she considered the Romans Johnny-come-lately spoilers in the grand scheme of history . She knew her refusal had more to do with sour grapes than archaeology . Nina was trying to dig herself out from under a mountain of paperwork generatedby a shipwreck project off the coast of Cyprus in waters claimed by the Turks . Preliminary surveys suggested the wreck was of ancient Greek origin , triggering conflicting claims between these old enemies . With national honor at stake , the F-16s from Ankara and Athens were warming up their engines when Nina dove on the wreck and identified it as a Syrian merchantman . This brought the Syrians into the mess , but it defused the potential for a bloody encounter . As the owner , president , and sole employee of her marine archaeological consultancy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Nina 's lap . A few minutes after she told the university she was too busy to accept the invitation , Stanton Knox called . " My hearing must be going bad , Dr. Kirov , " he said in the dry nasal tones she had heard a hundred times issuing from behind his lectern . " I actually thought I heard someone tell me you were not interested in our Moroccan expedition , and of course that ca n't be true . " Months had passed since she had talked to her old mentor . She smiled , picturing the snowy shock of hair , the near manic gleam behind the wire-rimmed spectacles , and the rou 's mustache that curled up at the ends over a puckish mouth . Nina tried to blunt the inevitable charm offensive she knew was coming . " With all due respect , Professor Knox , I doubt if there 's a stretch of the North African coast that has n't been overbuilt by the Romans or discovered by somebody else . " " Brava ! I 'm glad to see that you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kirov . " Nina chuckled at the ease with which Knox donned his professorial robe . She was in her thirties , owner of a successful consulting business , and held almost as many degrees as Knox did . Yet she still felt like a student within his aura . " How could I ever forget ? Skepticism , skepticism , and more skepticism . " " Correct , " he said with obvious joy . " The three snarling dogs of skepticism who will rip you to pieces unless you present them with a dinner of hard evidence . You 'd be surprised at how often my preaching falls on deaf ears . " He sighed theatrically , and his tone became more businesslike . " Well , I understand your concern , Dr. Kirov . Ordinarily I would agree with you about site contamination , but this location is on the Atlantic coast well beyond the Pillars of Melkarth , away from Roman influence . " Interesting . Knox used the Phoenician name for the western end of the Mediterranean where Gibraltar bends low to kiss Tangier . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nina knew from bitter classroom experience that when it came to names , Knox was as precise as a brain surgeon . " Well , I 'm terribly busy  --  " " Dr. Kirov , I might as well admit it , " Knox interjected . " I need your help . Badly . I 'm up to my neck in land archaeologists who are so timid they wear galoshes in the bathtub . We really need to get somebody into the water . It 's a small expedition , about a dozen people , and you 'd be the only diver . " Knox 's reputation as a skilled fly fisherman was not undeserved . He dangled the Phoenician connection under her nose , set the hook with his sympathetic appeal for help , then reeled her in with the suggestion that as the only diver she would get sole credit for any underwater finds . Nina could practically see the professor 's pink nose twitching with glee . She shuffled the folders on her desk . " I 've got a ton of paperwork to finish ... " Knox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well aware of your Cyprus job , " he said . " Congratulations , by the way , for averting a crisis between NATO partners . I 've taken care of everything . I have two highly competent teaching fellows who would love to gain experience in dealing with the red tape that is such a substantial part of archaeology these days . This is a preliminary survey . We 'll only be a week or ten days . And by then my trusted young Myrmidons will have dotted all the I 's and crossed all the T 's . You do n't have to decide this minute . I 'll fax you some material . Take a peek at it and get back to me . " " How long do you need , Dr. Knox ? " " An hour would do . Cheerio . " Nina put the phone down and laughed out loud . An hour . Almost immediately , paper began to spew from the fax machine like lava from an erupting volcano . It was the project proposal Knox submitted with his funding request . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibly other ruins . The standard Knox sales pitch , a tantalizing mix of facts and possibilities , designed to make his project stand out in bold relief from all the others competing for funds . Nina breezed through the proposal with a practiced eye and shifted her attention to the map . The survey locus was between the mouth of the Draa River and the western Sahara on the Moroccan coastal plain that stretched from Tangier to Essaouria . Tapping her teeth with the tip of her ballpoint pen , she studied an enlarged section of the area . The coastal indentation looked as if the cartographer had hiccupped while drawing the shoreline . Noting the site 's proximity to the Canary Islands , she leaned back in her chair and thought how she needed to get out into the field before she went insane . She picked up the telephone and dialed . Knox answered in mid-ring . " We leave next week . " Now , as Nina surveyed the lagoon , the lines and squiggles on a map translated themselves into physical features . The basin was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rock . Beyond the entrance were shallows that at low tide revealed rippling mud flats . Thousands of years ago the lagoon opened directly onto the ocean . Its naturally sheltered waters would have attracted ancient mariners who commonly anchored on either side of a headland to wait for good weather or daylight . Nearby was a dry riverbed , what the locals called a wadi . Another good sign . Settlements often grew near a river . From the lagoon a narrow , sandy path led through the dunes and eventually terminated at the ruins of a small Greek temple . The harbor would have been too tight for Roman ships and their massive jetties . She guessed the Greeks used the inlet as a temporary anchorage . The steep shoreline would have discouraged hauling goods inland . She had checked the old maps , and this site was miles from any known ancient settlement . Even today , the nearest village , a sleepy Berber encampment , was ten miles away over a rutted sand road . Nina shielded her eyes from the sun and stared over the water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was painted from waterline to superstructure in turquoise green . She squinted , just making out the letters NUMA , the acronym for the National Underwater &; Marine Agency , emblazoned on the hull amidships . She idly wondered what a vessel belonging to a U.S. government agency was doing off a remote shoreline in Morocco . Then she picked up a large mesh bag and descended a dozen worn stone steps to where the water gently lapped the bottom stair . As she removed her UPenn baseball cap , sunlight glinted off braids the color of ripe wheat woven together behind her head . She slipped out of an oversized T-shirt . The floral bikini she wore underneath revealed a strong , long-legged body nearly six feet tall . Nina inherited her first name , her golden hair , her slightly roundish face , and a peasant stamina that could put male counterparts to shame from her great-grandmother , a sturdy farm worker who found true love in a Ukrainian cotton field with a Tsarist soldier . From Nina 's Georgian mother came the bold , almost Asian eyes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By the time the family emigrated to the United States , the genetic airbrush had slimmed the Kirov female silhouette , narrowing thick waists and wide hips , leaving a pleasing width and a healthy bustline . From the bag Nina took a Nikon digital camera in a custom-built Ikelight plastic housing and checked the strobe light . Next came an air tank and U.S. Divers buoyancy compensator , a black-and-purple Henderson wetsuit , booties , gloves , hood , weight belt , and mask and snorkel . She suited up and on her head attached a Niterider Cyclops light that would keep her hands free , then fastened the quick-release buckles of her BC and snapped on her weight belt . Finally , she strapped a seven-inch Divex titanium knife to her thigh . After clipping a collection bag to a utility hook , she set the time on her latest toy , an Aqualand dive watch with a depth display . With no dive buddy to check her equipment , Nina went through the routine predive inspection twice . Satisfied with the results , she sat on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she slipped off the step before the blistering North African sun cooked her inside the wetsuit . The tepid water seeped between her skin and the neoprene wetsuit and quickly warmed to body temperature . She tested her main and extra regulators , then pushed away from the stairs , turned , and slowly breast-stroked into the pondlike lagoon . There was virtually no wave motion , and the slimy water was slightly brackish , but even with the surface scum Nina reveled in her freedom . She glided along with gentle fin flutters , pitying the expedition 's land archaeologists as they crawled on sore knees wielding trowels and whisk brooms , eyes stinging with sweat-caked dust . Nina could maneuver in comfortable coolness like a plane making an aerial survey . A low-lying island topped by an anorexic scraggle of stunted pines guarded the entrance . She planned to swim directly toward the island and bisect the lagoon . She would explore each half separately , making a series of parallel runs at right angles to the baseline . The search pattern was similar to that used to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the place of a side-scan sonar or magnetometer . Precision measurements came later . She simply wanted to get a feel for what lay underwater . Once below the clouded surface , the water was relatively clear , and Nina could see to the bottom , a depth of no more than twenty feet . This meant she could snorkel and conserve air . A series of intersecting straight lines materialized and formed into rectangles created by carefully fitted stone blocks . The stairway had continued down underwater to an old quay . It was a significant discovery because it indicated the lagoon was once a real port and not a temporary anchorage . The bottom was likely to be covered with layers of civilization over a long period of time instead of junk tossed over the side by transient sailors . Soon she picked out thicker lines and piles of rubble . Building ruins . Bingo ! Storage sheds , housing , or headquarters for a dock and harbormaster . Definitely not an overnight anchorage . Darkness loomed , and she thought she was at the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wondered if it could be a fish tank , what the ancients called a piscina . Far too big . The size of an Olympic swimming pool . Nina spit out the snorkel , bit down on the regulator mouthpiece , and dove straight down . She moved along one side of the yawning cavity . Coming to a corner , she turned and followed another edge , swimming until she had covered the entire perimeter . It was around one hundred by one hundred fifty feet . Nina flicked her headlamp on and dove into the opening . The muddy floor was perfectly flat and about eight feet below the quay level . The light 's narrow beam picked out broken pottery and debris . Using her knife , she pried potsherds from the mud and put them into the collection bag after carefully marking their positions . She discovered a channel and followed it seaward until it broke out into the lagoon . The opening was easily big enough to allow for the passage of an ancient ship . The space cut into the quay had all the characteristics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered several slipways , each big enough to accommodate ships more than fifty feet long , and a true piscina , which confirmed her theory about the cothon . Leaving the quay , she continued on her baseline course using the land spit to her right as a reference point . She swam between the island and the mainland until she found a submerged mole or breakwater a few yards below the surface , constructed of parallel stone walls filled with rubble . In a drier time it would have connected the mainland and the island . Coming to the island , she shed her dive gear and walked across thorn-covered slabs of rock to the other side . The island was more than fifty feet wide , almost twice as long , and mostly flat . The trees she had seen from shore barely came up to her chin . Near the lagoon entrance were piles of stones , probably foundations , and a circle of blocks . It was the perfect spot for a lighthouse or a watchtower , offering a sharp-eyed sentinel a panoramic view of ship traffic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sail was sighted . Stepping inside the circle , Nina climbed onto a fragmented stair and looked out at the anchored ship she had seen earlier . Again she wondered what would bring an American government vessel to this arid and lonely coast . After a moment she retrieved her scuba equipment . The cooling and weightless environment back in the water was refreshing , and she decided her fishy ancestors had made a big mistake when they crawled from the sea onto dry land . Nina swam across the lagoon entrance . The other peninsula started low from the land , gradually widening as it rose to a knobby crag . The sheer reddish rocks dropped straight into the water like the ramparts of a fortress . Nina dove until she was at the base of the blank wall , looking for a footpath . Finding none , she continued underwater to the seaward end of the promontory which terminated in a rocky shelf . A perfect defensive position where archers could set up a murderous cross fire to rake the decks of any invader entering the harbor . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rock face near the platform . Beneath the slab was a rectangular opening the size and shape of a doorway . Drifting closer , Nina squinted through her face mask lens and tried to pierce the menacing blackness . She remembered her headlamp and switched it on . The shaft of light fell on a whirl of ghostly movement . She drew back in alarm . Then a laugh bubbled from her regulator . The silver-scaled school of fish that had made the tunnel its home was more startled than she was . As her pulse returned to normal she recalled Dr. Knox 's warning : Do n't risk your neck for a nugget of knowledge that would end up in a dusty tome read by a few . With fiendish delight he 'd relate in grim detail the fates of scientists who went too far . Furbush was devoured by cannibals . Rozzini was consumed by malaria . O'Neil dropped into a bottomless crevasse . Nina was convinced Knox made the names up , but she took his point . She was alone , without a lifeline to unreel behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element of danger that should have repelled her was seductive in its appeal . She checked her pressure gauge . By snorkeling , she 'd used her air supply sparingly and still had time left . She made a pact with herself to stop just inside the opening and go no farther . The tunnel could n't be very long . Primitive tools , not diamond drills , had been used to cut through the rock . She shot some pictures of the entrance , then moved forward . Incredible ! The floor was almost perfectly flat , the walls smooth except for shaggy marine growth . She went in deeper , forgetting her pact and Knox 's sage advice as well . The tunnel was the most beautiful artifact she had ever seen . It was already longer than a similar passageway at the submerged city of Apollonia . The smooth sides ended abruptly , becoming a rough-sided cave that narrowed and widened , meandering in more or less of a straight line , with smaller passages branching off . Sconces for lamps were set into the carbon-blackened walls . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an artificial one . Nina marveled at the skill and determination of long dead Bronze Age sandhogs . The passageway once again became wider and more polished . Nina squeezed over the top of a pile of rubble , encouraged by a greenish glow in the distance . She swam to the light , which became brighter the nearer she came . In pursuit of knowledge Nina had crawled through piles of bat guano and lairs guarded by bad-tempered scorpions . As wondrous as the tunnel was , she was anxious to be out of it and drew a sigh of relief when the passage ended . She floated up a stairway and through an archway , emerging into an open space surrounded by crumbled foundations . Nina suspected Dr. Knox had an idea of what she might find in the lagoon , but he could n't have known the extent of it . Nobody could . Hold on , girl . Order your thoughts . Assess the details . Start acting like a scientist , not like Huckleberry Finn . She sat underwater on a waist-high stone block and pondered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and trading post that kept out foreign traders and guarded commercial shipping . There was a growl in her ear . The dogs of skepticism were hungry for their dinner of solid scientific fact . Before she made her findings definitive , every square foot of the port would have to be explored and evaluated . She ventured a guess that the port had sunk from a shifting of tectonic plates . Maybe during the big earthquake of A.D. 10 . Quakes were not as common here as in the Mediterranean , but it could happen . Growl . I know , I know . No conclusion until all the evidence is in . She watched the bubbles from her exhalations rise to the surface , thinking there might be a quicker way to get to the truth . Nina had a talent that went beyond the ordinary and the explainable . She had discussed it with only a few close friends , and then in forensic terms comparing herself to an FBI criminal scene profiler who reads a crime scene like an eyewitness . Nothing psychic about it , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject combined with a photographic memory and a vivid imagination . Something like the way dowsers find water veins with a forked twig . She discovered her talent accidentally on her first trip to Egypt . She had pressed her hands against one of the huge foundation blocks on the Great Pyramid of Kufu . It was a natural gesture , a tactile attempt to comprehend the enormity of the incredible pile of stones , but something strange and frightening happened . Her every sense was assaulted by images . The pyramid was only half as high , its leveled summit crowded with hundreds of dark men in breechcloths hoisting blocks with a primitive scaffolding . The sweat on their skin gleamed in the sun . She could hear shouts . The squeak of pullies . She yanked her hand away as if the rock had turned red hot . A voice was saying , " Camel ride , missy ? " She blinked her eyes . The pyramid soared in a point toward the sky again . The dark men were gone . In their place was a camel driver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his saddle . " Camel ride , missy ? I give you good price . " " Shukran . Thank you . Not today . " The driver nodded sadly and loped off . Nina pulled herself together and went back to the hotel , where she sketched out the block and pulley arrangement . Later she showed it to an engineer friend . He had stared at her drawing , muttering , " Damned ingenious . " He asked if he could steal the idea to use on a crane project he had been working on . Since Giza there had been similar experiences . It was n't something she could turn on and off at will . If she got a long-distance call from the past every time she picked up an artifact , she 'd be in an insane asylum . She had to be drawn to something like an iron filing to a magnet . At a smaller version of the Coliseum , located at an imperial resort outside Rome , the images of pain and terror were so strong , the blood-soaked sand , severed limbs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she retched . For a while she thought she had lost her mind . She did n't sleep for several nights . Maybe that 's why she did n't like the Romans . This was no Roman amphitheater , she rationalized . Before she talked herself out of it , she swam to the edge of the quay , placed her palms on the fitted stones , and closed her eyes . She could picture the longshoremen hauling amphorae filled with wine or oil , and the slap of sails against wooden masts , but these were only imaginings . She breathed a sigh of relief . Served her right for trying to shortcut the scientific process . Nina shot a few photographs , disappointed only that she had n't found a shipwreck . She collected more pottery , found a half-buried stone anchor , and was taking a few last shots when she saw the roundish protuberances rising from where the bottom was sandy . She swam over and brushed the sand away . The lump was part of a larger object . Intrigued , she got down on her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , part of a huge carved face about eight feet from its blunt chin to the top of the scalp . The nose was flat and wide and the mouth broad , with fleshy lips . The head was covered by a skullcap or close-fitting helmet . The expression could best be described as a glower . She stopped digging and ran her fingers over the black stone . The fleshy lips seemed to curl as if in speech . Touch me . I have much to tell you . Nina drew back and stared at the impassive face . The features were as before . She listened for the voice . Touch me . Fainter now , lost in the metallic burble of her breath going through the regulator . Girl , you 've been underwater way too long . She pressed the valve on her BC . Air hissed into the inflatable vest . Heart still pounding , she ascended slowly back to her own world .                     