@@26772

Ingrid Levin-Hill , three weeks past her thirteenth birthday , sat thinking in her orthodontist 's waiting room . You 're born cute . Babies are cute . Not hard to guess why  --  it 's so everyone will forgive them for being such a pain . You grow a little older , and people say , " What beautiful hair , " or " Get a load of those baby blues , " or something nice that keeps you thinking you 're still on the cuteness track . Then you hit twelve or thirteen and boom , they tell you that everything needs fixing . Waiting in the wings are the orthodontist , the dermatologist , the contact lens guy , the hair-tinting guy , maybe even the nose-job guy . You look at yourself in the mirror , really look at yourself , for the first time . And what do you see ? Oh my God . Two orthodontists divided the business in Echo Falls : Dr. Lassiter , who did n't mind pulling a tooth or two to speed things along , and Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his badge before sacrificing a single tooth . One kind of parents sent their kids to Dr. Lassiter . Ingrid , whose parents were of the other kind , was well into her second year with Dr. Binkerman , and behind her braces lurked the same jumble of teeth she 'd come in with in the first place . And bythe way , what stupid badge was he talking about ? Ingrid flipped to another page of Seventeen . The glossy paper made an angry snapping sound . Flirting Tips : Where the Hotties Are In the weight room , of course . So it 's important to get down with all that weight room terminology . Cut , ripped , reps , lats , pecs , curls , dips , jacked , juiced  --  is this a weird lingo or what ? Let 's start with reps . Reps is simply short for  --  " Ingrid ? " Ingrid looked up . Mary Jane , the chairside assistant , stood in the doorway that led back to the operatories , the expression on her face a little exasperated , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If so , Ingrid really had n't heard . Reading  --  it did n't matter what  --  always did that to her . " All set , " said Mary Jane . Ingrid followed her . There were two chairside assistants : Mary Jane , who wore her gray hair in a bun and always had circles under her eyes , and a younger one , who changed every two months or so . Mary Jane motioned Ingrid to the chair and raised it just as Dr. Binkerman strode in , flexing his surgically gloved hands . " And how 's Ingrid today ? " he said , looming into extreme close-up , his gaze locking on her teeth . Like Sherlock Holmes  --  The Complete Sherlock Holmes had been sitting on her bedside table for years  --  Ingrid was a habitual noticer of little things . Sherlock Holmes believed you could find out just about all you needed to know about people from little things ; his method , as he told Dr. Watson more than once , was founded on the observation of trifles . Trifles were things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Dr. Binkerman 's left nostril ; the sleepy seed , lima bean colored , in the corner of his right eye ; the pinprick-size blackhead on the end of his nose , a millimeter off-center . All these trifles added up to the glamorous Dr. Binkerman , hard-riding sheriff of the overbite range . And what was the question ? How 's Ingrid today ? " She 's fine , " said Ingrid . " Open , please , " said Dr. Binkerman . He peered inside her mouth , felt around in back , where the screws were , with his rubbery fingers . " Been wearing the appliance ? " he said . " Uh-huh , " said Ingrid . " Every night ? " Dr. Binkerman drew back , looking at her whole face for the first time , fingers out of her mouth now so she could speak clearly ... Continues ...                     