@@26989

THE FOLLOWING TAKES PLACE BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 5 A.M. AND 6 A.M. PACIFIC DAYLIGHT TIME 5:01:01 A.M. PDT Atwater Village , Los Angeles Jack Bauer gazed at Utopia , or so the sign proclaimed . But beyond the vacant security gate and tattered chain link fence , Bauer saw only an expanse of pitted asphalt abutting an interconnected cluster of ugly , graffiti-stained concrete block buildings . Squinting through a telescopic imager , Jack scanned the shuttered loading docks and steel doors , the windows boarded up tight . He double-checked one particular entrance , with the number 9 painted on its flat steel door . Then he tucked the tiny device into a sheath on his night-black assault suit . Now that the sun was creeping above the horizon , he no longer required the imager 's thermal or light-enhancing capabilities to pierce the gloom . Sprawled on his belly atop a rocky brown rise that separated Utopia from another dusty industrial park , Jack lowered his head behind a clump of scrub-grass and adjusted the assault rifle in the Velcro zip holster strapped across his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , moving into place along with five members of Chet Blackburn 's CTU assault team , now scattered and invisible among the rocks and low hills around him . Though Jack could not see them , he knew another tactical squad from the Drug Enforcement Agency lurked in the bluffs on the opposite side of the complex . When the signal came , the two assault teams would converge on the buildings in a coordinated two-pronged attack . In the dead of the hot dry night , the tactical units had converged to surround the supposedly abandoned production studio , unseen and undetected by those inside . Then they waited until the sun was a hot yellow ball surrounded by hazy dust , until the arrival of the big fish both agencies were hoping to scoop up in their net . Jack shifted position , clenching and unclenching his sweaty hands , stretching his sleepy arms and legs , always careful not to expose his position . He moved a stone that had been chafing him , rubbed his sore neck . Compared to his days as a member of Delta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the line of duty Jack had experienced far worse things than watching the Southern California sun rise from a quiet bluff . Perhaps it was merely his age that made his joints ache , his muscles stiff from inactivity . Perhaps creeping old age also explained why , as zero hour approached , Jack felt an uncharacteristic edginess , an impatience as he waited for the signal to move . Or perhaps it was the fact that Jack Bauer had to wait for that command , just like everyone else . Working in tandem with the DEA was not part of Bauer 's job description , nor did he appreciate taking orders from others . That 's why , when Ryan first handed him this assignment weeks ago , Jack refused it . Chappelle did n't seemed surprised by Bauer 's reaction ; rather he advised Jack to look first , then decide . " Go to the briefing this afternoon , " Ryan said . " Listen to what the DEA has to say . It may change your mind . " To Jack 's surprise , his mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the intelligence community about the dangers of Karma , a potent new drug poised to hit the streets of America , a narcotic that had the potential to make the crack epidemic of the 1980s look like an ice cream party . According to researchers who studied a sample of this substance , Karma was a type of super methamphetamine . But Karma was n't merely a powerful stimulant . The drug also induced a sense of invulnerability and euphoria in the user , sometimes accompanied by mild hallucinogenic reactions . The pharmacological experts who studied the new compound and its effects on the brain believed Karma to be more addictive than crack cocaine or even heroin . Karma was ingested orally  --  dissolved under the tongue like a lozenge or simply swallowed  --  and the drug 's ease of consumption was an element of its appeal . Virtually undetectable , it could be dissolved in a flavored or alcoholic beverage , which made it the perfect date-rape drug . No one knew what criminal or narco-terrorist group initially synthesized Karma , but the drug had first appeared in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chechen Republic nearly a year before . Karma was not available in America or Western Europe as yet , because it was difficult to manufacture . It required real laboratory conditions to be synthesized properly . Even after synthesis , the compound broke down rapidly , making for a relatively short shelf life . Complicated , well-equipped labs for churning out the stuff had to be established locally . The upside for criminal producers was that once the network was up and running , labs would be difficult to find . No illegal smuggling was involved in the manufacturing process . Karma 's ingredients were not controlled substances ; they were common chemicals available commercially . Already , at least one overseas crime lord was bankrolling the establishment of Karma labs in Los Angeles , San Francisco , Seattle , Montreal . According to the DEA 's best intelligence , the illegal manufacturing facility inside of the Utopia Studios complex was the first of the U.S. labs to go on line . The DEA wanted to shut it down and capture its operators before their poison ever reached the street . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This is Angel Three . A car 's just come off North San Fernando Road . It 's moving east along Andrita . " " This is Angel Two . Roger , " Jack replied , voice calm . Angel Three  --  Agent Miguel Avilla  --  was a twenty-year veteran of the DEA . Thin , wiry and acerbic , Avilla was positioned in plain sight , right outside the studio gate and across Andrita Street from the abandoned movie studio . Unwashed and unshaven , shuffling around wrapped in a dirty blanket , Agent Avilla had posed as a homeless man for the past nine days while he 'd observed the activities at the old studio . To better reconnoiter the facility , Avilla had taken up residence among a copse of twisted . . . Continues ...                     