@@28993

The Glass Books of the Dream Eaters By Gordon Dahlquist Random House Gordon Dahlquist It would be simple enough to follow him . Roger was a man of habits , and even when his hours of work were irregular he would still take his mid-day meal , whenever he did take it , at the same restaurant . Miss Temple found an antiquarian book shop across the street -- where , as she was obliged to purchase something for standing so long watching through its window , she on impulse selected a complete four-volume Illustrated Lives of Sea Martyrs . The books were detailed enough to warrant her spending the time in the window , apparently examining the colored plates , while actually watching Roger first enter and then , after an hour , re-emerge , alone , from the heavy doors across the street . He walked straight back into the Ministry courtyard . Miss Temple arranged for her purchase to be delivered to the Boniface , and walked back into the street , feeling like a fool . She had re-crossed the square before her reason convinced her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inexperienced observer . It was pointless to watch from outside the restaurant . It was only from inside that she could have determined whether or not Roger dined alone , or with others , or with which particular others , or whether with any of whom he might have shared significant words -- all crucial information . Further , unless he had merely thrown her over forhis work -- which she doubted , scoffing -- she was like to learn nothing from observing his working day . It was after work -- obviously -- that any real intelligence would be gathered . Abruptly , for by this time she was across the square and in the midst of the shops , she entered a store whose windows were thick with all shapes of luggage , hampers , oilskins , gaiters , pith helmets , lanterns , telescopes , and a ferocious array of walking sticks . She emerged some time later , after exacting negotiations , wearing a ladies black traveling cloak , with a deep hood and several especially cunning pockets . A visit to another shop filled one pocket with opera glasses , and a visit to a third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an all-weather pencil . Miss Temple then took her tea . Between cups of Darjeeling and two scones slathered with cream she made opening entries in the notebook , prefacing her entire endeavor and then detailing the day 's work so far . That she now had a kind of uniform and a set of tools made everything that much easier and much less about her particular feelings , for tasks requiring clothes and accoutrements were by definition objective , even scientific , in nature . In keeping with this , she made a point to write her entries in a kind of cipher , replacing proper names and places with synonyms or word-play that hopefully would be impenetrable to all but herself ( all references to the Ministry were to " Minsk " or even just " Russia " , and Roger himself -- in a complex train of thought that started with him as a snake that had shed his skin , to a snake being charmed by the attractions of others , to India , and finally , because of his still-remarkable personal presence -- became " the Rajah " ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observations for some time and in some discomfort , she ordered a sausage roll for later . It was placed on her table , wrapped in thick wax paper , and presently bundled into another pocket of her cloak . Though the winter was verging into spring , the city was still damp around the edges , and the evenings colder than the lengthening days seemed to promise . Miss Temple left the tea shop at four o'clock , knowing Roger to leave usually at five , and hired a carriage . She instructed her driver in a low , direct tone of voice , after assuring him he would be well paid for his time , that they would be following a gentleman , most likely in another carriage , and that she would rap on the roof of the coach to indicate the man when he appeared . The driver nodded , but said nothing else . She took his silence to mean that this was a usual enough thing , and felt all the more sure of herself , settling in the back of the coach , readying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear . When he did , some 40 minutes later , she nearly missed him , amusing herself for the moment by peering through the opera glasses into nearby open windows -- but some tingling intuition caused her to glance back at the courtyard gates just in time to see Roger ( standing in the road with an air of confidence and purpose that made her breath catch ) flag down a coach of his own . Miss Temple rapped sharply on the roof of the coach , and they were off . The thrill of the chase -- complicated by the thrill of seeing Roger ( which she was nearly certain was the result of the task at hand and not any residual affection )  - -  was quickly tempered when , after the first few turns , it became evident that Roger 's destination was nothing more provocative than his own home . Again , Miss Temple was forced to admit the possibility that her rejection might have been in favor of no rival , but , as it were , immaculate . It was possible . It might even have been preferable . Indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bascombe house -- a path she knew so well as to once have considered it nearly her own -- she reflected on the likelihood that it was that another woman had taken her place in Roger 's heart . To her frank mind , it was not likely at all . Looking at the facts of Roger 's day -- a Spartan path of work to meal to work to home where undoubtedly he would , after a meal , immerse himself in still more work -- it was more reasonable to conclude that he had placed her second to his vaulting ambition . It seemed a stupid choice , as she felt she could have assisted him in any number of sharp and subtle ways , but she could at least follow the ( faulty , childish ) logic . She was imagining Roger 's eventual realization of what he had ( callously , foolishly , blindly ) thrown aside , and then her own strange urge to comfort him in this sure-to-be-imminent distress when she saw that they had arrived . Roger 's coach had stopped before his front entrance , and her own a discreet distance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Instead , after a delay of some minutes , the front door opened and his manservant Phillips came toward the coach bearing a bulky black-wrapped bundle . He handed this to Roger through the open coach door , and then in turn received Roger 's black satchel and two thickly bound portfolios of paper . Phillips carried these items of Roger Bascombe 's work day back into the house , and closed the door behind him . A moment later , Roger 's coach jerked forward , returning at some pace into the thick of the city . Miss Temple rapped on her coach 's ceiling and was thrown back into her seat as the horses leapt ahead , resuming their trailing surveillance . By this time it was fully dark , and Miss Temple was more and more forced to rely on her driver that they were on the right path . Even when she leaned her head out of the window -- now wearing the hood for secrecy -- she could only glimpse the coaches ahead of them , with no longer a clear confidence about which might be Roger 's at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer they drove along , as now the first tendrils of evening fog began to reach them , creeping up from the river . By the time they stopped again , she could barely see her own horses . The driver leaned down and pointed to a high , shadowed archway over a great staircase that led down into a cavernous gas-lit tunnel . She stared at it and realized that the shifting ground at its base , which she first took to be rats streaming into a sewer , was actually a crowd of dark-garbed people flowing through and down into the depths below . It looked absolutely infernal , a sickly-yellow portal surrounded by murk , offering passage to hideous depths . " Stropping , Miss , " the driver called down and then , in response to Miss Temple 's lack of movement , " train station . " She felt as if she 'd been slapped -- or at least the hot shame she imagined being actually slapped must feel like . Of course it was the train station . A sudden spike of excitement drove her leaping from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the driver 's hand and launched herself toward the glowing arch . Stropping Station . This was exactly what she had been looking for -- Roger was doing something else . It took her a few desperate moments to find him , having wasted valuable seconds gaping in the coach . The tunnel opened into a larger staircase that led down into the main lobby and past that to the tracks themselves , all under an intricate and vast canopy of ironwork and soot-covered brick . " Like Vulcan 's cathedral , " Miss Temple smiled , the vista spreading out beneath her , rather proud of so acutely retaining her wits . Beyond coining similes , she had the further presence of mind to step to the side of the stairs , use a lamp post to perch herself briefly on a railing , and with that vantage use the opera glasses to look over the whole of the crowd -- which her height alone would never have afforded . It was only a matter of moments before she found Roger . Again , instead of immediately rushing , she followed his progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was sure she had seen him enter the train , she climbed off of the railing and set off first to find out where it was going , and then to buy a ticket . She had never been in a station of such size -- Stropping carried all traffic to the north and west -- much less at the crowded close of a working day , and to Miss Temple it was like being thrust into an ant-hill . It was usual in her life for her small size and delicate strength to pass unnoticed , taken for granted but rarely relevant , like an unwillingness to eat eels . In Stropping Station , however , despite knowing where she was going ( to the large chalk board detailing platforms and destinations ) , Miss Temple found herself shoved along pell mell , quite apart from her own intentions , the view from within her hood blocked by a swarm of elbows and waistcoats . Her nearest comparison was swimming in the sea against a mighty mindless tide . She looked up and found landmarks in the ceiling , constellations of ironwork , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ located an advertising kiosk she had seen from the stairs . She worked her way around it and launched herself out again at another angle , figuring the rate of drift to reach another lamp post that would allow her to step high enough to see the board . The lamp post reached , Miss Temple began to fret about the time . Around her -- for there were many , many platforms -- whistles fervently signaled arrivals and departures , and she had no idea , in her subterranean shuffling , whether Roger 's train had already left . Looking up at the board , she was pleased to see that it was sensibly laid out in columns indicating train number , destination , time , and platform . Roger 's train -- at platform 12 -- left at 6:23 , for the Orange Canal . She craned her head to see the station clock -- another hideous affair involving angels , bracketing each side of the great face ( as if keeping it up with their wings ) , impassively gazing down , one holding a pair of scales , the other a bared sword . Between these two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shock that it was 6:17 . She threw herself off the lamp post toward the ticket counter , burrowing vigorously through a sea of coats . She emerged , two minutes later , at the end of an actual ticket line , and within another minute reached the counter itself . She called out her destination -- the end of the line , round-trip -- and dropped a handful of heavy coins onto the marble , pushing them peremptorily at the clerk , who looked beakily at her from the other side of a wire cage window . His pale fingers flicked out from under the cage to take her money and shoved back a perforated ticket . Miss Temple snatched it and bolted for the train . A conductor stood with a lantern , one foot up on the stairs into the last car , ready to swing himself aboard . It was 6:22 . She smiled at him as sweetly as her heaving breath would allow , and pushed past onto the car . She had only just stopped at the top of the steps to gather her wits when the train pulled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flung her arms out against the wall to keep her balance and heard a chuckle behind her . The conductor stood with a smile at the base of the steps in the open doorway , the platform moving past behind him . Miss Temple was not used to being laughed at in any circumstance , but between her mission , her disguise , and her lack of breath , she could find no immediate retort and instead of gaping like a fish merely turned down the corridor to find a compartment . The first was empty and so she opened the glass door and sat in the middle seat facing the front of the train . To her right was a large window . As she restored her composure , the last rushing view of Stropping Station -- the platform , the trains lined up , the vaulted brick cavern -- vanished , swallowed by the blackness of a tunnel . The compartment was all dark wood , with a rather luxurious red velvet upholstery for the bank of three seats on either side . A small milk white globe gave off a meager gleam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflection against the dark window . Her first instinct had been to pull off the cloak and breathe easily , but though Miss Temple was hot , scattered , and with no sense of where she was exactly going , she knew enough to sit still until she was thinking clearly . Orange Canal was some distance outside the city , nearly to the coast , with who knew how many other stops in between , any one of which might be Roger 's actual destination . She had no idea who else might be on the train , and if they might know her , or might know Roger , or might in fact be the journey 's reason itself . What if there were no destination at all , merely some rail-bound assignation ? In any case , it was clear that she had to find Roger 's location on the train or she would never know if he disembarked or if he met someone . As soon as the conductor came to take her ticket , she would begin to search . He did not come . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been a few yards away . She did n't remember seeing him go past -- perhaps when she entered ?  - -  and began to get annoyed , his malingering on top of the chuckle making her loathe the man . She stepped into the corridor . He was not there . She narrowed her eyes and began to walk forward , carefully , for the last thing she wanted -- even with the cloak -- was to stumble into Roger unawares . She crept to the next compartment , craned her head around so she could peer into it . No one . There were eight compartments in the car , and they were all empty . The train rattled along , still in darkness . Miss Temple stood at the door to the next car and peered through the glass . It looked exactly like the car she was in . She opened the door and stepped through -- another eight compartments without a single occupant . Continues ...                     