@@27120

Mirror Mirror A Novel The roofs of Montefiore From the arable river lands to the south , the approach to Montefiore appears a sequence of relaxed hills . In the late spring , when the puckers of red poppy blossom are scattered against the green of the season , it can look like so much washing , like mounds of Persian silk and Florentine brocade lightly tossed in heaps . Each successive rise takes on a new color , indefinably more fervent , an aspect of distance and time stained by the shadows of clouds , or bleached when the sun takes a certain position . But the traveler on foot or in a hobble-wheeled peasant cart , or even on horseback , learns the truth of the terrain . The ascent is steeper than it looks from below . And the rutted track traverses in long switchbacks to accommodate for the severity of the grade and the cross cutting ravines . So the trip takes many more hours than the view suggests . The red-tiled roofs of Montefiore come into sight , promisingly , and then they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Often I have traveled the road to Montefiore in memory . Today I travel it in true time , true dust , true air . When the track lends me height enough , I can glimpse the villa 's red roofs above the ranks of poplars , across the intervening valleys . But I ca n't tell if the house is peopled with my friends and my family , or with rogues who have murdered the servants in their beds . I ca n't tell if the walls below the roofline are scorched with smoke , or if the doors are marked with an ashy cross to suggest that plague has come to gnaw the living into their mortal rest , their last gritty blanket shoveled over their heads . But I have come out of one death , the one whose walls were glass ; I have awakened into a second life dearer for being both unpromised and undeserved . Anyone who walks from her own grave relies on the unexpected . Anyone who walks from her own grave knows that death is more patient than Ges Cristo . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turns again , and my view momentarily spins back along the slopes I 've climbed so far . My eye traces the foothills already gained , considers the alphabet of light that spells its unreadable words on the surface of the river . My eye also moves along the past , to my early misapprehensions committed to memory on this isolated outcropping . The eye is always caught by light , but shadows have more to say . Rest . Breathe in , breathe out . No one can harm you further than death could do . When rested , you must go on ; you must find out the truth about Montefiore . Granted a second life , you must find in it more meaning than you could ever determine in your first . The name of the world The world was called Montefiore , as far as she knew , and from her aerie on every side all the world descended . Like any child , she looked out and across rather than in . She was more familiar with the vistas , the promising valleys with their hidden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hills and light . Once a small dragon had become trapped in the bird-snaring nets slung in the uccellare . Bianca watched as the cook 's adolescent grandson tried to cut it down and release it . Her eyes were fixed on the creature , the stray impossibility of it , not on the spinney in which it was caught . How it twitched , its webbed claws a pearly chalcedony , its eyes frantic and unblinking . ( Despite the boy 's efforts , it died , and his grandmother flayed it for skin with which to patch the kitchen bellows . ) Bianca regarded visitors to Montefiore with fierce attention : emissaries of the world . But the bones of her home  --  the house itself  --  remained as familiar and unregarded as her own fingernails . Montefiore was larger than a farmer 's villa but not so imposing as a castle . Too far from anywhere important to serve as a casale  --  a country house  --  it crowned an upthrust shoulder of land , so its fortifications were natural . On all sides , the steepness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyway , Montefiore was n't large enough to interest the condottieri who led their small armies along the riverbank on one campaign or another . Had Bianca an adult eye , she might have guessed from its mismatched roofs and inconsistent architectural details that many owners had lived here before her family arrived , shaping the space with a disregard for symmetry or loveliness . When its masters had had money , they 'd made attempts to drill a little grandeur into the old stone hull , like crisp starched lace tied under the wet chins of a drooling nonna . A recently completed interior courtyard , handsomely done with columns and vaults in the revived archaic style , provided relief from the roaring breeze . Except for the courtyard , though , most attempts at improvement had been abandoned in mideffort . Some windows were fitted with glass , but in most windows , squares of linen had been nailed to the shutter moldings , pale light conferring a sense of height and volume to the dark rooms . Along one retaining wall , a loggia ran unevenly , its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the remains of insect cocoons . For half a century the chapel had stood with a roof beam and naked struts , the old cladding and tiles having been swept away in an arrogant gale . When the January tramontana blustered in , the geese sometimes sheltered there from the wind , though they seldom took communion . Fortunately too inaccessible to garrison an army , Montefiore was nonetheless valuable as a lookout . From time to time in its history it had been commandeered for its prospects . On a clear day one imagined one could glimpse the sea . What child does not feel itself perched at the center of creation ? Mirror Mirror                     