@@26509

Firebird , golden ( largous automobilus yellowish ) A car manufactured by Pontiac . In this particular case , a car painted a color called Signet Gold and built in Lordstown , Ohio , in 1967 . Almost sixteen feet long , with extremely poor gas mileage and no modern amenities . Has a cream-colored interior and a black convertible top and belches noxious clouds of instant-cancer fumes whenever started . Attracts an unreasonable amount of attention from car buffs ( for its collectability ) and others ( because it 's brightly colored , noisy , and as big as a battleship ) . A mythical creature prominently featured in Russian folktales . Possesses magical powers . Wherever the Firebird goes , princes , princesses , kings , and mad wizards are sure to follow . Presumably , any golden bird that 's on fire . before " Chome on , " Palmer said , her words dulled from numb-tongue syndrome caused by the Icee she was slurping . " You haff to admit it wash funny . " May , who was sweating profusely and peering longingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pool , turned and stared at her little sister . " No , I do n't , " she said . " It wash . . . ambhishious . " " Ambitious ? " May repeated . " Looks like you got a new vocabulary word . " " It wash . " " They did n't play Wind Beneath My Wings ' for you , " May said . " Just be quiet for a minute , okay ? I 'm trying to listen . " She turned back to the window . " I shtill ca n't believf the Oriole pickhed you up , " Palmer went on , grinning at the thought . The Icee had turned her teeth a faint blue , which looked even creepier against her braces . It was as if the disguise was being dropped and thirteen-year-old Palmer was revealing herself to be a monster with blue metal teeth . May was n't smiling , because the memory was n't funny to her . She was here for a reason . She was getting revengerevenge that had been a long time coming . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her father 's best friend and had been eleven months old when May was born . There were pictures of him lurking above her as she was swaddled in baby blankets , unable to move . He looked surprisingly the samebrown curly hair , body covered in head-to-toe freckles , a slightly goofy , yet predatory expression as he reached for her stuffed duck . Right from the beginning , May had been the unwilling straight man in Pete 's ever-evolving comedy routine . There was the lick-and-replace sandwich gag from kindergarten . The yo-yo spit trick at the bus stop in third grade . The terrifying " lawn sprinkler " ( do n't ask ) from fifth grade . The dribble holes in her milk , the lab worms in her lunch , the bike-by Supersoaker attacks . . . There was nothing too low , too stupid , too disgusting for him to try . Then Pete had moved on to Grant High , and they 'd been separated . The next year May had ended up going to a different high schoolto Girls ' Academy , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holiday gatherings , she believed the menace had ended . Until last weekend , when the Golds and the Camps had taken their annual trip to Camden Yards . The Camden Yards trip was one of the major events of the year . Even May , who did n't like baseball , was able to work up some enthusiasm for itif only because her father and sisters were practically humming with excitement . Also , May 's dad always saw to it that she was entertained in one way or another . He 'd let her choose some of the music in the car . ( Along with the obligatory Bruce Springsteen . Her dad had to blast " Out in the Street " and " Thunder Road " as he tore down I-95 in the Firebird . Had to . As if the earth would explode if he didn'tor worse yet , it might rain and the game would be a washout . ) He 'd glance at her through the rearview mirror and make his " big tooth " face , pulling his lips back in a horselike grimace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sitting through the game , her dad would slip her some cash ( he had developed a very slick move , which even Palmer could n't detect ) so that she could buy herself an extra snack from the concessions . So May had come to peace with the event . On this last trip she had been biding her time during the seventh-inning stretch , staring absently into the depths of her cup of lemonade . The next thing she knew , a pair of huge and fuzzy black wings embraced her . Suddenly she was being lifted out of her seat by someone in a black bird costume and was on her way down to the field . Once there , she was immediately set upon by five members of the Baltimore Orioles , all of whom shook her hand . One gave her a signed ball . The crowd began to cheer her . Then , just when things could n't get any weirder , she looked up and saw her own facebig as a buildingstretched across the Jumbotron . Underneath it was the caption May Gold , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to react before she was escorted back to her seat . It had taken over an hour to get an explanation because that was how long it had taken for Peter Camp to stop laughing . He revealed at last that he had told one of the public relations staff that May had been born blind , had just been cured by surgery , and was fulfilling her lifelong dream of seeing a live baseball game . It was an incredibly weird storyso weird that they 'd actually believed him . The audacity of the stunt had kept Pete from getting into any trouble ; in fact , the Gold-Camp contingent now ranked Pete among mankind 's greatest thinkers . May 's father had immediately claimed the baseball and held it carefully with both hands for the remainder of the game , as though it were his very own egg that he was protecting until it hatched . Continues ...                     