@@26392

Death Is Forever Chatper One Northern Territory , Australia October " Two people died getting this to me . " Cole Blackburn looked at the small worn velvet bag in Chen Wing 's hand and asked , " Was it worth it ? " " You tell me . " With a swift motion Wing emptied the contents of the bag onto the ebony surface of his desk . Light rippled and shifted as nine translucent stones tumbled over one another with tiny crystalline sounds . The first impression was of large , very roughly made marbles that had been chipped and pitted by use . Nine of the thirteen stones were colorless . Three were pink . One was the intense green of a deep river pool . Cole 's hand closed over the green marble . It was as big as the tip of his thumb and surprisingly heavy for its size . He rubbed it between his fingers . The surface had an almost slippery feel , as though it had been burnished with precious oils . He turned the stone until he found a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his breath . No moisture collected on the smooth green surface . Excitement stabbed through Cole . Without a word he walked to a liquor cart that stood against a nearby wall . He picked up a heavy leaded crystal glass and glanced at Wing , who nodded . Cole brought the green stone down the side of the glass in a single swift stroke . The stone scratched the glass easily and deeply . The stone itself was n't marked . At random Cole picked up other stones from the desk and drew them down the crystal surface . New scratches formed . The stones themselves remained untouched . He pulled a well-worn jeweler 's loupe from his pocket , angled the desk light to his satisfaction , picked up the deep green stone , and examined it . The sensation was like falling into a pool of intense emerald light . Yet this was not an emerald . Even uncut and unpolished , the stone held and dispersed light in ways that only a diamond could . It shimmered between his fingers with each tiny movement of his hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stone 's surface and gathered in its luminous depths . There were no fractures and only two very minute flaws , both irrelevant to the diamond 's value . They lay just below the surface , where they would be cut and polished out of existence . Cole looked at several more stones before he put his loupe back in his pocket and said , " White paper . " Wing opened a desk drawer , extracted a pure white sheet of Pacific Traders Ltd. letterhead , and slid it across the desk . Cole pulled a small chamois bag from his pocket and removed a rough diamond that he knew was of perfect color . Uncut and unpolished , the stone had a natural octahedral shape . It looked almost manmade next to the worn , irregular stones from Wing 's bag . Cole spaced the diamonds across the surface of the paper . One of the stones changed color subtly , becoming more coral than pink . The other pinks deepened to a lovely clear rose . Most of the white stones took on a blue sheen that exactly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very faint yellow cast to their white , a color shift that only an expert eye would have detected or cared about . And the green stone burned more vividly still , an emerald flame against snow . Cole lowered the loupe and studied the green diamond with both eyes again . It still glimmered with an internal fire that was both hot and cold . Years before , in Tunisia , he 'd seen a stone that was nearly the equal of this one . The smuggler who owned the rough claimed it had come from Venezuela . Cole did n't believe it . But before he could raise enough cash to buy the truth , someone had sealed the smuggler 's lips by cutting his throat . The smuggler 's death had n't shocked Cole . When it came to diamonds , a man 's life was valuable only to himself , and his death could easily profit any number of people . What did surprise Cole was that these diamonds had cost only two lives . He 'd never seen a handful of diamonds to equal the ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peculiar circumstances of their birth rather than reflecting their surroundings . Cole picked up his own exemplar diamond , put it away , and examined the dark velvet bag that lay collapsed across the desk 's ebony surface . The velvet was old , so old that the passage of time and the hard surfaces of the diamonds inside had worn the cloth to near-transparency in places . The velvet did n't care . It was dead . But the stones were n't dead , not in the same way . They shimmered with light and time and man 's insatiable hunger for the rare and valuable . " What do you want from me ? " Cole asked , watching the diamonds with brooding gray eyes . For a moment Wing thought the question was directed at the stones . Though he 'd known Cole for many years , the Hong Kong businessman did n't claim to understand or predict the American prospector 's complex mind . " Are they diamonds ? " Wing asked . " Yes . " " No chance of deception ? " Cole shrugged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black silk gleamed in his sport coat . His hair was the exact color and luster of the silk . His skin had been weathered in the wild places of the world . Fine lines radiated out from his eyes , legacy of a life spent squinting into the light of a desert sun or the flare of a miner 's lamp . Above his left temple a scattering of silver showed in his thick hair . He looked older than his thirty-four years . By every measure that mattered , he was . " There 's always a chance of deception , " Cole said . " But if these were made by a man , he 'll be the ruin of every miner and diamond mine in the world . " Wing smiled .                     