@@33525

Anita Palmer stepped out of the shower and reached for the bath towel . Wrapping it around herself , she padded over to the mirror . She lifted her hand and swept a clear path across the misted glass before leaning forward to look at her reflection . Her long red hair clung to her head like seaweed to a rock , framing her heart-shaped face with its wide mouth and high cheekbones . She leaned closer , staring into her mirrored eyes . The irises were a smoky green . Nothing particularly remarkable about them . Or was there ? She leaned even closer . Gold flecks deep in the green irises -- that was what she was looking for . Evan had said that if he looked into her eyes for long enough , he could see gold dust in them . Anita grinned . Gold dust in her eyes . Sometimes when she was with Evan she could almost believe she had gold dust in her eyes . She frowned . It was quite scary -- the feelings that Evan Thomas was stirring up in her . Were they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few weeks thinking about Evan had somehow become the default setting of her brain . And she kept seeing his face -- in the swirls of a freshly stirred cup of coffee . In shadows and light . In clouds . In the darkness behind her closed eyelids . She recalled lines from the play they had been rehearsing for theend-of-term performance . Shakespeare . Romeo and Juliet . She could hear Evan 's voice in her head . " But , soft ! What light through yonder window breaks ? It is the east , and Juliet is my sun ! " She 'd said to him , " That 's not right , Evan . Romeo says , ' and Juliet is the sun ' not ' my sun . ' " He 'd smiled and said , " No -- you 're Juliet , and you 're definitely my sun . " And the way he had looked into her eyes right then had made her feel like the whole world was turning upside down and inside out all around her . She laughed into the mirror , shaking her head to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towel up over her head and rubbed vigorously at her wet hair . She did n't want to be late meeting Evan today -- especially not today . She winced as the towel scraped against the two itchy points on her back . She lowered the towel and angled her bare back to the mirror , craning to see over her shoulder . Something had bitten her . Twice . There was an angry red point on each shoulder blade . They had been there for a few days now . Very irritating , and in such an awkward place to scratch . She 'd have to wear something that covered her back -- the last thing she wanted was for Evan to think she was crawling with fleas . She looked into the mirror again . Did she really love Evan , or was she just getting tangled up in the fact that she had to act as if she loved him in the play ? No , she was sure that it was much more than that . She had felt a strange , thrilling flutter in her stomach when she had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the weeks of rehearsals , as she had gotten to know him better , that thrill had just kept getting more and more intense . She thought back to the auditions . Everyone had been surprised that Evan had shown up at all . He had only been at the school for six months , and he had always seemed so reserved and self-contained , not the type of person who 'd want a major part in the school production . He was amiable enough in class , but he had n't made any close friends and the other students mostly thought of him as something of a loner . No one had ever been invited to his home , and he did n't hang out with them on weekends or go to any parties . Anita could remember exactly when Evan had first turned up . It had been on the same day as the school trip to Hampton Court . It had been a weird day . She knew it was called dj vu when you have vivid memories of a place you 've never been to , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bus had driven up to the parking lot and she had first set eyes on the sixteenth-century palace at Hampton Court -- the feeling that she 'd been there before . The sturdy red-brick Tudor towers and buildings with their cream-colored stone battlements and ornamentations , and the cobbled courtyards and wide , formal gardens -- they had all seemed strangely familiar . But when she mentioned this later to her parents , assuming she 'd visited the palace when she was much younger , they said they 'd never taken her there . The strangest thing of all had been the world-famous maze . It was a large triangular block of tall hedges , grown close together to create a warren of narrow winding corridors . Pretty much every visitor to the palace wanted to put their sense of direction to the test and find their way to the center . Everyone from the school bus had bundled in there , the boys boasting that they 'd get to the middle first . It had been total chaos -- most of them got hopelessly lost and had to be guided through by the people shouting from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back . The green tunnels of the hedges had given her a creepy feeling that she could n't explain . But then her best friend , Jade , had grabbed her arm and dragged her in -- and once she was in the maze , the oddest thing had happened . Somehow she had known the path , and made her way to the little statue in the center without taking a single wrong turn . " How about that ? " she 'd said to Jade , laughing . " Am I a genius , or what ? " But Jade had said it was just luck . That same afternoon , she had seen him for the first time . The most gorgeous boy she had ever set eyes on in her entire life , standing outside the school gates when the bus pulled up . Evan Thomas -- a new student who had just moved into the area .                     