@@27268

When my workday is over , and I have closed my notebook , hidden my pen , and sawed holes in my rented canoe so that it can not be found , I often like to spend the evening in conversation with my few surviving friends . Sometimes we discuss literature . Sometimes we discuss the people who are trying to destroy us , and if there is any hope of escaping from them . And sometimes we discuss frightening and troublesome animals that might be nearby , and this topic always leads to much disagreement over which part of a frightening and troublesome beast is the most frightening and troublesome . Some say the teeth of the beast , because teeth are used for eating children , and often their parents , and gnawing their bones . Some say the claws of the beast , because claws are used for ripping things to shreds . And some say the hair of the beast , because hair can make allergic people sneeze . But I always insist that the most frightening part of any beast is its belly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the belly of the beast it means you have already seen the teeth of the beast and the claws of the beast and even the hair of the beast , and now you are trapped and there is probably no hope for you . For this reason , the phrase " in the belly of the beast " has become anexpression which means " inside some terrible place with little chance of escaping safely , " and it is not an expression one should look forward to using . I m sorry to tell you that this book will use the expression " the belly of the beast " three times before it is over , not counting all of the times I have already used " the belly of the beast " in order to warn you of all the times " the belly of the beast " will appear . Three times over the course of this story , characters will be inside some terrible place with little chance of escaping safely , and for that reason I would put this book down and escape safely yourself , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damp that the experience of reading it will make you feel as if you are in the belly of the beast , and that time does n't count either . The Baudelaire orphans were in the belly of the beast - that is , in the dark and cramped trunk of a long , black automobile . Unless you are a small , portable object , you probably prefer to sit in a seat when you are traveling by automobile , so you can lean back against the upholstery , look out the window at the scenery going by , and feel safe and secure with a seat belt fastened low and tight across your lap . But the Baudelaires could not lean back , and their bodies were aching from squishing up against one another for several hours . They had no window to look out of , only a few bullet holes in the trunk made from some violent encounter I have not found the courage to research . And they felt anything but safe and secure as they thought about the other passengers in the car , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the automobile was a man named Count Olaf , a wicked person with one eyebrow instead of two and a greedy desire for money instead of respect for other people . The Baudelaires had first met Count Olaf after receiving the news that their parents had been killed in a terrible fire , and had soon discovered he was only interested in the enormous fortune their mother and father had left behind . With unceasing determination - a phrase which here means " no matter where the three children went " - Count Olaf had pursued them , trying one dastardly technique after another to get his hands on their fortune . So far he had been unsuccessful , although he 'd had plenty of help from his girlfriend , Esmi Squalor - an equally wicked , if more fashionable , person who was now sitting beside him in the front seat of the automobile - and an assortment of assistants , including a bald man with an enormous nose , two women who liked to wear white powder all over their faces , and a nasty man who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sitting in the back of the automobile , where the children could sometimes hear them speaking over the roar of the engine and the sounds of the road . One would think , with such a wretched crew as traveling companions , that the Baudelaire siblings would have found some other way to travel rather than sneaking into the trunk , but the three children had been fleeing from circumstances even more frightening and dangerous than Olaf and his assistants and there had been no time to be choosy . But as their journey wore on , Violet , Klaus , and Sunny grew more and more worried about their situation . The sunlight coming in through the bullet holes faded to evening , and the road beneath them turned bumpy and rough , and the Baudelaire orphans tried to imagine where it was they were going and what would happen when they got there . " Are we there yet ? " The voice of the hook-handed man broke a long silence . " I told you not to ask me that anymore , " replied Olaf with a snarl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that is that . " " Could we possibly make a short stop ? " asked one of the white-faced women . " I noticed a sign for a rest station in a few miles . " " We do n't have time to stop anywhere , " Olaf said sharply . " If you needed to use the bathroom , you should have gone before we left . " " But the hospital was on fire , " the woman whined . " Yes , let 's stop , " said the bald man . " We have n't had anything to eat since lunch , and my stomach is grumbling . " " We ca n't stop , " Esmi said . " There are no restaurants out here in the hinterlands that are in. "                     