@@29895

Just One Sip " Viva Las Vampires " By Jennifer Ashley Dorchester Publishing Jennifer Ashley " Her . " " Her what ? " Water sloshed as Mario , all six-foot-six of him , stepped out of the sunken hot tub behind the sofa where Stefan stared at the flat-screen television on the wall . Stefan half-watched his friend 's reflection in the monitor as Mario reached for a pristine Egyptian-cotton towel before collecting his half-consumed glass of wine and sauntering to Stefan 's leather sofa . Stefan knew without looking that little pools of water marked Mario 's footsteps across the marble and onto the cashmere carpet . " I said , her what ? " Mario parked himself on the end of the leather sofa and put his feet on the coffee table . Stefan 's feet were already there in leather boots that disappeared beneath his jeans . Mario plopped his wine glass on the coffee table , slopping over a crimson drop . Mario always drank red wine . He 'd been Italian for six hundred years , he said , and could n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or being Italian , Stefan never knew . Stefan gestured with his remote . " Her . " Her was a late twenty-something , tall woman with red hair scraped back in a sloppy pony-tail and wide green eyes taking in every bit of Transylvania Castle 's lobby . She wore a light cotton dress good for the baking temperatures of LasVegas in July , leaving her limbs bare , feet in sandals . She carried a duffle bag over her shoulder as she walked through the casino , heading for the check-in desk . Mario grinned in appreciation . " So you do have taste . " Stephen took a swallow of vodka , the liquid tracing a fiery trail to his stomach , and did n't answer . The monitor showed feed that came through the security cameras trained on the lobby and casino forty-seven floors beneath them , piped to Stefan 's penthouse at his request . He could assess his guests , watch for people who should n't be there , and generally make sure everyone staying at his hotel was having a good time . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past the Coffin Bar and out of frame , Stefan picked up the phone on the coffee table and spoke to his security team . " Give me camera three . Zoom in on the red-haired woman in the white dress . " The view changed to the clear lobby space in reception and the stream of people coming to check in , ready for their vampire fantasy weekend . The picture remained fixed a moment , then the focus widened and blurred , the camera zooming to Stefan 's woman . It caught her just as she stepped up to the reception desk and smiled at the young man behind it . Stefan 's blood warmed . Her crooked smile lit her eyes as she slung her duffle bag on the marble-topped counter in front of the startled clerk and unzipped it . The way she spilled out pens , packets of tissue , books of matches , and various other jetsam was nothing short of adorable . Stefan spoke into the phone . " Zoom closer . " The camera obeyed . Her round smiling face and locks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gold flecks in her green eyes . Mario laughed . " You twisted bastard . " " Have the desk clerk send you her name , " Stefan told security . " Yes , sir . " Through the phone , Stefan heard him tapping computer keys . He saw the red-haired woman smile and nod and then speak . Though there was no sound , he knew she was giving him her name . " Meredith Black , " the security man said in his ear . " What room ? " A pause , more tapping of keys , another pause , and the security man 's deep voice . " Ten twenty-two . " Mario 's dark brows shot up . " Planning a midnight visit ? " Stefan spoke into the phone again . " Give her tickets to Vegas Vampires , vouchers for the restaurants and bars , and an invitation to meet me in my penthouse . I 'll give her dinner . " " Yes , sir . " Stefan quietly set down the phone and returned his gaze to the screen . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rivulets of water onto the leather sofa . Then his coffee-colored eyes widened in understanding . " Oh , " he said , voice subdued . " You mean it 's her . " In a thousand years of existence , Stefan had never been much for slang . He preferred precise speech to Mario 's idioms that changed every decade . But Americans of this century had a phrase which he thought summed things up very well . He tossed back the rest of his vodka and slid the glass across the teakwood coffee table . " Damn straight , " he said . ( Continues ... ) by Jennifer Ashley                     