@@26616

After he returned to me , I slept every night atop Daddy 's broad back . He was a soft , wide man , and miraculously he remained still throughout our slumber  --  never rolled over , never pushed me off . How that sleeping arrangement came to be I do not know , but it felt as natural to me as play . As easy as I 'd learned the alphabet I learned to identify the reassuring aromas of maleness that sleeping with a man offered : unshaved face , snoring breath , end-of-the-day genitalia . Even as a little girl , I knew my father needed me . He was a sick man in near-constant pain from migraines and unable to work . He needed me to fetch his medicine , to make cool compresses for his aching head , to massage his temples with my small hands . And he needed me to help fill his days . He left the house only when it was necessary to go to doctor 's appointments , to buy food , to cash his pension check . Otherwise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike up friendly conversations with the neighbors . My father felt out of sync with these men , who walked out of their front doors each morning dressed in starched shirts and skinny ties , to civil jobs in government offices , their kinky hair kept low . He preferred to wear his hair in defiant waves like Cab Calloway , lie across his sofa bed dressed in elegant silky underwear , and watch daytime TV  --  his ears perked for the sound of us schoolchildren walking home along Birchcrest Road , our high , pebbly voices drifting 6 into his open window . Other days , he read hard-luck paperbacks by the light of a naked bulb stuck in an old , shade-less lamp as a transistor radio tossed the blues into the room . He might sometimes drive his sleek gray Cutlass Supreme Oldsmobile to Mr. Alfred 's auto body shop , where he 'd shoot the breeze . But by the time I skipped up the walkway , book bag slung across my shoulder , face flush from conquering a new cursive letter or the secret to multiplying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to greet me . Together we wound through our evening of dinner , cards , TV , close sleep . This is how Daddy remained alive for me all those years  --  by settling into a life of simple actions , slow movements , perpetual rest . Speed brought throbbing headaches , and so he paced himself . When doing nothing still made his head hurt , he mitigated the pain with loose aspirin and later , sleep-inducing injections of Demerol  --  eking out as many extra years as he could to embed himself , like a fossil , into my psyche . As a result , I formed myself out of the five o'clock shadow of his maleness . He had n't always been sick . The migraines did n't appear until he was thirty-two . Before then , his hypertension was symptom-free , allowing him to spend his young manhood like many migrated southern black men  --  gratefully working overtime at factory jobs , eating neck bones and greens slow-cooked by wide-hipped women , playing hard every Friday night after payday . But I only knew Daddy one way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about his past  --  as a doting father worn down by pain . It 's the image I savor , the one I prefer . If he 'd been a virile , healthy man when I entered his life , who is to say whether he would 've stayed at home , giving so much of that life to me ? Daddy knew he was living on borrowed time . In four short years he went from experiencing monthly to weekly migraines  --  the kind that lurked behind a low-grade headache , encroaching toward a blunt , excruciating throb that pulsed through his entire body for hours , leaving him nearly weeping and weak with exhaustion  --  to daily ones . He was only thirty-six when granted disability from General Motors ' assembly lines  --  the youngest man in the auto company 's history to do so . It must have seemed a financially prudent gesture on his employer 's part , given that the company doctor diagnosed his condition as " extreme . " It was surely a blow to his ego , finding himself stripped of a livelihood , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one who over the years convinced myself his hypertension was a health quirk , an inconvenience to be put up with like a sinus condition or a heart murmur . One day as he drove us home from the doctor 's office , when I was no longer a child , I asked Daddy , " Just how high is your blood pressure ? " We were cruising along Livernois Avenue , past the neon signs of gas stations and the waving flags of car dealerships that added primary color to Detroit 's main streets . " I ca n't say , exactly , " he answered . " Why does n't Dr. Corey ever take your pressure anymore ? " I wanted to know , remembering a time when his doctor used to roll out the pressure monitor with the big name . The sphygmomanometer . We called it the spiggy . He 'd wrap the cuff around Daddy 's arm , pump air through the tube , frown as he studied the dial closely . Daddy shrugged . " He ca n't . Numbers on the spiggy do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " How 's that for the puniness of modern medicine ? " I laughed too , believing he could beat it . My parents , Vy and JD , met at a raucous card party when Mama was twenty-four and the single mother of a five-year-old girl named Kimmie . She told him she was divorced . He did n't care one way or the other , liking how she played bid whist  --  bidding high even when she knew she could n't win . He took her again and again to roaming cabarets , where they slow-danced to Sam Cooke tunes  --  doing the social , as they called it  --  while he sang into her ear of what a wonderful world it would be , causing tiny goose bumps to erupt down her neck . She was his kind of woman , high-class and good-looking ... Continues ...                     