@@27616

1 - Ellison 's " Usable Past " : Toward a Theory of Myth The occasion that invites this piece recalls for me certain decisive memories . Professor Elizabeth Phillips , my first instructor in American literature at the University of Memphis , returned one of my student themes one afternoon with this comment : " Why be content with the lightning bug when you can have the lightning ? " I have no idea what I had written -- lame , I suppose , in any case -- but I saved the comment , might have even stored it in my dreams , and now , over three decades later , I know precisely what she meant . These notes on an American theme are written with Professor Phillips and the lightning in mind . One of the critical strategies of that first course was to determine to what extent the American idiom had been driven toward precision since Sister Carrie . That nearly half a century separates Dreiser 's first novel and Invisible Man is not so impressive an observation , except that between Dreiser and Ellison a radically new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Gass 's notes on Borges 's prose -- its leanness , excision , lack of ornamental dress -- define in part the canon of taste that stamps modernist practice with the persistence of dogma . Accompanying these profound changes in aesthetic surface was the broader implication of shifts of angle in the very vision of art , or more precisely , the philosophical bases for a technology of text ( perhaps most eloquently expressed in Borges 's fictions of intangibility ) conduced toward another kind of artistic performance which Ortega y Gasset locates in the theme of alienation : Analyzing the new style , one finds in it certain closely connected tendencies : it tends toward the dehumanization of art ; to an avoidance of living forms ensuring that a work of art should be nothing but a work of art ; to considering art simply as play and nothing else : to an essential irony ; to an avoidance of all falsehood ; and finally , towards an art which makes no spiritual or transcendental claims whatsoever . We have no exact name yet for " dehumanization " as a systematic mode of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can do , but for sure , this deviant attitude toward the human problematic -- this flight from it that Ortega determines as the goal of modernism -- pursues a structural reality , even anticipates it , that consigns language itself to an area of the phenomenal , unprivileged among other things . If language is an act of concealment , condemned to obfuscation , then we should not be surprised , even if disappointed , that it talks to itself , about itself , imprisoned in an appropriate logological status . Ellison apparently saw what was coming at the end of the forties , when he completed Invisible Man , and responded in his acceptance speech of the National Book Award with characteristic rebellion . Wishing to avoid the " hard-boiled " idiomatic understatement of Hemingway -- its " clipped , monosyllabic prose "  - -  he found that , when compared to the rich babble of idiomatic expression around him , a language full of imagery , gesture , and rhetorical canniness , it was embarrassingly austere . His decision , then , to cast the grammar of the text in a mode contrastive to understatement is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see America with an awareness of its rich diversity and its almost magical fluidity and freedom , I was forced to conceive of a novel unburdened by the narrow naturalism which has led after so many triumphs to the final and unrelieved despair which marks so much of our current fiction . ( NNA , 198 ) In repudiating the doctrine of naturalism , Ellison turned away from the influence of Richard Wright , the dominating presence of his apprenticeship ( NNA , 198 ) , and Dreiser , who had fathered the naturalist tradition among U.S. writers . While Ellison would be the last to deny that his own literary procedure has been influenced by the dogmatizers of European modernism , he would also insist that his American experience , his Negroness , has mandated a literary form virtually unique in its portrayal of pluralistic issues . In order to capture the multiplicity of American experience , Ellison turned to the nineteenth century , toward Melville and Twain 's " imaginative economy , " where " the Negro symbolized both the man lowest down and the mysterious , underground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This turning , which we view with unrelieved interest , is a remarkable decision because it reinforces a notion of the dialectical at a time when it is all but being driven out by theories of artistic objectivity . But Ellison feels too keenly , one imagines , the requirements of his own imposed alienation to raise it to an act of form and chooses , instead , the " ancestral imperative " as the eminent domain of his own creative concern . The upshot is Invisible Man that remains , to my mind , one of the most influential American novels of the twentieth century . I can say with confidence that it would constitute a " first " on my own list of teachable subjects for reasons which , though obvious , may bear repeating : ( 1 ) Following a line of American fictions that had rendered " black " an item of sociological data or the subject of exotic assumptions , or yet , the gagline of white mischief , at best , its ambiguous " bi-play , " Invisible Man addresses the issue as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendency to perceive a coterminous relationship between the symbolic boundaries of black and the physical , genetic manifestation named black , Invisible Man recalls Moby Dick that stands Manichean orientation on its head . ( 3 ) Insisting that black American experience is vulnerable to mythic dilation , Ellison constructs a coherent system of signs that brings into play the entire repertory of American cultural traits . In order to do this , Ellison places the unnamed " agonist " on an historical line that reaches back through the generations and extends forward into the frontiers of the future . Thus , ( 4 ) the work withdraws from the modernist inclination to isolate issues of craft from ethical considerations . For Ellison , language does speak , and it clarifies selective experience under the auspices of certain figures-of-thought , unexpectedly applied to received opinions . My primary concern in these notes is to try to trace propositions three and four to some tentative conclusions . Northrop Frye defined myth as " the union of ritual and dream in a form of verbal communication . " The term , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everything and nothing in particular , though Frye traces its origins and inflections from biblical and classical sources through the modern period ( 131-223 ) . Any contemporary usage is haunted by the echo of specific mythic structures and Roland Barthes 's caricature of contemporary mythologies in a dazzling display of linguistic de-mystification . But Barthes 's definition of myth as a " type of speech " releases us , at least for the moment , from certain inherited or monolithic notions of mythic form : Myth is not defined by the object of its message , but by the way in which it utters this message : there are formal limits to myth , there are no " substantial " ones . ( 109 ) Myth , then , is a form of selective discourse since its life and death are governed by human history : " Ancient , or not , mythology can only have an historical foundation , for myth is a type of speech chosen by history : it can not possibly evolve from the ' nature ' of things " ( 110 ) . Not confined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modes of signification , including written discourse , photography , cinema , reporting , sports , shows , publicity . Myth as form does not only denote the sacred object or event , but may also be viewed as the wider application of a certain linguistic status to a hierarchy of motives and mediations . Pursuing Saussure 's well-known paradigm of signification ( 115 ) , Barthes differentiates the semiological and ideological boundaries of myth in a way that can only be suggestive for our immediate purposes , for I am primarily concerned with Invisible Man as a literary countermyth of good intentions . Though from my own point of view , any countermyth is preferable to prevailing myth and is , therefore , good , I still emphasize the word to denote the particular difficulty there is in accepting Barthes 's definition of myth as a type of speech , expressed by its intentions . Inevitably , some intentions are " more good " than others to the group wishing to appropriate them , and as Barthes 's orientation leads into the ideological category of myth as an impoverishment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I would have to agree with him . Recognizing , then , the high danger of applying a term laden , a priori , with valuation that justifies it on the one hand and condemns it on the other , I can only proceed with caution . What I find most suggestive in Barthes 's argument is the distinction he enforces between the form of myth and the concept it borrows from particular historical order . We could say , following his lead , that mythic form is a kind of conceptual code , relying on the accretions of association that cling to the concept --  " a past , a memory , a comparative order of facts , ideas , decisions " ( 117 ) . A French army general , pinning a medal on a one-armed Senegalese , is not my idea of a joke , nor is it Barthes 's , for that matter , and he uses it to illustrate an act of attenuation wherein the subject has become an item in the " store of mythical signifiers . " In short , the visual image becomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its subjects . It is a mode of shorthand in that the mythical signifier conceals as much as it reveals . In fact , in Barthes 's example , the signifier cheats , for it tells far less than it shows . This spontaneous equation of form and concept occurs also in the literary myth whose extension , like the oral myth , is linear and successive . Barthes describes the process of identification : The elements of the form . . . are related as to place and proximity : the mode of presence of the form is spatial . The concept , on the contrary , appears in global fashion , it is a kind of nebula , the condensation , more or less hazy , of a certain knowledge . Its elements are linked by associative relations : it is supported not by an extension but by a depth ( although this metaphor is perhaps still too spatial ) : its mode of presence is memorial . ( 122 ) It is this integrative paradigm of form and concept that is most interesting for specific application . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of my four propositions -- Invisible Man standing on an historical line reaching back and forth -- I think we can establish the central reason why the novel qualifies as myth . In Ellison 's case , I would suggest that myth becomes a tactic for explanation and that the novel may be considered a discourse on the biographical uses of history . The preeminent element of form , Invisible Man 's narrative unfolds through a complicated scheme of conceptual images that refer to particular historical order , but the order itself localizes in the meta-physical/personal issues of the narrative , which is then empowered to reveal both the envisioned structure of history and its fluid continuity . It seems to me that the themes of diachrony and synchrony properly apply here in that Invisible Man embodies the diachronous , spatial , continuing subject of particular historical depth or memory . In history , the individual is the key to both procedures , for he can arrest time , as the form of the novel does , and examine its related details in leisurely detachment , but he can not escape it , either personally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a kind of suspended , temporary judgment . In short , through his activities , he is an image of man talking , furiously , unto death , lifting the weight of his aging flesh by the power of his tongue . Invisible Man confesses : So why do I write , torturing myself to put it down ? Because in spite of myself I 've learned some things . Without the possibility of action , all knowledge comes to one labeled " file and forget , " and I can neither file nor forget . Nor will certain ideas forget me ; they keep filing away at my lethargy , my complacency . Why should I be the one to dream this nightmare ? Why should I be dedicated and set aside -- yes , if not to at least tell a few people about it ? There seems to be no escape . Here I 've set out to throw my anger into the world 's face , but now that I 've tried to put it all down the old fascination with playing a role returns , and I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finish I 've failed ( maybe my anger is too heavy , perhaps being a talker , I 've used too many words ) . But I 've failed . . . . I have been hurt to the point of abysmal pain . . . . And I defend because in spite of all I find that I love . Moving out of an infant inevitability toward a final one , Invisible Man embraces history as an act of consciousness . Paradoxically , history is both given to him and constructed by him , the emphatic identification of contemplative and active modes , and his refusal of the historical commitment , to remember and go forward , is certain death . Invisible Man charts the adventures of a black personality in the recovery of his own historical burden . This restorative act , to get well and remember and reconstruct simultaneously , is the dominating motif of the novel , and its various typological features support this central decision . As the subject of recovery , Invisible Man must assume all , must take upon himself the haunted , questioning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who insists on telling others . This telling fulfills a bardic task , an oracular chore , and one would do well to refuse either , but pain compels Invisible Man to talk . He calls it " nightmare " and essentially speaks to us out of his own sustained bardic trance , while as an ignorant youth , he spoke from the nightmare of others . We shall see shortly how these layers or phases of speech work . In addition , Invisible Man is " on " to something else in the quoted passages . The questions that he poses function on more than one level : Rhetorically , they hustle on the ploys and motions of argument just as the interrogative formulation has done throughout the novel . Then dramatically , the questions situate particular trouble . Uttered or held back , they are often a symptom of pride and confusion , and Invisible Man has had his share of both , but syntactically , the questions complement a principle of iteration that distinguishes both the Prologue and the Epilogue , encircling the structure . This principle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambiguity beneath the surface symmetry of the text . From the Epilogue , this passage excerpted in the initial quotation is suggestive : The very act of trying to put it all down has confused me and negated some of the anger and some of the bitterness . So it is that now I denounce and defend , or feel prepared to defend . I condemn and affirm , say no and say yes , say yes and say no . I denounce because though implicated and partially responsible , I have been hurt . . . to the point of invisibility . ( IM , 437 ) Each time a word or phrase is repeated , it comes back with a new twist of meaning , an enhancement and echo , pursuing its ambiguity with passion . This repetitive activity is one of " destructing , " a flight from certainty toward systematic skepticism , in order to reconstruct the terrible complexity of decision . But enhancement is an enrichment , even though it borders on the tedious . Caring almost overmuch for linguistic entanglement , Invisible Man threatens a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indulgence , but he recalls what he has said earlier about the " possibility of action " and determines to come out of his hole : Thus , having tried to give pattern to the chaos which lives within the pattern of your certainties , I must come out . I must emerge . ( IM , 438 ) I think we can take him at his literal word , though he is eloquently slippery , or conceptually athletic , with formulations in this passage . He must emerge : Spatially underground , he will come up into the light of day again with his dark-skinned self , a little more noble and fierce than when he entered . Sharp on punning , which has been called an " overpopulated phonetic space , " Ellison recreates the illusion of a mind ordering its space , determining its motions , and this is the domain of invisibility . The involvements of mind , its complicated calibrations in the heat of experience , point to the deeper structures of the text and , characteristically , pursue a pattern of interlocking image-clusters which emanate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impute to Ellison a circularity of influence that I think is at work in the depths of the text . The privileged geometrical version of modernist writers , circles have wrought miracles . There are rivers still flowing and young homeless boys still thumbing rides on the open road . What startles even more is that critics are still startled by these clever workings as though the repeat performance had imagined the thing on its own . Ellison , however , is not as enamored of his structures as his critics . As I recall , he does n't mention circles or depths in interviews about the book , confining himself to articulating its broad objectives , but Invisible Man cannily suggests how he wants his narrative read ; reconciled to the chaos against which his " plan of living " has been conceived , he acquires a new sense of time : Under the spell of the reefer I discovered a new analytical way of listening to music . The unheard sounds came through , and each melodic line existed in itself , stood out clearly from all the rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other voices to speak . That night I found myself hearing not only in time , but space as well . I not only entered the music but descended , like Dante , into its depths . And beneath the swiftness of the hot tempo there was a slower tempo and a cave and I entered it and looked around and heard an old woman singing a spiritual as full of Weltschmerz as flamenco . ( IM , 7 ) The italicized passage is unquestionably explicit about direction , and in the event that anybody misses it the first time , Dante signalizes the pit as a return to traditional configurations of the underground , but the mental location of this geography of descent places these images out of public view and restores them to their initial status of private madness . Continues ...                     