@@30456

The sun never shines beneath the Devil 's Ear . FBI Special Agent Andie Henning must have heard that warning a dozen times on her way to Ginnie Springs , Florida . The Devil 's Ear was one of the more spectacular openings to the watery underworld of the north Florida aquifer , a dark and dangerous limestone labyrinth of interconnecting caves and caverns that discharged 7.7 billion gallons of crystal clear drinking water every day . " How much farther ? " Andie shouted over the roar of the single outboard engine . The boat was at full throttle , throwing a V-shaped wake against the inky black riverbanks . The Santa Fe was a relatively shallow river , better suited to canoes and kayaks than to large motorboats . Only an experienced driver could head downstream at this speed , especially in the dead of night . Somewhere in the darkness were egrets and alligators , but at midnight the forest slept . The tall cypress trees were mere silhouettes , their moss-clad limbs barely visible against the starlit sky . A thin blanket of fog @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The speedboat cut through it like a laser on cotton candy . Andie zipped up her FBI jacket , staving off the wind chill . " About two more minutes , " shouted the boat driver . Andie checked her watch . She hoped they had two minutes . The kidnapper 's late-night call had confirmed the family 's payment of a ransom , contrary to FBI advice . One million dollars in cash seemed like a lot of money to the average person , but it was hardly a hit to Drew Thornton , one of Ocala 's richest horse breeders . The clipped phone message advised that Mrs. Thornton could be found beneath the Devil 's Ear . It took only a minute to decipher what that meant . The sheriff 's office deployed emergency/rescue divers immediately . Andie and two agents from the Jacksonville field office went with them . They were part of the FBI team assigned to the Thornton case , and Andie was the only negotiator staying on-site in Ocala throughout the three-week ordeal . The engine went quiet , the anchor dropped overboard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the team moved into position . " Bottoms up ! " shouted the rescue team leader . Three scuba divers splashed into the river . With the flip of a switch , handheld dive lights turned the black water into a clear , glistening pool . The driver of the boat was Sheriff Buddy McClean , a bulky man in his fifties . He and a deputy remained onboard with Andie and the two FBI tech agents . The deputy controlled the lifeline , a long synthetic rope that tethered each diver to the boat . It was their road map back from the cave network . One of the techies helped feed a transmission wire as the divers descended with an underwater video camera . The other agent fiddled with the monitor , trying to bring up an image . Hundreds of air bubbles boiled to the surface . The lights grew dim beneath the boat , and suddenly the river returned to black . It was as if someone had pulled the geologic plug , but the monitor screen glowing brightly in the darkness told a different story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Devil 's Ear . " Andie checked the monitor . The lights and underwater camera allowed her to see exactly what the divers saw . The team was inside the cavern , somewhere below the riverbed . Andie asked , " How well do your divers know these caves , Sheriff ? " " All too well , " said McClean . " Since I first swam here as a teenager , there 's been over three hundred scuba divers gone down in Florida 's caves and never come up . Devil 's Ear has claimed its fair share of unwilling souls . Pulled two out myself in my younger days . " " What 's the chances Mrs. Thornton 's actually alive ? " asked the deputy . Andie did n't answer right away . " We 've had cases where kidnap victims were buried alive and came out okay . " " Yeah , but underwater ? " " Ca n't say that I 've heard of it , " she said . " But there 's a first time for everything . " There was silence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more likely to be the recovery of a body than the rescue of a victim . But that did n't mean they 'd given up hope . What if she is alive ? thought Andie . Did that poor woman have any idea where she was ? Somewhere beneath this black riverbed , beneath God only knew how many feet of sand and solid limestone , lay a living , breathing wife and mother . Perhaps she was trapped in some pressurized tank or capsule , a dark and silent cocoon , enough air for an hour or two . Or worse , maybe her kidnapper had turned her loose down there with nothing but a mask , tank , and regulator . Either way , she 'd be in total darkness , unable to find  --  no , feel  --  her way out of this aquatic honeycomb . Perhaps she could hear or possibly even feel the strong currents rushing past her , cool springwater flowing as fast as a hundred cubic feet per second . She might decide to go with the flow , or try to fight it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jagged rocks could cut like knives . A sudden change in ceiling height could damage her breathing equipment or knock her unconscious . But not even in her most harrowing moment of panic could she even begin to imagine that some of these cave systems stretched as long as seventeen miles , that she could be carried hundreds or thousands of feet below the surface , that the average liter of drinking water drawn from Florida 's aquifer percolated and circulated around and around for twenty years before reaching the surface . Unconscious , thought Andie . Alive but unconscious . That was by far the best-case scenario . " Where are they now ? " asked Andie . Sheriff McClean took a closer look at the screen . The divers had long since passed the point where it mattered if it was night or day . " I 'd say about two hundred feet into the cave . " " How can you tell ? " Continues ...                     