@@31381

Chapter One : Things to Do In the course of one week , Anderton went from unknown lounge singer to Decca recording artist . " One morning me and the kids are having coffee , " she told Look magazine in 1961 , " and a record producer calls and says he wants to cut a demo . That phone call gave me a whole new life , even though nothing changed . " From Cry Me a River : The Lives of Pauline Anderton by Desmond Sullivan 1 . Jane Cody kept lists  --  Things To Do , Things To Buy , Bills To Pay , Appointments To Keep  --  but because she knew they provided the kind of irrefutable paper trail that almost always got people into trouble at tawdry junctures in their lives , her lists were n't the literal truth . Some inaccuracies were alibis in case the reminders fell into the wrong hands , while others were there to mislead the people she practically forced to read them . It was a simple system that caused her problems only when she confused the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restaurants for imaginary lunches , both of which had happened in the past three weeks . Obviously , she 'd been working too hard , unless maybe she had n't been working enough . She was sitting at her desk poring over tomorrow 's notes to herself to stave off the anxiety attack she could feel brewing in the back of her brain , building in strength like one of the many tropical storms currently approaching adulthood somewhere in the South Atlantic . ( The topic of a recent doom-laden conversation on the show she produced : Another Storm of the Century ? ) Ithad been a bad morning  --  an argument with her son and a volleyball game of passive-aggressive selflessness with her husband  --  and then the chocolates one of her co-workers had brought in proved disappointing and the carefully arranged plans for this afternoon 's taping of the show had started to unravel . At moments like these , she wished she had n't tried to impress her shrink by agreeing with him that tranquilizers and antidepressants were grossly overprescribed . She was tired of going out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him $130 an hour , which ought to be enough to buy his approval , no matter what her opinions . It was one of those hot , irritating late-August days with the kind of filthy air you wanted to push out of the way . She actually could see  --  or thought she could  --  particles of dust and lead and pollen suspended in the fuzzy air , banging against her window , trying to get in . The Charles River was low and slow-moving there on the other side of Soldiers Field Road , and even the muscular rowing crews pulling their way through the murky green water looked sluggish . When she turned forty last year , Jane finally had been released from envying the physical perfection of youth , an unexpected birthday present and a useful one , too , if you had the misfortune of living in Boston , a city cluttered with colleges and private schools . Throughout her thirties , she 'd been plagued by the conviction that she could be as fit and healthy and firm as all those running , rowing twenty-year-olds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now she could hide comfortably behind that pathetic but irresistible slogan of defeat : " I think I look pretty good for my age . " Jane 's office was on the third floor of the studios of WGTB , one of Boston 's public television stations . She was a producer of a thrice-weekly show called Dinner Conversation , a newsy program considered cutting-edge because it was so low-tech retro , and successful because no one had figured out what to put on in its place . The concept could n't have been more simple : six people were assembled at a round table in a studio made to look like a dining room and asked to discuss a topic in the news . Plates of nicely prepared food and glasses of respectable wine  --  both donated  --  were placed in front of them . The camera was turned on unobtrusively about ten minutes into the conversation and turned off thirty minutes later . There was no host , no moderator , no overarching point of view , and , most important of all , there were no expenses . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jane had a special talent for , despite the fact that her at-home dinner parties were often disasters . It had been her inspiration to have an even mix of experts and man-on-the-street types . Half the viewers tuned in to find out what the biochemist from MIT had to say about global warming , and half tuned in to watch the biochemist from MIT get talked into a corner by an amateur weather watcher from one of the area 's shabbier suburbs . As long as someone sounded brilliant and someone was made to look foolish , the show played well . Reasonably well . Lately , rumors that Dinner Conversation had reached the end of its life cycle swirled around the studio daily . If you could believe the mean-spirited gossip , some of the interns spent half their time coming up with cute headlines to announce its demise : " The Dinner Party 's Over , " " Conversation Grinds to a Halt , " " Will That Be All ? " The office was eerily quiet this afternoon as it usually was when they were in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taping a conversation about a recent plane crash , and one of the guests , a flight attendant , had canceled earlier in the day . Then at noon , a pilot who had agreed to appear and would serve as the authority figure and centerpiece of the discussion called to say he was delayed in Dallas indefinitely . They were left with a couple of windbag travel agents , a friend of one of the other producers whose entire identity revolved around his refusal to fly , and a New Hampshire housewife who claimed to have " died briefly " in an airline disaster several years earlier . As far as Jane was concerned , going on to write best-selling religious tracts  --  in this case , I Met God  --  was ample evidence that death , no matter how short-lived , had not occurred , but as a nervous flier herself , she did n't want to tempt fate by calling the woman 's bluff . There was a faint knock on Jane 's door and Chloe Barnes tentatively stuck her head into the office and gave Jane one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's under control , Chloe . I have several people lined up , I 'm just waiting for them to call and confirm . " " You 're sure there 's nothing I can do ? " " Very sure . " Chloe bit down on her lower lip and raised her eyebrows , as if to say , " Poor you . " Jane had fallen for this wide-eyed , lip-biting expression for the first few weeks Chloe worked at the station . Then she saw Chloe staring at her with the exact same mixture of worry and pain while Jane was combing her hair in the bathroom mirror and realized it was a young , beautiful woman 's pity of a forty-year-old she considered past the point of sexual relevance . Jane would have laughed it off if she had n't been worrying about the sexual relevance question herself . Half an hour earlier , Jane had phoned Rosemary Boyle , an old college friend who was in Boston to teach a couple of courses at BU . Rosemary was a self-involved poet , usually a conversational black hole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being a widow , so she could provide an expert opinion on loss , or something equally pertinent and unspecific . Since the publication of Dead Husband , Rosemary was prepared to provide an expert opinion on anything , as long as it helped promote the book . The only thing she was n't prepared to talk about was the $1.5 million poor Charlie had left her when he died or committed suicide or whatever , and how her wrenching description of intolerable privation had added another few hundred grand to her coffers . Jane still had n't heard back from her . They could easily do the show with five guests , but four was out of the question . " David 's get                     