@@29574

Chapter One Medicine Creek , Kansas . Early August . Sunset . The great sea of yellow corn stretches from horizon to horizon under an angry sky . When the wind rises the corn stirs and rustles as if alive , and when the wind dies down again the corn falls silent . The heat wave is now in its third week , and dead air hovers over the corn in shimmering curtains . One road cuts through the corn from north to south ; another from east to west . Where the two roads cross lies the town . Sad gray buildings huddle together at the intersection , gradually thinning along both roads into separate houses , then scattered farms , and then nothing . A creek , edged by scraggly trees , wanders in from the northwest , loops lazily around the town , and disappears in the southeast . It is the only curved thing in this landscape of straight lines . To the northeast rises a cluster of mounds surrounded by trees . A giant slaughterhouse stands south of the town , lost in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dust storms . The faint odor of blood and disinfectant drifts in a plume southward from the plant , riding the fitful currents of air . Beyond , just over the horizon , stand three gigantic grain silos , like a tall-masted ship lost at sea . The temperature is exactly one hundred degrees . Heat lightning flickers silently along the distant northern horizon . The corn is seven feet high , the fat cobs clustered on the stalks . Harvest is two weeks away . One . Twilight is falling over the landscape . The orange sky bleeds away into red . A handful of streetlights blink on in the town . A black-and-white police cruiser passes along the main street , heading east into the great nothingness of corn , its headlights stabbing into the rising darkness . Some three miles ahead of the cruiser , a column of slow-circling turkey vultures rides a thermal above the corn . They wheel down , then rise up again , circling endlessly , uneasily , rising and falling in a regular cadence . Sheriff Dent Hazen fiddled with the dashboard knobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vents . He felt the vent with the back of his hand but it was n't getting any cooler : the AC had finally bit the dust . He muttered another imprecation and cranked down the window , tossing out his cigarette butt . Furnacelike air boiled in , and the cruiser filled with the smell of late-summer Kansas : earth , cornstalks . He could see the circling turkey buzzards rise and dip , rise and dip above the dying smear of sunset along the horizon . One ugly motherfucker of a bird , thought Hazen , and he glanced over at the long-barreled Winchester Defender lying on the seat beside him . With any luck , he 'd get close enough to assist two or three of them into the next world . He slowed and glanced once again at the dark birds silhouetted against the sky . Why the hell are n't any of them landing ? Turning off the main road , he eased the cruiser onto one of the many rutted dirt lanes that cut their way through the thousand square miles of corn surrounding Medicine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sky , until the birds were almost directly overhead . This was as close as he was going to get by car . From here , he 'd have to walk . He threw the cruiser into park and , more out of habit than necessity , snapped on the lightbar flashers . He eased his frame out of the cruiser and stood for a moment facing the wall of corn , drawing a rough hand across his stubbled chin . The rows went in the wrong direction and it was going to be a bitch getting through them . Just the thought of shouldering through all those rows made him weary , and for a moment he thought about putting the cruiser in reverse and getting the hell back to town . But it was too late for that now : the neigh-bor 's call had already been logged . Old Wilma Lowry had nothing better to do but look out her window and report the location of dead animals . But this was his last call of the day , and a few extra hours on Friday evening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sunday fishing at Hamilton Lake State Park . Hazen lit another cigarette , coughed , and scratched himself , looking at the dry ranks of corn . He wondered if it was somebody 's cow who 'd wandered into the corn and was now dead of bloat and greed . Since when was it a sheriff ' s responsibility to check on dead livestock ? But he already knew the answer : ever since the livestock inspector retired . There was nobody to take his place and no longer a need for one . Every year there were fewer family farms , fewer livestock , fewer people . Most people only kept cows and horses for nostalgic reasons . The whole county was going to hell . Realizing he 'd put off the task long enough , Hazen sighed , hiked up his jangling service belt , slipped his flashlight out of its scabbard , shouldered the shotgun , and pushed his way into the corn . Despite the lateness of the hour , the sultry air refused to lift . The beam of his light flashed through the cornstalks stretching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nose filled with the smell of dry stalks , that peculiar rusty smell so familiar it was part of his very being . His feet crunched dry clods of earth , kicking up dust . It had been a wet spring , and until the heat wave kicked in a few weeks back the summer sun had been benevolent . The stalks were as high as Hazen could ever remember , at least a foot or more over his head . Amazing how fast the black earth could turn to dust without rain . Once , as a kid , he 'd run into a cornfield to escape his older brother and gotten lost . For two hours . The disorientation he 'd felt then came back to him now . Inside the corn rows , the air felt trapped : hot , fetid , itchy . Hazen took a deep drag on the cigarette and continued forward , knocking the fat cobs aside with irritation . The field belonged to Buswell Agricon of Atlanta , and Sheriff Hazen could not have cared less if they lost a few ears because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ huge combine harvesters would appear on the horizon , mowing down the corn , each feeding half a dozen streams of kernels into their hoppers . The corn would be trucked to the cluster of huge grain silos just over the northern horizon and from there railed to feed lots from Nebraska to Missouri , to disappear down the throats of mindless castrated cattle , which would in turn be transformed into big fat marbled sirloins for rich assholes in New York and Tokyo . Or maybe this was one of those gasohol fields , where the corn was n't eaten by man or even beast but burned up in the engines of cars instead . What a world . Hazen bullied his way through row after row . Already his nose was running . He tossed his cigarette away , then realized he should probably have pinched it off first . Hell with it . A thousand acres of the damn corn could burn and Buswell Agricon would n't even notice . They should take care of their own fields , pick up their own dead animals . Of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real cornfield in their lives . Like almost everyone else in Medicine Creek , Hazen came from a farming family that no longer farmed . They had sold their land to companies like Buswell Agricon . The population of Medicine Creek had been dropping for more than half a century and the great industrial cornfields were now dotted with abandoned houses , their empty window frames staring like dead eyes over the billowy main of crops . But Hazen had stayed . Not that he liked Medicine Creek particularly ; what he liked was wearing a uniform and being respected . He liked the town because he knew the town , every last person , every dark corner , every nasty secret . Truth was , he simply could n't imagine himself anywhere else . He was as much a part of Medicine Creek as Medicine Creek was a part of him . Hazen stopped suddenly . He swept his beam through the stalks ahead . The air , full of dust , now carried another smell : the perfume of decay . He glanced up . The buzzards were far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yards and he would be there . The air was still , the silence complete . He unshouldered his shotgun and moved forward more cautiously . The smell of decay drifted through the rows , sweeter by the moment . Now Hazen could make out a gap in the corn , a clearing directly ahead of him . Odd . The sky had flamed its red farewell and was now dark . The sheriff raised his gun , eased off the safety with his thumb , and broke through the last corn row into the clearing . For a moment he looked around in wild incomprehension . And then , rather suddenly , he realized what he was looking at . The gun went off when it hit the ground and the load of double-ought buckshot blew by Hazen 's ear . But the sheriff barely noticed . ( Continues ... )                     