@@26277

Secrets of a Summer Night Chapter One London , 1843 The end of the season A marriage-minded girl could overcome practically any obstacle , except the lack of a dowry . Annabelle swung her foot impatiently beneath the frothy white mass of her skirts while she kept her expression composed . During her past three failed seasons , she had become accustomed to being a wall-flower . Accustomed , but not resigned . More than once it had occurred to her that she deserved far better than to sit at the side of the room in a spindly chair . Hoping , hoping , hoping , for an invitation that would never come . And trying to pretend that she did n't care  --  that she was perfectly happy to be watching others dancing and being courted . Letting out a long sigh , Annabelle fiddled with the tiny silver dance card that hung from a ribbon on her wrist . The cover slid open to reveal a book of neartranslucent ivory leaves that spread out in a fan . A girl was supposed to pencil the names @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To Annabelle , the fan of empty cards seemed to resemble a row of teeth , grinning at her mockingly . Snapping the silver case shut , she glanced at the three girls who sat next to her , all endeavoring to look similarly unconcerned with their fates . She knew exactly why they were there . Miss Evangeline Jenner 's considerable family fortune had been made from gambling , and her origins were common . Moreover , Miss Jenner was painfully shy and possessed a stutter , which made the prospect of conversation a session of torture for both participants . The other two girls , Miss Lillian Bowman , and her younger sister Daisy , had not yet become acclimated to England  --  and from the looks of things , it would take them a long time . It was said that the Bowmans ' mother had brought the girls from New York because they had n't been able to get any suitable offers there . The soap bubble heiresses , they were mockingly referred to , or occasionally , the dollar princesses . Despite their elegantly angled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better luck here unless they could find an aristocratic sponsor to vouch for them and teach them how to fit in with British society . It occurred to Annabelle that in the past few months of this miserable season , the four of themherself , Miss Jenner , and the Bowmanshad often sat together at balls or soirees , always in the corner or against the wall . And yet they had rarely spoken to each other , trapped in the silent tedium of waiting . Her gaze caught that of Lillian Bowman , whose velvety dark eyes contained an unexpected gleam of humor . " At least they could have made the chairs more comfortable , " Lillian murmured , " when it 's obvious that we 're going to occupy them all evening . " " We should have our names engraved on them , " Annabelle replied wryly . " After all the time I 've spent in it , I own this chair . " A muffled giggle came from Evangeline Jenner , who lifted a gloved finger to push back a vivid red curl that had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blue eyes sparkle and her cheeks turn pink beneath a scattering of gold freckles . It seemed that a sudden sense of kinship had temporarily caused her to forget her shyness . " It m-makes no sense that you 're a wallflower , " she told Annabelle . " You 're the most beautiful girl here  --  men should be f-falling all over themselves to dance with you . " Annabelle lifted her shoulder in a graceful half shrug . " No one wants to marry a girl without a dowry . " It was only in the fantasy realm of novels that dukes could marry poor girls . In reality , dukes and viscounts and the like were burdened with the massive fi- nancial responsibility of maintaining large estates and extended families , and helping the tenantry . A wealthy peer needed to marry into money just as badly as a poor one did . " No one wants to marry a nouveau-riche American girl , either , " Lillian Bowman confided . " Our only hope of belonging anywhere is to marry a peer with a solid English title @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her younger sister , Daisy , added . She was a petite , rather elfin version of Lillian , with the same fair skin , heavy dark hair , and brown eyes . An impish smile touched her lips . " If you happen to know of some nice duchess who would be willing to take us under her wing , we would be much obliged . " " I do n't even want to find a husband , " Evangeline Jenner confided . " I 'm merely s-s-suffering through the season because there is nothing else for me to do . I 'm too old to stay at school any longer , and my father ... " She broke off abruptly , and sighed . " Well , I have only one more season to go , then I 'll be twentythree and a confirmed spinster . How I 'm looking fforward to it ! " " Is twenty-three the measure of spinsterhood these days ? " Annabelle asked with half-feigned alarm . She rolled her eyes heavenward . " Good Lord , I had no idea that I was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are you ? " Lillian Bowman asked curiously . Annabelle cast a glance to the right and left , to make certain they were not being overheard . " Twenty-five next month . " The revelation earned three rather pitying glances , and Lillian replied consolingly , " You do n't look a day more than twenty-one . " Annabelle clutched her fingers around her dance card until it was concealed in her gloved hand . Time was slipping away quickly , she thought . This , her fourth season , was drawing rapidly to a close . And one simply did not embark on a fifth season  --  it would be ludicrous . She had to catch a husband , and soon . Otherwise , they could no longer afford to keep Jeremy at school ... and they would be forced to move from their modest terrace and find a boardinghouse to reside in . And once the downhill slide began , there was no climbing back up ...                     