@@33349

Section 1 : Women Sleuths of the Victorian Era1860-1899 " Not only do ... women suffer ... ever-recurring indignities in daily life , but the literature of the world proclaims their inferiority and divinely decreed subjection in all history , sacred and profane , in science , philosophy , poetry and song . " Elizabeth Cady Stanton , Susan B. Anthony , and M.J. Cage , eds . History of Women Suffrage II 1882 from Feminist Quotations , Voices of Rebels , Reformers , and Visionaries , compiled by Carol McPhee , Anne Fitzgerald , Thomas Y. Crowell , 1979 During the period when American women were achieving the right to hold property , make valid wills and contracts , retain the wages they earned outside of the home , and gain custody of their children at divorce , it is not surprising that few sought employment as investigators or used their leisure time to detect . Predictably there would be few fictional women sleuths . Male authors had strong markets for heroic adventures , where women were victims or villains , but they rarely played a significant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mystery genre often hid their gender under androgynous initials . They lacked Virginia Woolf 's " room of their own " which would enable them to experiment , develop , and produce narratives to meet the needs of women readers . Changes came slowly in the literary world , reflecting the social , political and economic shifts in society . When a woman was featured as an investigator during this period , she was likely to be single , widowed , or supporting a family . Female investigators were less likely to appear in a series ( defined as at least two ) . The happy solution for a heroine was to achieve marriage and a family , which could be accomplished in a single book . Once married , she was expected to conform to the role of wife and mother , eschewing work outside of her home . Upper and middle class women were not encouraged to appear in public without an escort , certainly not in the evening . Single women lived under the protection of male relatives ; wives , under the control of their husbands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the privileged classes did a readership develop for intrepid and adventurous females . It is generally conceded that Edgar Allan Poe 's short stories published in the 1840 's initiated the mystery genre . Amelia Butterworth , the first woman to appear in a mystery series , was developed by an American in 1897 . Amelia 's predecessors had been a mixed lot , often depending upon intuition , special psychic gifts , or such skills as lip reading to solve problems . Amelia was a wealthy spinster , allied with a New York City police inspector . She narrated the books in which she appeared and had a significant role in solving the mysteries . Loveday Brooke Author : C. L. ( Catherine Louisa ) Pirkis Loveday Brooke , an austere woman of thirty who worked as a private detective for the Lynch Court Detective Agency in London , appeared in seven short stories , collected as The Experiences of Loveday Brooke , Lady Detective ( Hutchinson , 1894 , reprinted in 1986 by Dover ) . She set an excellent example , often solving cases when the authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . Except for dressing in black and a habit of squinting when she concentrated , she appeared average in all aspects . This made it possible for her to go undercover to investigate instances of robbery , disappearance , and murder . Loveday indicated that she became a detective because of financial reverses , finding it one of the few jobs for which she had a talent . She preferred to work alone , calling on her employer only when it was time to call in the police . Even on vacation , she found herself intrigued by rumors of ghosts in homes , connecting them with disappearing checks . Pirkis presumably used the initials to hide her gender , because few women wrote novels , much less mysteries , under their own names in this period . Amelia Butterworth Author : Anna Katharine Green a.k.a . A. K. Green Amelia ( christened Araminta ) Butterworth , a member of upper class New York society , fit the acceptable pattern of a female sleuth at the turn of the century . Although a " stately " spinster , Amelia was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortune hunters . Even though she appeared as a secondary character in three Ebenezer Gryce books , she narrated and played significant roles in each . She was acerbic but compassionate ; staid , but displayed a sense of humor . In That Affair Next Door ( Putnam , 1897 ) , when Amelia noticed a young man bringing a woman to a supposedly empty house , she contacted the police . After the young woman was found dead , Amelia offered shelter to the two daughters of the house who had just returned from Europe , and were understandably reluctant to stay in their own home . Gryce , assigned to the case , recognized Amelia 's value as an observer , but allowed her to expand beyond that role , which she did by locating a valuable witness . By Lost Man 's Lane ( Putnam , 1898 ) , Gryce , now a close friend , consulted Amelia when four men disappeared from a small New York village . Amelia made an extended visit to personal friends in the area , noting the behavior of younger members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a corpse , then to the killer . During The Circular Study ( McClure , 1900 , reprint by Garland in 1976 ) , Gryce found a parasol belonging to Amelia at a crime scene . She had entered the house after she noticed suspicious behavior , and was again a witness to potential suspects . After identifying the young woman involved , Amelia learned that she was the victim of a family quarrel dating back to the Civil War . Although Gryce and Amelia discovered the killer , they agreed that she would never come to trial . Lois Cayley Author : Grant Allen Lois Cayley , at 21 , had crisp black hair , large dark eyes , and a swarthy complexion . A graduate of Girton , Cambridge , she behaved scandalously for a young woman of her class and time : serving as a maid for an elderly woman ; riding an American-designed bicycle in a contest in which all other entrants were men ; rescuing a suitor when he fell over a cliff . During Miss Cayley 's Adventures ( Putnam , 1899 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a camel and rescued a young Englishwoman from Arabs ; and to India , where she hunted tigers from the back of an elephant . On her return to England , she and her fianc Harold were accused of tampering with a will under which Harold inherited . They married in Scotland , with Harold returning to surrender to the authorities while Lois proved their innocence . The novel was typical for the times , in that a fictional young woman was allowed considerable freedom before her marriage , particularly if her underlying purpose was noble . Dorcas Dene Author : George R. Sims Dorcas Dene entered private investigation only when she was sure that " it would not involve any sacrifice of her womanly instincts . " In her late twenties , she was described as having soft brown wavy hair and a light complexion . Her motives were financial . Her artist husband Paul had lost his sight , so she supported the London household , which included her mother , and bulldog Toddleking . She had been an actress , which served her in good stead when she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighbor , a retired policeman , hired Dorcas to help in his investigations . When he retired , she took over the agency , working conscientiously to verify her conclusions by researching official records . Dorcas Dene , Detective ( White , 1897 ) was narrated by dramatist Mr. Saxon , who had known Dorcas when she was on stage , and admired her ability to use disguise and drama in her investigations . A second collection , Dorcas Dene , Detective , Second Series ( White , 1898 ) followed . Mrs. G. Author : Andrew W. Forrester , Jr . Such formidable genre theorists as Ellery Queen and E. F. Bleiler identified Mrs. G. as the first fictional female investigator in The Female Detective ( Ward , 1864 ) . Her author , Andrew W. Forrester , Jr . gave few insights into her character or motives , but she presumably worked for the money . In The Lady Investigates by Patricia Craig and Mary Cadogan , it was reported that Mrs. G. did not disclose her work to her friends , but led them to believe she was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether Mrs. G. was widowed or married , did or did not have children . As a matter of fact , since the title " Mrs. " during that period was given to older women indiscriminately , she might have been single . Michelle Slung in her preface to Crime on Her Mind , referred to Mrs. G. as likely to be single and working to support herself . In her first person narrative , Mrs. G. commented that she believed that women criminals were worse than men . In 1978 , Dover Publications included The Unknown Weapon by Forrester in Three Victorian Detective Novels , edited by E. F. Bleiler . In the narrative , Mrs. G. investigated the death of young Graham Petleigh at his father 's country estate . Although she determined how , why and by whom the murder had been committed , she lacked proof for a conviction . She interviewed witnesses , had a woman assistant who went undercover at the estate , and searched the premises . She described her approach as believing " every man , a rogue till ... we can only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Katherine Koluchy Author : L. T. ( Lillie Thomas ) Meade ( Smith ) and Robert Eustace Madame Katherine Koluchy was the Italian leader of The Brotherhood , who used her London business as a beauty specialist as a front for robbery , blackmail , kidnapping , and murder . She was described as having dark hair and eyes , erect posture , and considerable intelligence . In The Brotherhood of the Seven Kings ( Ward , 1899 ) , narrator Norman Head challenged Madame Koluchy in a series of adventures , determined to bring her and her associates to justice . She had been accepted into society , praised for her high skills as a musician and composer , but finally destroyed herself by a trap she set for others . Caroline " Cad " Mettie Author : Harlan Halsey , writing as " The Old Sleuth " Cad Mettie ( birth name Caroline ) , an impulsive young woman , detected not for economic reasons but because she enjoyed the excitement . In Dudie Dunne or the Exquisite Detective ( Ogilvie , 1895 ) , Dudie met young Cad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a trap . He realized that she was still not to be trusted so left her in charge of a former prison matron until he captured the crooks . By Cad Mettie , the Female Detective Strategist ( an Old Sleuth Dime Novel by Ogilvie , 1895 ) she was a girl of the streets usually working with Dudie , who was tougher than he looked . Cad , whom Dudie loved , was beautiful , could sing and dance , " fence or wrestle like a man , " and could even disguise herself as a male . She planned to become a famous female detective . As a pair , Cad and Dudie were so successful that the government hired them to investigate Italian gangs who were robbing banks and counterfeiting money . Ogilvie published other dime novels featuring such colorful women sleuths , but they were few compared to hundreds of dime novels with youthful or adult male heroes . Mrs. Paschal Author : Anonyma Little is known of the widowed Mrs. Paschal who worked with the Metropolitan Police in London in the 1860 's . She had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class women acted as matrons in prisons , but not , as author " Anonyma " proposed , as a member of a special unit composed of female detectives according to Amnon Kabatchnik , ( The Armchair Detective , Vol. 7-2 , p.131 ) . Kabatchnik related that in The Revelations of a Lady Detective ( George Vickers , 1864 ) , Mrs. Paschal was described as just short of forty , " vigorous and subtle . " Revelations included ten short stories featuring Mrs. Paschal 's exploits . Kabatchnik believed that The Experiences of a Lady Detective ( Charles H. Clarke ) , published in 1861 , was a separate book , and therefore that Mrs. Paschal was the first female sleuth . E.F . Bleiler refuted this contention in a subsequent article in The Armchair Detective , Vol. 8-3 , p.202 . Bleiler examined the tables of contents of the two books , found them to be the same , and identified William Stephens Hayward as the probable author . If so , then The Female Detective by Andrew J. Forrester , Jr . was the first female sleuth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Emma Van Deventer Madeline Payne 's mother died leaving her with a cruel and lecherous stepfather . Her father , whom she never knew , had been a detective . An attractive young woman with golden hair and brown eyes , she had been educated in a convent school . In Madeline Payne , the Detective 's Daughter ( Loyd , 1884 ) , Madeline , desperate to be free of her stepfather , left town with a charming but faithless young man . After Lucian Davlin betrayed her , she assumed another identity until she could claim her inheritance . Needing to support herself , Madeline became a detective in Moina , A Detective Story ( Ward , 1891 ) . While a guest at the home of a wealthy industrialist , Madeline learned that her host had been threatened . After his injury from a bomb , she involved herself with Russian imperialists , Socialist conspirators , and the historic Haymarket riot . After she found romance with friend Dr. Vaughn , she withdrew from her career . Author Van Deventer , like others in the period , felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hagar Stanley Author : Fergus Hume Hagar Stanley was a young gypsy who left her tribe to avoid an unwanted marriage . Described as having dark hair and dark eyes in Hagar of the Pawn Shop ( Buckles , 1898 ) , she worked for pawnbroker Jacob Dix who bequeathed the shop to her . In the course of her work , Hagar cleared a falsely accused black woman of murdering her employer . Most cases arose from items pawned in the shop . Although she enjoyed her work , Hagar longed for the open road . Eventually , she and the man she loved set up a bookseller 's caravan , and returned to the highway . Valeria Woodville Author : Wilkie Collins Valeria Woodville , a tall slender woman with black hair and dark blue eyes , searched for proof that her husband Eustace did not kill his first wife in The Law and the Lady ( Harper , 1875 ) . While living with her aunt and uncle , Valeria had married a young man of whom she knew little . Concerned by her mother-in-law 's opposition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wife under the name Macallan . Furthermore , he had been tried and received a Scottish verdict when accused of Sara 's death . Finding herself pregnant , she was more determined than ever to clear the name of her child 's father . The narrative included fifty pages of trial transcript , which Valeria read . Collins , a prominent Victorian , had several other interesting women characters in his books .                     