@@26482

See No Evil ... Noire was in the wrong place at the wrong time , an Afro in a sea of perms . Regretting her decision to wear a thong that rubbed her cheeks like industrial-strength dental floss , she adjusted herself surreptitiously and cut her eyes at her lacquered , perfumed , and coiffed business-casual brethren and sistren at Brown Betty Books clutching copies of Marcus Gordon 's bible on black folks and finance . First , Jayna lied . Second , Jayna was late . Noire rammed her hand into the pocket of her waterlogged overcoat , crumpling the copy of Jayna 's e-mail message that disingenuously proclaimed the evening to be about black empowerment and a magnet for progressive brothas . Instead , she was stuck trying to amuse herself amid a swarm of coffee-colored men whose tailored trousers and five-hundred-dollar shoes attracted equally well-heeled women with hungry eyes . Noire hated the pose . Even Brown Betty herself - her head a cascade of golden dreadlocks and her body awash with purple fabric and musk-scented cowrie shells and crystals - looked at , through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say hi . Clearly , her hair was not political tonight . Her disdain mounting , Noire railed against the ready display ofbrand-name degrees , six-figure salaries , and gentrified addresses that smacked of a latter-day slave auction . Was this what the Civil Rights Movement was all about ? " Do n't hate , congratulate ! " she heard one of her sistas tell an empathetic friend . She imagined they were corporate lawyers . Noire made a plastic cup of white wine her temporary companion . She sipped it too fast and scanned the bookshelves lining the walls . Her eyes flitting over the haphazardly stacked volumes , she consoled herself with the presence of books by Maya Angelou , Ben Okri , Toni Morrison , and Edwidge Danticat . She jotted down a few titles in her Filofax , crammed it into her mini-backpack , and refilled her cup with seltzer before reclaiming her mantle of righteous indignation at the scene . Measuring the smugness of those around her with the yardstick of her own discomfort , Noire wondered about Jayna . Where was homegirl ? Jayna @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of friendship with Noire should have taught her that , at twenty-eight years old , Noire had no time or interest in the self-congratulatory games of " name-that-Negro " that the newest generation of the talented tenth had a particular fondness for . Was n't the biggest argument that Jayna and Noire ever had over love and money ? Then high school seniors , they had fanatical obsessions with Terrence Trent D'Arby ( Noire ) , Blair Underwood ( Jayna ) , LL Cool J ( both ) , and half the boys in their Queens neighborhood . At seventeen , Jayna was then a recent nonvirgin and reflective . " Sex is no big deal . Mama says it 's as easy to love a rich man as a poor man . I plan to marry rich ! " " Jayna : Sold to the highest bidder ! " " Let 's hear you say that when you 're shacked up on skid row ! " " Fuck you ! " " At least someone does want to fuck me ! And , Nicholas is going to Stanford , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remembered the sting of Jayna 's words . She had masked her hurt with anger over the Jayna-Nicholas hookup ; she would have done anything for just a kiss from him . Shrugging off her thoughts , Noire became annoyed with her unplanned solitude at the bookstore and resolved to pass the time near a ripe discussion between Brown Betty 's yards of purple fabric and a buppie poster boy . Amusing herself with her role of infiltrator , Noire nodded at both parties who , as recent Harlem residents themselves , vigorously debated the effects of the latest wave of multicultural homeowners into " their neighborhood . " Her interjected comment about the displacement of longtime Harlemites because of the steep increase in rents received a cool glance from Buppie Poster Boy and a huff from Brown Betty . She wondered if they bought their groceries in lower Westchester . Jayna was still missing in action when , at seven-thirty , Brown Betty asked everyone to sit for the start of the reading . Buppie Poster Boy glared at Noire before revealing himself to be the center of attention by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room and holding a much book-marked copy of his tome . His face looked important and solemn , his thirty-two privileged years filling the air . Five rows of mismatched chairs ringed him in a tight arc . Noire claimed a place toward the back of the store and attempted to hold the aisle seat to her right for Jayna . She figured that Jayna was trying to be slick , timing her arrival so as to miss the start of the reading and thus the brunt of Noire 's venomous response to her . Planting her bag on the chair , Noire surveyed the assemblage of about forty-five people and caught the eye of Jayna 's friend Alan . He was too far away to say anything so she mouthed a tepid hello . Marcus Gordon had already shared five of his ten commandments of creating wealth in the black community when someone approached Noire . " Is this seat taken ? " he whispered , handing Noire 's bag back to her and lowering himself into the chair . He raised his right fist in an abbreviated black-man salute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his words . Arrogant , she thought , settling her bag onto the floor in front of her . She stared ahead but noticed his well-defined profile in her peripheral vision . Probably full of himself . " Number Five is ' Own instead of rent . ' Too many of us have spent too much money on our sound system , our silk sheets , and our summer vacation without first investing in our futures . If you do n't own your spot , you 're just making someone else rich . " Noire thought about the late rent check she had put in today 's mail and the vacation she and Jayna were taking to New Orleans in a couple of days ... ( Continues ... )                     