@@27079

Chapter One Paris For him it began with a feather . A bright blue parrot feather that fell out of Ella Lynch 's hat while she was horseback riding one afternoon in the Bois de Boulogne . Blond , fair-skinned and Irish , Ella was a good rider  --  the kind of natural rider who rides with her ass , not her legs  --  and she was riding astride on a nervous little gray thoroughbred mare . Cantering a few paces behind Ella and her companion , Francisco Solano Lopez was also a good rider  --  albeit a different sort of rider . He rode from strength , the strength in his arms , the strength in his thighs . Also he liked to ride big horses , horses that measured over sixteen , seventeen hands ; at home , he often rode a big sure-footed cantankerous brown mule . Pulling up on the reins and getting off his horse , his heavy silver spurs clanging , Franco  --  as Francisco Solano Lopez was known  --  picked the feather up from the ground ; it briefly occurred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what kind of parrot feather it was , for she kept hundreds of parrots in her aviary in Asuncin , but it was Ella and not the feather that had caught Franco 's attention . The year was 1854 and the forty miles of bridle paths and carriage roads were filled with elegant calches , daumonts , phaetons ; every afternoon , weather permitting , Empress Eugnie could be seen driving with her equerry . Every afternoon too , Empress Eugnie , in fashion obsessed Paris , could be seen wearing a different dress , a dress of a different color : Crimean green , Sebastopol blue , Bismarck brown.The Bois de Boulogne had recently been transformed from a ruined forest into an elegant English park . Sent as ambassador-at-large to Europe by his father , twenty-six-year old Franco was dressed in a field marshal 's uniform modeled on Napoleon 's , only his jacket was green  --  Paraguayan green . He was short , stocky  --  not yet grown stout nor had his back teeth begun to trouble him  --  and his thick eyebrows met in the middle of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was self-confident , nave , ambitious , energetic , spoilt  --  never had anything , except once one thing , been denied him  --  and he was possessed of an immense fortune . Franco put the feather in his pocket and mounted his horse again . He caught up with Ella easily and followed her home . At age ten , Eliza Alicia Lynch had left Ireland ; at fifteen , Elisa Alice Lynch married a French army officer ; at nineteen , divorced and living with a handsome but impecunious Russian count , Ella Lynch needed to reinvent herself . 14 March 1854 A lovely afternoon ! I rode the little mare again in the Bois with Dimitri . Ella wrote in her diary that evening . Each day I grow fonder of her  --  her mouth is as soft as silk and a touch of the rein is sufficient . Her canter puts me in mind of sitting in a rocking chair ! But how can I possibly afford to buy a horse ? Already I owe John Worth a fortune ! Oh , how I loathe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both ! When I returned home and was changing my clothes , I once again had to listen to Marie complain about Pierre whom she accuses of drinking my wine and who knows what other thefts  --  servants are addicted to their tales of intrigue and to their jealousies ! Also , Marie 's chatter nearly made me late  --  today was the opening of the Salon ! However , as it turned out , I was fortunate . The President of the Jury himself , the Count of Morny , was the first person I met and he took me by the arm and recounted how the day before , his half brother , the Emperor , had gone through all the galleries never once stopping , never once glancing at the paintings , until he arrived at the last gallery  --  the least important gallery , the gallery filled with the most mediocre paintings  --  and then the Emperor , out of duty , the count supposes , stopped in front of a hideous picture of the Alps  --  the Alps looking exactly like a stack of bread loaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five minutes , the Emperor turned to the poor count and said : " The painter should have indicated the relative heights . " I could hardly contain myself and laughed until tears streamed down my cheeks ! Rain was falling when finally I left the exhibition to go to supper and of course in my haste I had forgotten to bring an umbrella but , as luck would have it , a gentleman smoking a foul-smelling cigar was standing at the door and he offered me his . From Paraguay , Franco had brought with him crates of oranges and tobacco . On board ship , the oranges started to rot , the sailors squeezed them and drank the juice ; the tobacco fared better . The tobacco ( the Paraguayan leaves are allowed to mature on the stem and , as a result , contain more nicotine ) beat out the Cuban entry and was awarded a first-class medal at the Paris Exhibition ; the citation read , Very good collection of leaves , especially suitable for cigars . In addition to the tobacco , Franco had brought dozens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vegetable silk called samahu whose softness was much admired . After he followed Ella home , he had one of the ponchos delivered to her house on rue du Bac with his card . Pierre , Ella 's valet de chambre , put Francisco Solano Lopez 's card on top of the other cards on the silver tray on the table in the front hall of the house on rue du Bac ; then he gave the package with the poncho in it to Marie , the maid . The poncho was badly wrapped in brown paper and , curious , Marie opened it . Also , the package smelled strange . Like tea . The color of red soil , the poncho , although soft and no doubt warm , did not look like the clothes Ella usually wore  --  her fur stole , her velvet cloaks and paisley cashmere shawls ... Continues ...                     