@@29084

Endymion Spring By Matthew Skelton Random House Matthew Skelton Blake checked his watch -- thirty-six minutes -- and sighed . He tried walking backwards now , tapping the books in reverse order , to see if this would help pass the time . A series of stern-looking portraits glared down at him from the walls . Like magicians , they were dressed in dark capes and had sharp , pointy beards . Elaborate ruffs , like squashed chrysanthemums , burst from their collars . The older men had jaded eyes and tortoise-like skin , but there were also a few pale-faced boys like himself . He glanced at their nameplates : Thomas Sternhold ( 1587-1608 ) ; Jeremiah Wood ( 1534-1609 ) ; Isaac Wilkes ( 1616-37 ) ; Lucius St. Boniface de la Croix ( 1599-1666 ) . Each man was holding a small book and pointing to a relevant passage with a forefinger , as though reminding future generations to remain studious and well-behaved . Blake disregarded their frowns of disapproval and continued running his fingers along the books , rapping the spines with the back of his knuckles . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the volumes had struck him back ! Like a cat , it had taken a playful swipe at his fingers and ducked back into hiding . He whisked his hand away , as though stung . He looked at his fingers , but could n't see anything unusual . They were smeared with dust , but there was no obvious mark or injury on his skin . Then helooked at the books to see which one had leaped out at him , but they all seemed pretty ordinary , too . Just row upon row of crumbly old volumes , like toy soldiers in leather uniforms standing to attention -- except that one of them had tried to force its way into his hand . He sucked on his finger thoughtfully . A thin trail of blood , like a paper cut , was forming where the book had nicked his knuckle . All around him the library was sleeping in the hot , still afternoon . Shafts of sunlight hung in the air like dusty curtains and a clock ticked somewhere in the distance , a ponderous sound that seemed to slow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That was probably his sister , Duck , investigating upstairs . But no one else was around . Only Mephistopheles , the college cat , a sinewy black shadow with claws as sharp as pins , was sunbathing on a strip of carpet near the window and he only cared about one thing : himself . As far as Blake could tell , he was entirely alone . Apart , that is , from whatever was lurking on the shelf .                     