@@27151

Chapter One When we left Egypt in the spring of 1907 , I felt like a defeated general who has retreated to lick his wounds ( if I may be permitted a somewhat inelegant but expressive metaphor ) . Our archaeological season had experienced the usual ups and downs - kidnapping , murderous attacks , and the like - to which I was well accustomed . But that year disasters of an unprecented scope had befallen us . The worst was the death of our dear old friend Abdullah , who had been foreman of our excavations for many years . He had died as he would have wished , in a glorious gesture of sacrifice , but that was small consolation to those of us who had learned to love him . It was hard to imagine continuing our work without him . If we continued it . My spouse , Radcliffe Emerson , is without doubt the preeminent Egyptologist of this or any other era . To say that Emerson ( who prefers to be addressed by that name ) has the most explosive temper of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only slight . His passions are most often aroused by incompetent excavators and careless scholarship , and during this past season he had - I admit - been sorely provoked . We had been excavating in the Valley of the Kings at Luxor , my favorite site in all of Egypt . The concession for the Valley was held by an irritating elderly American , Mr. Theodore Davis , who was more interested in finding treasure than in scholarly research ; we were there under sufferance , allowed to work only in the lesser , more boring tombs . Still , we were there , and we would be there again in the autumn had it not been for Emerson . The trouble began when Mr. Davis 's crew discovered one of the strangest , most mysterious tombs ever found in the Valley . It was a hodgepodge of miscellaneous funerary equipment , much of it in poor condition , including a mummy and coffin and pieces of a magnificent golden shrine ; and if it had been properly investigated , new light would have been shed on a particularly intriguing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Davis the services of our staff . Abdullah , who was still with us , was the most experienced reis in Egypt , our son Ramses was a skilled linguist and excavator , and his friend David an equally skilled copyist . Not to mention our foster daughter Nefret , to whose excavation experience was added medical training and a thorough acquaintance with mummies . Only an egotistical idiot would have refused . Davis did refuse . He regarded excavation as entertainment , not as a tool in scholarly research , and he was jealous of a better man . He wanted no one to interfere with his toy . Watching Davis " rip the tomb apart " ( I quote Emerson ) was trying enough . The denouement came on the day when the mummy fell apart due to careless handling . ( It might not have survived anyhow , but Emerson was in no state of mind to admit that . ) Face handsomely flushed , blue eyes blazing , impressive form towering over that of the withered old American , Emerson expressed his sentiments in the ringing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Abu Shitaim , Father of Curses . He included in them M. Maspero , the distinguished head of the Service des Antiquits . Maspero really had no choice but to accede to Davis 's infuriated demand that we be barred from the Valley altogether . There are many other sites in Luxor . Maspero offered several of them to Emerson . By that time Emerson was in such a state of fury that he rejected them all , and when we sailed from Port Said we had no idea where we would be working the following season . It was good to be back at our English home in Kent , and I make it a point to look on the bright side , but as spring turned to summer and summer wore on , my attempts to do so failed miserably . It rained incessantly . The roses developed mildew . Rose , our admirable housekeeper , caught a nasty cold that refused to yield to treatment ; she went snuffling drearily around the house , and Gargery , our butler , drove me wild with his incessant prying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Egypt with us in the autumn . Emerson , sulking in his study like a gargoyle , refused to discuss our future plans . He knew he had been in the wrong but would not admit it , and his attempts to get back in my good graces had , I confess , not been well received . As a rule I welcome my husband 's attentions . His thick black locks and brilliant blue eyes , his magnificent physique , and - how shall I put it ? - the expertise with which he fulfills his marital obligations moved me as they always had ; but I resented his efforts to get round me by taking advantage of my feelings instead of throwing himself on my mercy and begging forgiveness . By the end of July , all our tempers had become strained . It continued to rain , Emerson continued to sulk , Rose continued to snuffle , and Gargery 's nagging never stopped . " Oh , madam , you need me , you know you do ; only see what happened last year when I was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. David kidnapped and you carried off by that Master Criminal chap , and poor Abdullah murdered and - " " Do be quiet , Gargery ! " I shouted . " I asked you to serve tea . I did not invite a lecture . " Gargery stiffened and looked down his snub nose at me . I am one of the few people who is shorter than he , and he takes full advantage . " Tea will be in shortly , madam , " he said , and stalked out . I seldom shout at the servants - in point of fact , Gargery is the only one I do shout at . As a butler he was something of an anomaly , and his unusual talents , such as his skill at wielding a cudgel , had proved helpful to us in the past ... ( Continues ... )                     