@@34360

Foreword by Otto Penzler Like jazz , the hard-boiled private detective is entirely an American invention , and it was given life in the pages of pulp magazines . Pulp now is a nearly generic term , frequently misused to indicate hack work of inferior literary achievement . While that often may be accurate , pulp was not intended to describe literary excellence or lack thereof , but was derived from the word pulpwood , which is the very cheap paper that was used to produce popular magazines . These , in turn , were the offspring of " dime novels , " mainly magazine-sized mystery , Western , and adventure novels produced for young or unsophisticated readers . After World War I , the popularity of American pulpwood magazines increased rapidly , reaching their peak of success in the 1920s and 1930s , as more than 500 titles a month hit the newsstands . With their reasonable prices ( mostly a dime or fifteen cents a copy ) , brilliantly colored covers depicting lurid and thrilling scenes , and a writing style that emphasized action and adventure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new , uniquely American literature were sold every week . At first , the magazines sought to publish something for all tastes , so a single issue might feature a Western story , an aviation adventure , amystery , a science fiction tale , and a sports report . New titles came along and most of the old ones quickly morphed into special interest publications . The very first issues of Black Mask , for example , often had Western scenes on the covers , but by the mid 1920s it had become devoted almost entirely to mystery fiction . While there were magazines designated to stories of railroads , jungle adventure , " spicy " stories , romance , horror , and any other subject that enterprising publishers thought would attract a readership , the most successful pulps were those featuring superheroes and detective fiction ( with the notable exception of Weird Tales , the long-lived pulp devoted to fantasy and science fiction ) . One of the elements that made the detective magazines so popular was the heroic figures in the center of the action . The hard-boiled cop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lone individual , representing justice and decency , pitted against virulent gangs , corrupt politicians , or other agencies who violated that sense of goodness with which most readers identified . The best of these crime-fighting tough guys became series characters , taking on one group of thugs after another , always emerging victorious in spite of the almost hopeless odds he ( and these protagonists were almost always male ) encountered . Many of the most memorable of these protagonists became staples of Black Mask , Detective Fiction Weekly , Dime Detective , and the other major pulp publications . Dashiell Hammett 's Continental Op , Carroll John Daly 's Race Williams , Frank Gruber 's Oliver Quade , Ramon Decolta 's ( Raoul Whitfield ) Jo Gar , Norbert Davis 's Max Latin , George Harmon Coxe 's Flash Casey , W. T. Ballard 's Bill Lennox , Robert Reeves 's Cellini Smith , and Frederick L. Nebel 's Cardigan are just a few of the detectives who appeared month after month to the delight of a reading public whose appetite for this sort of no-nonsense , **35;537;TOOLONG @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War . Crimefighters in the pulps were seldom the sensitive type who understood that a difficult childhood or an unloving grandmother were responsible for the violence of the criminals with whom they came into contact . No , his role was to battle bad guys , and he did it without fear , without pity , and without remorse . It was a black-and-white world in the pulps , a simple conflict between the forces of goodness and virtue and those who sought to plunder , harm , and kill the innocent . In the pages of the pulps , and between the covers of this book , Good is triumphant over Evil . Perhaps that is the key to the enormous popularity they enjoyed for so many years . Depression-era crowds eagerly snatched up each new episode of their favorite crime-fighting protagonist , rooting for and identifying with the stalwart men of action and intellect . In addition to the hero , there was another essential element in each adventure-a monstrous opponent . For a hero to be worthy of the name , it was utterly required that he do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so conscienceless that only a man of supreme strength of body and mind , and an incorruptible soul , could hope to emerge victorious . Here , in The Crimes of Richmond City , you will see the almost overwhelming odds faced by MacBride and Kennedy as they attempt to right the wrongs they are forced to encounter . Other detectives , in other tales , had no lesser difficulties to overcome . The pulps were also home to a different kind of crook , and readers were able to identify with them , too . These larcenous entities were admittedly thieves , but not your common , or garden variety , robber . Virtually all the thieves who became successful series characters in the pulps ( and , indeed , in all of crime fiction ) were Robin Hood-type crooks . They did not commit violent acts , and they stole from the rich . Not just any rich person , mind you , but always someone who had come by his fortune illicitly . This was an exceptionally agreeable manner of behaving during the Depression era , when literally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines to procure minimal sustenance for themselves and their families . The impoverished multitudes blamed the actions of Wall Street brokers , bankers , big businessmen , and factory owners for their plight , so what could be more attractive than to see someone break into their posh apartments and crack their safes , or nick the diamond necklaces from the fat necks of their bloated wives ? Furthermore , these crooks generally donated their swag to charity or to a worthy individual ( after deducting a sufficient amount to ensure their own rather lavish lifestyle , of course ) . Perhaps not strangely , but nevertheless in apparent contradiction to their chosen careers , a large percentage of these redistributionist thieves , after several successful adventures , become detectives . Often they are suspected of a murder or another crime which they did not commit , and so must discover the true culprit in order to exonerate themselves . In other instances , they have friends in the police department who need their help . A long tradition of criminals behaving in this manner predates the pulp era . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Infallible Godahl ( not included in this collection because he did not appear in the pulps ) , was so brilliant that he planned and executed capers so meticulously that he was never arrested . Eventually , the police paid him a large stipend to not commit crimes , since they knew they could never catch him and wanted to avoid the embarrassment of seeing headlines with yet another successful burglary . It is left to your own ethical proclivities to determine whether you identify with the safecrackers , con men , burglars , and villains or with the police who are paid to catch them . Women were not significant in the early years of the pulp magazines . Hulbert Footner 's Rosika Storey was a successful character in the pages of Argosy , eventually appearing as the prime figure in six books beginning in the late 1920s , but she had little company . Black Mask seldom used stories in which women were featured , rarely bought stories by women writers , and never had a female series character . The major authors did n't mind writing about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great prominence , as the catalyst for all the ensuing action . Also , in more cases than not , they were the victims , either innocents or bad girls who got what was coming to them ( according to the murderer ) . When girls ( and they were usually called girls , or dolls , or , heaven help us , frails , or some term of endearment like honey or sugar or baby or cutie ) took the role of detective , they tended to be acceptable to male readers mainly when they were assistants , girlfriends , or professional sidekicks , such as reporters . Their roles were predictable in most stories . If they were n't present as comic relief , they needed to be rescued . It would be impossible to calculate the number of pretty young things who were kidnapped or held hostage until our hero burst through a door on the last page to save her-often from a fate worse than death . One needs only to look at the colorful cover paintings that adorned the magazines for evidence of this clich . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a buxom beauty in a low-cut dress or sweater , frequently in tatters , being menaced by a thug or gang of thugs . Some of the lesser pulps , those that paid even less than the standard penny a word , began to feature women in the second decade of the detective pulps , the 1930s , while those that sought an audience with racier material , such as Gun Molls , Saucy Stories , and Spicy Detective , had even more ample reason to feature them . In these pages , opportunities for placing luscious young beauties in grave peril of violation were rampant , providing titillation to young male readers who hid their ten-cent purchases inside newspapers or more respectable journals . One role in crime fiction in which women have been featured with some regularity is as the criminals . The pages of the pulps are rich with female jewel thieves of a certain elegance who seem always to be in formal attire at a country house party or a penthouse soiree . They function largely in the same manner as their male counterparts , though they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capture . Tough broads appeared in later pulps , either as out-and-out hoodlums or , more frequently but no less dangerously , as gun molls for their gangster boyfriends . All types of female detectives and crooks who first saw the light of day in pulp magazines appear in section three of this book . There are independent private investigators , assistants , rogues , victims , molls , police officers , and innocent bystanders . They are young and old , good looking and plain , funny and dour , brave and timid , violent and gentle , honest and crooked . In short , very much like their male counterparts . While there is more than one way to judge the success of a pulp magazine , including longevity , circulation , and profitability , the undisputed champion in the area of having developed the greatest writers and having had the most long-lasting literary influence was Black Mask , and most of the stories in this collection were originally published in its pages . Had it done no more than publish Carroll John Daly 's first story , Black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1923 , with the publication of " Three Gun Terry , " the hard-boiled private eye made his first appearance , quickly followed by Daly 's creation of Race Williams , the first series character in hard-boiled fiction . While Daly was truly a hack writer devoid of literary pretension , aspiration , and ability , he laid the foundation for the form that continues to flourish to this day in the work of such writers as Robert B. Parker , Joe Gores , James Crumley , Bill Pronzini , Michael Connelly , and James Lee Burke ( although the latter two employ series characters who are cops , they function in the same individualistic way that private investigators do , and frequently use the same smart-aleck speech patterns as their kindred freelancers do ) . Dashiell Hammett produced his first Continental Op story for Black Mask later in the same year , and the future of the genre was secure , as the editors and the reading public quickly recognized that this was serious literature in the guise of popular fiction . Every significant writer of the pulp era worked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Frederick L. Nebel , Raoul Whitfield , Erle Stanley Gardner , Charles G. Booth , Roger Torrey , Norbert Davis , George Harmon Coxe , and , of course , the greatest of them all , Raymond Chandler . It was the era between the two World Wars in which the pulps flourished , their garish covers enticing readers and their cheap prices providing mass entertainment through the years of the Great Depression . It has been widely stated that the advent of television tolled the death knell for the pulps , but it is not true . They were replaced by the creation and widespread popularity of paperback books , virtually unknown as a mass market commodity before World War II . There is quotable prose in these pages , and characters that you will remember , and fascinating evocations of another time and place , but the writers mainly had the goal of entertaining readers when these stories were produced . No reasonable reader will ever complain that the stories are slow moving , that they lack action and conflict-in short , that they are dull . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writing careers in other arenas , including Hollywood , but here is the real stuff : stories written at breakneck speed and designed to be read the same way .                     