@@33980

I was standing in my own bedroom minding my own business and knotting my tie when Mel Soames hopped into the doorway from her room down the hall . She was wearing nothing but a bra and a pair of panties , and she was doing a strange ostrichlike dance as she attempted to put one foot into a pair of panty hose . " So what are you going to do about a tux ? " she asked . " Buy or rent ? " Some questions posed by half-naked women are more easily answered than others . This one had me stumped . What tux ? I wondered . Since I quit drinking , I find I 'm in fairly good shape when it comes to remembering things . For example , we had spent most of the weekend on the road , driving down to Ashland , Oregon , to see my month-old grandson , Kyle Roger Cartwright . I remembered the eight-hour ride down , including our post-midnight arrival at the Peerless Hotel in the wee hours of Saturday morning . I remembered spending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taking pictures of a month-old blanket-wrapped round-faced little kid who looked like he would have preferred sleeping peacefully to being passed from hand to hand during a nonstop day-long photo shoot . I clearly remembered having to explain to my precociousfour-year-old granddaughter , Kayla , that Mel was not her grandmother . And I particularly remembered how much of a kick my daughter and son-in-law , Kelly and Jeremy , had gotten out of my trying to dig my way out of that hole . And I also remembered the eight-hour drive back to Seattle on Sunday afternoon , especially the part where I had managed to keep my mouth shut when Mel was pulled over by an Oregon state trooper for doing seventy-seven miles per hour in a posted sixty-five . ( It could have been much worse . The alabaster-white S55 Mercedes sedan I bought used from my friend and lawyer Ralph Ames has five hundred horse-power under the hood , a top speed of 184 , and is deceptively quiet . ) But the motorcycle cop was a young guy . Mel gave him the full-press blonde treatment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talk her way out of the ticket . But then , that 's Mel for you . However , nothing in all those bits of memory even hinted at my needing a tux . For any reason whatsoever . " Buy , " I said . It was a desperate gamble , but I came up winners . Mel shot me a radiant smile . " Good answer , " she said . " We should probably plan on doing that at lunchtime , or maybe right after work . That way , if there 's tailoring that needs to be done . . . " Snapping her panty hose in place , she disappeared back down the hall to finish dressing . I finished knotting my tie and then went out into the kitchen to drink coffee and contemplate my fate . Tux or not , Mel Soames brought something to the table that was n't half bad . We had met working for the Washington State attorney general 's Special Homicide Investigation Team , the SHIT squad , as it 's derisively known in local cop-shop circles . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PD . My former partner , Sue Danielson , had died in a shoot-out , and I had wanted to find a way to keep my hand in law enforcement without having to deal with the emotional stress of a partner . Ross Alan Connors , the A.G. , had offered me just such a position . Mel , it turned out , had come to Washington State and to SHIT for a similar reason , only the partnership problem she was leaving behind was a bad marriage and a worse divorce . But then we got turned into partners anyway-unofficially and without either one of us necessarily meaning for it to happen . In the course of several memorable days , Mel had ended up watching my back in not one but two life-and-death situations . It turned out she was damned good at it , too . And then when someone ran me through a greenhouse wall , cut open my scalp , and filled me full of tiny glass shards , she had brought me home from the ER and had stayed on to look after me . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up occasionally when I 'm shaving . ) To begin with , Mel camped out in the guest room down the hall , but over the course of time that had changed , too . The only parts of the guest suite she now uses are the closet and the bathroom . We call it her dressing room . It goes without saying that we 're both well beyond the age of consent and old enough to know that working together and living together is a very bad idea . SHIT is a new-enough agency that nobody has ever quite gotten around to setting down in writing all the rules and procedures about what should or should n't be done . If they had , I 'm sure cohabitation between fellow investigators would be close to the top of the prohibited list . But there 's no fool like an old fool-or maybe even a pair of them . And so , even though it 's probably a bad idea , we do it anyway . Sometimes we stay at Mel 's place in Bellevue , but mostly we stay at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Much better view from the penthouse at Belltown Terrace than from her third-story apartment in the burbs ! ) We car-pool together in the express lanes across Lake Washington and then pick up or drop off the other vehicle in the park-and-ride lot on the east side of the lake . A word about my condo . New acquaintances are often curious about how a retired Homicide cop happens to sit in the penthouse suite of one of Seattle 's most desirable high-rises . The truth is , I would n't be in Belltown Terrace at all if it were n't for Anne Corley , my second wife , whose shocking death left me holding an unexpected fortune . I had never driven a Porsche until I inherited hers . And it was only after that one finally bit the dust-after being mashed flat by a marauding Escalade-that I had gone looking for something else .                     