@@412154

Homeopathy 's Shocking Cure Plus : Alternative remedies for stress , osteoporosis , menopause and more Headnote Miracle cure , placebo or nothing at all ? Photograph Photograph // In 1994 , NASA computer scientist Amy Lansky of Portola Valley , California , began wondering about her two-year-old son . Max knew the alphabet and could beat adults at memory games , but he barely spoke and , despite normal hearing , did n't seem to understand language . At preschool he was a loner . His main form of communication was poking people with his finger . Eventually , school officials urged Lansky to have him evaluated . The diagnosis : autism , a neurological and behavioral disorder for which there is no known remedy . But LansKy reruseo to believe Max was untre atable . Her search for an answer led her to homeopathy , an 18th-century healing art now enjoying renewed popularity because of Americans ' growing interest in alternative medicine . Homeopathy involves treating illnesses with such extreme dilutions of herbs , animal substances and chemical compounds that frequently not one molecule of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the known laws of science , not to mention common sense . But rigorous studies show it just may work . In a German trial , a homeopathic treatment for vertigo outperformed the pharmaceutical remedy ; at Harvard , subjects with mild brain injury showed significantly greater improvement with a homeopathic treatment than with a placebo . And homeopathic remedies have been found to augment conventional treatments , as well . In the case of infectious diarrhea , a University of Washington study found that children given the standard rehydration fluid containing water , sugar and salt , plus a homeopathic remedy , recovered after two and a half days-a day and and a half earlier than those who received just the rehydration fluid . " I believe new science will explain how homeopathy works , " says Ellen Feingold , a Wilmington , Delaware , pediatrician who left conventional medicine to practice homeopathy . " But research is not my concern . I want to heal patients . As an M.D. , I mostly suppressed symptoms . Now I truly heal people . " " Critics of homeopathy say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ca n't possibly work , " says Michael Carlston , a Santa Rosa , California , physician who has combined mainstream medicine and homeopathy for 30 years . " But that 's hypocritical . Aspirin was used for 90 years before its efficacy was explained-and no doctors shunned it . " Strange Medicine Shortly after her son 's diagnosis , Lansky found a magazine article on alternative treatments for childhood behavioral problems . Lansky 's acupuncturist referred her to homeopath John Melnychuk. he did not perform a physical exam , nor did he order diagnostic tests . He just asked questions , including many that M.D.s would consider irrelevant . He explored Max 's milk craving , his fitful sleep , the bluish tint in the whites of his eyes and his restlessness , intensity , sweetness , stubbornness and perfectionism . Then , using reference books , he looked for substances that produce the same effects in healthy people . This is the fundamental principle of homeopathy , the Law of Similars . It 's the idea that illness can be cured by substances-plant , animal or mineral-that evoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided to give Max Carcinosin , a treatment made from-of all things-an infinitesimal amount of human cancer tissue . " There are two types of homeopathic remedies , " Melnychuk explains . " Some treat symptoms ; For example , arnica works well for muscle strains . Then there are " constitutional " remedies , ones that have to be matched to the patient 's personality . Max seemed to fit the Carcinosin profile , which includes symptoms of perfectionism , restlessness , sleep difficulties and milk cravings . " However , Melnychuk cautions , not every autistic child should receive Carcinosin . " You have to tailor the remedy to the patient 's unique traits . " Lansky mixed a little Carcinosin in water and gave Max a teaspoon each morning . Within two days , she noticed subtle changes : " Max 's speech improved , and he seemed more socially aware . " In the next two months the trend toward improvement continued . Maybe It 's Doing Nothing Homeopathy developed during the late 18th century , a time when physicians knew little about disease . They treated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such treatments were called " heroic measures , " but the heroism was entirely on the part of patients , many of whom suffered more from these interventions than from their illnesses . One 18th-century German doctor , Samuel Hahnemann , became so disgusted with heroic medicine that he closed his practice . But Hahnemann did not exactly reject conventional medicine . he was impressed with cinchona , the South American tree bark that was the first effective treatment for malaria . In 1790 , Hahnemann ingested cinchona and became cold , achy , anxious and thirsty-all symptoms of malaria . That experience led him to postulate his Law of Similars . Hahnemann tested hundreds of substances on himself-plants , animal parts and chemical compounds , including salt , zinc , gold and marigold flowers-cataloging their effects . Eventually , he reopened his practice but prescribed only homeopathic medicines . Homeopathy was controversial from the outset because of Hahnemann 's other postulate , the Law of Potentization , which holds that homeopathic medicines grow stronger as they became more dilute . Critics howl at the law . Homeopathy is " absurd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medicine at Stanford University . " It is bankrupt in theory and practice . " " There is no basis for believing that homeopathy has any effect , " says Robert Baratz , president of the National Council Against Health Fraud , in Peabody , Massachusetts . " Homeopathy is a magnet for untrustworthy practitioners who pose a threat to public safety . It 's quackery . " Maybe homeopathy involves treatment with nothing . If true , it 's still an improvement over 18th-century heroic medicine-even if patients get little more than water . By the late 19th century , conventional medicine had moved away from heroic measures . As they disappeared , the medical opposition led by homeopaths lost steam . The discovery of antibiotics and other modern drugs further strengthened conventional medicine at homeopathy 's expense . While homeopathy remained popular in Europe , there were fewer than 100 homeopaths in the U.S. by the early 1970s . Critics dismissed homeopathic treatment as placebo . Strange Power Placebos have no direct impact on the body . But when given to treat almost any illness-from colds to serious conditions-about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as they do because of the mind 's ability to affect the body , " says Brown University psychiatrist Walter Brown . Many studies have shown that when a doctor offers any treatment , people expect it will help , and that expectation itself can aid healing . Also , through a mind-body mechanism not entirely understood , placebos trigger the release of endorphins , the body 's mood-elevating , pain-relieving compounds . " Improvement in patients receiving homeopathy is simply a placebo effect , " Sampson says . But studies consistently yield conflicting reports . British researchers are divided as to the power of arnica , often prescribed by homeopaths for musculoskeletal pain . Patients who received arnica after wrist surgery for carpal tunnel syndrome reported significantly less pain than did those in a placebo group ; yet patients with other joint conditions had no such luck ( among 58 rheumatoid arthritis sufferers , the placebo group reported significantly greater pain relief ) . In 1991 , Dutch epidemiologists analyzed 105 studies of homeopathic treatment from 1966 to 1990 , most from French and German medical journals . Eighty-one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dutch researchers to conclude that " the evidence is to a large extent positive . It would probably be sufficient for establishing homeopathy as treatment for certain conditions . " A 1997 German analysis of 89 studies agreed that homeopathy is often significantly more beneficial than the use of placebos . Photograph // Preferring Alternatives Ambiguous as the evidence is , in recent years homeopathy has enjoyed renewed popularity in the U.S. , coinciding with Americans ' ambivalence about mainstream medicine . One-half to two-thirds , of Americans have used alternative therapies , and Americans visit alternative practitioners more often than they visit conventional practitioners-some 600 million consultations a year . They now spend $30 billion a year on alternative therapies , according to a recent report in Newsweek , and have as much confidence in alternative practitioners as they do in M.D.s , according to a study in the journal Annals of Internal Medicine . Americans have not lost confidence in physicians-they 've just expanded their view of what 's medically helpful , believing that the combination of mainstream and alternative medicine will provide the best results . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of eight books on the subject , " is part of the groundswell of interest Americans have shown for all the alternative therapies . People are not satisfied with conventional medicine . " Homeopathy is not the only alternative therapy conventional medicine ca n't fully explain . The energy pathways deemed fundamental to acupuncture do n't correspond to any known structures in the body but a 1998 National Institutes of Health report concluded , " The data in support of acupuncture are as strong as those for many accepted Western medical therapies . " Nonetheless , homeopathy is nowhere near as accepted as acupuncture . The latest Harvard report on Americans ' use of alternative therapies shows that homeopathy accounts for less than 0.5 percent of alternative-visits . Recently , University of Maryland researchers surveyed coverage for alternative therapies by six major managed-care plans-five covered chiropractic , four covered acupuncture , none covered homeopathy . " Homeopathy , " Ullman says , " is the Rodney Dangerfield of alternative therapies : It gets no respect . " Impossible Cure Amy Lansky did n't care that homeopathy is one of America 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treatment , Max was a different child : talkative , active , sociable and popular . Under Melnychuk 's guidance , Lansky gradually decreased his dose of Carcinosin , eventually discontinuing it . Max continued to improve . By age five , he was virtually indistinguishable from any other kid . " He now sees Melnychuk maybe twice a year , " says Lansky . " As far as I 'm concerned , he 's cured . " Max 's experience led Lansky to quit her job and study homeopathy full-time . Last fall , she hung out a shingle . " As a scientist , " she explains , " I recognize that homeopathy is implausible . But I 've seen it cure my son . " LEARN MORE ABOUT IT Impossible Cure:The Promise of Homeopathy Amy Lansky ( RL Ranch Press , 2003 ) Homeopathic Educational Services ( 510 ) 649-0294 www.riomeopathic.com National Council Against Health Fraud ( 978 ) 532-9383 www.ncahf.org Sidebar HOMEOPATHY IS ONE OF MANY ALTERNATIVES THERAPIES GAINING MOMENTUM . TO COMBAT CONDITIONS AND DISEASES SUCH AS STRESS , HIGH COLESTEROL AND OSTEOPOROSIS , A GOOD @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DIET AND EXERCISE . HERE , AND IN THE FOLLOWING PAGES , PT INCLUDES A FEW WELL-USED REMEDIES . JUST RELAX : Tai chi , qigong , yoga and prayer all reduce stress , says Herbert Benson , a professor at Harvard Medical School and director of the Mind-Body Medical Institute in Cambridge , Massachusetts . A stressful situation prompts the body to produce the hormones adrenaline and noradrenaline.This increases metabolism , blood pressure , pulse and breathing rates and can quadruple blood flow . The stress-induced fight-or-flight response can be countered with relaxation , which triggers the release of nitric oxide and interrupts the synthesis of noradrenaline.To use a relaxation technique , eliminate all distractions , repeat a word , sound , prayer or movement and try to clear your mind of thoughts . Photograph Sidebar A CUPA DAY : Drinking tea regularly can help ward off bacterial infection , says jack Bukowski of Harvard Medical School.Teas that are produced from a tea bush-black , green and oolong-contain substances called alkylamines , which stimulate white blood cells to fight infection . In a preliminary study , Bukowski found that white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to six cups a day destroyed bacteria in culture three to five times more effectively than white blood cells taken from a control group of non-tea-drinkers . Tea is n't a cure , he says , " but it 's an effective first line of defense . " Because the same white-blood-cell mechanism fights cancer , he is also researching the effects of tea on tumors . Sidebar " Homeopathy is the Rodney Dangerfield of alternative Photograph Sidebar THE FLINTSTONE DIET : Many people suffer from high cholesterol because the modern-day , Western diet defies our evolutionary makeup , according to David Jenkins , a professor at the University of Toronto 's Department of Nutritional Science . " We have stone-age bodies in the fast lane , " he says . " Our genes are far older than the lifestyle we 've adopted . " To test his hypothesis , Jenkins conducted a study in which he replicated a five-million-year-old Miocene diet-what early humans might have eaten before the discovery of fire and the practice of hunting . Heavy in leafy vegetables , fruits , nuts , cabbage and eggplant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do statin drugs . Sidebar " Homeopathy is bankrupt in theory and practice " Sidebar Hot FLASHiThe root of the black cohosh , used by Native Americans to treat ailments as varied as arthritis and snake bites , shows promise as a remedy for menopausal symptoms . A series of German studies conducted from 1982 to 1991 consistently showed that it reduces hot flashes , dryness and fatigue . A report by the National Institutes of Health described this preliminary evidence as encouraging . And other reports , including one from the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists , say the plant , a relative of buttercups , may be helpful in treating menopausal symptoms . Black cohosh , though , is not recommended for women with breast cancer-it may have dangerous cross-effects with chemotherapy drugs and it may also encourage tumors to metastasize . Sidebar BARE BONES : In addition to an adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D , exercise is a key com- 3 ponent in preventing osteoporosis . A proper exercise routine will improve balance and therefore minimize the risk of falling , Exercise also makes bones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Connecticut Center for Osteoporosis . " A bone that is n't subject to impact shrinks " he says . Weight lifting and resistance training , on the other hand , mate bones stronger Walking , jogging , tennis and soccer improve bone health , while hiking and swimming do not , according to the National Osteoporosis Foundation . : The benefits from exercise last only as long as the person keeps working out . If regular impact J stops , Raisz says , bones soon begin to shed the density they gained . Author Affiliation Son Francisco-based writer Michael Castleman is the author of 12 consumer health books , including Nature 's Cures ( Rodale Press , 1995 ) . Sidebars written by Jeff Grossman . // <p>                     