@@410854

What happens within my computer when it locks up or crashes ? And why do some operating systems seem inherently more stable than others ? TONY ROSE Iqaluit , Nunavut , Canada All computers lock up or crash , and no operating system is immune ( as a matter of fact , we crashed once as we wrote this answer ) , but singling out specific reasons oversimplifies the issue , explains Daniel Jackson , a computer science professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . The underlying cause , Jackson says , is that hardware and software developers are trying to bring products to market in " Internet time "  --  that is , hyperfast . The result : Quality and reliability suffer . Consider an operating system . These enormous programs are written by hundreds of programmers and contain millions of lines of code . Bringing the work of so many people together is daunting , and the end result is rarely perfect . To find the software glitches , developers hire testers when the program is nearly complete . When problems are found , patches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to correct them . They indeed stop the crashes , but the original code is never deleted . Also , Jackson says , " testing does n't emphasize design-level flaws . " There are three main sources of crashes : applications , device drivers , and operating systems . The vast majority are caused by the first two . An application often fails when it tries to access or modify another program 's memory ; if , for example , Microsoft Word began using the memory space reserved for Microsoft Excel . This scenario is akin to a chess game in which one player starts moving the other player 's pieces  --  once the other player or a judge notices , it 's " game over . " The failure of a word processing or browser program theoretically should n't cause the entire computer to crash , but often does . That 's because the operating system is like the aforementioned judge . It notices one application modifying another application and blows the whistle because it can no longer vouch for the integrity of the computer . Different operating systems respond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Windows , for example , respond with the " blue screen of death . " More robust operating systems , such as Windows XP and Linux , build virtual walls around each application , so that even if one program does not perform as intended , it can not disrupt other programs or cause the entire computer to freeze . Device drivers are programs that allow the operating system to communicate with the computer 's hardware . Bugs are often discovered after a product is released , and it 's common for manufacturers to release updated drivers years after a piece of hardware was introduced . Newer applications ( image-editing programs come to mind ) usually require the most up-to-date driver . To help eliminate driver-inspired freezes , Windows XP  --  which Microsoft asserts is 10 times more reliable than older versions  --  automatically checks the status of drivers . Drivers for older computers can be found at the manufacturers ' Web sites . Your operating system rarely causes a crash directly , but there are several ways it might . It could , for example , misplace a program in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the memory , it soon becomes unstable . Operating-system bugs can also be exacerbated by hardware and software add-ons . I found a strange stone on Toronto 's Woodbine Beach that looks like it contains fossils . How could such a stone have been formed ? WILLIAM XUAN Toronto , Ontario , Canada Indeed , several fossils are visible on the surface of the rock you found . We forwarded pictures of it ( one of which is at right ) to Laurel Bybell of the United States Geological Survey . Bybell and several of her colleagues theorize that the rock was formed more than 260 million years ago during the Paleozoic Era . That might make it an old-timer at Woodbine Beach , but it 's not all that ancient in geologic time . The Geological Survey scientists concluded that the exposed fossils were most likely crinoids , also known as sea lilies . These creatures , which are related to starfish and sea urchins , are flower-shaped animals that live at the bottom of the ocean and filter their food from the surrounding water . They nearly became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their fossils are fairly common among the rocks that were formed then . Your rock is classified as sedimentary , which means it was formed from particles of older rocks that were broken apart by wind or water . Sedimentary rock accumulates at Earth 's surface , when dust or mud settles in layers and hardens . According to Bybell , this process , which occurs over millions of years , is still taking place around the globe . Does aspirin really prevent heart attacks ? If so , how ? DENNIS HORTON Cutchogue , N.Y . A daily dose of the household analgesic could indeed save your life . In addition to easing inflammation , fever , and pain , aspirin taken regularly reduces the risk of heart attack in people with heart disease . ( Heart disease remains the number one killer of both men and women , according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . ) In addition , recent research based on data from five major trials suggests that aspirin can reduce the risk of heart attack and sudden cardiac death by 28 percent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The research first appeared in the Annals of Internal Medicine , on Jan. 15 , 2002 . The researchers also found , however , that aspirin 's anticlotting properties increased the occurrence of stroke from hemorrhages and gastrointestinal bleeding . Aspirin can also induce stomach irritation , allergic reactions , and the bruising of internal organs . Aspirin blocks an enzyme needed to activate small blood cells called platelets . This action prevents the platelets from sticking together and forming clots , which can block blood flow , thereby causing a heart attack . Scientists also believe that by reducing the inflammation in damaged artery walls , aspirin helps hinder the buildup of the dangerous fatty substance called plaque . Researchers recommend consulting your physician to make sure that the benefits of taking aspirin daily outweigh the risks . PUZZLE MAKING THE CUT THE RULES At a birthday party , three cakes are cut in straight lines to give each of 34 children a single slice . If the slices do not have to be the same size , what is the minimum number of cuts required ? Each cake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the above problem , some of the slices are larger than others  --  a few children might feel cheated . A second version of the problem requires identical slices . How many cuts would then be needed ? This puzzle , says its creator , Ivan Moscovich , author of 1,000 Playthinks , is a simple example of a branch of mathematics called combinational geometry , which features a fascinating interplay between numbers and shapes . THE SOLUTIONS The minimum cuts required to produce 7 ( above ) , 11 , and 16 slices in the 3 cakes are 3 , 4 , and 5 , for a total of 12 cuts and 34 pieces . Each new cut must traverse all the lines already cut , and at least some must avoid the center of the cake . This can be considered the minimal " best " solution , but there are other solutions that could make greater use of more conventional cuts  --  where all cuts pass through a single point . For example , the cakes could be cut by 2 conventional , 4 conventional , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 22 slices . For identical slices , each cake must be cut 6 times , into 12 slices each . " That leaves two extra slices , one for you and one for me , " says Moscovich . Illustration <p>                     