@@411873

The favored characteristics of brickrugged texture , wearability , and rich color tones-are ideal for capturing a well-worn quality in interior design . Skip Tuminello , an architect from Vicksburg , Mississippi , has made a career of restoring historic houses and designing new ones with the same character and attitude . He uses brick regularly inside and knew it was a practical solution for clients in Morgan City , Mississippi . Dotty and Fred Poindexter 's previous home had been destroyed by a tornado . " We had no choice but to build . This area is our home , " says Dotty , referring to the Mississippi Delta farmland their family has owned for generations . They knew Skip would savor using surviving remnants of their former house , and he would look for new pieces that offer an aged aesthetic . They used the hardwood floors that survived the tornado to complete many of the rooms . The study , however , required something else . " We just did n't have enough of the wood left , so we needed another material , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a brick floor , sharing his love for its appearance . " We installed it the old-fashioned way , " says Skip . " Placing the bricks in sand , or in this case over heavy felt , so the floor gives when the house shifts . " Sand was swept over the surface , and then the entire floor was finished with a sealer . The bricks complement the room 's cypress bookcases , paneling , and the French doors leading to the adjacent bedroom . The rich mix of color , salvaged materials , and a new floor made to look old results in a room that feels lived in . " Between the family antiques and salvaged pieces of the old house , they really have seen some years . Only now they 're under a new roof , " says Dotty in her soft Delta accent . Sarah Jernigan OLD-FASHIONED BRICK FLOORS The procedure Skip recommends for brick floors is not difficult . In fact , he assures that it would be a relatively easy do-it-yourself project . Here are some suggestions regarding the tools and process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is placed over the subfloor . " I generally work with a joist system , but the same technique may be used with a slab ; ' Skip explains . In this case , the roofing felt he recommends was placed directly on the concrete ( see sketch on page 123 ) . Butt the ends together rather than allowing them to overlap . This keeps the bottom layer completely level . Additional waterproof material is not needed if good felt is used . The brick should be a smooth , precise type that links together well . " I like a herringbone pattern because it is relatively simple to do , plus it hides a lot of imperfections , " Skip says . Work with a solid brick because payers are too thin . Adjust foundation height so it accommodates the brick while remaining flush with any adjacent floor material . // <p>                     