@@413642

Winter storage : two of the most melancholy words in the English language . As you read this , my boat , Dream Job , is up on the hard in Connecticut 's Norwalk Cove Marina , snug in its shrink-wrap sheets , awaiting a blanket of soft , white snow . I 'm in my office , longing for April , but also looking back with satisfaction at the past boating season . Despite an unusually stormy spring that kept boaters in the Northeast at the dock until the end of June , my husband , Gary , and I put more than 80 hours on our new boat 's engines . We took several long weekend cruises and countless shorter trips across the Sound to Long Island . On soft summer evenings , we tied up in a nearby cove to watch the sun set . If work had n't gotten in the way , we would have done even more cruising . But do n't feel sorry for me , since my work entailed cruising in other fun places instead , such as the Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bahamas ( " Island Girl , " August ) . The rest of Motor Boating 's writers and editors also traveled far and wide , testing boats in Europe and across America from sea to shining sea . And we had adventures : Sportfishing expert Capt . Dave Lear found hot sailfish action in Costa Rica ( " Sweet Sails , " August ) ; Managing Editor Capt . John Wooldridge crewed on the U.S. Coast Guard tall ship Eagle from New England to Bermuda ( " Training Days , " September ) ; and Deputy Managing Editor Brad Kovach rode a Glacier Bay 34 from San Diego to Cabo San Lucas ( " Baja or Bust , " October ) . But it was contributing writer George Sass , Sr. 's yearlong , 6,000-nautical mile Great Circle Route voyage , which he chronicled in Motor Boating ( March , June and September ) , that really captured your imagination . " We seem to offer inspiration to the many readers of Motor Boating , " he said . " It seems that we are living many people 's dreams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ using a boat such as ours for what it is intended  --  long-distance cruising . " Look for Sass ' last installment , in which he assesses how his family , boat and onboard equipment held up during the trip , on page 47 . As George reflects on his epic voyage , I 'm also looking back on Motor Boating 's progress through 2003 . I 'm happy to report that the magazine won several awards this year , including two from Boating Writers International honoring stories by contributing writers Capt . Stuart Reininger and Dag Pike . We also won four American Graphic Design Awards for layouts designed by Art Director Erin Kenney , including the striking cover of the February issue . And we pulled far ahead of our competition in the number of pages we devoted to authoritative reviews of powerboats in the 20- to 55-foot range in 2003 . Looking ahead , Motor Boating will add 50 more editorial pages in 2004 , allowing our experts to bring you even more hands-on tests of the hot new models . In addition , we plan to increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make your boating experiences safer and more enjoyable . The look and feel of our cover will also improve when we switch to heavier paper , beginning with the January issue . Best of all , we have many more cruising adventures planned . I 'm happy to announce that Motor Boating is co-sponsoring the Nordhavn Atlantic Rally next summer . On May 17 , a fleet of up to 40 long-range cruising boats will set off from Ft . Lauderdale on a 3,800-nautical mile journey across the Atlantic Ocean , with stops at Bermuda and the Azores en route to Gibraltar . I 'll be aboard one of the boats for a leg , and will bring you the details . Sweet dreams of spring . Louisa Rudeen , editor in chief , who keeps her express cruiser near Motor Boating 's offices on Long Island Sound . Illustration <p>                     