@@379099

As George Psaradakis , 49 , drove a No. 30 double-decker red bus through the streets of London last Thursday , there were signs that something was wrong . The city 's traffic  --  never easy  --  was in a state of chaos . Thousands of commuters had left Underground train stations and were milling about the streets looking for alternative ways to get to work . Few of them had any idea of the scale of the devastation below : moments before , three bombs had gone off in the space of a minute on London 's Underground railway . Psaradakis , whose bus was packed , had been forced to divert from the main roads into the leafy squares of Bloomsbury , home to the colleges of the University of London . At 9:47 he stopped his bus in Tavistock Square to get directions . Just then , Lou Stein , an American theater producer who has lived in London for 20 years , heard a tremendous thud from his apartment 100 yards away and ran outside . " It was oddly silent , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tin can that 's just been ripped open . There was smoke everywhere . " When a TIME reporter arrived on the scene about 25 minutes later , he could see smears of blood all over the faade of the British Medical Association headquarters in the square and survivors comforting each other . Psaradakis survived , but at least 13 others died in the blast . Witnesses told of seeing severed limbs and a body with its head blown off . <P> The blast in Tavistock Square was the culmination of the worst attack on London since World War II . Two days after the bombings , the official toll was 49 dead  --  a figure expected to rise  --  and some 700 injured . About 100 were still in hospitals around the capital , 22 listed as " severely injured . " While the initial casualty figures were lower than in some previous attacks , such as the train bombings in Madrid in March 2004 , the shock of the London bombings reverberated because they occurred in circumstances  --  and in a city  --  that are familiar to so many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scenes in the London Underground came from cameras on passengers ' cell phones , the latest innovation in the grim art of terrorism documentary . While rescuers struggled to recover bodies deep in the tunnels , police became enmeshed in the painstaking forensic work that accompanies a scene of mass murder  --  checking out claims that a passenger on the bus had been seen fiddling with a bag , examining the chemical fingerprints of the explosives used , looking at tiny , bloodstained body parts for telltale clues .                     