@@387672

. LETTERS@POPSCI.com . Flight of ImaginationAs an aircraft designer , I thoroughly enjoyed your article on the Marine Corps 's space transport concept " Semper Fly , " January . One critical issue was only lightly covered , however : the ability to safely land in enemy territory . Similar vehicles , such as the space shuttle , require very smooth , miles-long surfaces for landing . Imagine flying into Southeast Asia and trying to find a suitable landing strip , totally free of obstructions , and then committing to a one-shot landing . And all this is happening while being announced to the enemy by a sonic boom.Darold B. CummingsRetired technical fellow , BoeingCoeur d'Alene , Idaho Semper ( Do n't ) FlyI 'm a U.S. Air Force officer with an aerospace engineering background , so I think I have a pretty good perspective on launching Marines around the world in a hypersonic plane . Please , please do not spend another dime on this project ! First , even if the aircraft worked , 13 Marines do n't have nearly enough utility to be worth the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could accomplish this task is far too valuable to risk trying to land in a hostile environment . Third , how could the article gloss over the fact that there 's virtually no way to depart the landing zone after the mission is complete ? Even if the exotic vehicle could take off again without refueling , it would have to overcome all the same access and diplomatic hurdles that it was originally designed to circumvent.Geoffrey F. WeissSouth Riding , Va . Sleep with the FishesThe idea of an underwater hotel is very impressive " 1,200 Square Feet under the Sea , " Jan. , but I recommend that the designers do a little more work on the layout . From what I see in the conceptual pictures , the term " goldfish bowl " comes to mind . Do n't look for a lot of takers for the honeymoon suite.Tom BroszVia e-mail Reinventing the Wheels " The Power of Two " What 's New , Jan. states " A new retrofit kit yields the first motorcycle driven by both wheels . " This may be the first retrofit kit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Rochester , New Hampshire , has been making them for 40 years.Bill BelangerSomersworth , N.H. The Scientific ResolutionMark Jannot , I congratulate you for your resolution to open a nonpolitical discourse on things scientific From the Editor , Jan . . It is too bad that you then turn political in your last paragraph . The veto you decry disallowed federal funding for new lines of embryonic research , which would have meant more killing of human embryos . If you read two articles in the same issue , " Stem Cells Grow Up " " The Year in Science : 2007 " and " Medical Magic without Embryonic Stem Cells " Headlines , you would see that the veto is not as important nor anti-science as you seem to imply . A lot of private money is being invested in the research , and in my opinion , that is as it should be . Federal " science welfare " is not very efficient , and as a taxpayer I want as much efficiency as possible . If you 're able to keep the political out of the debate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future issues.Edward BinderAthol , N.Y . BOX HOW TO CONTACT USAddress:2 Park Ave. , 9th Floor New York , NY 10016Fax : 212-779-5108 LETTERSComments may be edited for length and clarity . Please include your address and a daytime phone number . We regret that we can not answer unpublished letters.E-mail : letters@popsci.com POPULAR SCIENCE ONLINECheck out our Web site at popsci.com . QUESTIONS FOR FYIWe answer your science questions in our FYI section . We regret that only letters considered for publication can be answered.E-mail FYI questions to fyi@popsci.com . NEW SUBSCRIPTIONSTo subscribe to POPULAR SCIENCE , please contact:Phone : 800-289-9399Web : popsci.com/subscribe SUBSCRIPTION INQUIRIESFor subscription or delivery problems , or to report a change of address , contact:POPULAR SCIENCEP.O . Box 60001Tampa , FL 33660-0001Phone : 800-289-9399Web : popsci.com/manage INTERNATIONAL EDITIONSFor inquiries regarding international licensing or syndication , please **30;5572;TOOLONG . PULLQUOTE " THIRTEEN MARINES DO N'T HAVE THE UTILITY TO BE WORTH THE COST OF THE MISSION . " Illustration PHOTO <p>                     