@@377876

The locals of Hama Village know what to do with a fat , smelly truffle . For centuries , if the village pigs in this remote corner of China 's Yunnan province were acting a little less amorous than normal , the farmers fed a shovelful of truffles to the creatures in order to guarantee a future litter of piglets . Then , a few years ago , a strange tale wended its way through this hamlet , so disconnected from modern China that Cultural Revolution slogans from three decades ago are still inscribed on the village 's mud-brick walls : foreigners , for some mysterious reason , were willing to pay exorbitant prices for what the locals dismissively call " pig snout " fungi . " When we first asked the people in the countryside whether they had any truffles , they were shocked we wanted to buy them , " recalls Wu Jianming , chairman of Kunming Rare Truffle Co. , the province 's largest truffle exporter . " An hour later , they brought us a whole bagful and still could n't believe that foreigners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " <P> China is the world 's biggest exporter of fake goods , from pirated DVDs to knock-off Birkin bags . Add truffles to the list . To the naked eye , the Chinese black truffle , or Tuber indicum , looks virtually indistinguishable from its much vaunted European cousin , Tuber melanosporum , a gastronomic delicacy that perks up winter menus with its earthy pungency . One taste , though , clears up any confusion . The Chinese variety is insipid when compared with the one found in France , Italy and Spain . Yet over the past few years , unscrupulous dealers in Europe and the U.S. have begun passing off the Chinese truffles as Umbrian or Prigord black diamonds . The deception has roiled the luxury-food industry , particularly as European harvests have dwindled . Last season , when a heat wave cut the Prigord bounty from the usual 50 tons to 9 , the import of Chinese truffles skyrocketed to an estimated 30 tons , from 20 the year before . This season the U.S. is facing its own Chinese-truffle deluge . A strong euro has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $1,800 per kg wholesale , in the past year , leading some restaurants and gourmet-store owners to substitute Eastern truffles for Prigords . Purists are outraged . " You ca n't compare the two , " sniffs Guy Monier , who sells French truffles for $2,300 per kg at his Paris shop and has seen the Chinese fungus masquerading as the French variety in nearby supermarkets . " The Chinese import is just a flavorless , rubbery black ball . " In Italy it 's illegal to import or sell the Tuber indicum , although that protective barrier may not last . " With Italy in the E.U. , sooner or later the law will be the same for everyone , " says Bruno Urbani , a director of Urbani Tartufi , an Umbria-based firm that is the largest exporter of truffles in the world .                     