@@416715

Scale insects have evolved one bizarre genetic system after another . The author argues that they are caught in a game of cat and mouse with internal , symbiotic bacteria , which has unleashed genetic bedlam. // Bird-of-paradise flies-which are not really flies at all , but members of the sca/e-insect family Margarodidae-are a rarely seen kind of scale insect : mature males . Here are two of them on one enormous female . On reaching adulthood , the typical male scale insect lives just a few days . The genetic system of many margarodids , unlike that of most scale insects , is " conventional " : both mother and father contribute half of their genome to each of their offspring . Female scale insects of the family Ortheziidae have sunk their mouth parts into a leaf , where they will stay , feeding on the plant sap , for much of their sedentary , parasitic lives . The sap gives the insects access to a practically unlimited supply of sugars . If you were in the backyard this summer , watering your lilacs or checking your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plants were afflicted with little bumps on the leaves or bark , coming down with what looks like nothing so much as a case of botanical acne . Many people are surprised the first time they find out that each bump is actually an animal : a scale insect . Many scale insects look more like mollusks or turtles than like beetles or cicadas-the bodies are n't obviously segmented into head , thorax , and abdomen , and the six legs and four wings typical of most insects are nowhere to be seen . Yet those little bumps are indeed insects , related to aphids , whiteflies , and jumping plant lice . All scale insects are parasites of plants , and the insects ' habit of sucking the sap out of plants makes them generally disliked by farmers and gardeners . In a sense , scale insects have taken the parasitic lifestyle to the farthest extreme : the females of some lineages have evolved into legless , eyeless blobs that are permanently attached to their hosts . Even among the most casual keepers of houseplants , most people 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disgust . But if you take the trouble to look beneath the surface , scale insects turn out to be quite fascinating creatures . In particular , the laws of genetics-the rules that describe how the DNA of one generation is passed on to the next-seem to have gone totally haywire as the scale insects have evolved . The group encompasses more weird variations on the laws of genetics than does any other group of animals . But surely , weirdness is in the eye of the beholder . Just because mammals do n't have such varied genetic systems , is that grounds for calling scale insects strange ? Well , consider this : From a genetic point of view , a typical multicellular animal is an assemblage of cells that are nearly all clones , or genetically identical to one another . Yet in most species of scale insects , not all the cells of an individual get the same genes from the insect 's mother . Furthermore , scale-insect fathers vary widely in the genes they contribute ( or , often , do not contribute ) to their sons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asexual reproduction and have no father at all . In other species the males have fathers , but all the chromosomes they get from the fathers are deactivated . In still other species the chromosomes from the fathers are present in some cells but not in others . Much of this is not news . Thanks to the pioneering work of the American geneticist Sally HughesSchrader and others , many of these facts have been known since the 1920s . Only recently , however , has evolutionary theory begun to catch up with those facts , and to describe them with concepts powerful enough to explain the data in a satisfactory way . Only now do biologists have an inkling about what might be causing the apparently staid world of blobby little plant parasites to be convulsed by so many sexual revolutions . It is not readily apparent why scale insects , of all life-forms , should exhibit such a diversity of genetic systems . After all , other , related groups of insects show nothing approaching the same degree of variation in their genetic machinery . Particularly puzzling is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently sabotaged ? Those are unsolved mysteries , but quite recently , suspicion has fallen on some unusual suspects : bacteria . The bacteria in question are not disease organisms ; rather , they live symbiotically with their scale-insect hosts , a relationship that is vital to both organisms . The bacteria derive their very livelihoods from the insects , and the insects in turn depend on their resident bacteria for help surviving on a diet that is conspicuously lacking in protein . Yet despite the aid the bacteria render the insects , the bacteria may still interfere with the insects ' genetics . To understand why , it is helpful to understand something about the lives of scale insects and the bacteria that live inside them . Immature scale insects do not look much like the little bumps on plants that many of them are destined to become . During the first , or " crawler , " stage in the life cycles of scale insects , the animal looks a bit like a small potato bug . The typical crawler , after hatching from its egg , walks a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mouthparts into the plant and becomes immobile . There the insect generally remains through subsequent immature stages , regardless of its sex . The life and form of an adult scale insect , however , depends heavily on its sex . The males are not exceptionally strange-looking insects . Most people would probably mistake them for small flies , such as gnats or midges . Their strangeness becomes apparent only when you look more closely : they have only two wings ( like true flies but unlike almost all other insects ) and simple , rather than compound , eyes , and they always lack functional mouthparts ; grown males never feed . Much more unusual looking are the adult females ; they are the bumps you may have seen on your houseplants . Adult females never have wings , and they often lack legs and eyes as well ; for antennae , many possess only the tiniest nubs . All scale insects feed by sucking up plant juices , and most feed directly on the phloem sap of longlived trees and bushes . Phloem sap is typically rich in sugar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they can use ; they simply defecate the excess . The sugary excrement , called honeydew , is often consumed by ants . Sometimes it is even consumed by people , particularly in arid regions where evaporation of dripping honeydew can leave a solid sugary residue called manna . The manna referred to in the uible , in Exodus 16:14 , seems to have been the dried excrement of Trabutina mannipara , a scale insect that feeds on tamarisk trees . But even thuugh plant sap is rich in sugar , it is poor in other nutrients , particularly amino acids . Partly on the basis of studies of scale insects ' better-known relatives , the aphids , one can infer that the symbiotic bacteria living inside scale insects manufacture essential amino acids lacking in the insects diet . The essential bacteria in scale insects ( and aphids ) live inside the cells of an organ called the bacteriome . ( The location and size of the organ varies , depending on the species of insect . ) Each scale insect inherits the bacteria in its bacteriome from its mother . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cells from the mother 's bacteriome discharge bacteria into the yolk . No scale insect gets bacteria from its father . Thus , the bacteria in the cells of male insects are effectively sterile ; in an evolutionary sense , they are as good as dead . John H. Werren , a biologist at the University of Rochester in New brk , has described how certain insects ' maternally inherited bacteria rebel against the inglorious destiny of winding up in a male see " Invation of the Gender benders February 2003 : they kill the male in which they live . Although that act is suicidal ( the bacteria in the male they kill die along with the insect ) and so might seem gratuitous , it is not pointless . Each bacterium in an embryo is practically identical to the bacteria that populate other individuals in the same insect brood . Moreover , if the goal of each bacterium is to pass its DNA on to future generations of bacteria , what is good for one bacterium is good for the rest . Thus a bacterium 's suicide by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as such a killing helps the bacterium 's kin to prosper . It 's easy to imagine how that circumstance could arise . For example , if female scale insects harboring bacteria were forced to compete with their brothers , the competition could very well be detrimental to the bacteria in the females . But from the perspective of the bacterial genome , the bacteria in the male insects are expendable , since they are guaranteed never to reproduce . Their suicidal killing of the males , though , gives the female insects ( and their bacteria ) freer run of available resources . That cold calculation holds particularly true among scale insects , partly because their host plants live so long , and partly because the insects move around so little . There is plenty of time in the life span of a longlived plant for the insects that live on it to produce enormous extended families . Moreover , the females ' sedentary nature keeps close kin , and their closely related bacteria , ou a single host plant . Insects in such close proximity are particularly likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the genes of their resident bacteria are so similar that the common bacterial genome is particularly likely to benefit if male insects are killed . Thus one might expect a kind of struggle between scale insects and their bacteria . On the one hand , the scale insects are under pressure to keep their sons alive . On the other hand , the bacteria can benefit by killing males and only males . ( Killing a female host insect is decidedly against the interests of the bacteria , since they can not spread beyond their host except through her egg cells . ) For the bacteria to kill males and not females , they must be able to distinguish male from female hosts , and it is possible they detect the sex of their host by interacting with their host 's chromosomes . ( Males often have a deactivated set of chromosomes or otherwise differ genetically from the females . ) How could this struggle escalate ? One way is that the scale insects might " fool " the bacteria into not killing males by keeping the bacteria inside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the host insect . Remarkably , that is exactly what many scale insects have evolved to do . To understand how a scale insect might pull off that bit of legerdemain , it is helpful to start with some of the most ancient groups of scale insects . Their genetic characteristics are the most similar , among the scale insects living today , to those of the superfamily 's long-dead ancestors . Each cell in each insect has a full set of functional chromosomes , one set from its father and one set from its mother . Such groups include the scale-insect fami lies Ortheziidae and Phenacoleachiidae , and many branches of the family Margarodidae ( but not all branches ; even within families , the scale insects have more genetic systems than I have space to discuss ) . Many ortheziids , as they are known , live in soil or leaf litter and feed on fungi , lichens , mosses , and plant roots . Margarodids comprise a diverse group , found on all parts of plants ; the family includes the largest and most striking scale insects , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left on page 38 . The phenacoleachiids comprise a " living fossil " group ; today only two species exist , and they occur on the South Island of New Zealand and on adjacent islands . All three families include scale insects that are relatively " normal " insects-not very normal ; they are scale insects , after all . But they have more in common with other insects than most scale insects do . Adult females have functional legs and eyes . The sex chromosomes are distributed in a reasonably ordinary way : as in aphids , males have one sex chromosome and females have two . And the entire insect has the same genome in every cell , including the cells of the insect 's bacteriome . But genetic simplicity is rare for the scale insects . Consider the family Putoidae . Putoids typically occur on the foliage or roots of woody plants in the southwestern United States . They , like their ancient relatives , look fairly " primitive " : adult females retain their eyes and legs , and they can walk . Putoids also have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two for females . Yet according to the German biologist Paul Buchner , a microscopist and pioneer in the study of symbiosis , putoid bacteriomes are deeply strange . The putoids , unlike other scale insects , are apparently not content to simply insert bacteria from the mother 's bacteriome cells into the yolk of the fertilized egg . Instead , when the essential but potentially troublesome bacteria move from the mother putoid to her offspring , entire cells from the mother 's bacteriome move with them , taking up residence to form the bacteriome of the embryo . It is hard to overstate how weird that process seems to a geneticist . ( It is so weird , in fact , that some biologists think Buchner must have gotten it wrong . ) For the most part , we animals grow our own organs . Each of my organs is genetically " me . " Putoids are the only animals I know of that appear to import one of their organs and then pass it down from mother to offspring much the way people pass along the family china or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give rise to gametes-is the only cell line that is , potentially , immortal : the only cell line inherited by offspring . But in putoids the cells of the bacteriome are equally immortal , yet they are independent of the germ line and not even closely related to it . Biologists still do not really know what originally led to the evolution of such a wholesale migration of maternal cells ( though those cells might play a role in provisioning the embryo ) . But one effect of the migration is that bacteriome cells in males are genetically identical to the bacteriome cells in their sisters . That may make it hard for the bacteria to identify the sex of their host insectand thus too risky to their own genetic well-being to kill their hosts at all . Two other families of scale insects form their bacteriomes in bizarre ways . One is the family Pseudococcidae , another ancient , primitivelooking group whose females retain their legs . Pseudococcids are commonly known as mealybugs , a name referring to a coating of fine wax on their bodies that makes them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The other family with extraordinary bacteriomes is Diaspididae , the armored scale insects . Whereas mealybugs retain many of their ancestral characteristics-like legsthe armored scales lie at the opposite extreme in the morphological evolution of scale insects . Adult female armored scales lack legs and eyes , and they barely have antennae . Taken together , the mealybug and armored-scale families encompass more than 4,300 species , some 60 percent of all scaleinsect species . Yet despite their clearly visible differences , the two families have each evolved , apparently quite independently , similar yet highly exotic systems of bacteriome development . Most animal cells , including the cells of the germ line , have two copies of each chromosome : one from the animal 's mother , the other from the father . Egg and sperm cells , though , which are derived from germ-line cells , each have only one copy of each chromosome . In particular , to make an egg cell , a female animal must throw away one copy of each chromosome . That is accomplished , among other things , during a process called meiosis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the germ-line cell , followed by two divisions of the nucleus . Thus , one nucleus with two copies of each chromosome first gives rise to a nucleus with four copies of the chromosome . Then that nucleus splits into two nuclei , each with two copies of each chromosome ; those nuclei in turn split into four nuclei , each with one copy of each chromosome . One of those four becomes the egg nucleus ; the other three are called polar bodies . In most organisms , the polar bodies are simply destroyed ; only in a few cases do they avoid destruction . One such case is prominent and important : the nutritive tissue packaged into the seeds of flowering plants contains polar-body genomes . But even in that case , the polar bodies do n't wind up in the embryo of the plant . The only case for which polar bodies from the mother are actually incorporated into the body of her offspring occurs in scale insects . And where the polar-body genomes wind up is , as you might have guessed , the bacteriome . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three polar bodies , the three fuse into a single nucleus ; that nucleus thereby contains three full copies of the mothers genome , the three " extras " left over from meiosis . The nucleus is engulfed by the developing embryo , and then fuses with a cell from the embryo to form a cell with five copies of each chromosome . That cell proliferates to form the bacteriome see illustration on page 41 . No one really knows why polar bodies survive destruction in those scale insects , why they fuse with a cell from the embryo , or why they then form the bacteriome . But one consequence is that the genomes of bacteriome cells of males are identical to those of their sisters . The participation of polar bodies in forming the bacteriome , like the inheritance of the maternal bacteriome in putoids , would seem to make it hard for the bacteria to selectively kill males . Bacteriome formation is probably the strangest aspect of scale-insect genetics , and the one in which bacteria are most obviously involved . But a close runner-up for strangeness is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is originally endowed with two sets of chromosomes , but the ones from his father typically form an inactive clump in every cell . They never direct the synthesis of proteins , and they are discarded from the germ line when sperm are made . Hence each sperm a male produces has exactly the same genome-the genes he got from his mother . That , of course , is in marked contrast with most male organisms , including men , who each produce a diversity of genetically unique sperm . It also differs sharply from the genetics of the female scale , which has an active paternal genome and apparently produces genetically diverse eggs . In some species of armored scale insects , the father 's genes are not merely deactivated ; rather , they are completely eliminated from cells early in embryonic development . In a few scale insect groups the father 's genes have become reactivated , and there is one tissue in most scale insect speciesthose unusual bacteriomes of mealybugs and armored scale insects-that retains active paternal genes , though even there they are greatly outnumbered by maternal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the deactivation or destruction of the paternal genome could ever have arisen , since the first males to completely lack a paternal genome probably did not survive . But the recent focus on the bacterial genome gives a possible answer to the puzzle . Symbiotic bacteria had both the motive and the opportunity to destroy the paternal genome in males , particularly if they could thereby kill the male . But the destruction of paternal genomes in sons could also be a phenomenon that the females have turned to their own advantage . In most genetic systems , such as the mammalian one , a typical male endows his offspring , on average , with half the genes he received from his mother and half the genes he received from his father . In contrast , a male armored scale or mealybug that manages to survive the depredations of the bacteria is twice as efficient as the typical mammalian male at transmitting his mother 's genes . After all , the male scale insect 's cells have basically jettisoned the genes the male received from his father . Thus the destruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of male-killing by bacteria . But over evolutionary time it may have been co-opted by females as a way to spread their own genes at the expense of the genes of their mates . The ongoing partnership between scale insects and their bacteria is evidently a stormy one . Their conflict and its shifting tactics could well be what drive the dynamic evolution of the scale insects ' genetic systems . But no one knows for sure . To find out , new generations of naturalists will need to explore the field , people who are subtle enough to resist the allure of prettier creatures and delve into the deep enigmas that are scale insects . Sidebar Female putoid scale insect depends , as do other scale insects , on symbiotic bacteria for nutritional aid . In putoids , the bacteriome cells , where the bacteria reside , appear to be passed down intact from mothers to offspring . That may make it more difficult for the bacteria to develop a male-killing habit , because they are always insulated from genetically male tissues and so may be unable to distinguish between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armored scale insects and mealybugs ( a ) host bacteria within the cells of an organ called the bacteriome . A male produces sperm ( b ) that carries only his mother 's genome ; a female produces an egg and three polar bodies ( c ) with a mixture of chromosomes from both her parents . The union of DNA from both egg and sperm form a zygotic nucleus within the egg cell , constituting a new genetic individual ; the egg in these two groups of scale insects also hosts symbiotic bacteria in the yolk . The chromosomes from both sperm and egg in each new individual are " imprinted " as paternal ( blue ) or maternal ( pink ) in source ( d ) . As the nucleus begins to divide and the embryo grows ( e ) , the three polar bodies fuse with each other and then fuse with one of the cells of the embryo ( f ) . The resulting cell has four copies of the maternal chromosome and one copy of the chromosome of the paternal grandmother . That cell becomes the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ g ) , to which the bacteria from the egg yolk then migrate . Sidebar Sex ( or the lack of it ) among scale insects gives rise to a bewildering variety of systems of genetic inheritance . Four of them are detailed at right , based on the same scheme as in the diagram on the preceding page . Parthenogenesis , or the virgin birth of females , takes several forms , but in automixis , the form pictured here , the female egg fuses with a polar body instead of with a sperm . In diplodiploidy , which is also the human genetic system , both the mother and the father contribute one copy of each of their chromosomes to each offspring , which can be either male or female . In paternal genome elimination , the most common method of genetic inheritance in scale insects , the male can pass along only those genes he received from his mother . In arrhenotoky , the male develops from unfertilized eggs . Those males mate with females , and every egg that gets fertilized develops into a female . Sidebar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they do a remarkable imitation of a cluster of arboreal turtles . Many soft-scale species engage in paternal genome elimination : the genome of the father is disabled or eliminated in male progeny . Some species have done away with males altogether . Black thread scales , here shown infesting a leaf , are members of the armored scale family . Although many armored scales reproduce sexually by paternal genome elimination , black thread scales have eliminated fathers-in fact , all males-completely . Sidebar Female margarodid scale insect // <p>                     