@@401314

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY // One of New York City 's grandest spaces , the Museum 's beloved Hall of Ocean Life , reopens this May after a major renovation , its first in over 30 years . Current scientific research and cutting-edge exhibition technology have been combined with the restored Beaux-Arts elegance . The 29,000-square  --  foot hall is still dominated by the famous blue whale , one of the Museum 's star attractions , which now floats in a " virtual ocean " created through dramatic lighting , video , and sound effects that include whale songs . The 94-foot female  --  the largest model of the largest animal on Earth-has been modified to reflect current scientific knowledge of living blue whales . Above the whale , skylights gently illuminated by shimmering blue lights contribute to the illusion of being submerged in the depths of the sea . Exhibition designers have fabricated over 600 new models , ranging from tiny green bubble algae to a 14  --  foot-long whale shark to computerized bioluminescent fishes and invertebrates . Joining the renovated ocean dioramas created in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of video combining high-definition footage of undersea life , animations , graphics , and an evocative soundtrack that will transport visitors further into the heart of the ocean realm . The classic dioramas on the lower level have been cleaned and restored , with new lighting brightening areas formerly obscured . In some cases , new backgrounds have been painted from sketches made in the field by exhibition staff . New exhibit text reflects the latest information about the elephant seals on Guadalupe Island , a school of leaping dolphins , and northern sea lions from Alaska 's Pribiloff Island , to name just a few . In particular , the spectacular Andros Coral Reef diorama , the only two-level diorama in North America , underwent a complete overhaul to enhance its visibility . The diorama " s upper level , covered for the last 30 years , depicts life above the coral reef . It has been opened for display , repaired and restored , and now offers visitors a breathtaking complete view of the coral reef system below the ocean level and above , a perspective not possible in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new exhibits on the major ocean ecosystems , including estuaries , mangrove forests , the polar seas , continental shelves , coral reefs , kelp forests , the deep water column , and the deep-sea floor . High  --  definition video of the ecosystems shot on location around the world combines with explanatory text and newly hand  --  crafted models alongside historical models to depict the tremendous diversity of the Earth 's seas and the life therein . Two new " Spectrum of Life " walls flank the entrance to the hall . They reinforce the idea that all life is connected through an intricate web of evolutionary and ecological relationships . One wall depicts vertebrate life including fishes , reptiles , and amphibians ( and even a human ) , while the other showcases a profusion of invertebrates and plants . Interactive computer stations in front of each wall provide details about the biology and taxonomy of the organisms represented on the wall , as well as information about their " place " in the ocean . Three of the Museum 's classic dioramas depicting life in the oceans of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 70 million years ago-have been meticulously restored to highlight the history of life in the primordial oceans . The exhibit features an ancient seafloor slab from the Jurassic Period containing the fossilized remains of a horseshoe crab and the tracks of its last journey . Special panels will showcase several fossil specimens , including cyanobacteria , the first-known life form to emerge in the sea 3.5 billion years ago . Life on Earth emerged in the oceans and much of it stayed there-scientists estimate that 80 percent of all living organisms may live under water . Over 70 percent of the Earth is covered with water and yet very little is known about the complexity and diversity of life in the oceans . What is known , however , is that the oceans play a vital role in supporting life on Earth . The aim of the renovation of the Milstein Family Hall of Ocean Life is to open a window onto the spectacular ocean ecosystems , to bring current scientific knowledge about the oceans to the public , and to reveal the mysteries and diversity of this , Earth 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was designed , developed , and produced by the Museum 's Exhibition Department . The lead curator is Melanie L. J. Stiassny , Axelrod Research Curator , Division of Vertebrate Zoology , working with a team of co  --  curators including Mark Siddall , Associate Curator , Division of Invertebrate Zoology ; Paula M. Mikkelsen , Assistant Curator , Division of Invertebrate Zoology ; Neil H. Landman , Curator , Division of Paleontology ; and Robert S. Voss , Associate Curator , Division of Vertebrate Zoology . Sidebar A project of this magnitude would not have been possible without an extraordinary public  --  private partnership . The American Museum of Natural History wishes to acknowledge the following donors for enabling us to undertake the magnificent restoration and rejuvenation of the Milstein Family Hall of Ocean Life . We are enormously grateful to lead benefactors Irma and Paul Milstein , long-standing friends and patrons of the Museum , whose spirited passion for education and our world 's oceans launched this historic project . The Museum gratefully acknowledges the important public support that has been provided by the City of New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Affairs , and the Borough President of Manhat Sidebar tan in the realization of this project The Museum deeply appreciates major support from Edwin Thorne and from Swiss Re . Significant support also has been provided by The Marc Haas Foundation , Ruth Unterberg , MetLife Foundation , and Mikimoto . Additional generous funding was provided by Jennifer Smith Huntley , Patricia Stryker Joseph , William H. Kearns Foundation , Denise R. Sobel and Norman K. Keller , Mrs. Frits Markus , Jane and James Moore , David Netto , Mrs. John Ungar , and the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation , Inc , We are also grateful for the funding of educational programs provided by The Atlantic Philanthropies , The Bodman Foundation , and The Louis Calder Foundation . // <p>                     