@@416360

A Toxic Trail Leads to the Now-Closed Defense Depot The United States military produces nearly a ton of hazardous wastes every minute an amount that surpasses even the biggest multinational corporations . More than 120 military sites have been placed on the Environmental Protection Agency 's ( EPA ) Superfund National Priority List . Locating toxin-laden military installations near many of America 's poor , minority neighborhoods has forced disadvantaged communities to bear a heavy burden . According to Lois Gibbs , executive director of the Center for Health , Environment and Justice , " The military would never have buried leaking mustard bombs in Beverly Hills . " But that is exactly what was buried at the 640-acre Defense Depot of Memphis , Tennessee ( DDMT ) . The fenced and guarded depot , once the U.S. military 's largest supply storehouse , operated from 1942 to 1997 . The site was slated to revert to the City of Memphis for use as a light industrial and warehouse complex when it closed , but the transfer was delayed . Instead , the depot was placed on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ array of contaminants , including arsenic , cadmium , chromium , lead , mercury , trichloroethylene , carbon tetrachloride , pesticides , dioxin , chlorodane , PCBs and chemical weapons residues . The population within a mile of the site is economically disadvantaged and nearly 97 percent African-American . Twelve schools are located within a mile radius of the installation boundary . According to local activist Kenneth Bradshaw , " For 55 years , the depot had numerous chemical releases , accidents , explosions and improper disposals of chemicals . The totally white regime in the depot was making life-and-death decisions in secrecy about the health and future of the totally black community outside . " But according to Jackie Noble , command affairs officer with the U.S. Department of Defense Logistics Agency ( DLA ) - the branch of the military now in charge of the site- " We have been very sensitive to the community the entire time we have been working on the depot . Citizen health has been number one through the entire process . " Bradshaw 's wife , Doris Bradshaw , disagrees . She believes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cancers directly caused by exposure to the depot 's toxins . She claims that scores of dogs died in the 1970s when DDT was allegedly dumped into depot ditches . Kenneth Bradshaw believes the site 's toxic legacy has destroyed lives and affected the unborn through genes and hormones . Environmental assessments have been done in the area , including groundwater sampling , and the remediation process is underway . The chemical weapons material is being removed , and several of the areas , such as the old paint shop and maintenance building , are being cleaned up . A few underground storage tanks have also been removed . The DLA has been working with the civil Memphis Depot Redevelopment Agency , the EPA , the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation 's Division of Superfund ( TDEC-DSF ) and the citizen-led Restoration Advisory Board , which includes Doris Bradshaw as a member . Independent contractors , like Sverdrup Environmental and the African-American-owned STEP Environmental , have provided much of the labor . In an attempt to inform the public , the DLA publishes an update on the depot every other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Kenneth Bradshaw , however , " They are trying to tell us that everything is going on good , as far as the clean up , but they are totally ignoring the adverse health effects of the chemical contaminants . " In 1995 , the Bradshaws , who are African-American , founded the community activist group Defense Depot of Memphis , Tennessee , Concerned Citizens Committee ( DDMT-CCC ) . This grassroots organization argues that not enough is being done to correct the toxic wrongs caused by the depot . The group claims that environmental racism has been levied continuously against their black community because the authorities assume they are uneducated and powerless . " Of course we want national security , " says Bradshaw , " but we do n't want to be poisoned in the process . " DDMT-CCC has around 500 members working to educate anyone who will listen about the problems in south Memphis . The group has been unsuccessful at attempted lawsuits , and it has been unable to afford independent tests of the region . They have , however , received an $11,000 grant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the U.S. , attending seminars and spreading their pleas for environmental equity . Clearly , there has been some communication breakdown between the different branches of government and the surrounding community . Jordan English , TDEC-DSF environmental field office manager , says , " There have been times when the Tennessee government has had trouble talking to the military . " Photograph Doris and Kenneth Bradshaw are convinced that the Memphis Defense Depot left a toxic legacy in their African-American neighborhood . // Kenneth Bradshaw is bitter , denouncing government studies as a " pack of lies " that " are n't worth the paper they are printed on . " But the U.S. Department of Health and Huma Services Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry ( ATSDR ) did conduct a full Public Health Assessment on the depot as required by Superfund law . The report " determined that no known exposures to DDMT contaminants exist off-site or have existed since 1989 that could result in health effects . ATSDR was unable to determine whether exposures to contaminants from DDMT prior to 1989 could have resulted in health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ According to Jordan English , " When you have something that could have caused a release that long ago , it is very difficult at this time to determine what happened . " The ATSDR researchers ruled out food chain , soil and airborne and drainage ditch pathways as potential health threats to the surrounding community . The only poisoned groundwater found to be moving away from the site was , according to the report , " restricted to the northwest corner of Dunn Field . No one drinks this contaminated groundwater . " To address the claims of the DDMT-CCC and other concerned citizens , ATSDR conducted an additional Health Consultation in the community . The researchers were " unable to locate data " covering the Bradshaw 's specific stories , but they did examine all the records maintained by the Tennessee Cancer Registry . ATSDR concluded that , overall , cancer incidence occurred at near or slightly below expected rates between 1990 and 1996 in the six census tracts surrounding the depot . However , Steve Lester , science director of the Center for Health , Environment and Justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the guise of doing the health assessments , but it did n't answer the citizens ' questions . The group 's census tract sampling included lots of people who did n't have anything to do with the exposure . The results were compromised with a poor design to save money , but no one was informed about these limitations . " Extensive cleanup still needs to be done on the depot grounds , and the military will have to make further repairs to damaged community relations . The Bradshaws say they will keep fighting until " the U.S. military admits that it did a great harm to the people it was supposed to be protecting . " <p>                     