@@400099

Mid-continental earthquakes can be even more damaging than the ones at the boundaries of tectonic plates . The great Indian earthquake of 2001 is a benchmark for geologists seeking to understand how they happen . // In the westernmost corner of India , south of a huge salt marsh known as the Rann of Kachchh , lies the old walled city of Bhuj , administrative headquarters of the district of Kachchh . To a Westerner , even a traveler equipped with a Lonely Planet guidebook , the area seems remote . A single train arrives in Bhuj each day ; rarely does a tourist disembark . Yet , like most of India , the city and surrounding region are densely populated and rich in architectural heritage . Two years ago these human and architectural riches became , in an instant , the preconditions for tragedy . On January 26 , 2001 , a magnitude 7.6 earthquake struck India about forty miles northwest of Bhuj . The quake was the first major temblor to take place on land , and away from a tectonic plate boundary , since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed more than 18,000 people and wrecked hundreds of thousands of buildings across the Indian state of Gujarat . Less than a year and a half later a much smaller , magnitude 5.1 mid-continental earthquake hit New York State just south of the Canadian border . This one , the Au Sable Forks quake of April 2002 , did little damage , but its unfamiliar rumblings were felt all over the northeastern United States . A temblor that size in Los Angeles would barely be noticed in earthquake-jaded San Diego , a hundred miles away . Gujarat and New York are on virtually opposite sides of the globe , but in geological terms they have much in common . Unlike California or Alaska , neither Gujarat nor New York is situated atop a seismically active boundary between the Earth 's great tectonic plates  --  rigid blocks of the planet 's brittle outer layer that can measure thousands of miles across but are often less than a hundred miles thick . Given such a substantial platform , one would not expect either state to undergo many earthquakes-certainly not as many as take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the earthquakes that do strike places like Gujarat and New York have a particularly long reach . In regions along plate boundaries-coastal California and Alaska , but also the Himalaya and the Andes-the crust is a jumble of once-distinct terrains . Over geologic time , as tectonic plates have ground past each other , rocks have been cracked , ruptured , and folded , thereby mixing and mangling ancient terrains . Earthquake waves can not propagate efficiently in such a complex , fractured setting . In regions that lie within plates , however , the underlying crust is older , less fractured , and less complicated , and the waves reverberate over much greater distances from an earthquake 's epicenter . The Bhuj temblor strongly shook the ground as far as 300 miles from its epicenter in the district of Kachchh . High-rises toppled in Ahmadabad , a large industrial city almost 200 miles away . In the hardest-hit towns and villages , people and buildings alike were thrown down violently . Writing to BBC News Online , a resident of one devastated town described the scene as she and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , watching everything around them shaking and crumbling . " We were in the jaws of death waiting for it to gulp us , " she wrote . " Any small jerk could have caused the building to collapse . " Bhuj was truly a shock heard round the world , a wake-up call both for its horrific immediate effects and for its even more frightening implications . Earthquake damage reflects not only the magnitude of a main shock but also a region 's population density and the vulnerability of its buildings , roads , and other structures . As recently as October 2002 a magnitude 5.9 earthquake in the southern Italian village of San Giuliano di Puglia took twenty-nine lives ; three days later a magnitude 7.9 quake in Alaska claimed none . It is sobering to contemplate what might take place when the next major earthquake hits the Himalayan region . The combination of potentially great magnitude , efficient earthquake wave propagation , crowded cities , and fragile buildings could threaten the lives of tens of millions of people . For comparison , consider the effects of the magnitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tangshan , China , in 1976 . Tangshan has the unhappy distinction of being the only large city to have suffered a direct hit from a major earthquake in the past hundred years ; the death toll there may have been as high as 750,000 , though the official tally is closer to 250,000 . A future large Himalayan earthquake could cause an immediate six-figure death toll in India and Pakistan-not to speak of the likelihood of widespread epidemics , the obliteration of costly and essential infrastructure , and the possible release of radiation from nuclear power plants . The Bhuj earthquake offers lessons for other regions as well . Modern seismic monitoring and analysis have established it as the standard against which to compare anecdotal descriptions of other large mid-continental quakes in the historical record . Among the most important such earthquakes , at least for North Americans , were three powerful shocks that struck the southeastern corner of Missouri , near the town of New Madrid , in 1811 and 1812 . The New Madrid earthquakes were strong enough to temporarily reverse the course of the Mississippi River and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Aftershocks That Were n't , " by Susan Elizabeth Hough , March 2001 . To probe the full implications of what happened in western Gujarat in 2001 , geologists are seeking to understand as much as possible about the region 's earlier geologic history . The ancient port of Debal , on the Indus River delta , was destroyed in A.D. 893 by an earthquake , and another temblor is thought to have submerged the nearby city of Samaji in 1668 . In 1819 an enormous , magnitude 7.8 earthquake known as the Allah Bund ( Dam of God ) hit Kachchh . Less than two centuries later came Bhuj . And between the Allah Bund and Bhuj events there were six earthquakes in Gujarat greater than magnitude 6 . Moreover , recent excavations of mutilated skeletons , which seem to have been buried suddenly under a jumble of strata , have led some scholars to conclude that the highly organized Harappan civilization of the Indus Valley , which flourished in the fourth and third millennia B.C. , may also have suffered earthquake devastation . The Allah Bund and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they generated strikingly similar patterns of damage . Captain James MacMurdo , the first colonial administrator of Kachchh , experienced the 1819 event firsthand ; his reports echo vividly across the centuries : " Many of the villages ... are reduced to heaps of rubbish , " he wrote . From Bhuj he relayed accounts of " a violent undulating motion , so that it was with difficulty that people could keep their legs . " The two earthquakes are now thought to have ruptured closely neighboring faults , cracking through the earth 's crust . Like the Bhuj quake , the Allah Bund largely reduced the two closest towns , Bhuj and Anjar , to rubble . It also created a broad , towering ridge-a natural dam-across the nearby ( and now dry ) Puran River . Downstream from the ridge the land sank , leaving an enormous depression that flooded with seawater . A fort that had stood on the riverbank south of where the ridge formed became a ruin surrounded by seawater for fifteen miles in every direction . ( Today the structure is invisible , buried beneath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were ferried to the shores of the new lake ; by the time they reached that relative safety , local residents were pulling both the living and the dead from the remains of their villages . Not only did the ridge dam the flow of freshwater from the north ; it also put an end to trade along the Puran River . To anticipate and help prepare for future earthquakes , earth scientists rely heavily on data from past events . Mostly they analyze data from seismometers deployed around the globe , as well as data from the two dozen satellites that make up the Global Positioning System ( GPS ) . The satellites can give positions so accurately that geologists can monitor the long-term deformation , or warping , of the earth 's crust with extraordinary accuracy : the glacially slow motions of tectonic plates can be measured and tracked to within the thickness of a fingernail . Of course , no such data are available either for the Allah Bund or for any of the other large mid-continental earthquakes in recorded history , including the New Madrid quakes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too long ago to have left behind evidence from which earth scientists can extrapolate . Yet even without seismic recordings , one can sometimes infer the subsurface character of an earthquake from the wrinkles it creates at the surface . Much of what is known about the source of the largest New Madrid shock has been inferred from descriptions of a small region of uplift that created a waterfall on the Mississippi River . In the same way , the Allah Bund ridge has provided clues about the mechanism and size of that earthquake . The New Madrid and Allah Bund quakes were strikingly similar in ways other than the surface uplift they produced . Sizable mid-continental earthquakes tend to strike in ancient , fault-riddled zones of relatively weak rock , which arise where landmasses begin to part . ( One of the most conspicuous contemporary examples of an ongoing parting is the splitting of the African plate along the East African Rift System , which is creating the deep lakes that run from Lake Albert to Lake Tanganyika . ) Numerous subsidiary cracks develop in the crust , widening along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cracks link up , ultimately forming deep lakes and new oceans ; others languish , but they can be reactivated by new tectonic forces millions of years later . Both the Allah Bund and the New Madrid earthquakes resulted from ruptures along steeply inclined cracks , or thrust faults . Such ruptures make it possible for a block of crust to ramp up over adjacent rock . That slippage between blocks of crust temporarily relieves the stresses that led to the ruptures in the first place , but the slippage also creates new points of stress . In fact , every large earthquake leads to a substantial redistribution of the stresses in its immediate locale , raising the specter of future redistributions , and future shocks , on adjoining faults . Unfortunately , such a broad-brush picture offers little insight into the where and when of the next earthquake : the geological understanding of stress redistribution is still in its infancy . Any hope of making useful forecasts will require more data from large earthquakes . For example , even after nearly two centuries of study , geologists can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Madrid area . And if events in that area follow the pattern of events in western Gujarat , the next great central U.S. earthquake might take place , not in New Madrid , but in the southwestern corner of Tennessee-close to the city of Memphis-or perhaps near the southwestern corner of Indiana , where a magnitude 5.0 quake struck in June 2002 . An earthquake as powerful as the one that hit western Gujarat in 2001 rings the earth like a bell . The waves it generates can not be felt by people living in other regions of the world , but seismic sensors virtually anywhere on the globe can detect them . For geologists , the seismic signal of a big earthquake is like a fire alarm , instantly causing concern and impelling a quick response . Geologists rushed to Kachchh , expecting to map the surface pattern of faulting . Large earthquakes generally cause a visible giant crack or a displacement of the surface rocks and soil . But the investigators in Kachchh found only a few minor cracks and bulges , all of which were attributable to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fault . In spite of the temblor 's substantial size , the slippage along the fault stopped propagating well before it reached the earth 's surface . Geologists found nothing to map except relatively modest secondary ground disruptions . But there are other ways to reconstruct the details of movement along a deep fault , a study worth pursuing on both academic and practical grounds . Earthquakes of the same magnitude  --  quakes that release the same amount of energy overall-do not always generate fault ruptures of the same size , and differences in the size of a rupture lead to differences in the shaking of the ground . The longer the rupture , the lower the dominant frequency of its vibrations . The same principle determines the pitch of an organ pipe or a string on a double bass : the larger the pipe , or the longer the unstopped string , the lower the note . Even though a musical instrument is enclosed in air and a rupture is enclosed in rock , both transmit sound waves through their respective mediums . As it happens , buildings are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of frequencies ; they absorb vibrational energy primarily at their own resonant frequencies , just as a plucked string does . The kinds of structures most common throughout Gujarat-masonry buildings typically one story high and almost never higher than ten stories-are affected primarily by vibrations of between one and ten cycles a second . That is a fairly high frequency for a large earthquake . Recent investigations reveal that earthquakes of magnitude 7 or greater that have relatively small ruptures will shake particularly violently at frequencies between one and ten cycles a second . The severe damage caused by the Bhuj earthquake , coupled with its magnitude , suggested that the quake had an unusually small rupture area . Without a surface rupture to measure and assess , seismologists could turn to three other kinds of data : the distribution of aftershocks ; the " strong motion " seismic recordings from the vicinity of the event ; and deformations , or warping , of the surface . Data on aftershocks and on strong motion from a main shock come from records made by seismic equipment deployed before an earthquake takes place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surveyed before the quake . Following the Bhuj shock , seismologists faced frustration at nearly every turn . Few modern seismometers were in place in Gujarat at the time of the quake . In spite of its history of earthquakes , the region was thought to be less vulnerable to damage than are areas in which large or frequent quakes have hit more recently . One such area is the 1,500  --  mile arc of the Himalaya , which lies along the boundary of two colliding tectonic plates . ( The Himalaya , the world 's highest mountain range , is still being squeezed upward by immense pressures as the northeastward-moving Indian subcontinent collides with the rest of Asia . ) Lacking recordings of the Bhuj earthquake 's strong motion , investigators had no detailed seismic evidence of the patterns of motion along the fault . Moreover , the positions of the quake 's aftershocks could not be pinpointed until teams of seismologists were able to analyze data gathered with portable instruments during the weeks and months following the main shock . What saved the day for the investigators was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India-that was completed in the mid-nineteenth century . Thousands of engraved stone markers , placed deep within pillars , had been installed on hilltops during the heyday of the British Raj to enable accurate mapping of the region . The recorded positions of the markers established a baseline for geologists , who could then measure how much the markers had shifted after the quake . So when Indian , Pakistani , and US. teams of earth scientists sped to the region in early 2001 , they brought along both high-tech GPS surveying units and quaint Victorian descriptions of the survey points ' positions . Although simple in principle , the field investigations were quite complicated in practice . Some of the markers had been destroyed by the violent shaking of the pillars surrounding them ; many others had been lost to scavengers and small children during the preceding century and a half . Nevertheless , the scientists located a dozen of the old markers ; several had shifted more than three and a half feet . An analysis of the altered positions confirmed that , deep in the crust , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , about twenty feet-a massive amount . The rupture of the fault had terminated more than three miles below ground . Months later , after studying their seismometer data to infer the locations of aftershocks , seismologists also concluded that the rupture area was deep and surprisingly compact . The combination of a relatively short rupture and a large amount of slippage , as in the Bhuj quake , leads to unusually strong stresses at the edges of the rupture . Those stresses can stretch or compress rock well beyond its breaking point . Indeed , a flurry of aftershocks took place around the underground Bhuj rupture . The positions of the aftershocks seemed to confirm that the stresses had been great enough to cause extensive cracking and fragmentation of the crust surrounding the parts of the fault that had moved during the main quake . In the end , modern data gave earth scientists a fairly good view of the underground processes that led to the earthquake . But assessing the severity of shaking at the surface was an entirely different kind of challenge , and it was the shaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some disruptions at the surface and blows , for instance , which are literally fountains of sand that erupt at the surface like geysers-were widespread , and geologists were able to document them . But such effects yield at best only indirect information . Because of the almost complete lack of direct , immediate seismographic data on the Bhuj earthquake itself , earth scientists turned instead to a time-honored source of information : personal anecdotes describing damage and other effects . By collecting accounts in the field as well as compiling the descriptions published in the media and on the Web , investigators were able to map the shaking during the event . The effects ranged from the near-total collapse of villages to barely perceptible shaking felt by residents of India 's east coast . Such accounts , properly weighed and interpreted , can yield an estimate of an earthquake 's intensity-the severity of shaking at a particular location-typically stated as a Roman numeral between I and XII . Near the Bhuj main shock the inferred intensities reached IX to X , strong enough to cause catastrophic damage to masonry structures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yardstick and made it possible to assign more accurate magnitudes to the largest quakes at New Madrid : between 7.2 and 7.5 , almost as large as the earthquake that devastated western Turkey in 1999 . The historical record of earthquakes in Gujarat is also prima facie evidence that a cluster of major shocks can occur in areas removed from active plate boundaries . The devastation in Bhuj provides clear evidence that such shocks can cause enormous damage . If the lessons of Bhuj are sobering for North America , they are staggering for India and Pakistan . Home to 1.2 billion people , the two countries  --  though riven by social , political , and religious upheavals both internal and external  --  jointly face the imminent deadly hazard of a great Himalayan earthquake . The ongoing collision between the Indian and Eurasian plates creates enormous stresses throughout India , which account for the shocks away from the plate boundaries . And the sustained uplift of the Himalaya themselves is accompanied by great earthquakes that represent a common enemy of countries along and near the mountains ' are . Recent calculations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due along fully half the length of the Himalaya . Humanity has never had to face potential earthquake devastation of this nature and scale . Multiple urban targets of great size and vulnerability have never before existed in areas where strong seismic shaking is common . As a result , what was impossible even half a century ago is now not only possible but , in some places , probable . As horrific as it was , the Bhuj earthquake was really only a warning shock . Its legacy will depend on the extent to which the world heeds the warning . Sidebar An earthquake as powerful as the one that struck western Gujarat in 2001 rings the earth like a bell , and geologists respond to the seismic signal as if it were afire alarm . Author Affiliation On January 26 , 2001 , when a magnitude 7.6 earthquake struck the Indian state of Gujarat , Susan Hough ( " Shaken to the Core , " page 42 ) immediately began to search the Internet for first-person accounts of the event . She knew the Indian Author Affiliation quake would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mid-continental earthquakes that shook southeastern Missouri nearly two centuries ago . Hough is a geophysicist at the US . Geological Survey in Pasadena , California , and the author of the book Earthshaking Science : What We Know ( and Do n't Know ) about Earthquakes . Roger Bilham is a professor of geology at the University of Colorado in Boulder and an associate director of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences . In the past three decades he has done extensive geodetic surveying in India and Tibet and completed numerous investigations of historic Indian earthquakes . He is the author of more than 130 articles on earthquake-related processes . // <p>                     