@@411182

" By some estimates , the shores of the Caspian Sea contain more oil and gas reserves than Iraq and Iran combined , but foreign investors and Western governments have been in a quandary about how to get the precious products out to markets . " // THE YOUNG language instructor took on an expression of hurt bewilderment when the topic of conversation turned to Nagorno-Karabakh , the Armenian enclave in Azerbaijan , the former Soviet republic on the Caspian Sea . Ancient hatreds ? " Nothing of the sort . Armenians have always lived among us and been our friends . But why , " she asked , " are they doing this to us ? , " referring to the fighting that has been ongoing since the Soviet Union broke up in late 1991 . Among Azeris , one encounters little real anger directed against Armenians , but a pervasive and individually internalized sense of injury . Foreign visitors to Azerbaijan are routinely urged to visit Azeri refugees in the United Nations High Commissioners Office for Refugees camps around the country and , in the capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sea , to visit the tombs of the martyrs of the struggle for Nagorno-Karabakh . Throughout the Caucasus , between the Caspian Sea and the Black Sea , governments and peoples were casting a wary eye on Kosovo at the end of the 20th century . As in the Balkans , ethnic friction was more often the result than the cause of the conflicts which wracked the region earlier in the decade and are now suppressed , but not resolved . It is not surprising that the Azeris , having the greater number of refugees and having lost territory to their adversary , would support in principle external intervention to enforce a return of territory and resettlement of refugees . Nor is it surprising that the Armenians , having the upper hand with respect to occupation of territory , would oppose such intervention . However , Azeri support for NATO 's initiative in Kosovo and Armenian opposition are also manifestations of a geopolitical game and of economic interests more encompassing than any ethnic conflict in the region . Nevertheless , national accommodation and ethnic reconciliation must be at the core of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lessons to be learned from Kosovo will have a great impact on this region . As if to reconfirm that security strategists live in a world of their own making , some appear to be upping the ante in a power game at the blind crossing where old U.S. and Russian spheres of influence intersect with new Muslim militancy along a now oil-slickened Silk Road . Alexander Rondeli , a political scientist advising Georgia 's Foreign Ministry , fears that lines drawn in shifting sands are being hardened in ways that most of the players can ill afford . The lineup pits the U.S. , its longterm ally Turkey , and its newer allies Georgia and Azerbaijan against Russia , Iran , and Armenia . Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan as well are tilting away from Russian markets and toward Western oil industry investors . The game is further complicated by the 1996 security agreement between Israel and Turkey , which arouses Israeli interest in Azeri oil and puts distance between Israeli and Armenian lobbies on Capitol Hill . It is hard to see how the interests of any of these countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but Georgia , which is pivotal to any regional solution , is rendered particularly vulnerable by it . Companions on a hike in the foothills of the Caucasus Range in 1999 said to us that such an excursion would have been too risky a couple of years earlier . Secessionist movements and ethnic strife along the northern border had blurred into general anarchy and banditry that had only recently abated . Georgian Pres. Eduard Shevardnadze had survived coup and assassination attempts in 1998 and still traveled with extraordinary security precautions . The South Ossetians , in Georgia 's northeast highlands , had declared their independence . Adjaria , the autonomous province in the south on the Black Sea , was under the control of a tyrant who answered to no one . When the northwestern province of Abkhazia pulled away , it took with it some of Georgia 's main ports and most popular resorts . The Abkhazians pushed out approximately 250,000 ethnic Georgians . Most of them headed toward the capital , where housing was scarce and paying jobs a novelty . Many Georgians assume that Russia encouraged and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were unable to put it down , Shevardnadze felt compelled to accept Russian troops as peacekeepers in the area . Photograph A mammoth bust of Saparmurat Niyazov , Turkmenistan 's self-designated " Turkmenbasi " ( father of Turkmen ) , faces the Ashgabat municipal building , the facade of which displays his ubiquitous portrait . Photograph // Issues of security and power balance , as of economic recovery or economic advantage , have increasingly come to be bundled with pipeline politics . By some estimates , the shores of the Caspian Sea contain more oil and gas reserves than Iraq and Iran combined , but foreign investors and Western governments have been in a quandary about how to get the precious products out to markets . A cynic might be forgiven for expecting U.S. policy on the matter simply to reflect investor interest , but that would be to assume rationality . American strategists clinging to the comforts of Cold War certainties have gone to great lengths to deny transit and marketing advantages to Russia and Iran and to shift them instead to Turkey . The proposed pipeline stretching from Baku @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most costly of the options on the table . The argument most commonly offered in its favor-that it is more secure than alternative routes-overlooks the destabilizing effects of ethnic cleansing of Kurdish communities by Turkish security forces ( with the tacit support of the U.S. and NATO ) in parts of eastern Turkey . The preexisting line from Baku to the Russian Black Sea port of Novorossisk has been vulnerable to sabotage by the Chechens , but Russia claims that problem can be resolved by a detour . Georgia would like to see another preexisting line-between Baku and its Black Sea port of Supsa-expanded . Turkey claims environmental concerns-the danger of oil spills at the Bosporus straits-regarding a Supsa terminal , though the fact that Turkey could collect no fees from a Supsa pipeline may have some bearing on its objections . Construction has begun on a pipeline from Kazakhstan to Novorossisk , and there is talk of taking Turkmeni oil out through a line to be laid under the Caspian Sea to Baku . Ironically , the strongest opposition to U.S. strategists on pipeline issues comes from American companies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and majors shift decisionmaking responsibilities to European consortium partners less burdened with geopolitical baggage . In fact , the British Petroleum-led Azerbaijani International Oil Consortium is strongly resisting pressures to invest in a Baku-Ceyhan line , favoring instead the less costly Supsa route . Across the Caspian , even major companies like Mobil are said to be looking the other way while consortium partners make their deals with Iran . Other would-be investors are biding their time , waiting to see if U.S. strategists will recover from their Cold War hangovers and if a semblance of stability can be restored to the region . Western companies have already invested about $40,000,000,000 in Azerbaijan 's oil industry , but so long as the conflict with Armenia remains unresolved , many of them will keep their suitcases packed . Like so many other Azeris , the director of a foreign affairs think tank in Baku blames the Russians for the hostilities between the two neighbors . He sees Armenian military occupation of Nagorno-Karabakh and surrounding territory as an expression of Russian intent to regain lost influence in the Caucasus and Caspian regions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now , as often in the past , because of Turkish hostility , Armenian diplomat Garik Israelian observes , but that has nothing to do with Nagorno-Karabakh . The issue in the enclave , he says , is not geopolitics or even the rights of states or nationalities , but , rather , human rights . The one point on which the two sides are in agreement is that the root of the problem-an autonomous area , 90% Armenian , deep within the Republic of Azerbaijan-is attributable to Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin 's mischief . When the two republics asserted independence from the imploding U.S.SR. in 1991 , the Armenians of Nagorno-Karabakh began to clamor for union with their compatriots across the border . Azeri security forces sought to suppress the rebellion , whereupon Armenian military forces came to the support of their beleaguered kin in the enclave . Along with occupying Nagorno-Karabakh and a corridor connecting it with Armenia , the Armenian armed forces claimed and , in effect , depopulated a security zone around it . Azeris argue that more than 1,000,000 of their kinsmen are now refugees . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of whom about 400 000 are Armenian . Azeris maintain that Armenia is occupying 20% of their land . Armenians say the occupation zone represents just nine percent of their neighbor 's territory . For the time being , Nagorno-Karabakh is treating itself like an independent state , including the requirement of a visa for visitors . Armenian diplomats express willingness in principle to exchange land for peace and security for the Armenian community in Nagorno-Karabakh , procedures and conditions to be subject to negotiation . They even suggest a willingness to settle again for autonomy for the enclave within Azerbaijan , provided arrangements for self-government and security meet their concerns . ( In other words , perhaps , they are willing to offer the Azeri government a face-saving way out of the impasse . ) The Azeri position is that there should be no negotiation until Armenian forces are withdrawn . In fact , the presidents of the two countries were talking one-on-one in mid 1999 , but appeared to be talking past each other . Impotence corrupts Meanwhile , the stalemate was enormously costly for both countries . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. foreign assistance . Despite the West 's avid courtship of the Soviet commissarscum-petroleum princes around the Caspian , the U.S. Armenian lobby had the necessary clout to inject an exclusionary clause into aid legislation . ( Saparmurat Niyazov , Turkmenistan 's self-designated " Turkmenbasi , " or father of Turkmen , had no trouble falling into step with the new standard-bearers of democracy . He won the presidential election with 99.8% of the vote . ) For Armenia , considerable portions of American assistance serve to ameliorate the scorn of some U.S. diplomats and security strategists about the company it keeps . The great cost for Armenia lies in the blockage of trade routes . Sealed borders with both Turkey and Azerbaijan leave only Iran and Georgia as overland outlets , and transit through Georgia to Russian markets is still precarious . Western routes through Abkhazia remained blocked by the unresolved conflict there and to the east . Even as secessionist South Ossetia appeared to be coming to terms with Georgia , the Chechens and Dagestanis across the border were by no means coming to terms with Russia . Photograph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a gold-leafed sculpture of the " Turkmenbasi " as a baby . Photograph Tombs of martyrs to the Nagorno-Karabakh struggle are well-tended in Baku , Azerbaijan . // Like Armenia , Georgia receives considerable U.S. assistance , a trickle of American investment , and a lot of U.S. advice . The aid , at least , is desperately needed . ( Zaza Gachechiladze , publisher of The Georgian Times , says that the economic miracle in his country lies in the fact that so many people are surviving with no visible means of support . ) Like many other U.S. allies , though , Georgians are finding that the American embrace can be a choke hold . Tbilisi , spilling down the Mtkvari River gorge , is a 1,500-year-old city , still wearing traces of its several golden ages , and Georgians are proud of it . Perhaps the U.S. diplomats who understood that were simply trumped by the security-minders . Near the heart of the city , where a major preservation effort has been launched with World Bank support , the broad avenue in front of the American embassy is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designed to discourage terrorist attacks by the likes of Osama bin Laden 's followers , but it may inspire attacks by some coalition of historians , architects , and urban planners . At any rate , it stands as a very visible affront to Georgian aesthetic sensibilities and as witness to the presumptuousness of the country 's new patron . In Yerevan , the Armenian capital , parks whose trees were chopped down for firewood in the desperate mid 1990s are green and leafy again . Cafes , pizza parlors , and wine bars with hip Western names are sprouting around the heart of the city , and optimism is in the air . In the countryside , however , factories and collective farms are falling into ruin . Children are dressed and pampered like royalty , but the old all too often are reduced to begging . As elsewhere in the Caucasus and around the " structurally adjusted " ex-Soviet sphere , pensions and public-sector salaries have been shrunk by hyperinflation and budget cuts to near invisibility . Government employees who can charge a fee for their services or disservices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientist in Yerevan , makes ends meet by teaching at three public institutions and two private ones ( and wonders when he will have a chance to get acquainted with his newborn daughter ) . The armed and uniformed have easier means of collecting . When the street in front of Sasha 's university was redesignated one-way , police placed the sign at the far end of the block , where they lay in wait to collect the fines . Throughout the Caucasus , border crossings are an obstacle course of bribe extractors . Leaders in each of the three states are well aware that the foreign investment they might otherwise expect shies away from regions of unresolved conflict . Even if the table could be set for serious negotiations , the issues in Nagorno-Karabakh and Abkhazia may prove intractable . They are not so different from those that have embroiled Cyprus and Jordan 's Israeli-occupied West Bank for decades . That is all the more reason why the pressure is on for the Kosovo separation model to be a positive one . One must hope that the jury in Kosovo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not too good . The Azeris to be resettled in Nagorno-Karabakh and the Georgians to be resettled in Abkhazia can not take heart from the fate of Kosovo 's Serbian minority . A face-saving approach to autonomy will save no faces if minorities can not be protected . NATO has succeeded neither in taming and transforming the Kosovo Liberation Army nor in effectively occupying and restoring peace . The United Nations , beggared by the U.S. refusal to cover its long-unpaid dues , has scarcely made a start toward establishing a civilian government for the enclave . Moreover , the marginalization of Russia from the implementation of accords that might have been reached without its help sets a bad precedent . Whether or not Russia is seen as a part of the problem , it is clear that it must be a part of the solution if there is to be one . The U.S. and its European allies appear to be competing in ducking the responsibility for underwriting reconstruction , even though the amounts proposed are modest compared to the cost of the bombing campaign . War is expensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be self supporting . Author Affiliation Jan Knippers Black , Associate International Affairs Editor of USA Today , is professor of international policy studies , Monterey ( Calif . ) Institute of International Studies . // <p>                     