@@372385

During his two decades in international corporate security , Bill Elder designed protection strategies in some of the most dangerous parts of the world , from Iraq to Colombia to Nigeria . Operating in countries where American intelligence was often weak , Elder had to rely on his own contacts . In the mid-1990s , while overseeing construction of an oil pipeline in northern Algeria , Elder learned from local sources of a series of killings committed by the rebel Groupe Islamique Armee . This intelligence scoop  --  the government did n't announce the killings for several days  --  allowed Elder to steer employees safely away from the danger zones and keep the project on schedule . Indeed , throughout his years as a corporate security manager for BECHTEL and as a consultant to other companies , Elder , now retired , says he never once recommended canceling a project . " My role was to determine what the risk was and how to overcome that risk , " he says . " As far as I was concerned , if they were willing to pay for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <P> With each day 's news reminding executives of how hellish the world can be , more and more of them are deciding that traditional " cops and locks " security will no longer suffice . A growing number of businesses are emulating the CIA and FBI in the inexact art of intelligence collection and analysis to try to predict terror attacks or political instability . Even for a business whose biggest worry is not rebels attacking its employees but , say , MICROSOFT attacking its market niche , corporate sleuthing has become more valuable than ever . " The most fundamental importance of intelligence is to warn  --  specifically , to warn against surprise attack , " says consultant William DeGenaro , a veteran of government intelligence and a former director of business research and analysis at 3M . " Take the same process and substitute another threat  --  a blindsiding alliance , a technology shift . It 's all the same . " <P> How much a business needs to rely on intelligence analysis depends less on where it operates than how . The more capital intensive a business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future is likely to take shape . Energy companies , which have to make multibillion-dollar infrastructure investments before they can draw a penny 's worth of fossil fuel out of the ground , have set the standard for security and political intelligence overseas . High-tech firms , which need to determine where their competitors are headed before beginning costly research and development , have led the way in what is known as competitive intelligence . <P> These two sides of corporate sleuthing are largely distinct : they ask different kinds of questions and rely on different kinds of specialists . The ranks of business security intelligence departments are filled with former government agents , while competitive intelligence , with a few notable exceptions , is collected and analyzed by professional researchers who resemble librarians more than shadowy spooks.                     