@@400098

The DNA trail leading back to the origins of today 's cattle has taken some surprising turns along the way . // The genes present in the 1.3 billion cattle living on the Earth today represent a stream of inheritance that stretches back 10,000 years . The founding event in the legacy of the domesticated farm animal was the capture of the formidable wild ox , or aurochs . Taming a long  --  horned beast six feet tall at the shoulder must have been a daunting task , but it was just one of a series of plant and animal domestications that forever changed the way most people live . But just what is the genetic heritage of domestic cattle ? Was more than one kind of aurochs brought under human control , and if so , how many ancestral species does that heritage encompass ? How much variation is present in the genome ? What experiences does its DNA encode to help the animal deal with heat , cold , hunger , thirst , disease , and all the other stresses of life ? Answers to such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on cattle runs deep , and our own well-being is therefore bound up with that of the animal . For example , if the selective breeding that has created a super milker should also inadvertently lead to vulnerability to a particular disease , how deep is the genetic reservoir that could still be called on to fight that vulnerability ? For the past dozen years my colleagues and I at the Smurfit Institute of Trinity College in Dublin have been tracing the genetic origins of modern breeds of cattle . The work has taken us from Great Britain to South Asia to the Sahara , and from modern factory farms to pastoralist societies . Guided by the signposts of DNA , we have virtually traveled back in time along the genetic stream , from the present to the ancient past , to the era when some determined bands of people first tamed an ox . Before modern techniques of molecular genetics became available , the only meaningful information about how and when domestications took place came from archaeology . The study of those world-changing events , embedded as they are in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devised a number of ingenious ways of determining , for instance , whether dusty , 8,000-year-old collections of bones are the remains of hunted wild beasts or the former members of a domestic herd . Domestication is likely , for instance , if bone deposits show the animals died at roughly the same age . The conclusion also holds if the bones represent more males than females ( herders often slaughter males but keep females to produce offspring ) or if the bones indicate changes in structure and a slight decrease in size ( features that begin to show up in animals after generations of domesticated life ) . In the case of cattle , yet another feature of domestic service is diagnostic : the presence of certain kinds of wear and tear ir joints or vertebrae , which indicates that the animals were once beasts of burden . An archaeological site can be designated a domestication center only when excavations indicate that hunting gradually gave way to herding . Archaeologists have documented such a transition in the Fertile Crescent of the Near East . Extending outward from the land bounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the center of domestication for an unparalleled number of plant and animal species , including barley , oats , and wheat among the cereal grains , and the " big four " domesticated animals : cattle , goats , pigs , and sheep . But there is evidence that cattle were also brought under domestication farther east , in what are now Pakistan and India . By tracing the ancestry of living animals , geneticists can verify and amplify archaeological findings , thereby giving a more detailed view of domestication and its history . Blood samples and hair follicles from individual cattle are used to provide samples of certain genes , such as the ones in the mitochondrion , the powerhouse of the cell . The DNA sequences of genes can then be compared . Mutations in DNA sequences accumulate at a pace that remains approximately steady over time . The known mutation rates of common sequences can serve as " molecular clocks , " which enable molecular biologists to estimate when ancestral lines branched away from each other . The sequences my colleagues and I have studied indicate that hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestication took place-two distinct kinds of wild cattle emerged , both of which are represented in modern populations . Patterns of genetic variation are like ripples in a pond , which persist even after the stone that caused them has sunk from view into the depths . The geneticist can judge from the size and direction of the ripples where and sometimes when a stone was dropped , as well as how big it was . Within the geographical distribution patterns of cattle genes , we have determined that not one but two big stones  --  corresponding to separate domestications of the two divergent kinds of wild ox-were thrown into the pond 10,000 years ago . The resulting ripples continue to expand and overlap . Ever since Darwin , opinions had cycled between the one- and the two-stone scenario . Some scholars argued that all domestic cattle had a common origin in a single domestication center in the Fertile Crescent . Others believed , on the basis of archaeological evidence , that the cattle of the Indian subcontinent were separately tamed . Our work has shown that the cattle of Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DNA sequences and that they all belong to a group that corresponds most closely to the humpless cattle known as Bos taurus . But the genes of the humped , zebu cattle native to India , known as Bos indicus , tell a different story . On the bovine family tree , zebu are ten times further removed from the three members of the B. taurus groun than those three are from one another . The Indian humped cattle belong to a genetically distinct group of their own . So the genetic evidence firmly sides with the archaeological findings : early farmers , in what are now Pakistan and India , did indeed capture and tame their own zebu-like version of the wild ox . Gene sequences can also be read as a record of how herding may have spread outward from those two domestication centers . Our genetic work had indicated that European cows were related to the ones that were domesticated in the Fertile Crescent . But we wanted to find out whether they also carried a genetic inheritance from the aurochs that still inhabited Europe when cattle were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European aurochs was hunted to extinction in a Polish forest in 1627 . ) In 2001 , we managed to extract DNA gene sequences from six large aurochs bones discovered in Britain . The bones were between roughly 3,000 and 8,000 years old . The ones of more recent date were from wild oxen that had lived as neighbors of domestic herds then kept in Britain . Our analyses showed that the British aurochs sequences were closer to sequences present in B. taurus than to those of B. indicus , but they were quite different from any encountered in modern cattle . These wild oxen appear to have made no detectable contribution to the domestic gene pool ; they did not interbreed with their domestic contemporaries . The forebears of European cattle , then , were wholesale importations from the Near East . Today a British cow 's mitochondrial genes are much more similar to the genes of a cow-ancient or modern-from Syria or Turkey , than to the genes of the wild ox that used to roam the island . Although we detected no other sources of geenetic input in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are outwardly much changed since their ancestors migrated from the Fertile Crescent . By selectively breeding for traits such as milk production , physical conformation , and even coat coloration , people have altered the appearance , size , and utility of livestock . After decades of scientific animal breeding , certain traits have been enhanced to an extraordinary degree . Milk production per animal has doubled in the developed world in the past twenty years , largely because of genetic manipulation . Top Holstein-Friesian cattle favored by large-scale dairy farmers can easily produce forty liters of milk a day ; in contrast , a West African N'Dama cow may give only four . Yet selective breeding , by definition , also narrows the genetic base of herds , and it may have side effects as well . Breeding for milk production , for instance , could lead to reproductive problems and increased susceptibility to disease . The predicament is not as extreme as it is in crop species , where the genetic base can be sharply narrowed . But the widespread use of artificial insemination in cattle inevitably implies that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ milking herds are all close relatives . Cattle raised on most European and North American farms today have a pedigree going back only to nineteenth-century founder animals of common breeds , such as Hereford , Holstein-Friesian , and Aberdeen Angus . And though the individual animals from which modern breeds were formed would have varied in appearance , most of the animals that belong to a particular breed today look remarkably uniform . Fortunately , though , there is still some diversity among European breeds , and valuable genetic resources may be tied up in less common breeds , such as the distinctive Scottish Highland and the Portuguese Alentejana cattle . To find an exuberant variety of breeds , however , one has to look beyond the industrialized West , to regions where cattle have a place not only as commodities in the economy , but in the culture as well . The primacy of the cow is still intact not just in India ( where cattle are considered sacred and are more numerous than in any other nation ) but also in Africa . In African pastoral societies , milk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources of protein ; cattle dung provides both fuel and building material ; and steers , or castrated bulls , are used as draft animals . Herd ownership can also symbolize status , and individual cattle can serve as large , mobile units of wealth . For example , bridegrooms often present cattle as gifts to the bride 's family . Cows also serve religious or ritual functions . The Kapsiki people of northern Cameroon , for instance , keep a cattle breed ( also known as Kapsiki ) specially for the skins , which are made into burial shrouds . Such cultural intimacy between the people of Africa and their cattle does not mean that African herders refrain from any selective cattle breeding . But Africans breed their herds without the obsession for uniformity that has emerged in the West . One of the most evident traits that African herders select for is extreme horn size . The enigmatic Kuri cattle , herded near Lake Chad in north Africa , bear horns of enormous length and girth . When these cattle move side by side in the herd , their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The horns are selected for their appearance rather than any utility . Ankole cattle , from the great lakes region of East Africa , are also bred for horn shape and size . Not surprisingly , the animals are prized status symbols . According to our genetic analyses , African cattle originated neither from Indian humped cattle nor from Near Eastern cattle . Those findings support the separate-origins theory of cattle domestication favored by archaeologists , who had maintained that in Africa , too , cattle domestication was local . Our results confirm that African cattle stem from the domestication of a B. taurus type of wild ox that inhabited northern Africa when the Sahara region was much less and than it is today . It may even be the case that the distinctive pastoral lifestyle of African tribes such as the Masai is of tremendous antiquity , and could pre-date the capture of cattle and development of milking in the Fertile Crescent . Although the earliest African cattle were of the B. taurus type , modern African breeds show multiple influences , traceable through their genetic history . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the International Livestock Research Institute in Nairobi , Kenya , in a study that was part of a worldwide effort to chart genetic variation in cattle breeds , in the hope of conserving diversity . Hanotte sampled the genes of fifty indigenous breeds of cattle in twenty-three countries across the length and breadth of Africa . Then , with a technique called principal-component analysis , we were able to peel away the various overlays of genetic variation caused by interbreeding , as they appeared across the continent-rather like peeling the layers of an onion . As each overlay was removed , we exposed a new , previously unseen trend , or pattern of variation . One major trend was the dispersal over millennia of the original B. taurus-type cattle from the Sahara region to the forests of West Africa and down to the southern cape . A second , minor genetic trend was a trickle of Near Eastern and European cattle into the continent , where they mixed with native breeds . The third and most pronounced trend in our genetic data , however , pointed to a great influx into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A herd in Sudan , for instance , can now carry mitochondrial DNA from the domestication of a northern African wild ox , an event that may have taken place only a hundred miles from Sudan , but more than 7,000 years in the past . The same herd may also include some genes that have leaked southward from the Fertile Crescent in the same period . But strikingly , most of the genes in the Sudanese herd are likely to be of the B. indicus type . And the cattle are likely to be humped , like Indian zebu . When we overlaid the gene types on a map of Africa , we discovered that the numbers of B. indicus genes peaked on the east coast . The clusters suggest that zebu were first imported into Africa in large numbers by sea , rather than via an overland route such as one crossing the isthmus of Suez . Perhaps the humped cattle were brought first to Arabia , then on to East Africa . We also determined that the most purely B. indicus of African breeds live on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea that the Asian cattle came to Africa by sea . The trade between Africa and India seems to have been ancient and reciprocal . African cereals such as sorghum and finger millet appear in India as early as the second millennium B.C. , about the same time B. indicus may have first appeared in Africa . Since their arrival in Africa , Indian cattle genes have thrived and through interbreeding , have spread throughout the continent . Zebu are generally well adapted to hot and dry environments , a boon in African regions that are becoming increasingly arid . And in the late nineteenth century , when the cattle disease rinderpest became epidemic and decimated B. taurus herds , zebu genes conferred some resistance . In an age when most cattle in the developed world have a slim family tree , humanity should treasure , and perhaps will come to be thankful for , the rich weave of ancestry that persists on the plains of Africa . Pastoral societies also preserve the cultural importance of this largest of domesticated species . In Western societies , this cultural element has mostly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significance only behind the fenced-in properties of agribusinesses and the well-guarded entrances to commodity-trading floors . Here in my home , Ireland , the economy was dominated for millennia by cattle farming . The system stretched back to the time of the herders who built the stone-walled fields of Ceide , in the west of the island , fields that have lain buried under peat bogs for 5,000 years . The Irish word for a road , bothar , means a path wide enough to accommodate a cow . And in the wider cultural setting cattle have literally been the alpha , if not the omega , of the Western world . After all , the first letter of the alphabet you are now reading had its genesis as a symbolic representation of an ox . Author Affiliation " Cattle is in the blood , " is the way Daniel G. Bradley ( " Genetic Hoofprints , " page 36 ) describes himself . A lecturer in genetics and a fellow at Trinity College , Dublin , Bradley grew up on a small farm in northern Ireland and recalls tending cattle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not all his work is done in the lab . To help trace the origins of African cattle , he has traveled several times to western Africa and , with help from the UN . Food and Agriculture Organization , he has visited remote pastoral villages in Guinea and Guinea-Bissau . He once drove through a desert strewn with spent rocket shells to reach an area of Chad that is home to huge-horned African Kuri cattle . // <p>                     