@@406440

I FIRST " MET " ST . FRANCIS DE SALES IN A ROUNDabout sort of way . In the early 1970s , I began researching Jane de Chantal , an early modern Catholic widow and foundress of a religious community known as the Visitation of Holy Mary . I knew Jane had co-founded her community with the Savoyard Bishop Francis de Sales , but it was not until I began research in earnest that he impinged on my consciousness . Because she did not write for publication , I had to search Francis ' writings to get a glimpse of Jane . Over the years I read and re-read his side of their almost two decade-long correspondence . It was almost as though I was receiving the letters myself . Steeped in the classics , theology , philosophy , and spirituality , Francis served as a priest and later bishop in Geneva , where he is credited with restoring Catholicism following John Calvin 's Reformation . In an era when theologies of predestination were in vogue , warning that God predestines some to eternal damnation , Francis came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reading his letters , I came to see that Francis saw the universe as a world of interconnected hearts : our hearts and God 's generous heart bridged by the gentle , humble heart of Jesus ( Matthew 11:29 ) . God desires that we love each other as we have been loved . We do n't have two hearts , Francis was wont to say , one that loves God and one that loves others . We have only one heart that loves in varying ways . Such a message was hardly restricted to the early 1600s . Love is realized as we look around us . It occurs in marriages , families , classrooms , and workplaces . It occurs especially in friendships based on a shared sense of God-with-us . Love becomes concrete by the practice of the " little " relational virtues of gentleness , humility , patience , simplicity , and cordiality . Francis believed that these virtues could be practiced in every walk of life , whether one was a homemaker , merchant , teacher , student , or priest . READING HIS CORRESPONDENCE , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a process of spiritual formation . I was encouraged to be gentle with myself as well as with others . I learned to " love my abjections " or limitations - at first an off-putting thought . I came to see , however , that my weaknesses and shortcomings were the very things that bring me close to others . Through embracing my human vulnerability , I 've learned to " live between the two wills of God , " as Francis described it . Though God 's full intent is not accessible to us , there are two avenues through which a partial glimpse is possible : " God 's will to be done " is discovered in the process of discernment , while " God 's will done " is found in our circumstances . Though I had learned of these ideas in Francis ' letters , the saint seemed to think I had more to learn . It was only in trying to publish a book- on SaIesian spirituality nonetheless - that I began to understand Francis ' teaching on " two wills . " Having submitted a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleagues and I were upset to discover that our publisher had commissioned an outside artist to create the cover of our book . This would not have been so terrible , but once we viewed the commissioned piece , we were nonplussed . The piece depicted our saints as we had never seen them , sort of like Hollywood movie stars , staring dreamily off into the distance . They were unrecognizable . The historian among us could n't get over the cheesy smiles : Seventeenth-century portraits never show teeth ! One of my colleagues attempted to change the publisher 's mind , but to no avail . We were curtly told that if we did n't like the cover , the book would never see the light of day . Needless to say , we adjusted and let it go . THOUGH THIS EXAMPLE IS TRIVIAL , the point is- and this I have found very helpful in more serious situations - that neither our sense of what should be , nor what had to be , was the full will of God . Each was only a glimpse . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between what we sense as God 's call and the challenging or seemingly impossible circumstances in which we find ourselves . The art of it is , on the one hand , to avoid being too attached to what we sense God calls us to do , all the while being wholly committed to its realization ; and on the other hand , to avoid being too thoughtlessly conformed to the circumstances in which we find ourselves , while still embracing them generously . Francis de Sales , through this first little lesson and more profoundly in the intervening years , has been for me a wise mentor , teaching me to live with energy in what seems to be called for , and yet to be willing to change course and remain generous in something different and new .                     