@@364953

If the administration 's hard line on Iraq is turning off some voters , Republican Party leaders are hoping to restore a more moderate face when it counts the most  --  at the party 's national convention in New York City at the end of August . A Bush campaign official tells TIME the roster of prime-time speakers will include California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger . The former Terminator does not share President Bush 's opposition to abortion and gay marriage , and during the movie star 's gubernatorial run , some advisers counseled the President to keep his distance , to avoid offending his conservative base . But Republican officials now hope the Governor 's broad appeal will help undo Democratic efforts to paint the party as doctrinaire . <P> Another moderate party figure who will be speaking in prime time is John McCain , who has clashed with the Administration on a number of issues and was even talked of as a vice-presidential candidate for the Democrats . He is expected to voice strong support for the Iraq war . One real Democrat , retiring Georgia Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to back Bush , will also speak at the convention . Secretary of Education Rod Paige will remind voters of Bush 's record on education . New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg will open the festivities . His predecessor Rudy Giuliani and New York Governor George Pataki will also get prime airtime to remind the country of Bush 's steady response to the 9/11 attacks . <P> Viewers may find the spectacle something of a rerun of the overtly inclusionary 2000 convention ; campaign officials are again asking state delegations to stress diversity . Projecting such an image is crucial after weeks of strident exchanges between the parties , culminating in Vice President Cheney 's outburst at Democratic Senator Pat Leahy last week . Cheney will get a prime-time spot too , of course , but insiders say he 's unlikely to join in the gentler approach . " Cheney soften ? " says a Bush official . " Do n't bet on it . "  --  By John F. Dickerson                     