@@406391

Home sweet gym These exercise DVDs will help you stay healthy , fit and energized - if you can just find the time to press play Yogini Workout with Ellen Barrett $15 US , ellenbarrett.com The workout A mind-andbody routine that offers stretches for the whole body and targeted strength exercises for the tummy , butt and thighs . This exercise routine fuses yoga-style postures with muscletoning moves such as lunges , squats and calisthenics . Why we like it The instructor teaches challenging yet calming combinations that keep the calorie burn high . Parent-friendly feature When it comes to carving out exercise time , every minute counts for busy parents . This DVD does n't require any prep time - just kick off your shoes and roll out your yoga mat ( not included ) . Just one request An express version of this 45-minute workout . Tip On days when you 're particularly time-crunched , select just one or two chapters from the DVD menu . 10 Minute Solution : Dance Off Fat Fast with Leah Sarago $13.58 , amazon.ca The workout Five 10minute dance routines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lungs . Choose the " Dance Sculpt " segment to strengthen your hips , butt and thighs with ballet-inspired moves . Why we like it This is a great workout if you love to dance . The routines are fun and brief , so they 're over before you know it . Plus , you do n't need any dance training to master the simple steps . Parent-friendly feature The Travoltaesque disco dancing in " Fat Blasting Flashback " or the bouncy grapevine step in " Cardio Swing Dance " might just get your kids dancing and sweating alongside you . Just one request Where are the bonus features ? A tutorial breaking down the moves could be helpful for the ballerina wannabes among us who are less than coordinated at times . Tip Shy about strutting your stuff ? You may prefer to save the , ahem , " Flirty Fat Burner " workout - with its sultry struts and sexy hip dips - for a day when you can exercise in private . 30 Day Shred with Julian Michaels $15 , amazon.ca The workout Three 20minute circuits combining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Workouts range in intensity from level one ( for the average gal ) to three ( for Olympians ) . Be prepared for lots of heart-pounding , high-impact moves , such as jumping jacks and pli hops ; this is not a gentle-on-thejoints workout . Why we like it Trainer Julian Michaels from TV 's The Biggest Loser demands diligence . Her part-inspiration , partbully attitude will motivate even the starchiest couch potato . Parent-friendly feature No need to worry about your kids stumbling over all kinds of fitness gadgets strewn across the living room - all you need is a set of three- to eight-pound ( 1.4 to 3.6 kg ) dumbbells and a mat . Just one request We would have appreciated lighter-intensity options for absolute beginners . You might feel like you 're " gargling your heart " ( the instructor 's words ) before some of the timed intervals are through . Tip On days when you 'd rather skip the drill-sergeant commentary , go for the music-only option on the DVD menu . 6-Minute Quick Blast Method : Total Body Calorie Blast with Tracey Mallett @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plus a warm-up and cool-down ) featuring either cardio and toning with dumbbells or mat work and an abdominal-training segment . Why we like it The backup exercisers in this DVD are all real women mostly moms with young children - who 've managed to shed pounds and shape up using the DVD 's highenergy routines . Parent-friendly feature Six-minute workouts ? There goes the " I 'm too busy to exercise " excuse . Just one request Stumble alert ! We did n't feel safe leaving our hand weights on the floor while doing the choreographed cardio segments ( as is shown in the DVD ) . Tip To make the most of your workout and to avoid injury , be sure to complete the DVD 's warm-up before you jump into one of the intense cardio segments . FitMom : Postnatal Workout with Andrea Page $20 , fitmomfitness.com The workout A great strength workout using your body weight , hand weights or baby 's weight as resistance . Why we like it No babysitter required . This DVD will whip you into shape with your baby in tow ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instructor and all the backup exercisers wear babies in front or back carriers as they do lunges , squats and heel raises . The bigger your baby , the more calories you burn ! Parent-friendly feature The tots featured in this DVD are both adorable and endearingly true to life - the mobile babies are more interested in exploring their surroundings than receiving smooches from mommy during " baby kisses push-ups . " Just one request Exercising with a baby ? Expect interruptions - otherwise we would n't change much . Tip Try this one with toddlers and preschoolers as well . They 're too hefty to put in a carrier , but they might mimic the moves with you . And you can include older kids in floor exercises , such as sitting a toddler on your pelvis as you do crunches.                     