@@379000

No American writer 's words are more admired than those of Abraham Lincoln . By the time of his assassination in 1865 , he had written passages by which everything that followed would be measured . But such an ability was the last thing the American public expected from the obscure prairie lawyer who took office just four years earlier . " We have a President without brains , " wrote the country 's leading historian , George Bancroft . Bancroft was , admittedly , a Democrat , but many self-respecting Republicans were also concerned about the implications of having an untried , self-educated " rail splitter " as a leader in time of grave national crisis . Charles Francis Adams , a leading Republican and the son and grandson of Presidents , wrote of the new President-elect in his diary : " Good natured , kindly , honest , but frivolous and uncertain . " The doubts and fears of many Americans were expressed by a newspaper editor who asked , " Who will write this ignorant man 's state papers ? " <P> The Northern intelligentsia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least two reasons . First , there was the strong impression , reinforced by his unkempt appearance and awkward demeanor , that he was a rube . His obvious discomfort in formal clothes on ceremonial occasions and his constant fidgeting with his ill-fitting kid gloves did little to dispel those misgivings . Moreover , he insisted on entertaining sophisticated visitors by telling country stories in a broad hoosier accent . Wall Street lawyer George Templeton Strong wrote in his diary after their first meeting that the President was a " barbarian , " a " yahoo . " And Strong liked him . <P> Another reason Lincoln 's writing ability was underrated was that his typically plain diction and straightforward expression were at odds with the public 's expectations . The recognized standard for a statesmanlike address in mid  --  19th century America called for considerably more formality and pretension . The prose of acknowledged masters of that kind of writing  --  such as Lincoln 's fellow orator at Gettysburg , Edward Everett , or Massachusetts Senator Charles Sumner  --  generally featured elevated diction , self-consciously artful expression and a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language , by contrast , seemed " odd " or " peculiar , " as in this passage from a public letter he sent to Horace Greeley , founder and editor of the New York Tribune , an antislavery paper : " My paramount object in this struggle is to save the Union , and is not either to save or to destroy slavery . If I could save the Union without freeing any slave I would do it , and if I could save it by freeing all the slaves I would do it ; and if I could save it by freeing some and leaving others alone I would also do that . "                     