@@391804

You can measure the change in France by the use of prefixes . Ten years ago , the French railed against American " hyperpower . " They played the role of world-weary critics , sitting on the sidelines and issuing ironic commentaries on American vigor , assertiveness and action . Today the French use the same prefix to describe their " hyperpresident , " Nicolas Sarkozy , a man who has intrigued all of France with his vigor , assertiveness and action . He even appears to be triumphing in his most significant challenge yet , facing down the country 's striking transport unions . If he succeeds , it could be the beginning of the biggest turnaround in Europe since Margaret Thatcher revived Britain in the 1980s . Contrary to caricature , the French economy does not need a complete overhaul . It has many highly competitive aspects . Labor productivity is as high as in the United States , the health-care system is excellent and cost-effective and French infrastructure-from high-speed rail to broadband-is unparalleled . But the cancer eating away at the economy is a set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firing arduous , and pensions and benefits hugely expensive . ( This is why France has a chronically high unemployment rate , currently 8.7 percent , which is 50 percent higher than the average for the industrialized nations . ) If France fixed its problems with labor flexibility , it could be catapulted forward by higher growth and lower unemployment , which would make the whole system much more sustainable . Generations of French would still be able to take their long lunches and longer vacations . Sarkozy has chosen his battle wisely . The reforms he is proposing are popular because their target-France 's railway-union workers-enjoy benefits that make other French citizens roll their eyes . Retirement benefits can begin at 50 . They were granted by the government in an age of steam locomotives , when life expectancy was much lower and the work-shoveling coal into engine boilers-more dangerous . Other civil servants believe that this battle is symbolic . If Sarkozy can break this particular union , it could unleash a flood of further reforms . They are right . The unions have won several times before . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of French politicians , came into office in 1995 determined to fix the French economy along many of the same lines that Sarkozy is proposing . Three of his prime ministers pushed forward such plans-Alain Jupp in 1995 , Jean-Pierre Raffarin in 2003 and Dominique de Villepin in 2005 . Each time they faced crippling strikes . Initially the government showed some backbone . " The street should express itself , " Raffarin declared in 2003 , " but the street does not govern . " In fact it did . All three times , the reform plans were abandoned . The street is an odd element in France 's Fifth Republic , very much part of the system . Charles de Gaulle created a political order that he accurately characterized as an " elected monarchy . " There are few checks on the president 's power . The prime minister tends to be significantly less important than key presidential advisers , and Parliament is a joke . The only real debate , opposition and counterbalance to the president comes from the street , and so it has become part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to understand and accept . But this time , the president is banking on the fact that the public wants change , and will , for once , side with the palace and against the street . He appears to be right . Public sympathy is not with the strikers . Timing is everything in politics , and Nicolas Sarkozy 's greatest distinction might prove to be that he has arrived at just the right moment . If he is able to win this battle , Sarkozy will be able to press forward with a series of reforms , each begetting the next . The cumulative effect of these changes could unleash a wave of optimism , which is itself hugely beneficial to a country 's economy . France would embrace the new global economy rather than fretting about it . In an essay in the current issue of The American Interest , Brookings scholar Philip Gordon writes that Sarkozy might well be able to make France a larger player in the world , " punching above its weight , " the way Tony Blair did during the 1990s and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were able to create a new image for Britain and made the country a modern world power . But that transformation rested on the revival of the British economy , which became a symbol of success in a globalized age . France currently ranks 18th in the World Economic Forum 's annual competitiveness rankings . That 's not bad , but it is nowhere near commensurate with the place that the French imagine for themselves in the world . American commentators have delighted in Sarkozy 's pro-American musings and statements . But this was never the hard part . France is actually not that anti-American . It has been a staunch ally in the War on Terror . What Sarkozy is doing now is truly difficult . If he succeeds , it would mean not just a new Franco-American relationship , but a new France . photo : MAN OF THE MOMENT : Sarkozy 's timing is perfect MICHEL EULER-REUTERS <p>                     