@@403458

A case Study-A Novel Therapy For nterstitial Cystitis // Sixty-eight million Americans suffer from various urinary conditions involving overactive bladder , urgency , frequency and pelvic pain . Unfortunately , there is a lack of effective treatments for these debilitating chronic problems but with a new therapy pioneered by a company called pH Sciences , there may be hope for people like Mary Smith . Mary suffers from interstitial cystitis . She plans her entire day around how close she 'll be to a bathroom . She often has to urinate over 40 times a day . She endures frequent pain and near-constant urgency . Her dream is to spend a whole day at the beach with her grandchildren . She takes a variety of medications and watches her diet very closely . The medications do n't work very well and have some unpleasant side effects . Eating acidic foods like tomato sauce or drinking acidic beverages like coffee throw her symptoms into overdrive . She , as with so many others like her , feels trapped . Mary 's experience with acidic foods is consistent with recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metabolic acidosis may play a significant role in the severity of the symptoms associated with these urinary conditions . Metabolic acidosis occurs when the level of acidity in the body is destructively high . Actively managing the acid-alkaline balance in the body may help urinary condition sufferers reduce the severity and frequency of their symptoms . Photograph // An innovative natural , alkalizing compound , Alka-Plex(TM) , was tested by a group of people diagnosed with interstitial cystitis ( IC ) and shows extremely positive results in reducing pain , urgency and frequency . Interstitial cystitis is among the most difficult of all chronic urinary conditions . This study 's results form the basis of a new research agenda into the ill effects of chronic , low-grade metabolic acidosis , and the launch of a line of natural , science-based products to counteract the effects of destructive levels of acidity in the body . Interstitial Cystitis One of the most debilitating diseases related to excess acidity is interstitial cystitis . Interstitial cystitis is a painful disorder that affects well over a million people in the U.S. Interstitial cystitis is an inflammatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pain in the bladder and pelvic region . More than 90 percent of those affected are women . There are two commonly recognized types of interstitial cystitis . The most common type is known as " non-ulcerative IC . " The second and less common type of IC is known as " ulcerative IC . " Symptoms include urinary urgency , frequency and pain . Pain may vary in intensity as the bladder fills or empties with urine . For some the pain of IC is excruciating . Frequency is not always related to bladder size and many people with IC have normal bladder capacity . Those with severe IC may urinate as many as 60 times a day and more than a dozen times a night . In women , symp-toms are often reported to be worse during menstruation.1 The causes of interstitial cystitis are not fully recognized . One theory considers IC to be an autoimmune disease , while other theories include the suggestion that its origin might lie in bladder scarring stemming from recurrent antibiotic use . In all cases it can be said that IC always involves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bladder lining . Interstitial Cystitis and Urine pH In interstitial cystitis patients the bladder wall becomes hypersensitive and extremely vulnerable to the corrosive effect of highly acidic urine . Myself and other researchers and clinicians have long noted that moving towards a more alkaline pH of the urine provides considerable symptom relief for interstitial cystitis sufferers.2 Interstitial Cystitis and Chronic , Low-Grade Metabolic Acidosis Unwittingly the vast majority of those consuming the modern Western diet labor under chronic , low-grade metabolic acidosis . This metabolic acidosis stems from our dietary patterns ( diets which are high in protein and refined foods which create metabolic acids and are low in vegetables , fruits , nuts and seeds which contain compounds capable of neutralizing metabolic acids ) . Chronic low-grade metabolic acidosis hampers the body 's function in many ways . In particular , metabolic acidosis limits the body 's self-repair mechanisms and in this way contributes to the development of " repair deficit " disorders such as auto-immune disease and interstitial cystitis . Available Treatments for Interstitial Cystitis In addition to mechanical stretching of the bladder , instillation of the bladder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , antidepressants , antihistamines and surgery , interstitial cystitis patients report that diet is important . No scientific studies have assessed the relationship between diet and interstitial cystitis or the severity of its symptoms . Nonetheless , IC sufferers have long noted that certain foods can greatly aggravate their condition . Thus an " Interstitial Cystitis Diet " has evolved which suggests that elimination of spicy foods , caffeinated and citrus beverages , highly acidic foods and other items that are often reported to increase inflammation and pain . A Novel Approach to Interstitial Cystitis Symptom Reduction Given the severity of the symptoms experienced by those with interstitial cystitis and the limited value of conventional therapies , there is a need for new symptom reduction and healing therapies . In the remainder of this article I discuss a pilot research project looking at one such new and promising alkalizing product developed by pH Sciences , Inc . The approach to interstitial cystitis symptom relief discussed here concerns a natural , nutritional therapy aimed at : * Reducing the acid content of aggravating foods and beverages * Reducing the acidity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , low-grade metabolic acidosis . Two Year Follow-Up Report on The Use of the Alka-Plex Formula for lnterstitia ! Cystitis Between November 2000 and April 2001 Tamer(R) Laboratories , the parent company to pH Sciences , conducted an informal study of 18 interstitial cystitis patients using the patented Alka-Plex compound . After three months ' use of Alka-Plex , the interstitial cystitis patients reported that there was a 50 percent decrease in bladder and abdomen pain , a 31 percent reduction in urgency and 37 percent reduction of frequency . These results were impressive , particularly given the difficult nature of IC . In February 2003 , a two-year follow-up assessment was conducted on the long-term benefits of Alka-Plex used among the original Interstitial Cystitis Study participants . This assessment was designed and implemented by the Nutrition Education and Consulting Service in East Syracuse , New York . Fifteen of the original 18 participants were located and interviewed . Thirteen were female and two were male . Five of these no longer continued to use Alka-Plex . While one might expect that the " dropouts " did not benefit from product @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the five subjects who discontinued use reported significant symptom relief with Alka-Plex . Due to various circumstances they did not continue use of Alka-Plex . The 10 that were still using the formula had developed their own use pattern which met their needs . Long-Term Sustained Benefits of Alka-Plex Use Among Interstitial Cystitis Patients Over two years use the symptom relief benefits are not only sustained but substantial . Bladder pain was reduced by 43 percent , urgency of urination reduced by 35 percent , frequency of daytime urination reduced by 38 percent and frequency of night-time urination reduced by 37 percent . After comparing product use for the short term and then the long term , it is evident that symptoms improved over time . In fact the reduction of frequency of day and night urination was greater over the two-year period . Symptom Relief Given the level of pain experienced by interstitial cystitis sufferers , all participants considered a 34 percent to 43 percent reduction in pain to be very significant . One participant detailed that she was so desperate she considered bladder removal . She could n't standup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she was " up all night " urinating . Her case was the most striking of all , as she reported 100 percent recovery of bladder health and full symptom relief with the use of Alka-Plex . Another remarkable case of pain reduction involved a male subject with radiation cystitis . He had undergone radioactive " seed treatment " for prostate cancer . Treatment resulted in burning with urination . The pain continued to worsen until he found he would burn up to six hours after urination . Within one week of taking Alka-Plex , and the IC medication Elmiron , he experienced complete relief . He stopped taking Elmiron after a month and used only Alka-Plex with continued complete relief . This man attributes his recovery to the use of the Alka-Plex formula . Urinary urgency and frequency are devastating symptoms that are also alleviated by Alka-Plex use . One woman reported that before starting Alka-Plex she had to urinate 40 times a day . With the products this was reduced to 25 times a day . In another case one male participant reported urinating 30 to 40 times a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elmiron and Atarax ) . When he added Alka-Plex , his daytime urination was reduced by 30 percent and night time by 40 to 50 percent . Additional Benefits All users reported important collateral benefits from Alka-Plex use . The most mentioned was improvement of digestion with a correction of acid reflux and less bloating . For many participants , reduced nocturnal urination meant much better sleep . The benefits of more restful sleep appeared to have far reaching healing effects both physically and emotionally . Finally , it is worth remembering that not just IC , but all types of cystitis would likely benefit from Alka-Plex . The dramatic recovery of the man suffering from radiation cystitis illustrates this point . Conclusion This investigation concludes that the Alka-Plex formula provides immediate , significant and enduring benefits for those suffering from the symptoms associated with interstitial cystitis. pH Sciences , under an exclusive license from lamer Laboratories , is developing a line of Alka-Plex products to counter the effects of destructive acidity in body . Their first product , pH Control , helps reduce levels of urinary acid . Ry reducing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environment for the bladder , this enhances the bladder 's overall repair/healing capacity and in this way plays an important role in tissue healing for those suffering from interstitial cystitis . Sidebar For more information on pH Sciences and the Alka-Plex formula call toll free 877-363-2243 or visit www.phsciences.com Reference References : 1 . National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse , NIH Publication No. ( 12-3220 , March 2002. 2 . Brawn , Susan . " Immunology and Nutrition : Casting A Broader Net . " Paper present at the National Interstitial Cystitis Meetings , Washington D.C. , 1997 . Author Affiliation Dr. Susan E. Brown , Ph.D , CCN Author Affiliation Susan E. Brown , Ph.D. , CCN , is a medical anthropologist and certified clinical nutritionist . She directs the Nutrition Education and Consulting Service and the Osteoporosis Education Project ( OEP ) , both located in East Syracuse , New York . Dr. Brown conducts primary research and lectures widely on health regeneration and osteoporosis . Dr. Brown 's publications include Better Bones , Better Body : Beyond Estrogen and Calcium : A Comprehensive Self-Help Program for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Keats , 2000 ) and The Mend Clinic Book of Natural Remedies for Menopause and Beyond ( Dell , 1997 ) , coauthored with Dr. Paula Maas . Information on Dr. Brown 's work can be found at betterbones.com or susanbrownphd.com or by calling 315-432-1676. // <p>                     