@@414998

Environmentalists Team Up to Reform the Magazine Industry Photograph Photograph // When it comes to promoting ecological destruction , toxic pollution and wastefulness on a large scale , it 's hard to beat the magazine industry . According to Coop America , nearly 95 percent of magazines print on paper with no recycled content , condemning 17 million trees to death by the saw each year . But the trees cut to make paper are only the first environmental victims of magazine publishing . Turning those trees into pulp consumes enormous amounts of energy and water , and the bleaching process creates dioxin , a chemical the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency called " the most potent carcinogen ever tested on laboratory animals . " Environmentalist say this colossal problem could be greatly reduced simply by switching from virgin to recycled paper . Government research agrees . The EPA has reported that substituting one ton of 100 percent recycled paper for virgin paper saves 17 trees , 4,100 kilowatt-hours of electricity , 7,000 gallons of water and produces 60 pounds less air pollution . But while the solution is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invisible hand of the market nor government regulations have driven magazine publishers toward paper with recycled content . So how do concerned environmentalists tackle the enormous challenge of driving that switch ? First , they team up . That 's what Coop America , Conservatree and the Independent Press Association ( IPA ) have done to create the Paper Project , a three-pronged assault that hopes to steer the magazine publishing industry away from its destructive practices while jumpstarting a market for recycled paper nationwide . " IPA started the Paper Project about two years ago as a mechanism to move our members to take their environmental responsibility more seriously with regard to recycling , " says John Anner , executive director of IPA , a nonprofit organization that represents about 220 independent publications . " However , we realized that our members make up only a very small percentage of the publications sold in the U.S. , so we coordinated with Coop America and Conservatree to affect a wider group . " " The project uses a carrot-and-stick approach to bring about change throughout the entire industry , " says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and assistance that can help the smaller publishers switch to recycled paper , while at the same time putting pressure via consumer activism on the large publiblishers to switch . " The projects coordinators explain that each group uses its own resources and strengths to impact a particular segment of the magazine industry , creating several interrelated strategies to reach from the very smallest to the very largest publishers . " The first strategy targets small magazines with a paper-buyers cooperative that provides 100 percent post  --  consumer paper , " says Anner . " Since small magazines often can not afford to buy bulk paper individually , they can get it in smaller quantities through the cooperative at a lower price . We found a mill that would make 100 percent post  --  consumer paper to our specs , and we delivered it to a printer . So far , we 've had two magazines come on board and five others that will likely come on as well . " " Buying through the cooperative helped keep recycled paper affordable at a time when the price was going up . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " In addition to giving small magazines the benefit of bulk-buying power , it serves to create a stable market for recycled paper , bringing price down while creating demand . " The slightly larger " second tier " publishers , however-ones with distributions in the low hundred thousands- have printing needs too specific to buy their paper as part of a cooperative , and ordering paper in bulk is less of problem for them . For these magazines , the project acts as an information clearinghouse , providing publishers with up-to-date information on recycled paper that can make it easier to locate specific sizes and weights . " Publishers and printers that have looked into using recycled paper in the past may have found problems with the price and quality , " says Susan Kinsella , executive director of Conservatree , which offers publishers and printers a thorough database of recycled papers and free consultation from a recycled paper expert . " We 're trying to let them know that much of what they 're dealing with is old information . " One major concern has been price , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more expensive than virgin paper , but it is getting cheaper . What we do is figure out which recycled papers are competitive with virgin paper . We also look at shifts in the production process-like changing the weight and layout , and working with the printer-that can make the price more competitive . " In addition to helping new magazines make the recycled switch the project seeks to reward publishers already using recycled paper . An annual Eco  --  paper Leadership Award recognizes magazines printing on paper with 30 percent or more postconsumer content . This year 's award went to 12 magazines that focus on the environment and outdoor recreation , including E. Photograph // " The final approach , " says Larson , " is the stick approach , which pushes publishers toward recycled paper using consumer awareness and public pressure . One publisher we 're focusing on is Conde Nast , one of the largest publishers in the world and the second-largest publisher in the United States . We feel it 's hypocritical that the company 's magazine Traveler shows really nice nature scenes and yet is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scenery it shows . So we 've been talking to them about switching to recycled paper and have also distributed postcards to our members that they can send to Conde Nast asking them to switch . " Conde Nast , which publishes 18 magazines with such popular titles as Vanity Fair and The New Yorker , refused to comment when asked about the campaign . " They try to brush us off , " says Larson . " But we just keep putting pressure on them to let them know we 're not going away . " With a circulation of 762,000 , Traveler alone could substantially reduce the company 's environmental impact by switching to paper with even a small amount of recycled content , according to Larson . " Not only would it help the environment , but it would send a powerful message " he says . <p>                     