@@389085

Headnote To Fight Turtle Poaching , Campaigners Hit Below the Belt In Mexico 's Magdalena Bay in Baja California , a Trans Am pulls into a village courtyard , parking behind an underground restaurant . When the trunk is opened , it 's full of green turtles flipped on their backs , alive and kicking . Jeffrey Brown , an American photojournalism starts taking pictures . Alongside him is J. Wallace Nichols , biologist with the California Academy of Sciences who , in 1998 , co-founded Grupo Tortuguero ( " Turtle Group " ) in hopes of recovering the five endangered species of Eastern Pacific Sea Turtles-hawksbills , loggerheads , leatherbacks , olive ridleys and green turtles-that forage and nest along Baja peninsula . The two have negotiated their way into this " speakeasy " underworld . A notorious poacher known only as " Lobo " takes the reptiles from the trunk . " He proceeded to lay the turtles out and hit each one over the head with a two-by-four then butchered them up , " recalls Brown , who kept the camera snapping to document the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After the slaughter " the old grandma " in the restaurant kitchen made turtle soup for waiting customers . This practice remains " business as usual " in such makeshift restaurants throughout Baja , even though sea turtle hunting and consumption has been banned since 1990 . " I do n't see too many turtles anymore , " says Alvaro Romero , a 78-year-old fisherman who has lived in Loreto all his life . He stopped fishing for turtles long ago because he did n't want to see them disappear . " Always kill , kill , killing of the turtles , " says Romero who nowadays gives eco-tours of Coronado Island on his small boat , known as a panga . He says that poachers still hunt turtles at night around neighboring Carmen Island . They hunt underwater with flashlights , using a hookah or free diving . A swimming turtle is grabbed by the top edge of its shell and forced to surface where another poacher , waiting in a panga , pulls it aboard by its flippers . The animals can weigh over 200 pounds . The turtles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for buyers in Ensenada and Tijuana who pay about $500 per turtle . In Baja alone , an estimated 35,000 turtles die in the hands of poachers annually , speared , harvested with long gillnets or caught by hand . Four species of marine turtles are already ecologically extinct . Across the Sea of Cortez along the mainland coastline , turtle eggs are in high demand . The olive ridley population along Oaxaca 's 310-mile coastline is one of the most productive in the world and a main source of egg poaching . In the mid 1990s , egg snatchers converged along two main beaches near the city of Juchitn during arribada ( mass turtle nestings ) , blatantly picking the area clean with no intervention from law enforcement . Lately , police or soldiers guard arribada events . But poachers use bribery or raid unprotected nesting sites , selling the eggs to commercial traffickers . " It 's making all these egg traffickers very rich , " says an ex-official for the Environmental Law Enforcement Agency ( aka PROFERA ) in the Oaxaca region , who asked for anonymity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the beach for about four pesos 36 cents then they sell you three eggs in the marketplace for 10 pesos 90 cents . So the profit is enormous , And there 's plenty to spread around to pay off the police and whoever else . " Commercial traffickers use underage girls to smuggle eggs across the main highway between Oaxaca and Juchitan in buses or pickup trucks jammed with passengers . PROFEPA inspectors regularly intercept two or three sacks of eggs in the luggage compartments of buses at police-supported checkpoints . But the female mules , averaging 15 or 16 years old , are virtually untouchable , " trained " to cry rape or sexual abuse if the police dare take them into custody . Most policemen want to avoid the complications of such charges . Turtle poachers in Baja are often paid with drugs , traveling the same backroads as narco-traffickers , using walkie-talkies or bribery to negotiate military checkpoints . In Oaxaca , taxi drivers are on-the-take as lookouts , because they have car radios and can warn smuggler trucks-carrying anywhere between 5,000 to 100,000 eggs to commercial centers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Turtle smuggling is thought to be a proving ground , a gateway into drug trafficking . Mexico is the principal transit country for 70 to 90 percent of cocaine entering the U.S. , and the largest outside source of marijuana and methamphetamine . Grupo Tortuguero continues its David-vs. - Goliath efforts to co-opt fishermen and volunteers from Baja 's fishing communities to monitor , tag and protect sea turtles . The group has dozens of sites along the peninsula and all have drug issues , ranging from trafficking to addiction . " I 've interacted with fishers who were not " poachers , " but were poaching for money to feed their habit , " says Nichols . During his two decades of fieldwork , he has learned to move around Baja 's more " narco-saturated communities , " peopled by crack addicts and used by drug dealers as safe harbors along trafficking routes . Volunteer manpower is too sparse to patrol all the turtle nesting areas 24/7 , and fieldwork remains risky . Protection from law enforcement , while improving , has been marginal . Police are either corrupt or hesitant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drug lords who prowl land and sea . But there have been recent gains . WiLDCOAST , a small conservation organization also co-founded by Nichols , has implemented a media campaign . It started in 2005 , when Argentine singer and Playboy model Dorismar attracted controversial attention by appearing in television and poster PSAs , hitting Mexican men-who eat turtle eggs mistakenly believing they are aphrodisiacs-below the belt . The message above a salacious Dorismar reads : " My man does n't need to eat turtle eggs ; because he knows they do n't make him more potent . " The bold campaign reached a global audience of 300 million and resulted in a decrease in consumption of sea turtle eggs . In 2006 , World Cup soccer idols Jorge " El Brody " Campos and Kikin Fonseca joined WiLDCOAST 's latest " Do n't eat turtles ! " campaign . And more recently , Baja 's governor Narcisco Agundez publicly announced he does not eat turtle . He now promotes turtle watching over turtle eating , an unprecedented move in Mexico , where powerful people eat illegal seafood as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sea turtle numbers are slowly coming up , " says Nichols . " And if this continues , then it 's possible to save the sea turtles . And they can become the symbol of a success story-that a grassroots movement can in fact protect a piece of the ocean . That 's very powerful . " <p>                     