@@368608

David Dichter likes being a matchmaker . And like any self-respecting love broker , he takes pride in arranging happily-ever-after marriages . Dichter 's mission is to bring together entrepreneurs in developing countries and help them form profitable alliances . " They need someone to be the proverbial honest broker , " he says . <P> That 's the idea behind Dichter 's company , Technology for the People , founded in 1977 . Based in Geneva , Switzerland , TFTP confronts a common challenge of the developing world : while small and medium-size firms need help from the industrialized world , rich-country production technology is expensive to buy and maintain . Dichter 's solution was to notice that many enterprises in southern and Southeast Asia have the technical and managerial expertise to help start-up businesses in other developing countries . " Their operating costs are much lower than those of a Western company , so they demand less return on their investment , " he notes . In all , TFTP has brokered deals worth an estimated $7.5 million and given new hope to businesses in countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City , N.J. , Dichter , 69 , says he has always been interested in development issues . He studied Asian economics at Aligarh Muslim University in India , where the idea for TFTP took root . " I was affected by the poverty , the lack of technology and the contrast between rich and poor , " he says . He went on to earn a master 's degree at Clark University in Worcester , Mass. , and a Ph.D . at Birbeck College in London . In the 1960s he worked in Washington as a U.S. Foreign Service officer for Asian countries . He went to Switzerland in 1970 to coordinate the International Secretariat for Volunteer Service , an intergovernmental agency based in Geneva ; married a Swiss , Ruth Griwa , and stayed . <P> On a trip to Africa in the 1970s , he witnessed the indifference of government officials mandated to improve rural grain storage . " There was no financial reward for them , and I realized company-to-company transactions would be more effective because of a mutual profit incentive , " he says . <P> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " that was TFTP 's cornerstone . Dichter says capital is scarce in developing countries , and high-interest loans are inaccessible to small enterprises . " We had to come up with a different game plan in order to arrange deals that the banks would n't touch . Using equipment or technical know-how as equity is usually satisfactory to both partners . " Earlier this year , Dichter brokered a fifty-fifty joint venture , worth about $250,000 , between Akshay Urja in Poona , India , and a company called Ekrani in Tbilisi , Georgia , to manufacture solar hot-water-heating systems for sale in the former Soviet republics . The Indian company will provide production technology and marketing savvy , and the Georgian firm will provide raw materials and factory and office facilities . " Neither side committed capital to the deal , and none was needed in order to launch the project , " Dichter says .                     