@@385058

Herring flash in Queen Charlotte Strait off Canada's-Vancouver Island , realm of rocketing tides . // In a swaying kelp forest , anemones bloom among lavender bryozoans , challenged yet fed by the waters of Queen Charlotte Strait . Life explodes in every crevice along the straits between Vancouver Island and mainland British Columbia , nurtured by the dynamics of fast , nutrient-rich water . The rush of ebb tide at Nakwakto Rapids whips around Turret Rock at 14.5 knots ( 16.7 miles an hour ) . Locals call it Tremble Island , though seismographs do n't support the belief that the rock shudders from the water 's force . Slack tide here lasts about 15 minutes , then the frenzy of flood tide hits . It seems insane to dive here . But it 's the only way to witness the energy packed by some of the world 's fastest water . So , equipped for scuba , my diving partner and I leave the shelter of a bay called God 's Pocket at the north end of Vancouver Island and turn our small boat toward Nakwakto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As glacier-carved fjords drain with the ebb tide into Queen Charlotte Strait , the fury of released water gushes past Tremble Island at 14.5 knots . Whirlpools spit wide swaths of foam , and seven-foot standing waves explode into the sky . At slack tide , the water quiets enough for us to take the plunge . Descending 40 feet , we struggle against still powerful surges from all sides . Yet the base of Tremble is a palette of delicate beauty : rocks swollen with pearly gooseneck barnacles , nudibranchs , sponges , and hungry bouquets of feather duster worms . These dense colonies of animals thrive in the straits of Vancouver Island because the water is a vast protein shake , blended by upwellings , back eddies , and surges directed by the ebb and flood of tides . Phytoplankton and zooplankton rip through the water , practically force-feeding creatures adapted to cling to rocky ledges or the muddy ocean floor . These nutrients foster life stacked upon life stacked upon life . The productive mayhem charges a food chain that reaches up through herring , salmon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Strait of Georgia ) harvest the rich herring population primarily for the roe . This major British Columbia fishery crashed in the 1960s as a result of overfishing . Government quotas , set at 60 million pounds last year , have helped herring numbers rebound . The most troubling threat now facing this region : Canada 's ban against offshore oil exploration is under review . If the federal ban is lifted , British Columbia 's provincial ban would likely also fall . Previous exploration has identified four offshore beds with potential for oil and natural gas ( map , right ) . On top of the environmental disruption caused by drilling and increased ship traffic , the prospect of an oil spill spreading through these swift and vibrantly productive waters is a nightmare I hope will never come to pass . Fast Zone Download wallpaper and watch video of kayakers daring Skookumchuck Rapids at ngm.com/0608 . Why So Fast and Rich ? Incoming flood tides and outgoing ebb tides accelerate through the narrow straits and pick up more speed as they funnel through channels created by islands ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immense deepwater upwellings at both the northern and southern entrances . What makes these straits an exceptional cauldron of life is the way in which ocean tides interact with fresh water from the Fraser River and from snowmelt flowing out of fjords . As the lighter outbound fresh water rides over ocean water , it pulls some of the salt water into it . This creates a vacuum of sorts that draws even more deep ocean water - and more nutrients-into the straits . Gem Tones The Emerald Sea , as these chill waters are called , turns deepest green in summer when plankton and algae flourish . Predators grow large in the churning pea soup-like this seven-foot wolf eel fish with a volleyball-size head ( below ) . A giant Pacific octopus ( life-size eye , middle right ) might reach 20 feet . I expected to find octopuses hiding in caves when tides were flying , but that 's when they feast , flattening their bodies to undulate with the current as they snake along life-laden walls . A sculpin known as a red Irish lord ( life-size , bottom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving the ambush predator a detailed view . To see how nutrient-saturated currents feed creatures like sea urchins , I poured a nontoxic dye and watched it flow not around the urchin colony but right through it ( top ) . Pacific white-sided dolphins circle a school of herring like a cyclone , pressing them into a ball near the surface and plucking from the edges . If the ball expands , the dolphins dart in or release rushes of bubbles to push the fish back into formation . Gulls and auklets dip into the fray , helping keep the ball intact . At one point the entire school engulfed me . I pulled back , mindful that vastly bigger herring fans-humpback whales-were nearby . Clinging for Life No strangers to ebb and flow , gooseneck barnacles ( below ) clamp to rocks with a cement so strong that scientists want to re-create it for commercial use . The bright-lipped filter feeders prefer strong currents and ocean surges , like the rapids around Tremble Island , where they cluster in 40-foot-long beds . A similar natural adhesive lets plumose anemones dangle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The anemones survive out of water for hours during low tide by retaining water in their body cavities . Submerged , they open to resemble fluffy heads of cauliflower and feed on zooplankton , fish , and jellyfish . The feathers of a two-foot-tall sea pen ( opposite ) house polyps that snare zooplankton . If threatened , the animal expels the water inflating its body and hides in the seafloor mud . Such are the sights that make Vancouver Island 's straits a premier cold-water destination for experienced divers . Nineteen arms of suction power anchor a two-foot-wide sunflower star beneath Quadra Island . Overhead a greenling swims against current that tangles whips of bull kelp . One of the world 's largest and fastest stars , with speed approaching a lively five feet a minute , the voracious sunflower easily overpowers urchins , clams , and other invertebrates . In this turbulent domain , life goes bold and vigorous-despite the wild waters , and because of them . <p>                     