@@422802

Kyo-Creen is a powdered drink made from young barley leaves and wheat grass blended with two types of seaweedsChlorella ( an alga ) , and Laminaria ( kelp ) . These components contain some of the most nutritious ingredients found in nature . Young barley leaves and wheat grass are good natural sources of chlorophyll , minerals ( particularly high in calcium , magnesium and potassium ) , vitamins , and enzymes necessary for proper metabolism and for our body cells . Both are rich sources of antioxidant enzymes that slow down the aging process and control the progression of degenerative diseases . Another ingredient in Kyo-Creen is Chlorella , an alga rich in chlorophyll , minerals , vitamins , and other highly nutritious substances with various biological effects . Chlorella regulates cholesterol , has shown antitumor effects in animals , has antiviral activity , and is reputed to have the ability to stimulate the immune system . In my study at the University of California , Berkeley , Chlorella was mixed with several cereal grains for growth experiments . We found that Chlorella is a good source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present in barley , wheat grass , and chlorella benefit the body . Chlorophylls are pigments of plants which receive energy from the sun in order to manufacture various kinds of chemicals needed for plant life . Chlorophylls in plants are like blood in animals . In fact , the chemical structure of chlorophyll is very much like hemoglobin , the red pigment in the blood . Chlorophyll is a natural blood builder and neutralizer of toxins . // Physicians and dentists have known the benefits of chlorophyll for a long time . Benjamin Gruskin , M.D. , of Temple University reviewed 1,200 cases of acute infections of the upper respiratory tract , sinuses , and chronic ulcers of different types being cured by water-soluble chlorophyll . In addition , chlorophyll has been shown to control halitosis ( bad breath ) , oral diseases , and malodor of other body parts , as well as to hasten wound healing and treat kidney stones . More recently , researchers have focused on the radio protective , antimutagenic and anticarcinogenic effects of chlorophylls . Chlorophylls have been shown to nullify the effects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cause mutation ( change of DNA ) . This is one of the reasons why scientists today are recommending that diets include green leafy vegetables containing chlorophylls and other cancer preventive substances . Health Benefits of Kelp One last important ingredient in KyoGreen is Laminaria , a brown seaweed better known as kelp . Kelp is high in minerals , particularly calcium iodine , potassium and magnesium . It is also a good source of vitamin C. Kelp has been used in folk medicine to treat respiratory , gastrointestinal and genitourinary problems . It has been shown to lower blood pressure and cholesterol , too . A few years ago Dr. Jan Teas , associated at that time with Harvard University School of Public Health , discovered that Japanese women had only 1/5 the incidence of breast cancer compared with their American counterparts . She found that Japanese women routinely eat seaweed , an uncommon item in American diet . She also noted that in recent years Japanese women who live in urban areas have increased incidence of breast cancer while those who live in rural areas experience no increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of processed foods minus the seaweed of traditional diets-may have contributed to the increased incidence of breast cancer . Dr. Teas then conducted a study and found that kelp significantly delays and reduces the development of breast cancer induced by chemical carcinogens . How does kelp work ? Some have speculated that it contains compounds that may counteract carcinogens or cancer producing substances , and others suggest it may act through modulating the immune system . Immune System Is the Key Nowadays , it seems that everyone is talking about the importance of the immune system . The idea that green foods can affect the immune system is of special interest to Benjamin Lau , M.D. , Ph.D. , a physician and immunologist at California 's Loma Linda University Medical School . Using macrophages as a tool , Dr. Lau and his associates tested Kyo-Green and its individual components for their immune modulating activity . They found that barley green , wheat grass and Chlorella are all potent stimulators of macrophages . In the presence of small quantities of these compounds , macrophages produced powerful chemical substances that are known to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's group chose to study macrophage activity because these cells play a central and vital role in the immune system . Nearly every immune reaction , whether early or late , involves the macrophages . Any substance which affects the macrophages is , therefore , likely to be capable of influencing the entire immune system . These studies confirm the hypothesis that Kyo-Green indeed is capable of strengthening the immune system . More and more health professionals are now recommending Kyo-Green to individuals with frequent colds , those suffering from chronic fatigue , those wishing to have more stamina , and those who just want to feel good . The suggested use is one teaspoon one to three times a day with a small glass of cool water or juice on an empty stomach ( before meal time ) . It should not be mixed in hot water since enzymes are easily destroyed by heat . Author Affiliation by Esther W. Lau , M.S. , R.D. Author Affiliation Esther Lau holds a master of science degree in Nutrition from the University of California at Berkeley . She is a member of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     