@@402117

When Walter Hamady , the eminent book artist , fine printer and papermaker , was chairman of a graduate program at the University of Wisconsin-Madison , he posed a question during interviews with prospective teaching assistants : " Is there a person in your life who has opened a window for you , turned you around or provided an epiphany for you ? " To his dismay , most of the candidates could not name anyone-not a parent , or a rock star or even a sports figure . The exhibition " Hamady 's Problems ... Solutions , " at Columbia College Chicago Center for Book &; Paper Arts ( March 7-April 19 ) , provided Hamady 's own answer to this question-a question that reaches to the heart of his work . In Travelling , Gabberjabb Number Seven , 1996 , from his Gabberjabb series of artist books , he has identified an epiphanic person for every year of his life . Hamady 's humanism-his astonishing willingness to mix up art with the frank and messy imagery of the human body , his celebration of human relationships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life 's work since he founded the Perishable Press Limited more than 30 years ago at his home , the Minor Confluence Tree Farm , west of Madison . ( He said in a statement at the time that the press 's name " seemed to most adequately describe the human condition , which is both perishable and limited . " ) Now professor emeritus at Wisconsin , Hamady nurtured one of the most prolific book arts programs in the United States when he taught there from 1966 to 1996 , graduating a glittering cadre of fine letterpress printers , papermakers and bookbinders who have gone on to the top of the field , establishing firmly this relatively new discipline in contemporary art . They include Jeffrey Morin , Walter Tisdale , Barbara Tetenbaum , Caren Heft , Marta Gomez and Amos Kennedy , among others . A little over half of the exhibition was devoted to works by 45 of these students from Hamady 's personal collection : they had given a piece to their teacher when , as fledgling book artists , they moved on from the camaraderie , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Wisconsin . The show 's title reflects a set of 33 problems , or exercises , that Hamady devised for his students-What Constitutes a Book , Altered Book Problem , Tactile Touch Book , New Invented Alphabet Book , High Speed Book , etc. - all designed to steer them into grappling with aspects of the form . The students ' solutions clearly demonstrate Hamady 's influence : elegant craftsmanship based on thorough knowledge of traditional skills ; eccentric , refined letterpress typography ; careful sequencing of richly textured papers within the book format ; meticulously sewn bindings and , above all , faith in bookmaking as a prototype for collaboration and good will among designers , printers , papermakers , binders and writers . Hamady 's work , with an emphasis on recent examples , formed the balance of the exhibition . All offered small slices of unpredictable , lyrical insight and less obviously posed solutions to his own artistic investigations . Hamady is known for his signature collaborations with such poets as W. S. Merwin and Denise Levertov , but perhaps his most acute and influential work explores the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gabberjabbs , for example , are brilliant , keen-witted , beautifully crafted riffs on the convention of the book . These book/collages-there are seven in the series-scramble the reader 's typical attempt to turn a book into a transparent vehicle for understanding the text . The " pages " within the Gabberjabbs form sensuous layers , bringing forth an assemblage of jokes , idiosyncratic musings , stamps , drawings , printed letters , oddly folded papers , wayward or cast-off materials and every kind of artist 's mark coordinated to ensure that the construction of the book leaps to the fore . Under these conditions , the reader is transformed into a viewer and forced to process the book as a coherent aesthetic object , paying as much attention to its physical aspects as to its text . Hamady 's art boxes , which contain assemblages of found objects , extend this investigation . They beg the question , When does a book become a sculpture ? Many have covers that appear to open and close , but do n't necessarily do so . They are containers of perception , just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Series No. 34 , vexed question of the status of properties and universals , 2002 , for example , juxtaposes the tip of a calligraphic pen on one side of the box with what looks like a tiny printing press on the other , as if debating the advantages of each mode of storytelling . Here , within a postmodern art context , Hamady has produced a hybrid form - what can be called visual literature . It is another in a long line of solutions for Walter Hamady as he continues to examine that most humanistic of art forms , the book . Sidebar An 8-page illustrated brochure with texts by Hamady and Robert Cozzolino is free from Columbia College Chicago Center for Book &; Paper Arts , 312-344-6630 . Author Affiliation Polly Ullrich is an art critic based in Chicago . // <p>                     