@@405365

In Stephenie Meyer 's Twilight saga , a wildly popular four-book series of young adult novels , the protagonist , BeUa Swan - by all accounts a very average human girl - has two suitors . They are hardly average themselves - one is the unimaginably beautiful vampire Edward , the other a loyal and devoted werewolf , Jacob . Fans of the books , and now a movie version , often break into " teams , " aligning themselves with the swain they hope Bella will choose in the end : Team Edward or Team Jacob . But few young readers ask , " Why not Team Bella ? " perhaps because the answer is quite clear : There can be no Team Bella . Even though Bella is ostensibly a hero , in truth she is merely an object in the Twilight world . BeUa is a prize , not a person , someone to whom things happen , not an active participant in the unfolding story . On the surface , the Twilight saga seems to have something to please everyone . Moms are reading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and tween daughters . Librarians and teachers are deUghted to see students with their heads tucked into books , and since Twilight 's romantic sensuality is wrapped up in an abstinence message , aU the kissing and groping appear to be harmless . Of course booksellers and movie exhibitors are happy : In 2008 , the novels sold more than 22 million copies worldwide , and the first in a series of films based on the novels grossed more than $3 5 million on opening day . But feminists might not be quite as happy after critically analyzing how Twilight deals with a young woman and her place in the world . While Twilight is presented as a love story , scratch the surface and you will find an allegorical tale about the dangers of unregulated female sexuaUty . While Edward 's first scent of Bella nearly sends him into a homicidal frenzy , he is ultimately shown to be capable of controlling his bloodlust as well as the more human , sexual kind . Bella , on the other hand , is never able to do the same . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her awakening sexuaUty . Edward must restrain her , sometimes physically , to keep her from ravishing him , and he frequently chastises her when she becomes , in his opinion , too passionate . The message of abstinence presented in the books is overt , with Edward as the keeper of the couple 's purity . There are those who might applaud the depiction of a young man showing such self-restraint , but should n't the decision about when a couple is ready to move forward sexually be one they make together ? Of course there are extenuating circumstances when one person in the relationship happens to be a vampire afraid of committing homicide in the midst of passion , but in Twilight it is typicaUy Edward who is aUowed to initiate intimacy or break things up when he feels they are getting out of hand . Bella is frequently reprimanded for physicaUy desiring the man she loves . The overriding message is that young women are incapable of understanding or controlUng their own sexuaUty ; it takes a man to keep them in check . Bella is also depicted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ someone to take care of her . We see that BeUa needs protection as she stumbles through the world , literally damaging herself due to her clumsiness and bad luck , or figuratively falling into danger due to her naivete . In fact , Bella can hardly get through a chapter without Edward jumping in to save her in some way . It seems that in Meyer 's view , the world is too dangerous for Bella to navigate on her own ; she needs a man - in fact a supernatural man - to protect her . Edward is n't just protective , though , but often onerprotective of Bella , and in this way their relationship should serve as a cautionary tale for young women . Edward is jealous of Bella 's relationships with other boys , going so far as to disable her car to keep her at home . He is condescending , assuming that he knows what is best for her in every situation . And there are many situations in which Bella is infantilized , including when Edward writes her a lullaby - a piece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ someone you consider your equal , sexually or otherwise . Maybe it 's difficult for Edward to see Bella as an equal because Bella has almost no personality . Meyer writes on her website that she " left out a detailed description of BeUa in the book so that the reader could more easily step into her shoes . " But Meyer fails to give Bella much of an interior life as well ; Bella is a blank slate , with few thoughts or actions that do n't center on Edward . Outside of him and occasional outings with werewolf Jacob , BeUa does n't do anything more than go to school , cook and clean for her dad , write to her mother , read and romanticize over Victorian literature and find fault with her clothing . She has no other interests , no goals , few friends : Bella does nothing that suggests she is a person in her own right . If Meyer hopes that readers see themselves as BeUa , what is it she is suggesting to them about the significance of their own lives ? Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that she makes her own decisions , but the few decisions she does make are usually shown to be bad ones , and they nearly always lead to someone ( generally Edward ) having to save her . Even the decision to keep her baby in Breaking Dawn , the final book in the series , nearly proves fatal . Bella comes to the brink of death in childbirth and Edward saves her once again - this time by turning her into a vampire . Meyer insists on her website that Bella is not an unfeminist character , since " the foundation of feminism ... is being able to choose . " She writes , " When I hear or read theories about Bella being an anti-feminist character , those theories are usually predicated by her choices . In the beginning , she chooses romantic love over everything else . Eventually , she chooses to marry at an early age and then chooses to keep an unexpected and dangerous baby . " What Meyer fails to acknowledge is that all of the choices Bella makes are Meyer 's choices - choices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the highly patriarchal Morman church . In Breaking Dawn , Meyer finaUy allows Bella 's subordination to end as she takes her proper place : in the patriarchal structure . When Bella becomes a wife and mother , Meyer allows her to receive her heart 's desire - to live forever by Edward 's side , to be preternaturally beautiful and graceful , to be strong and be able to defend herself . Being a wife and mother is the choice Meyer has made for herself , for Bella and , by extension , for her readers as well . It is she , after all , who wrote that she hoped readers could step into Bella 's shoes . The Twilight saga has become something of a bonding phenomenon among mothers and daughters . But reading the books together and mutually swooning over Edward is n't enough . As influential adults , mothers ( and teachers and librarians ) have an obligation to start a conversation concerning the darker themes and anti-feminist rhetoric in these tales . There is plenty to work with , from the dangers of losing yourself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's sexuality . Director Catherine Hardwicke 's film version of Twilight remains true to the novel , but there are subtle changes that make it much more feminist-friendly . Kristen Stewart 's Bella is more outspoken and forthright , and Robert Pattinson 's Edward is much less condescending and overbearing . Their relationship seems to be built on equality and friendship , and includes scenes of mutual sexual frustration and restraint . Here is a Bella we can root for , a Bella who stands just a little bit more on her own and is a part of the action . It will be interesting to see if the next film in the Twilight series , to be directed by a man this time , Chris Weitz , will take a similar path . Or , once again , will Bella be left without a team of her own ?                     