@@411729

An expert on gay and lesbian issues examines a new Lifetime film about one teen 's coming out Photograph // What 's the best way for a gay or lesbian to come out of the closet ? There 's no definitive answer . Research shows that there are common themes and events that many homosexuals describe as part of the coming-out process-and parents and peers play a large role in how healthy that process is . The Truth About Jane , a Lifetime television movie airing in August , offers a thoughtful portrayal of one teenager 's coming-out experience and a mother 's struggle to understand her daughter 's sexual identity : The film , written by Lee Rose , is one of the few I 've seen about coming out that empathetically portrays the struggles of both parent and child without pathologizing either one . It illustrates some very real effects of parental and societal reactions to a gay teenager 's emerging sense of self , and highlights the confusing gamut of experiences a teenager can undergo while coming out , thanks to moving and genuine performances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as her mother . Sexuality is complex and often oversimplified . There has been much debate as to whether sexual orientation is , in fact , fixed or fluid . In a study published this year in the journal of Developmental Psychology , Lisa Diamond sheds new light on the question by making a distinction between one 's sexual attractions and one 's self-described sexual identity , finding that the former remains stable while the latter is more flexible . Diamond interviewed 80 lesbian , bisexual and unlabeled women and found that while their attractions varied little , their identity was subject to change over time ; in fact , 50% of them had changed their sexual identity within two years . Past research suggests that societal prejudice may keep them from creating a stable self identity . A woman might choose a straight label because of pressure to conform , or eschew a bisexual label because of stigma from both the heterosexual and homosexual communities . Diamond adds that nonheterosexual women are more often attracted to both sexes than to just one sex , indicating that women 's sexuality is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduced to 15-year-old Jane , it 's clear that she already feels like she 's on the outside looking in , even though she 's not yet aware of her lesbian leanings . Upon meeting a new student , Taylor ( Jenny O'Hara ) , Jane feels a connection and attraction that she 's never known before . Suddenly , her vague , long-time experience of feeling different makes sense . This discovery supposedly captures the real-life experience of many gays and lesbians who report feeling different prior to adolescence , before they 've realized their sexual orientation . " Stage theorists " like Vivienne Cass , Ph.D. , and Richard Troiden , Ph.D. , two researchers influential in the field of gay and lesbian studies , consider this the first stage of coming out . This is especially true if gay children have interests atypical for societal gender norms . ( Of course , not all homosexuals act counter to their gender , a point well made by Jane , who explains to her father Noah Fleiss , " Now that I 'm a lesbian , it does n't mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , causes further isolation and identity confusion , as well as fear and anxiety about being unable to live up to society 's heterosexual expectations . In the film , we see Jane expressing this uncertainty as she starts to compare herself to her classmates to see where she fits in . She wishes desperately that she had a crush on a boy named Ned , but eventually realizes that her feelings do n't match those of her heterosexual friends . Cass , whose model of the coming-out process was published in 1979 , labels this second stage of coming out " identity comparison . " Cass " next stage is called " trying on the label , " in which people who are coming out are indecisive about defining their identity . The acclimation process is made more difficult by social intolerance . Gay adolescents are often exposed to prejudice , and some may internalize it , prolonging the coming-out process or possibly leading to depression , anxiety , self loathing , substance abuse or suicide . Substance abuse , especially , can become an easy coping strategy ; Jane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her house to drink her frustrations away . Coming out is especially difficult for teenagers . They run a high risk of committing suicide because they feel isolated , and thus crave approval . Coming out requires the courage to decide how one 's sexual identity affects one 's life goals , family , religion and general place in the world . Most teens pondering their sexuality will reject the gay label and try to continue to fit into a straight mold because they fear the consequences of coming out . With family support and a sense of social acceptance , however , the health and psychological risks of coming out can be reduced considerably In the film , Jane is able to turn to her mother 's gay friend , Bobby ( RuPaul Charles ) , as well as a lesbian teacher , Ms. Wilcox ( Kelly Rowan ) , as role models . Both characters help counter the negative societal messages Jane has received about homosexuality , and help her cope with her new feelings . She is further able to gain a sense of belonging by connecting with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays ) and by befriending Bobby and Ms. Wilcox . Parental support , Jane finds , is a little harder to come by Teens are n't the only ones who face confusion during the coming-out process ; their family and friends also struggle with prejudices , fears and misconceptions . Jane 's father is very quick to accept his daughter 's new identity . Jane 's mother , however , reacts with shock . After hearing her daughter proclaim that she is gay , Jane 's mother 's first reaction is to want to protect her , protesting , " She 's too young to know . " In fact , she probably is n't : Research conducted by Boxer , Herdt and Associates suggests that many lesbians have same-sex attractions as early as age 10 , experience sexual fantasies by age 12 and disclose their sexual orientation by age 16 . Parents are usually unfamiliar with what their gay children are experiencing , and this may create a feeling of being shut out . Parents might also fear that their kids will face physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the film , we watch Jane 's mother lament the wall being built between herself and Jane , and the loss of the socially acceptable image she had constructed for her daughter . A 1998 study by Anthony D'Augelli , Ph.D. , and Scott Hershberger , Ph.D. , reported that while mothers tend to be more accepting of their gay , lesbian or bisexual children than fathers , lesbians also reported more verbal and physical attacks from their mothers who do n't accept their new identity than from fathers who do n't approve . Jane 's mother soon begins to accept her , however , and Jane is eventually able to sort out her feelings , attain a stable self-image and develop a sense of empowerment . Coming out to one 's family may create conflict , but it can also bring family members closer . The media often depict lesbians as disconnected from their families , although rejection is more the exception than the rule . While The Truth About Jane is groundbreaking in its more realistic portrayal , it is also a best-case scenario . While Jane successfully deals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out can take years , and people often shift back and forth between its stages . Also , a teen 's race , religion and ethnicity play a major role in coming out ; the film only shows the experience of a Caucasian fe male . Alas , many gay teens are unable to garner the support that Jane receives . The real world often brings more anguish and self doubt than we see on-screen . Photograph Jane ( Ellen Muth ) and her mother ( Stockard Channing ) grapple with Jane 's new lesbian identity . Author Affiliation By Beth Eisenberg , M.A. Author Affiliation Beth Eisenberg is a Ph.D . candidate at the California School of Professional Psychology in Los Angeles and may be reached at BethEisenberg@aol.com . To learn more about coming out , contact the Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian Center at LAGLC.org. // <p>                     