@@374691

A year ago in Tehran , I noticed a defiantly goofy graffito inscribed on the wall of the old U.S. embassy building , the compound where the American hostages were held in 1979 : ON THE DAY THE U.S. WILL PRAISE US , WE WILL MOURN . This was an official slogan  --  in Iran , as in America , graffiti are the work of miscreants , but in Iran the miscreants run the country  --  and it was an unintentionally revealing one : the mullahs are terrified of better relations with the U.S. Without the Great Satan , they have no excuse for , and no way to divert attention from , the dreadful brutality of their rule . A wicked thought occurred to me at the time , and recurred last week , as the Bush Administration continued its foolish refusal to meet with the North Koreans : Why not do the one thing that would most discomfort , and perhaps even destabilize , the precarious regimes of the Ayatollah Khamenei , Kim Jong Il and  --  for that matter  --  Fidel Castro and Muammar Gaddafi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you diplomatic recognition , whether you like it or not . We 're naming an ambassador . We 're lifting the embargo . We 're going to let our companies sell you all sorts of cool American things like Big Macs and Hummers . This does n't mean we approve of the way you run your country , but it 's silly for us to deny that you 're in charge ... for now " ? <P> Diplomacy is rarely so rash . And yet , " It would certainly catch the mullahs by surprise , " says Azar Nafisi , an Iranian dissident who is a fellow at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies . " It would drive them crazy , " she adds , laughing , " the thought of having an American embassy in Tehran again , with lines of people around the block , trying to get green cards . There is a theory that American cultural and economic power is so insidiously attractive that opening up to the U.S. would be the death of these regimes . I 've heard it called the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are obvious . Why encourage and legitimize evildoers ? Why allow Kim Jong Il  --  the Michael Jackson of world leaders  --  to succeed with nuclear blackmail ? Why reward the Iranians for their support of Hizballah ? Fair points , all . But there is a problem : the current American policy of nonrecognition is n't working , and it may well be counterproductive . " What 's the hardest job for a tin-pot dictator in the information age ? " asks Joseph Nye , dean of Harvard 's Kennedy School of Government . " Keeping his people isolated from the world . Why should we be making life easier for Fidel Castro or Kim Jong Il ? "                     