@@387796

Gemini May 22-June 21 Pluto and Saturn 's powerful influence makes June a time of reckoning and readjustment . Remember , you 're far more prone to succumb to fears and doubts with these two cosmic bullies in your sky , so be sure to give yourself the credit you 're due and try to hold steady on your chosen course . The New Moon of the loth indicates that the ball is in your court and the moment 's come to make a definitive move . Pay close attention to events occurring near the 20th , for they hold a promise that will be fulfilled by month 's end . With Venus aspecting Pluto on the 28th , you can mend a rift that 's been a source of worry . Cancer June 22-July 22 Your sensitivity is both a blessing and a curse . While it does enable you to pick up on nuances others miss , it also inclines you to take just about everything far too personally . This month , you need , above all else , to protect yourself from well-meant intrusions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than you what you really need or where you should go-so make an effort to tune into that still , small voice within and heed its call . With Venus and Jupiter in your sign , the world is your oyster , and you should n't hesitate to make the most of the opportunities that come your way , especially those of a financial nature . Leo July 23-August 23 A plan you 've pinned your hopes on may falter near the 9th , so be prepared to face facts and act accordingly . Whatever occurs on the 10th will give you a clear indication of the right road to take . Venus 's entrance into your sign on the 14th means that your luck is on the rise . You are a natural leader , and others look to you for guidance , so use charm-not force-to make your point and you 'll have little difficulty drumming up the support you need . You do appear a bit confused about a close relationship on the 23rd , and the presence of Neptune suggests that wishful thinking may be clouding your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you 've been such a trouper , always rising to the occasion and taking on more than your share , yet no one seems willing to give you the credit you 're due . However , with the Sun conjoining Saturn on the 9th , June appears to bring the culmination of a difficult professional cycle and , with the New Moon of the loth , offers solutions . Do n't let others ' negativity foster self-doubts . A new environment or prospect appears to beckon , and your ability to take charge can catapult you into a rewarding new role . With Venus entering Leo on the 14th , be ready to do some soul-searching about a close relationship . Libra September 24-October 23 The cosmos certainly does appear to be giving you mixed messages this month , and you must continually strive to retain your perspective . On one hand , career prospects appear quite spectacular near the 3rd , but on the other , events transpiring around the 7th and the 9th are likely to cause you to step back and reassess a crucial plan . By the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wherever you can be most effective  --  which for many Libras may mean travel , possibly to a distant destination . This month will also turn out to be quite social , in the best possible sense-so be sure to accept any invitations that come your way . Scorpio October 24-November 22 Early this month , focus on opportunities at a distance and do n't narrow your options . Everyone is likely to be feeling a bit grim when Saturn conjoins the Sun on the 9th , and it will be difficult to avoid succumbing to all the doom and gloom . For you , whatever occurs on the loth promises to put a new spin on a worrisome financial matter , and the 14th ushers in a time of greater visibility and success . In your personal life , whatever occurs near the 23rd may thrust you into the questionable role of rescuer or martyr , and the 28th brings you to an emotional crossroads that will redefine the course of an important relationship . Sagittarius November 23-December 21 June finds you at a crucial turning point-particularly around partnership-related issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and as a result , you 've been confronting some difficult truths about yourself and those with whom you 're closely connected . With both Pluto and Saturn aspecting the Sun near the 8th , you will now be able to leave a struggle behind and move forward toward a happier future . Listen to what others have to tell you near the New Moon of the 10th , and be ready to adapt to unexpected change . Financially , your prospects appear to be brightening , and travel holds much promise . Capricorn December 22-January 20 This month , try to be receptive to what others have to offer , because your best aspects are occurring in the area of your chart that governs relationships and partnership affairs . You will benefit by pooling your resources and talents with others and pursuing common interests . You may also be the recipient of someone 's generosity . Whatever is transpiring in your work life , however , appears to be quite demanding and draining , especially near the 9th . Fortunately , you possess the character and grit to stick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wo n't have to wait long for positive results . Aquarius January 21-February 19 The roadblocks you encounter around a long-range plan early this June are telling you to reassess your goals and make adjustments . Do n't be a rebellious Aquarius and refuse to be told what 's what , because you will find that the facts simply ca n't be altered . Your creative side will be stimulated by a new project or opportunity that lands in your lap near the New Moon of the 10th , and this is a venture that can take you far . Both business and personal relationships are now entering an especially constructive phase that accents equality , sharing and mutual interests , so say yes to new offers and deals . Pisces February 20-March 20 No matter what occurs on or around the 8th , you will benefit by being decisive and leaving the past behind . The New Moon of the loth brings change and increased activity-particularly concerning domestic and property matters . Travel may also be in the air-and getting away is likely to do you a world of good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enormous potential , and your own concepts and ideas should be your guiding stars . This month also promises moments of magic and moonlight-so do n't hesitate to listen to your heart and dare to follow where it leads . Aries March 21-April 20 June will begin on quite an exuberant note , especially around matters pertaining to personal and family ties . By the 8th , though , you appear to be feeling somewhat embattled and bogged down-and Saturn 's crushing influence indicates that you need to rethink your approach to a recently conceived plan . In fact , your most significant aspects this month involve your ability to communicate , learn and gather pertinent information . The New Moon of the 10th indicates that you 're at the start of a new mental cycle , and an idea you initiate is likely to influence your plans and activities for many months to come . Taurus April 21-May 21 Early June will be something of a roller-coaster ride , but by the New Moon of the 10th , you appear to be on a smoother course , both personally and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you 'll be ready to make a career-related decision that you 've been grappling with for some time . With Mars in the hypersensitive sign of Cancer , everyone , including you , is likely to be a bit touchy and thinskinned-so do be careful about what you say and how you say it . And when Venus enters Leo on the 14th , love will be in the air and you 'll be making stronger commitments and putting down roots . Author Affiliation <p>                     