@@405371

THREE NEW RAPE VICTIMS arrive each day at the Rape Treatment Center at Santa Monica-UCLA Medical Center where , besides being given crisis intervention and medical care , victims are offered a forensic examination that could help identify and prosecute their attackers . Seeing the pain of the victims is hard enough , but for the center 's director , Gail Abarbanel , one of the hardest parts of her job is wondering whether new rapes could have been prevented had the evidence so painstakingly collected from previous cases ever been tested . All over the country , rape kits are sitting untested in refrigerated storage facilities . A report currendy being compiled by Human Rights Watch ( HRW ) puts the number at over 400,000 , and the backlog is particularly pressing in large urban centers like Los Angeles . For Abarbanel , it represents a profound betrayal . " When such an incredible tool as a DNA analysis is available to us , it is unforgivable not to make use of it , " she says . " For every kit that is not tested , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offender is lost . " Sarah Tofte , the lead rape-kit researcher at HRW , argues that the backlog is symptomatic of a system in which rape victims are too often disempowered . " Although it takes great courage for a woman to report her rape and assist in the creation of a rape kit " - during a careful exam , samples of hair , semen , skin cells and fabric fibers are collected - " the police are failing to respect this and to fulfill their side of the contract by testing the kit and keeping her informed about the case . " When DNA evidence is extracted from the kits , it can be checked against forensic databases of violent criminals , and a match means that an offender can be identified and prosecuted . In Los Angeles , an audit conducted by City Controller Laura Chick has shown that the backlog stands at just under 13,000 untested kits , 7,000 of them under the jurisdiction of the Los Angeles Police Department ( LAPD ) and another 5,635 in the County Sheriff 's Department . Chick also found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California state law that requires victims be told if their kits are not opened within two years of collection . That two-year deadline is critical : According to California 's statute of limitations , kits untested within two years are only valid as evidence for 10 years . Kits tested within the two-year limit that provide DNA evidence , however , can be valid indefinitely if an as-yet-unidentified " John Doe " is indicted for the crime . Most victims who do not hear back from police assume that their kit provided no actionable evidence , but the truth is that dieir kits might never have been opened . Rape kits lie untested in Los Angeles and other cities despite generous federal funding under the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program . Named for a rape victim whose assailant was n't apprehended for six years while Smith 's rape kit lay untested , the program provided $43 million to state crime labs in 2007 . Yet California , along with 16 other states , had its grant slashed by 50 percent last fiscal year-a funding loss of $500,000-because it was failing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'm not interested in hearing , ' There is n't enough money . ' There is enough money , " says Chick . " Up until now , this just has n't been a priority for the mayor , the police chief , the police department or the City Council . But it is certainly a priority for the public . " Following the release of Chick 's audit in October and a subsequent public uproar , the Los Angeles City Council finally began to take action , allocating $700,000 for the LAPD to hire 16 more crime lab staff and $250,000 to pay private labs . The county sheriff promised his department would examine every rape kit in its storage , beginning right away with the ones that had been there longest . Chick remains cautious , characterizing the City Council 's decision as " only one step in the right direction " and calling on the LAPD to inventory the backlogged kits as soon as possible in order to finalize a testing plan before next year 's budget is drawn up . Tofte points to New York as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategy , police can clear a backlog-in this case , within three years-and not let it build up again . It 's " just no longer an issue , " says Harriet Lessel , executive director of the NYC Alliance Against Sexual Assault . And the results can be stunning : When the New York Police Department processed 16,000 untested kits , it found over 2,000 hits on the DNA database , leading to around 200 arrests . Chick stresses the need for ongoing vigilance . " If we do n't keep up the pressure , " she says , " I have no doubt that in a couple of years ' time we 'll be back to where we are today . " - AMY GOODWIN                     