@@426147

Just before the world 's attention turned to Central Asia , veteran correspondent EDWARD GIARDET returned to the country he had visited more than 40 times  --  and found murder , starvation , and despair . // It was midafternoon when pulled into the parched , dust-blown settlement of Khvajeh Baha od Din in northern Afghanistan . Once a bleak caravansary for nomads and traders , Khvajeh Baha od Din in early September served as the bustling rear supply base for the forces of Afghanistan 's leading anti-Taliban commander , Ahmad Shah Massoud . I had returned to Afghanistan to explore the impact of 23 straight years of war on the country and its people , traveling with an old friend , Mohammad Shuaib , my interpreter and guide . We drove up to a guesthouse with a courtyard and neatly planted flowers , operated by the foreign ministry of Massoud 's Northern Alliance . Asim Suhail , a young official wearing pressed jeans and shirt and tie with a blazer , looked up from his computer . As with all electrical appliances in a country debilitated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the diesel generator was running . It also had to be covered constantly with a muslin cloth because of the ever penetrating dust . Asim immediately called for tea , studied our letters of recommendation , and smiled . " Of course , I know who you are and that you were coming . There were several other journalists in the compound . A Russian from Prague-based Radio Liberty , an Uzbek from the London  --  based Institute for War and Peace Reporting , two French reporters , and two Arabs . There was also a group of American women on a fact-finding trip on the status of women in Afghanistan for the Feminist Majority in the United States . I was somewhat surprised to see the Arabs , wearing jeans and T-shirts and surrounded by backpacks with the usual equipment of a television team . One did n't normally find Arab journalists reporting from the 15 percent of the country-mainly the north , with pockets of resistance elsewhere-held by groups opposing the Taliban . Given the large number of Islamic radicals from the Middle East and North Africa supporting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arabs with suspicion . Curious , I asked them where they were from . " Morocco , " said the older one , a somewhat severe man in his mid-30s with short hair and wire-rimmed glasses . " We 're doing a TV report . " When I asked which network , he shrugged : " A Middle Eastern one . " He then withdrew to his room next to Shuaib 's and mine . Asim later told me that they carried Belgian passports and had come with credentials issued by a London-based Islamic group . For the next three days , we lived side by side but saw little of them . Shuaib and I had good connections with the Northern Alliance , also known as the United Front , and had radioed ahead requesting a meeting with Massoud . As the first American journalist , in 1981 , to have interviewed Massoud , I had come to know him well . An ethnic Tajik from the Panjshir Valley , known as the Lion of Panjshir , he was in his late 40s , with a beard , sharply defined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wore a Palestinian-style scarf and was never without a pakol , the floppy woolen cap that had become the trademark of the mujahidin ( holy warriors ) during their resistance against the Soviets in the 1980s . With the Taliban and their radical Muslim backers , including the reclusive Saudi millionaire Osama bin Laden , seeking to create the world 's first " pure " Islamic state by destroying what remains of Afghanistan 's 3,500-year-old cultural identity , many Afghans regarded Massoud as the only man capable of someday uniting the various factions against the Taliban as they had once been united against the Soviets . I particularly wanted to discuss with him the impact of more than two decades of war . I also wanted further insight into what impelled the Taliban , whose support came not only from Afghanistan 's Pashtun ( also called Pathan ) majority but also from an Islamic " foreign legion " of volunteers from Pakistan , the Middle East , and other parts of the Muslim world . These outsiders were believed to constitute about a third of the Taliban 's fighting force . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sometimes we met by gas lamp in hidden caves or shrapnel-scarred farmhouses among the side valleys of the Panjshir , with Soviet bombs and rockets crashing barely several hundred yards away . With the takeover of Kabul by the mujahidin in 1992 , three years after the Soviets pulled out , we met in more comfortable surroundings in safe houses dotted around the city . The rockets still thudded around us , but this time fired by rival factions , including , later , the Taliban . Ironically , it was during the years following the Soviet withdrawal , when Massoud could n't control mujahidin infighting , that Kabul absorbed the greatest amount of damage , which virtually annihilated the city . During one of our interviews over green tea and sugared almonds sometime in the mid1990s , I asked Massoud what he wanted to do when the war finally ended . As usual we conversed in a combination of French and Dari , the Persian dialect spoken by many Afghans . " Read Persian poetry , " he said , " and then go somewhere where there are no damn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Khvajeh Baha od Din , heavy sand clouds began to envelop the mountains from the west  --  one of the results of a punishing three-year drought that has turned much of northern , central , and western Afghanistan into a dust bowl , with abandoned villages and arid fields . Combined with the terrible effects of seemingly endless war , Afghanistan was on the edge of famine . The UN , Oxfam , and other aid agencies had warned that the country could develop into a catastrophic humanitarian disaster by the onset of winter . Since spring of last year , when the rains had failed yet again , hundreds of thousands of Afghans had fled to towns inside the country or across the border into Pakistan and Iran in search of food and shelter . To survive , many had sold their remaining livestock and belongings , even their daughters in marriage-some as young as eight or nine . Now , with the sand reducing visibility to less than 500 yards , the helicopters could not operate , and Massoud could not fly in from wherever he was . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment for security reasons . ) " It could last a day , but it could drag on longer , " said Mohammad Kamaludin , head of reconstruction for the Northern Alliance . He had come to Khvajeh Baha od Din in search of money for a slew of projects he had designed . " Everyone is obsessed by the war , but we must rebuild in those areas where there is no fighting , " he told me . Numerous roads , irrigation canals , and other essential infrastructure were simply falling into dereliction for lack of maintenance . " If we do nothing now , there will be nothing left , " he lamented . When it was obvious that the dust was not going to clear , Shuaib and I decided to leave . We would catch up with Massoud later . We were impatient to reach the Panjshir to see how things had changed in this 70-mile-long fertile valley once renowned for its mulberry and apricot trees . During the Soviet war many of its towns , villages , and irrigation ducts had been destroyed , rebuilt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also damaged during the more recent fighting between the Northern Alliance and the Taliban-until Massoud blew up the entrance to the valley , making it impossible for the Taliban fighters to enter by road . Most , but not all , of the other journalists were also anxious to leave . Before heading off that morning , I spoke with one of the Moroccans as he returned from his morning ablutions , a towel carefully draped over his head to protect him from the sand . " Will you try and go ? " I asked . " This dust could persist for days . " No , he answered . " We 'll wait for Massoud . " Back in Islamabad less than a week later , on September 9 , I heard the grim news over the BBC . An assassination attempt had been made against Massoud by two Arabs posing as journalists , the same two Moroccans I had met in Khvajeh Baha od Din . They were said to have packed explosives to their bodies as well as in the camera . One of them triggered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arabs reportedly died immediately as did Asim , the young foreign ministry official who had greeted us on our arrival . Massoud was dead , came a report . He was alive , came another . Two days later the world 's attention turned to the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon . It was clear to me that the timing of the attempt on Massoud 's life was no coincidence . On September 15 , Northern Alliance sources announced that Massoud had died of his wounds , and the next day Massoud was laid to rest as a hero at a funeral attended by thousands of followers in the Panjshir . An extraordinary era of hope and defiance had come to an end . It was also an era that heralded a new and uncertain future for Afghanistan . This was my 40th-odd trip as a journalist to this Central Asian nation of mountains and deserts since I first began covering Afghanistan 's dragging civil war , which erupted in Kabul in the summer of 1978 . Three months before the Soviet invasion in December 1979 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a low-key but steadily expanding conflict . Once the Soviets rolled in , I made repeated trips to the region , often traveling clandestinely with the mujahidin . And once the Soviets came , so eventually did the U.S. , with backing for the mujahidin to the tune of three billion dollars-funneled through Pakistan 's military intelligence , which favored Pashtun-dominated fundamentalist resistance groups ; little went to Tajik or Uzbek commanders such as Massoud . Wittingly or not , the U.S. intervention aimed at ousting the Red Army also helped Arab and other foreign Islamic militants establish themselves in Pakistan , creating a breeding ground for the Taliban 's rank and file . During the latter years of the Soviet occupation it was not uncommon to run into Islamic militants who had come to Afghanistan for what they saw as the only jihad ( holy war ) in the world . Armed with cash , but not necessarily military skill , they proclaimed a deep hatred for the U.S. , Israel , and the " decadent " West . Desperately seeking to prove themselves as " soldiers of God , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviets , regardless of risk . The Afghans , never without a sense of humor , often ridiculed them for wanting to get killed and being quite diwana ( the Persian word for " silly " or " crazy " ) about it too . In 1996 the Taliban took control of Kabul and then proceeded to occupy most of the country . Initially the security offered by the Taliban appealed to many Afghans tired of war . After the mujahidin takeover in 1992 warlords and armed gangs had set up roadblocks to " tax " travelers or , quite simply , to rob people at gunpoint . In the name of Allah , the Taliban halted this activity by confiscating weapons and punishing culprits by executing them or chopping off limbs . As the Taliban soon boasted without exaggeration , their authority enabled traders to travel from one end of Afghanistan to the other with a " truckload of gold " without being stopped . This new sense of law and order , which many Afghans had not known for nearly 20 years , was evident when I visited Kabul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came across only a handful of checkpoints , where I was frisked for weapons and my papers were examined . Earlier trips along the same route during the mujahidin era had required a multitude of stops where armed men , sometimes local villagers , placed a " toll " rope across the road and demanded some form of baksheesh , or " gifts . " By the time I returned last year , I found that bitter resentment had taken hold among Afghans against the Taliban 's increasingly totalitarian Islamic policies , particularly in urban areas such as Kabul , Herat , and Jalalabad . Minority groups-Tajik and Uzbek prime among them-complained about discrimination , beatings , and even killings . Aid agencies particularly criticized the regime for its complete disregard for the plight of ordinary civilians and populations at risk ; widows , for example , were prevented from working . Only in the tribal Pashtun areas of the southern and eastern parts of Afghanistan did the Taliban appear to retain considerable public support . But even this was beginning to erode . In some eastern provinces sporadic but growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the southern city of Kandahar . Some of the Pashtun commanders had joined the Taliban opposition , giving the Northern Alliance a broader-but still not inclusive-representation of Afghanistan 's ethnic and tribal groups . Ever since Arabs first began converging on Afghanistan in support of the anti-Soviet jihad , many Afghans had been offended by the way the Taliban 's foreign Muslims , men like Osama bin Laden , treated them as ignorant provincials who did not understand what " true " Islam was all about . They had also chafed at edicts designed to curtail the country 's deep-rooted sense of culture and tradition , including a profound love for music and poetry-edicts banning everything from kite flying and music cassettes to women walking with loud shoes . I first met bin Laden in February 1989 , during the week in which the Soviets pulled out of Afghanistan . He was operating in the eastern mountains with a group of volunteers , mainly Arabs with a few Afghans . The factions that had united to push out the Soviets had already trained their guns on each other in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to dislodge the communist regime that still held Kabul , despite the Soviet withdrawal . Traveling with Afghan mujahidin , I was scouting for a television documentary among the frontline positions manned by Arabs on the outskirts of Jalalabad . A tall , bearded man , flanked by armed men , stepped up to me demanding-in good English , with a slight American accent-to know who I was and what I , a kafir ( infidel ) , was doing in Afghanistan . For the next 45 minutes we had a heated debate about the war , religion , and foreigners . Haughty , self-righteous , and utterly sure of himself , he proceeded to lambaste the West for its feebleness and lack of moral conviction . When I pointed out that Western journalists and aid workers had been present in Afghanistan since the early days of the war , a time when no Arabs were to be seen , he spat dismissively . Finally he announced that if I returned , he would kill me . A week later I did return , with mujahidin and a film crew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ridge were pounding the position with mortar bombs . On seeing me again as I pulled up at his trenches , the tall Arab screamed at me . The next thing I knew , Arabs and Afghans-both supposedly fighting on the same side against the communists-had raised their guns at each other . One of the Arab militants cocked his AK-47 , thrusting it into the back of the cameraman . " We will kill you . We will kill you all , " he shrieked . At this point the Afghan commander I was with intervened , pleading that such anger was not good for Islam . Cautiously , we pulled back . It was several years before I learned that the tall man who threatened to kill me was Osama bin Laden . Many of the non-Afghan Muslims , including the ones supporting bin Laden , committed atrocities against pro-communist prisoners and civilians , documented by Human Rights Watch and other similar groups , that shocked even the most battle-hardened Afghans . " You do n't slit people 's throats , you shoot them , " one Pashtun commander @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mass grave of executed prisoners . Clasped hands and other body parts , mummified by the sun , still protruded from the ground . The Islamic militant fighters also deliberately fired on Western journalists and aid workers , including clearly marked vehicles of the International Red Cross , daring to operate inside their zones . Across the border in Pakistan , Islamic groups sought to influence the more than three million Afghan refugees who had fled there during the Soviet war . ( Nearly three million refugees went to Iran . ) Their attention was particularly aimed at young men and boys , many of whom had spent their whole lives in refugee camps . The militants built madrasahs ( Koranic schools ) and mosques in the camps as their contribution to the furthering of a purist Islam . Such madrasahs provided the means to churn out young , partly educated taliban ( students of religion ) who had never known Afghanistan as a country and whose vision of the future was based on a per-verse interpretation of the Koran mixed with anti-Western sentiment . Western aid workers , primarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assaulted by the extremists , verbally and physically . In September Shuaib and I began our trip to Afghanistan by taking the twice-weekly UN plane from Islamabad to Feyzabad over the 25,000-foot-high Hindu Kush range that stretches across northern and central Afghanistan . Years earlier , during the Soviet war , I had traveled secretly by foot with Shuaib across many of the precipitous mountain passes we could now see leading from Pakistan into the Afghan interior . With our gear loaded onto mules and horses , we had walked by day and by night , covering hundreds of miles . Now , map in hand , we gazed down on some of the formidable land routes and passes  --  former caravan and mule trails dating back to the time of Alexander the Great-that we had trekked years earlier . For security , but also because it allowed me to meet local people more readily , I had often accompanied French medical teams , who came to work in the mountains for six to nine months at a time . Sometimes their relief caravans consisted of 150 or more horses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of those trips , in 1981 , I had my first encounter with a land mine . ( Millions of mines still litter Afghanistan , presenting a fateful , invisible threat to fleeing refugees and to farmers trying to scratch a living in this parched land . ) I was walking ahead of the medical convoy with a group of mujahidin , and we halted to let the bulk of the horses catch up . One young man strolled off to gather firewood so we could brew some tea . There was a loud explosion . My first thought was a grenade or rocket , but then I saw the young Afghan , barely 20 yards away , crawling along the ground . He had stepped on a Soviet antipersonnel mine . His mangled foot was amputated on the spot by the French doctors , and he was dispatched back to Pakistan for medical care . At another point in the flight Shuaib and I could distinguish the Chamar Pass , where in the mid- 1980s we had witnessed Soviet aircraft deliberately bomb a clearly identifiable column of refugees , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children . And then , just north of Kabul , I glimpsed the Panjshir Valley with its long patchwork of irrigated fields and villages , laced by narrow side valleys through which , on one occasion , I had to flee fast-moving Soviet troops . Somehow , however , I could n't seem to rediscover , either in my mind or in the landscape below , that first feeling of awe I had experienced in 1981 on finally reaching-after a long morning 's climb-the windy col of the 15,000-foot  --  high Diwana Baba ( Crazy Old Man ) pass . On that day I had found myself utterly overwhelmed by the sea of vaulting mountains and clouds that stretched out before me . So this is Afghanistan , I remember thinking . Today I could only behold this massive and craggy landscape in bleak contemplation . The drought had clearly taken its toll . All the once daunting snowfields appeared to have dwindled to patches of dirty ice staining huge expanses of rockfall and moraine . Even the once vividly green alpine pastures emerged as little more than dusty brushworks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lakes with small streams and rivers trickling their way down into the valleys , many others were dry . Once on the ground at Liwa Camp , a former army camp on the outskirts of Feyzabad overlooking the churning Kowkcheh River , I spoke with Mohammad Siddiq , a middle-aged man of quiet dignity and pride from Takhar Province , 75 miles away . It was the same tragic scene I 'd witnessed countless times before throughout the refugee camps of Pakistan 's North-West Frontier Province and inside Afghanistan itself . Together with some 2,000 men , women , and children , Siddiq had fled because of the aerial bombardments last year in which he lost his 15-year-old son . " We left everything behind , " he explained . " People brought only their donkeys for transport but not their cattle or sheep . " He gestured to the makeshift shelters covered with blue plastic . " We 've already spent one winter in those and have enough food for a few more weeks . Do you think there will be more coming ? " It was not a plea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his family , who like so many others were facing the very real prospect of starvation . I wished that I could provide him with some hope . But even before mid-September , when international aid organizations temporarily left in the wake of the attacks on New York and Washington , all the efforts of the World Food Program-the UN 's principal distribution agency-had still left Afghanistan with a food deficit of a million tons . Even before mid-September poverty , hunger , displacement , insufficient health care , and the abuse of civilians had made this already devastated country " one of the most difficult places in the world to survive , " as one UN official put it to me . Of the country 's perhaps 25 million people , almost four million , many of them widows and orphaned children , were relying on food handouts to live . A nearly equal number were considered vulnerable and in need of some form of outside assistance . Some of Afghanistan 's displaced people are fortunate enough to have been taken in by host families . This was evident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home in Keshem , a small town less than two hours from the Taliban frontlines . Among those there to greet us were two refugee families who had fled the fighting last year and were living in Shuaib 's home . For the next two days-as friends and relatives stopped by to greet us  --  Shuaib 's family prepared huge meals of rice , mutton , chicken , okra , potatoes , grapes , and melon followed by innumerable cups of green tea for all who came , sometimes 30 at a time . Such displays are exceptionally rare these days , even for local notables such as Shuaib 's family . But the scenes of plenty in a land of scarcity did n't surprise me , because Afghans will often spend their last penny to ensure that guests are well cared for . In fact , in more than 20 years of traveling in Afghanistan , I have often found myself invited to share food with people who could ill afford it . These people known as fierce fighters , especially in the face of foreign invasion , are also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ journalists , aid workers , and travelers have returned to this country again and again . The mere fact that the Taliban made rules forbidding foreigners to visit Afghans in their homes illustrates to what degree the regime removed itself from the essence of Afghan society , for welcoming strangers seems to be part of the Afghan soul . Yet knowing what Afghans have gone through since 1978 , I find myself wondering what more they can endure , and whether I-or any other outsider-will encounter such bountiful scenes of generosity ever again . MORE ON OUR WEBSITE Find map updates and an interview with former resistance fighter Mohammad Shuaib at nationalgeo graphic.com/ngm/0112 . AOL Keyword : NatGeoMag <p>                     