@@364062

The food is n't the main attraction at the CasaBlanca Italian restaurant in Maspeth , Queens , N.Y . You go for the Sicilian kitsch  --  the plastic flowers , the bronze-tinted mirrors , the piped-in Godfather theme . The walls bear snapshots of movie stars visiting the place , among them Johnny Depp ( Donnie Brasco ) , Hugh Grant ( Mickey Blue Eyes ) and James Caan ( The Godfather ) . At a round table sit five men  --  sturdy , with slick hair and crumpled suits  --  having a good rude time as two other men in velour sweatsuits , drivers or bodyguards probably , sit at a subsidiary table . They turn quiet and suspicious when a new couple , strangers , is seated across the room , then return to their powwow . On the ceiling above the men are two metal boxes with rubber knobs  --  devices believed to have been installed to detect electronic bugs . It 's just another night at ( as the menu inscription proclaims ) " CasaBlanca : Where You 're Treated Like Family ! " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an important part of the family . The Family . The Mafia ; the Mob ; La Cosa Nostra . The FBI says  --  and his defense lawyer does not contest  --  that Massino is head of the Bonanno clan , one of the Five Families of crime incorporated by Lucky Luciano in 1931 . It was Massino who revived the Bonannos after the humiliation of the Donnie Brasco caper , in which FBI agent Joseph D. Pistone infiltrated the gang and spent five years posing as a hoodlum named Brasco and , with his court testimony , helped send 200 Mob men to prison . Already reeling from the Pizza Connection prosecutions ( after a bust that exposed a giant heroin distribution racket run from pizza parlors ) , the Bonannos were thrown off the Five Families commission and left for dead . With brains and muscle , Massino restored the clan to its old strength . And " Big Joey " ( his weight was once nearly 400 lbs. ) did it on the street , not in the stir , where the other four bosses languish . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is n't doing hard time or awaiting sentencing for a conviction . That makes him the Last Don . <P> Massino , 61 , has other legitimate businesses ( Cafe Via Vento , in Maspeth ) and properties ( in Queens and Palm Coast , Fla. ) , but his favorite is the CasaBlanca . From that neighborhood ristorante , he has allegedly run an operation that , the feds assert , includes extortion , loan sharking , illegal gambling , narcotics and murder in a vast criminal empire whose tentacles stretch up into Canada and back to the Sicilian motherland . Investigators say he certified his power in 2000 , when he convened a meeting of four of the Five Families , at  --  where else ?  --  the CasaBlanca .                     