@@388758

Headnote Unexpected social behavior in an improbable arachnid , the whip spider // It you 're a tan of the Harry Potter films , you 've seen an amblypygid . The most recent cinematic installment of the series , Harry Potter and the Gobler of Fire , showed an improbable creature with a Hat body , spiny " arms , " and incredibly long . Hailing " whips " that was ultimately killed in a class demonstration ot the Avada Kedavra curse . ( In the book , a spider was sacrificed . ) Most viewers probably assumed the creature was a figment ot the director 's imagination . Not so . In tact , with minimal digitization and color enhancement , an amblypygid stole the scene . Amblypygids-commonly called whip spiders or tailless whip scorpions-are neither spiders nor scorpions . Nevertheless , as their appearance suggests , they are arachnids . Spiders and uropygids ( also called vmcgaroons ) are their closest relatives ; other arachnids , including harvestmcn , pseudoscorpions , scorpions , and solhigids ( also known as wind scorpions ) share similar characteristics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body parts ( an abdomen and a combined IKMI ) and thorax known as a cephalothorax ) , and a pair of spiky appendages known as pedipalps or simply palps-situated on either side ot their mouthparts see upper photograph on page 40 . Add up those discordant parts , include their first pair of legs , or " whips , and amblypygids seem rather improbable . As it turns out , their behavior might also strike some as strange . My research suggests that the animals , long thought to be solitary and agressive to members of the same species , are surprisingly social . Mothers and siblings remain in close , interactive groups tor almost a year before the young reach sexual maturity . It my recent studies are any indication , the creatures warrant more attention than a cameo appearance on the big screen . The first amblypygid I ever encountered in the wild loomed over me while I was visiting an outhouse in Costa Rica . The creatures often slip their Hat bodies into such places , where they can hide in narrow crevices during the day . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trunks of trees or inside caves-or , as in my case , on an outhouse wall . A total of 136 species occur worldwide , primarily in the tropics , throughout Africa , India , Latin America , and Southeast Asia . They range in body length from an eighth of an inch to one and three-quarters inches . Phrynus marginemaculatus , a Florida native the size of a dime , and the slightly larger Phrynus fuscimanus , an inhabitant of the desert regions of Arizona , are the only amblypygids indigenous to the United States . An amblypygid 's palps-the wide " arms " near their mouth-are long , covered in spines , and tipped with small stilettos . The palps can reach out to grab like a hand or to stab their arthropod prey like a talon . In many amblypygid species the adult males sport considerably longer palps than the females do . The male palps are often deployed in intense male-male contests , in which each male strikes rapidly at his opponent with open palps . Such a battle may be a way of assessing the size @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspects of an amblypygid 's life center on the use of their delicate first pair of legs , which put the whip in the name whip spider . The whips are not used for walking ; rather , they are covered with tine cheinosensory and mechanosensory hairs that function much like an insect 's antennae . The sensory hairs on the whips can distinguish a multitude of airborne odors-a rare ability in arachnids-or detect mechanical changes through touch or air currents . I he whips are incredibly flexible and may be three to tour times the length of the walking legs-as long as three feet in the larger species . Each whip comes with as many as 148 joints , winch enables the animals to delicately explore 360 degrees around their bodies . It 's no wonder the whips are constantly sweeping and probing their environment . When something interesting comes along , the whips move accordingly . For example , my students and I have shown that it prey or , alternatively , a sibling , approaches from one side , the near-side whip moves faster than the tar-side whip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with its whip and gently touch potential prey , such as a cricket , so that it is led , unaware ot the danger , toward the limiter . Th.it keen technique is evidence that amblypygids may be among the smartest arachnids . Nicholas J. Strausfeld , a neuroanatoimst at the University of Arizona in Tucson , demonstrated that amblypygids have the largest mushroom body-an area ot the brain associated with spatial memory and learning-of any of the arachnids . Although they are fearsome predators , amblypygids are also solicitous lovers . Males court potential mates by stroking the females repeatedly with their whips . Sometimes the male vibrates his own palps or gently nibbles on one of the palps of his mate , liven when not aetively courting , a couple interacts intensely tor several weeks , typically facing each other or sitting close together tor the entire courtship period see upper photograph on page 43 . The male amblypygid does not have a sex organ like a penis that can deliver sperm directly and internally to the female . Instead . lie secretes a small white stalk and deposits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entire structure is known as a spermatophore . The upright stalk is glued to the surface or the tree or rock where the ample has been courting . The male hopes to entice the female to take up the sperm package . Hach time she does , a spcrniatophore stalk is left behind , and so by counting stalks , one ean tally the number ot times a couple has mated . I have counted more than nine stalks left by a single male during a two-week period when his mate was receptive . Following courtship , the male and female move apart and seemingly have little more to do with each other . The female deposits her eggs in a brood pouch on her abdomen . After roughly ninety days tor smaller species and 120 days tor larger ones , the eggs hatch : even the shorter gestation time is surprisingly long for an arachnid . Like young scorpions , vinegaroons , and wolt spiders , newly hatched amblypygids climb onto their mother 's back tor about a week see photograhs on pages 38-39 . During that stage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sclerotize , or darken and harden , and so they remain a vivid lime green until they molt , climb off their mothers back , and begin catching prey for themselves . The traditional thinking has been that amblypygids lead entirely solitary lives . In fact , when I first began my research on them , I was told that a mother would kill her own young it they remained with her after the First week . So . given the reputation of adult amblypyguls for aggression , imagine my surprise when I first observed their social interactions . Now my students and I , working with captive mother-offspring groups , have shown that the animals lead highly complex social lives . One morning , as I watched a P. marginemaculatus mother with her three-week-old young . I observed an amazing sight : the mother walked directly over to a group of ten closely grouped offspring and gently stroked thorn with her whips . The young moved to surround and orient to her and stroked her in return , touching her whips , palps , and legs . Over a period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with seven out of the ten youngsters . Although the voting had initially been sitting close together . slowly waving their whips . their whip movements quickened once their mother joined the group , so that most ot the youngsters touched each other while she was with them . Then the mother left the group of ten . and walked directly to a separate group ot youngsters . She stroked them - and as with the first group , they stroked her in turn-tor about thirty seconds . Finally , she visited a third group and repeated the interaction tor several minutes , before returning to sit in the middle of the first group . In each case , the young oriented towards their mother and stroked her palps , whips , and lets with their whips . What amazed me about those interactions was that they appeared to indicate social bonding between a mother and her offspring . After watching that mothcr-ottsprini ; behavior in amazement . I set out to discover just how social the creatures might be . In the past hve years my students and I have quantitatively documented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and among siblings , in two amblypygid species : the Floridian P marginemaculatus and the much larger Damon diadema from Tanzania . The results are changing the view of amblypygids as solitary annuals . Why is this finding so exciting ? Among arachnids , maternal care ( or , in the case of some harvestmen speeies. paternal care ) tor the eggs and the newly emerged offspring is not uncommon . Yet araehmd social behavior. beyond the transient parental care of newborns , is extremely rare . Less than 0.1 percent of the almost 93,000 known arachnid species live m interactive social groups tor extended periods . Along with the two amblypygid species I have studied- in which mothers and their offspring may remain together for nearly a year-only fifty-three spider species , eleven scorpion species , three pseudoscorpion species , and seven spider-mite species have been observed to live in social groups . Sociality is broadly defined to include interactive groups whose members tolerate one another and associate beyond early development . The sociality of some groups is short-lived : in some spider groups the siblings remain together for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young scorpions remain with their mother tor part of their development . At the other end of the social spectrum are the complex societies of the highly social cobweb-weaving spiders , Anelosimus eximius , of Central and South America . They maintain group nurseries tor their young in massive webs that house thousands of individuals . For arachnitis , the benefits of being social include having others help capture large prey , sharing prey once it is caught , and cooperatively constructing a retreat ( which may be webs , burrows , or silk-covered lairs ) . Furthermore , the longer the youngsters have to grow and become better predators before becoming independent adults , the better their survival . Some investigators have suggested that unlike the eusocial insects-ants , termites , many wasps , and some bees-which work together to increase the reproductive output of the colony , the few arachnid societies function primarily to increase the foraging success of the group 's members . In spite of the potential benefits of cooperation , mutual tolerance by arachnids of the same species is very rare . Why has n't sociality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are predators that not only compete tor prey but also can prey on each other . For example , the longer offspring remain with their mother , the greater their predatory capabilities and the greater their need tor prey . As the young mature , the balance between cooperation and conflict , which is inherent in all social groups , becomes ever more precarious . By studying the rare arachnid species that live in amicable social family groups , biologists can pose ecological and evolutionary questions about the costs and benefits or group living . Amblypygid social groups share many , though not all , traits of other groups of social arachnids . My students and I have observed seventeen D. diadema family groups tor a year or more in captivity . In each one . the mother amblypygid and her offspring have been peaceful and interactive . Their social relations are consistently friendly , with little agression until the young begin to reach sexual maturity , at about twelve to fourteen months . As they reach sexual maturity , however , the siblings become aggressive toward each other . My @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damaged legs , or emaciated bodies ( the last because the victims are forced to hide from aggressive males ) . At this a iic individuals are sometimes cannibalized. something we never see in younger animals , in the wild , the family groups would clearly disperse by the time the offspring are sexually mature . In senne groups , the mother continues to interact with her youngsters throughout their development : in others , she leaves the group before she molts or mates again . It is the siblings that form the strongest social bonds see photograph on opposite page . The most obvious social trait in D. diadema is that the members of a family group stay close together , constantly touching and exploring each other and their surroundings with their whips . Typically , they form loosely connected groups , within which between three and twenty animals are in constant contact with some other family members . As the youngsters grow older and larger , they space themselves progressively farther apart , but remain within easy reach , separated by less than a whip length . Although there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group , most of them stay closely associated with other family members until sexual maturity . There is remarkably little aggression among the immature siblings . In a testy exehanne , one youngster might open its palps or chase its sibling briefly , but we have seen none of the grappling or standoffs with wide-open palps and flicking whips that so characterize adult male conflicts . Cannibalism , always a risk among arthropod predators , is extremely rare in the family groups . In contrast , when adult Damn are kept together , even in huge cages with plenty of food , they spread themselves as far apart as they can ( unless they happen to be courting ) , and cannibalism is common . My student Rachel E. Walsh has shown that when seven- to nine-month-old D. diadema are briefly removed from their families , then either reintroduced to their own group or placed within an unfamiliar group of the same age . they are more aggressive to the unfamiliar animals than to their own family members . Since all the animals m Walsh s experiment were immature , their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the battles between unfamiliar adults , but it was much testier than that among typical siblings . Walsh has also demonstrated that the adolescents can distinguish their mother from an unfamiliar adult female by smell alone . I am not entirely sure why the young amblypygids want to stay in close contact with other individuals , but they clearly do ! If a clutch of young D. diadema are removed from a familiar cage and scattered inside a large , unfamiliar one , they gather back together within minutes . Do the amblypygids congregate into groups because certain areas of the cages-the tight spaces , such as where cork bark touches the glass walls of the cagesare more attractive than others ? My student Lisa A. Taylor and I tested that hypothesis by putting family groups on more uniform " bark " otherwise known as plywood-that we installed around the walls of the cage , equidistant from the glass . When we observed where individuals distributed themselves , we were rather surprised that both species gathered together in small groups on the plywood . but that the location of the gathering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the cage than in simply associating with others in their group . Another common benefit of group living is that it affords some protection from predators . Group members can take turns as lookouts , warn their neighbors of impending danger , or help defend against incursions by outsiders . Amblypygids must be preyed upon by other animals ( and not only by the desperately greedy people on the television show Fear Factor ) , but surprisingly few reports have surfaced of the eapture of amblypygids by other animals in the wild . Only a scorpion in Costa Rica and an Amazonian monkey , the golden backed uakari , have been observed eating amblypygids . Response to the risk of predation is hard to test realistically in the laboratory . We found , however , that when we disturbed D. diadema families , the youngsters moved closer to their mother or siblings , or even scurried under their mother . As the young became adolescents , though , they were less likely to respond to a threat by gathering closer together . Most of the time , the adolescents as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threat . But every once in a while a mother threatened us . On several occasions an adult female with seven-month-old offspring tried to defend her young with an effective threat display . Each time she raised her body high above the bark , opened her palps widely , and slowly stalked toward us . The display made her look even larger and more threatening . Once she tried to stab me with the stiletto-sharp tip of her palps . Believe me , I backed off as fast as I could ! I mentioned earlier that group living often helps facilitate the capturing and sharing of large prey . Among spiders , pseudoscorpions , and scorpions , prey sharing is one of the major benefits of social living . Immature animals , in particular , have the advantage of getting much larger prey than they could capture by themselves . I am a behavioral ecologist who believes that amblypygids should rightfully be considered part of the pantheon of social arthropods , but I ca n't defend my position by claiming that amblypygids share prey or cooperate in prey capture . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their young briefly share prey , but the behavior has seemed incidental , rather than reflective of cooperation or even mutual tolerance . More commonly , hungry group members try to steal prey from one another-a rather comical effort , because the thief often returns to the center of the group to cat its ill-gotten gains , only to have the meal stolen once again . Another important difference between amblypygids and most other social arachnids is that the amblypygids construct no communal retreat . They can not produce silk , so webs are not an option . Nor do they dig burrows . But perhaps they have no need to collaborate on a retreat . Amblypygids are so thin they can fit into narrow spaces where they are sate from predators and from the elements . Groups of young siblings often pack into tight spaces , leaving only their whips waving at the entrance . In fact , young amblypygids are remarkably hard to see . Even after years of observing them , I rarely locate the youngsters right away . Instead , I tend to glimpse first the white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the waving whips , and only then do I recognize that six or ten fingernail-size youngsters are right before my eyes . Their camouflage probably explains why social behavior in amblypygid families in the wild has not yet been explored . An adult female can be relatively easy to find when she is foraging alone at night , but her nearby offspring may be virtually invisible it the light is dim and the background is at all complex . Yet as people look carefully tor young amblypygids m the field , I predict biologists will discover more of these fascinating animals living in family groups . They may be peculiar looking-even off-putting to some-yet 1 can not help but be charmed by their peaceful family dynamics where siblings entwine whips and explore their surroundings together . One must admit that in their mastery of social grace , they are incredibly alloring . Sidebar Newly-hatched whip spiders ( Phrynus parvulus ) cling to their mother 's back in Costa Rica . They stay aboard and remain largely immobile for about a week after they hatch . If they happen to drop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their mom-about an inch long-may even eat them . Female Heterophrynus , pictured here among leaf litter in southern Guyana , displays her palps , or " arms " near her mouth , with spines about a quarter of an inch long . Palps are formidable weapons for stabbing prey and fighting other whip spiders of both sexes . Sidebar Two males ( P. parvulus ) grapple for territorial supremacy on a tree in the lowland forests of Costa Rica . Sidebar Mother Damon diadema ( right ) circles a thin " whip , " or modified leg , to stroke one of her young ( left ) . The youngster is about four months old and measures three-eighths of an inch long . A second youngster is under the mother 's left palp . Family portrait of D. diadema includes an adult female ( with a sheen because she has recently molted ) and eight of her twenty-two offspring . Each animal is touching another , being touched , or has just been touched by a relative 's whip . In the schematic diagram at left , each arrow points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being touched . The young are about eight months old and will continue to interact peacefully with their mother and one another for three or four more months . Sidebar Upper photograph : Damon whip spiders are pictured in courtship . Lower photograph : Female D. annulatipes from South Africa , when turned on her back , exposes a brood pouch . Dozens of young will soon hatch and climb onto her back . Sidebar Freshly-molted male whip spider ( D. diadema ) leaves behind an old , dark exoskeleton . After a day , the animal 's white exterior will darken and harden . Throughout their lives whip spiders molt in order to grow or rejuvenate . Author Affiliation As an undergraduate , LINDA S. RAYOR ( " Family Ties , " page 38 ) landed her First paying job observing how mother macaques interact with their offspring . Little did she realize at the time that her own research would explore similar **25;2141;TOOLONG behavior that helps structure social organizations-but in quite different creatures : the amblypygids , or whip spiders , that she describes in her article ( and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ huntsman spiders , and prairie dogs . Kayor is at work on a book with a colleague . Cole Gilbert , and a photographer , Joseph Warfel , on spider behavior . She is a senior research associate in the entomology department at Cornell University in Ithaca , New York . // <p>                     