@@367009

The anti-globalization movement serves up plenty of hot rhetoric but also some disturbing truths . Street protesters have it exactly right , for example , when they argue that the economic policies imposed on developing nations by the International Monetary Fund and World Bank have hammered the poor . Using loans and the threat of default as levers , the IMF has pushed more than 90 countries to accept its brand of free-market shock therapy : lowering trade barriers , raising interest rates , devaluating currencies , privatizing state-owned industries , eliminating subsidies and cutting health , education and welfare spending . These " structural-adjustment programs "  --  a chilly bureaucratic euphemism if ever there was one  --  attract foreign investment and stimulate the business climate ( and the local elites ) . But the programs also drive up the cost of living , rip holes in already tattered safety nets and help kill small farms and businesses . After Haiti lifted its trade barriers under IMF pressure in 1986 , for instance , an imported mountain of cheap American rice  --  subsidized by the U.S. government  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and World Bank admit the problem while insisting that their policies will boost living standards over the long term . But people in the Global South have lost patience with such talk . In Bolivia this month , rioting broke out because the government and a multinational consortium planned to raise fees for drinking water . Eight people were killed . It was a reminder that the globalization protests in Washington are n't simply the product of a Web-connected U.S. counterculture but of an anger that 's building around the world  --  the defining North-South issue of our time . <P> Consider a country that the IMF and World Bank regard as a success : Tanzania , the vast East African nation that is among the poorest places in the world . Best known to Americans for Mount Kilimanjaro and the Serengeti Plain , it has been stable and relatively peaceful since it gained independence in 1961 . For two decades , it steered a course of self-reliant socialism  --  a one-party government controlled the economy , taxed mightily and spent lavishly ; its literacy rate was among the highest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was flat-lining , with hyperinflation , huge budget and trade deficits , and massive dependence on foreign aid . Today , after 15 years of IMF-imposed structural adjustment , administered most effectively since 1995 under President Benjamin Mkapa , Tanzania has " made great progress in getting its macroeconomic situation in order , " says James Adams , the World Bank director for the country . Inflation has fallen below 7% , and the GDP is growing 4% a year ; European sedans glide through the streets of the capital , Dar es Salaam , and imported goods fill the shops . Mining and cash-crop exports are up . R.J. Reynolds refurbished an old cigarette factory . The country established a stock exchange . " There 's no question that opening up trade has transformed Tanzania , " Adams says .                     