@@412696

PRO-LIFE VERSUS PRO-CHOICE . IT USED TO BE THAT SIMPLE . BUT NOW THE ISSUE IS COMPLICATED WITH DETAILS LIKE 24-HOUR WAITING PERIODS , PARTIAL-BIRTH PROCEDURES , AND INFORMED CONSENT-AND THE TIDE OF PUBLIC OPINION IS SHIFTING . Headnote STEVE FISHMAN CHARTS THE NEW POLITICS OF ABORTION . IMAGE BY BARBARA KRUGER // Outside Holt Junior High , in a small town near Lansing , MI , the temperature has risen well into the 90s . Tent tops stand on a shadeless lawn looking a little like mushroom caps , and people crowd under them for relief . A mother ministering to a scraped knee hunts for a Band:Aid . " Big ouchie or little ? " she 's asked . At the refreshment tent , everybody looks for water , generously provided by the local water and power board . Some people duck inside the gymnasium-the only cool spot-and sign up for the day 's event , a bike ride to raise money to prevent child abuse . " There 's a breeze , " declares Congresswoman Debbie Stabenow hopefully . Stabenow , who 's running for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ founded this event-and poses for a photo with some constituents . This may not be the perfect day for a marathon bike ride-how many miles can you pedal in blistering heat ? Still , for Democrats like Stabenow this should be the best possible environment for campaigning . After all , it 's smack-dab in the middle of the most pro-choice part of Michigan-62 percent of voters here support abortion rights-and she 's one of the most pro-choice politicians in the state . " A woman should decide , " attests Laurie Coleman , a school counselor who 's just spent a minute with Stabenow . " I 'm pro-choice , " says Andrea Yokich , another Stabenow supporter . " It 's one of the two or three most important things for me . " Conviction like Coleman 's and Yokich 's ought to weigh heavily in favor of Stabenow-and ought to encourage Democrats nationwide . The race for the Senate seat Stabenow wants-as well as for the House seat she 's vacating-could determine which party ends up with a majority in Congress . And in Michigan , each race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the little-known truth about abortion and politics is that pro-choice voters do n't always cast pro-choice votes . In fact , in Michigan , where they handily outnumber pro-life voters statewide-52 to 43 percent the opposite seems to be true . The governor is pro-life , as are two thirds of legislators . As for Stabenow , she 's locked in a dead heat just the kind of race in which Right to Life of Michigan , one of the most powerful and well-funded such groups in America , is able to flex its considerable muscle . " In Michigan , " Amanda Peterman , of Right to Life of Michigan , declares , " we are winning . " From California to Florida and everywhere in between , pro , choice and pro-life candidates are squaring off this election season . Both houses of Congress are up for grabs , and the presidential race pits a pro-choice Democrat against a prolife Republican . In some polls , as many as two thirds of Americans say they want abortion to remain legal . ( An estimated 43 percent of women in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they reach the age of 45 , according to the Alan Guttmacher Institute . ) Yet pro-choice women and men alike routinely cast votes for politicians who vow to end abortion . The result is that abortion rights are being eroded around the country . In large part this is due to the way in which the abortion issue has shifted . No longer is the debate centered on the simple question of whether the practice should be allowed but on the minutiae of access , funding , parental permission , and methods of operation . Since 1973 , the U.S. Supreme Court has forbidden voters to outlaw abortion , decreeing it a constitutionally guaranteed privacy right . But since 1992 , the Court has permitted-some say invited-the states to modify how abortion rights are applied , as long as they do n't place " an undue burden " on women . State legislatures have found plenty of ways to restrict abortions . Thirty states have enacted laws regulating what the pro-life side calls partial-birth abortions-a term that refers to some procedures performed after the 16th week of pregnancy . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struck down in the courts . ) InJune , the U.S. Supreme Court declared , by a five-to-four vote , that such prohibitions are unconstitutional when they do not specifically define the outlawed procedure or when they fail to make exceptions for the health ( not just the life ) of the mother . State lawmakers are already at work rewriting their statutes to make them comply . In 1999 , a record year for pro-life legislation , Michigan alone enacted seven new measures , as did Texas . In Michigan , says Peterman , " we can pass whatever bill we bring to the table as fast as we can write it . " For example , Michigan has enacted what Rebekah Warren , head of the Michigan Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League , calls a gag rule : If a pregnancy-prevention program receives taxpayer money , it 's not allowed to refer a pregnant woman to an abortion provider or even mention abortion as an option . Also , the state will not permit Medicaid-in most states the biggest funder of abortions-to pay for the procedure for indigent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pick up the tab for an abortion for any state employee , unless her life is in danger . In Michigan , pregnant minors must get consent from a parent to have an abortion . And the state has what the pro-life side calls an informed-consent law , requiring a woman to receive information about the nature of her abortion as well as other options at least 24 hours before the procedure . Recently , Michigan passed another bill regulating how that information should be received-an abortion provider 's fax or private Internet site is insufficient . A woman must get the word through a statesponsored Web site , by certified mail , or in person , even if it means taking additional time off from work . " I do n't want to hear about convenience , " one lawmaker said . Another bill inserted a so-called conscience clause into state law , permitting health-are providers to opt out of performing abortions . " This is not like taking out someone 's kidney , " explains Mike Rogers , majority floor leader of the Michigan State Senate . " If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 're asking them to do something that is really against their oath . " Still more disturbing to pro-choice advocates is a clause in the conscience bill that allows pharmacists to refuse to dispense medication if doing so would go against their moral values . Thus , a pharmacist who does n't believe in emergency contraception or even birth-control pills is not obligated to sell them . " We think it 's absolutely insane , " says Warren , " especially in rural Michigan , " where abortions and family-planning services are difficult to come by . Taken individually , the restrictions may seem inconsequential . " They 're under the radar ; that 's how a lot of them get passed , " says Ellen Malcolm , president of EMILY 's List , which raises millions of dollars for pro-choice candidates . " But taken together , what happens is that in some places you ca n't even exercise the right to abortion . " Nationally , the number of abortions has dropped 12 percent in the past dozen years ; in Michigan it 's declined 40 percent . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wo n't help you win , " says Warren . Running pro-life , on the other hand , will help , but only if the candidate does n't waver at all . Six years ago , Michigan Republican Ronna Romney ran for the U.S. Senate on an antiabortion platform but lost in the primary to Spencer Abraham ( now the incumbent and running against Stabenow ) , after his campaign accused her of letting friends know she was secretly pro-choice . As one pro-life official put it , " These are the best of times . " Barbara Listing , president of Right to Life of Michigan , is equally sanguine : " I do think if we had the opportunity on the ballot , we could ban abortion here . " For voters , the new focus on the fine points has blurred the lines of the fight . No longer are candidates simply pro-choice or pro-life . Now they find a position somewhere in the middle . In Virginia , George Allen , Republican candidate for U.S. Senate , talks about " moderating the excesses of abortion practices " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Montoya Coggins , a solidly pro-choice Democrat running for Congress in Texas , speaks out against partial-birth abortion . Nowhere , though , is fuzziness more apparent than in the New York Senate race . Both Democrat Hillary Rodham Clinton and Republican Rick Lazio call themselves pro-choice . Yet Lazio , a Republican congressman , has voted to prohibit a military woman stationed overseas from getting an abortion at a military hospital , even if she pays for it herself ( the government wo n't pay , no matter where the procedure is done ) . He also supports a ban on Medicaid-funded abortions for the poor . " Voters are going to have to be alert this year to the nuances of the abortion issue , " an editorial in The New York Times recently admonished . The Supreme Court decision striking down the Nebraska law against partialbirth abortions has given the pro-choice side little reason to relax . The vote was five to four , unexpectedly close given that support for abortion rights on the current Court is usually counted as six to three . The next president will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which could well shift the balance of abortion opinion on the Court . But voters seem to have little appetite for the whole issue . The number of voters who go to the polls specifically to support pro-life or pro-choice candidates is small . Of these , pro-life voters are generally easier to motivate . Barbara Listing of Right to Life of Michigan estimates she can bring in anywhere from 2 to 7 percent of the vote , and that can be important in a tight race . " If it 's close , " says Listing , " our issue can be decisive . " The abortion issue is often used as a brush to paint an opponent as extreme . Regina Montoya Coggins , the Texas Democrat running for Congress , wants voters to know that pro-life Republican Pete Sessions earned a 100 percent rating from both the Christian Coalition and the National Right to Life . In Michigan , state senator Mike Rogers , the personable and self-effacing former FBI agent running for Congress against Byrum , claims to represent the mainstream when he contends that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights . " The issues we deal with-parental consent , no tax-funded abortions , partial-birth abortion-are mainstream issues . " Which is the true majority position ? Given the polls , it would seem to be pro-choice . Yet when you bring up the details , consensus starts to break down . " People who say they 're pro-choice agree with us 75 percent of the time on teenagers , informed consent , and partial birth , " says Listing . Despite the Supreme Court 's recent decision , partial birth remains a valuable campaign tool-one of those wedge issues that separates a voter from his or her natural sympathies . Last April , Right to Life of Michigan bought radio and TV ads attacking Stabenow as a supporter of partial birth . The commercial showed a baby in a bathtub , shot from below so it appeared to be underwater . The implication was clear : This is a fetus , looking very much like a baby , in the womb . Right to Life was suggesting that Stabenow wanted to end that life through a particularly distasteful procedure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managed to get some of the ads pulled ( a feat Right to Life called censorship ) . This is one of the finest nuances of the abortion debate . Stabenow has supported banning these procedures unless the mother 's life or health is at risk . But " life or health was too broad for the pro-life side . " It practically included stubbing your toe , " objected Peterman , the Right to Life spokesperson . " They want this problem to be an issue more than they want to solve it , " says Stabenow . Campaigning is bruising work , and the candidates sweating it out at Holt Junior High-Dianne Byrum , plain-talking mother of two , is there as well-have been at it a long time . Both Byrum and Stabenow have been campaigning for 18 months , almost as long as a two-year Congressional term . Soon Stabenow will get in a car for an hour 's drive to a chicken  --  dinner fund-raiser . Byrum will go off to a round of parties for her son 's high-school graduation . Laurie Coleman is heading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money she 's going to raise to prevent child abuse . She 's an Independent , not a Democrat or Republican , just the kindof voter elections like this may depend on . Of course , her views on the issue are , like the issue itself , nuanced . She 's pro-choice , though she confides that she believes a 16-week-old fetus does resemble a baby . When she had a miscarriage at 16 weeks , the fetus lived for an hour . Still , she says , " I feel the individual needs to be able to make that choice . We all have our own gods to deal with . " The question for candidates and activists on both sides of the abortion issue-in Michigan and nationwide-is how Coleman , and millions of others like her , will vote . Photograph // <p>                     