@@415653

Flower remedies can work wonders on the stressed and depressed Photograph // When Terry Badget split up with his wife a few years ago , he became depressed and started gaining weight . Like millions of other Americans , he turned to antidepressant drugs , but they did n't solve his problems . Then a friend recommended Bach flower remedies , which are designed to work on different negative emotional states or personality traits . Badger liked the idea of a natural approach and decided to give it a shot . He consulted Alicia Sirkin , a certified flower remedy practitioner , who analyzed his emotional state and prescribed a combination of essences to treat his negative feelings . " I could feel the positive effects right away , " Badger says . Within a month , his emotions had leveled out and his depression had lifted . A Walk in the Woods In the 1930s , Edward Bach , M.D. , a British bacteriologist and immunologist , noticed a correlation between his patients ' emotional states and their physical ailments . He suspected that negative , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widely accepted by conventional and alternative practitioners alike . Convinced that there were substances in nature that would correct human emotional imbalances , Bach closed his practice to work on a new system of healing . On a morning walk through a dew-laden field he had a revelation : He sensed that each dewdrop would be imbued with the unique healing power of the plant it lay on . He experimented with different flowers , concocting formulas by floating flowers in glass bowls of pure spring water and leaving them in the sun to release their essences . Then , when he felt fear , anxiety or anger , he used his intuitive powers to determine which flower might help . The end result : 38 essences , made from completely nontoxic plants , which Bach felt corresponded with all the basic human emotions . Put to the Test What began as a homegrown therapy practiced by a handful of followers in England has become a common practice . Today flower essences are prescribed by more than 800 certified Bach flower remedy practitioners in 40 countries and used by countless millions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of chiropractors , massage therapists , acupuncturists , dentists , psychotherapists , doctors and even veterinarians . Like many alternative therapies , flower remedies have gained popularity based on people 's personal experiences rather than hard scientific evidence . To date , only one double-blind , placebo-controlled study has evaluated the effects of flower remedies , and that was back in 1979 . The experiment , conducted at the California Institute of Asian Studies , revealed that the participants receiving flower remedies showed a heightened feeling of well-being and self-acceptance compared with the control group , among whom no positive pattern could be detected-hardly a ringing endorsement of the therapy . Since then , a handful of smallscale studies have found some positive results for the remedies . An Italian trial ( published in La Medicina Biolog ica , 1997 ) found that a majority of patients suffering from anxiety , stress and depression showed improvement after being treated with flower remedies for four months . A pilot study at Heidelberg University Hospital in Germany found that pregnant women who were prescribed flower remedies gave natural birth more often and required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research projects are under way , but it 's surprising that they 've been so long in coming . Popular herbal remedies like ginkgo biloba and St. John 's Wort have been the focus of multiple studies in the past couple of years . But after 70 years of use , flower remedies have n't garnered much attention from the scientific world . But that has n't stopped people from trying them . Flower Cocktails Like homeopathic formulas , flower remedies are extremely weak dilutions . After a flower 's essence has been captured in heated spring water and combined fifty-fifty with brandy ( to preserve it ) , the mixture is then combined again with water . At that point , no trace of the original flower is actually scientifically detectable in the resulting formula . As Nancy Buono , a Bach certified flower remedy practitioner in Tempe , Ariz. , describes it , their effects are comparable to the way that listening to music acts on the psyche . " A symphony can cause a variety of emotions : It can be irritating , soothing or even uplifting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. Herbert Fill , M.D. , a retired psychiatrist and former New York City Commissioner of Mental Health who often prescribed flower essences to his patients , has a different explanation . He believes that the essences act directly upon neurotransmitters-as do psychotropic drugs-to affect mood . " There are a lot of theories floating around , " admits Alicia Sirkin . " But the one thing we know from clinical experience is that these remedies do restore a positive emotional state . " Sirkin , who has been a certified practitioner for six years , was a skeptic at first . She was converted , however , ofter taking the advice of a " broadminded " conventional doctor who recommended she try flower remedies to ease her own crippling fears . " Before using the remedies , anything new made me fearful , " she says . " Now I can face those challenges with courage . " For years she used the remedies on herself and her family and friends before eventually taking on clients . Professional Help Meeting with a flower remedy therapist is not like consulting with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you wo n't be asked to don a paper gown . In fact , there 's no physical exam at all . More like a psychotherapist , a flower remedy practitioner encourages clients to open up by asking a series of questions that clues her in to the client 's emotional and physical state . Then , after describing the possibilities with the client , the therapist devises a personalized formula composed of up to seven different essences that she believes will be most effective . The essences are then mixed with 30 milliliters of spring water in a glass treatment bottle . The dosage is always the same : 2 drops , at least 4 times per day placed under the tongue or in water that you sip throughout the day . Many people report that the remedies start working right away , but it may take a few months to resolve the emotional issue completely , depending on how deep-seated it is . If the person is dealing with a painful or traumatic event , like divorce or the death of a loved one , he or she might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is one month of treatment for every year that the problem has existed , explains Buono . " The amazing thing is , when you reach an equilibrium , you 'll forget to take the remedy , " she says . Thirty-eight remedies might not seem like a lot to choose from when trying to treat the gamut of human emotions , but the key to success with Bach remedies is getting the mix just right for each individual . In fact , more than 209 million combinations are possible . Since no two people experience the same event in exactly the same way , a practitioner 's ability to mix and match remedies is very important , explains Sirkin . Over the years , Sirkin and Buono have treated everything from indecision to self-mutilation , but the three most common complaints are stress , anxiety and depression . Sirkin says flower remedies are particularly effective at treating these three problems as well as for helping clients who feel 11 stuck " in psychotherapy . In fact , she works closely with a psychotherapist , who passes on particularly difficult cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two therapists share information about patients to better help them . " Flower remedies are the perfect adjunct to therapy ; they make it work faster by opening up peoples ' emotions , " she explains . Bach intended the remedies to treat emotional imbalances , but they can also speed recovery from physical disease . Countless studies have established the link between negative emotions like grief and depression and such diseases as cancer and heart disease . " How a sick person responds to being ill affects the course of the disease , " says Buono . " With flower remedies , people can improve their outlook quickly . It stands to reason that they will recover faster . " Another appealing thing about flower remedies is that they are totally benign . Unlike herbs , which can have side effects and interact with drugs , flower remedies are nontoxic . " You ca n't OD on them , " says Buono . " They 're even safe for pregnant women . " What 's more , the system is so simply designed that people can learn to prescribe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by advising clients on the remedies agree that this is the end goal . The remedies are now available in most natural food stores and the product displays usually include a brochure detailing the symptoms each flower remedy treats . Many books have been written on the subject ; one of the best introductions to the topic is a thin paperback called Bach Flower Essences for the Family ( Wigmore Publications , 1993 ) . If you feel you want expert advice , however , you can visit www.bachcentre.com to find a certified therapist near you . Chances are , though , if you 've heard about flower remedies , it 's because a friend  --  or a friend of a friendis a devotee . You can be sure that Terry Badger is out there spreading the word . Of course , nothing beats personal experience . Says Buono , " Since we know flower remedies have no side effects , what 's the harm in trying them ? " ) Sidebar buds for you Sidebar Try these remedies to ease some of your most common emotional complaints . BEACH : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ BUD : Failure to learn from past mistakes Sidebar CLEMATIS : Dreaminess ; lack of interest in the present ELM : Suddenly overwhelmed by responsibility GENTIAN : Hopelessness , despair GORSE : Discouragement , despondency HEATHER : Self-centered ness , self-concern Sidebar HOLLY : Hatred , envy , jealousy IMPATIENS : Impatience LARCH : Lack of confidence OLIVE : Complete exhaustion PINE : Self reproach , guilt STAR OF BETHLEHEM : After-effects of shock or trauma WALNUT : Protection from change and outside influences Sidebar rescue me ! Sidebar As usual , I tried to save a few bucks on a recent vacation by opting for a , shall we say , lesser-known airline . But when I boarded the elderly-looking 747 and saw the seats adorned with an orange plaid straight out of 1964 , 1 had visions of an emergency landing in the Atlantic Ocean . Too rattled to wait for the drink cart , I squirted four drops of Bach 's Rescue Remedy under my tongue . Do n't ask me how it works . For all I know , the effect is purely psychological . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Bethlehem , Cherry Plum , Rock Rose and Clematis-had a noticeable-and almost immediate-calming effect . The most popular by far of the Bach flower remedies , Rescue Remedy has practically achieved cult status among users . It 's been the subject of many articles , including one in that conservative bastion The Wall Street Journal and was even mentioned on a recent episode of the TV show Roswell . Billed as a quick way to counteract stress or shock of any kind-from a visit to the dentist to a serious accident-it should be diluted with water ( 4 drops in a small glass ) . But if your stress or anxiety is acute , you can also take it straight under the tongue or even dab it on your lips , wrists or temples . - A.C . Author Affiliation ABIGAIL CHIPLEY is a freelance writer and former news editor of Vegetarian Times . // <p>                     