@@379010

At this stage , it 's not easy to make Jack Abramoff 's reputation worse . The Washington superlobbyist has been caught , in his e-mails , calling his Indian tribal clients " monkeys " and " morons . " It has been made clear , in congressional hearings , that he charged the tribes outlandish fees and got them to make donations that underwrote his lifestyle , his kids ' education and the luxury travel of his favorite politician . But for those who were recipients of the largesse that Abramoff could afford with his clients ' money , exposure is a frightening prospect . House majority leader Tom DeLay , that luxury traveler , has already been burned by his association with Abramoff . The latest disclosures about the lobbyist 's methods have dusted up two more Republican notables : antitax activist Grover Norquist and Christian conservative Ralph Reed . Their names came up in the thousands of e-mails released last week by the Senate Indian Affairs Committee , which is investigating Abramoff . The fact that Abramoff-controlled tribal money found its way to the highest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lot of people in Washington nervous . " If you painted that money purple , there 'd be a lot of purple pockets around town , " says Senator Byron Dorgan , the ranking Democrat on the committee . <P> The spreading scandal is a particular concern to Republicans in light of next year 's midterm elections . Abramoff 's name has become associated in Washington with more than just typical lobbying excess . He is an intimate of the self-described revolutionaries who took power on the Hill in 1994 on promises of cleaning house after decades of Democratic control and , as such , is seen as the personification of the Republican revolution gone awry . It does n't help that the Indian tribal money that made Abramoff so influential around town came mostly from profits from gambling , which many conservatives view as immoral . Some Republicans are even arguing that the party should distance itself from those tied too closely to Abramoff . " If someone within your family is doing something that 's certainly wrong , if not illegal , you have a duty to say , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the American Conservative Union . " That 's what people are saying . " <P> Last week 's e-mail dump was the first detailed look the public has got into how Abramoff combined his top-tier connections with vast sums of money from his tribal clients to advance his interests . It shows how easy it is for seasoned operators to violate the spirit of the law  --  possibly while staying within the letter of it  --  as they peddle influence . The correspondence also lays bare that , of the $7.7 million Abramoff and fellow lobbyist Michael Scanlon charged the Choctaw for projects in 2001 , they spent $1.2 million for their efforts and split the rest in a scheme they called " gim me five . " Most of all , it shines a bright light into the dark places of Washington where money , politics and lobbyists meet .                     