@@391184

Headnote If your observing list does n't contain variable stars , here 's an easy guide to some of the finest . * BY MICHAEL E. BAKICH " Change in all things is sweet , " said Aristotle . In astronomy , objects called variable stars provide sweet views to observers . Variable stars are ones whose brightnesses change over time . One night , a star field might contain several dozen similarly bright stars . A week later , one star might shine brighter than the rest . Has it exploded ? Probably not . More often , the star will lade and , after a period of time , brighten again . By knowing where to look , you can follow these changes through even a small telescope . A variable history If you do n't count supernovae , the first variable star - and certainly the first periodic variable star - discovered was Mira ( Omicron o Ceti ) , in 1596 by German astronomer David Fabricius ( 1564-1617 ) . Miras variability caused astronomers to think about stars in different ways . Before then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Italian astronomer Geminiano Montanari ( 1633-1687 ) noted the variability of Algol ( Beta Persei ) in 1669 . Dutch-born British astronomer lohn Goodricke ( 1764-1786 ) discovered Delta ( d ) Cephei , the prototype for all Cepheid variables , in 1784 He also explained why Algol varies in brightness . It 's a double- star system in which one star revolves around another - an eclipsing binary , the first to be found . By the mid-19th century , astronomers had discovered so many variable stars that they did n't have the resources to follow them all . German astronomer Friedrich Wilhelm August Argelander ( 1799-1875 ) and American astronomer Benjamin Apthorp Gould ( 1824-1896 ) called upon amateurs worldwide to submit observations of variable stars . Gould gathered variablestar observations from amateur astronomers across the United States and published them in The Astronomical Journal , which he edited . By the mid- ISSOs , Harvard College Observatory Director Kd ward C. Pickering ( 1846-1919 ) and , later , American astronomer William Tyler Olcott ( 1873-1936 ) began providing variable-star observers with charts that had the variable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years later , Pickering began to enter the magnitudes of comparison stars directly on the charts . In December 1911 , spurred on by Olcott 's publications and his communications with amateur astronomers , the lirst observations of the group that would become the American Association of Variable Star Observers ( AAVSO ) appeared in Popular Astronomy . In April 1914 , the group held its first meeting in New York City . Finally , in October 1918 , the AAVSO formally incorporated . Today , the AAVSO continues to support variable-star observations . Check out the group 's web site at www.aavso.org . Labeling variables In 1862 , Argelander assigned the uppercase Roman letters R through Z to variable stars within a constellation . After he ran through these nine letters , Argelander used double uppercase letters ( RR-RZ , SS-SZ ... AAAZ , BB-BZ ... QQ-QZ ) . Because Argelander did not use the let ter J to begin these pairs , he was able to denote a total of 334 stars in this fashion . So , R CrB is the first variable star in Corona Borealis and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If a constellation requires even nunc designations ( and man do ) , astronomers use a single uppercase V plus numbers after 334 . Therefore , Plaskett 's Star carries the designation of V640 Mon , the 640th variable star in the constellation Monoceros the Unicorn . Novae initially carry constellation and year designations , like Nova Cygni 1975 . When the event 's brightness diminishes , such objects receive a variable-star designation . So , for example , astronomers now refer to Nova Cygni 1975 as V 1500 Cyg . The AAVSO also employs a numerical system for variable stars . By this numbering , R Leporis has the additional AAVSO designation of 0455-14 . These numbers represent the star 's approximate right ascension ( 4h55m ) and declination ( - 14 ) for the year 1900 . Recording changes Seasoned observers telescopically compare target variable stars with nearby , similarly bright stars . Good estimates have an error of about 0.1 magnitude . If you 're just starting out , however , you wo n't come close to this level of precision . That 's OK . Sometimes , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say , " Wow ! That 's a lot brighter than it was 3 days ago . " Or , if the star is near minimum brightness , it may appear to have vanished . One solution in the quest for precision measurements is to take images of the target 's star field with either a digital single-Jens reflex ( DSLR ) or charge-coupled device ( CCD ) camera . With this technology , you can measure variable-star brightnesses to an accuracy astronomers could only dream about a century ago . Mediumsized telescopes equipped with CCD cameras typically detect 16th-magnitude stars . Add to such a system a computerized drive and software running a control script con taining a night 's list of variable stars , and the amount of data you can collect will amaze you - all while you 're either looking through a different telescope or asleep . Stars are point sources , and even relatively faint ones record quickly . Use a DSLR or CCD camera , experiment with exposure times , and discard any images you do n't like . Once you settle on an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use the same interval for each image of the variable throughout its entire period . Label each image with the date and time . 11 you take enough images throughout the variable 's cycle , you can chart the star 's light curve . A light curve is a simple graphic astronomers use to plot a variable star 's brightness over time . Each point on the curve represents the star 's magnitude at a specific time . The more points used to make a light curve - and the smaller the intervals between them - the more accurate the curve will be . Once they 've accumulated many points , astronomers use a mathematical formula to smooth out the points and generate a curve . If you do n't have a DSLR or CCD camera and you want to record your observations , use the tried-and-true method of sketching what you see through the eyepiece . Jake care to portray different star brightnesses accurately , either by larger dots or by pressing lighter or harder with your pencil . As with images , label each sketch with the date and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measured , recorded , and submitted reports of variable stars by visual observation and sketching . Much of what we know about the light curves of these stars has come from such observations . That era has passed , but it 's still fun and challenging to set up a telescope and watch a star 's brightness change . Sidebar A LIGHT CURVE is the tool astronomers use to plot a variable star 's brightness over time . Observers record many measurements , and software determines the curve that best fits the data . ASTRONOMY : ROEN KELLY Sidebar Observe these variables Two main types of variables exist : intrinsic and extrinsic , and each type has two classes . Pulsating variables and eruptive variables comprise the intrinsic type . The brightness of these two types varies because of inner physical changes . Eclipsing binaries and rotational variables are the two classes within the extrinsic type . Eclipsing binaries drop in brightness when one star in the system eclipses the other . Rotating stars may expose different areas to us as they spin . A large number of sunspots on one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Subclasses exist within the two variablestar classifications . Following is a list of the most familiar . Objects have their given names because astronomers label most variable-star types after the first star discovered in its class , known as the prototype . - M. E. B. Algol type Prototype : Beta ( ) Persei Right ascension : 3h08m Declination : 4057 ' Period : 2.87 days Magnitude range : 2.1 to 3.4 The classic eclipsing binary , Algol makes an easy target because you can see its brightness vary with your naked eyes . The two stars in the system are far enough apart that , most of the time , their combined light is constant . For observers , the best part happens when the light drops more than a magnitude in about 5 hours , waits 20 minutes , then begins to climb again . You can compare Algol to other nearby stars such as Gamma ( ? ) Andromedae . At maximum , Algol shines just 0.15 magnitude brighter than Gamma . At minimum , it glows more than a magnitude fainter . Most Algol variables have periods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beta ( ) Lyrae Right ascension : 18h50m Declination : 3322 ' Period : 12.91 days Magnitude range : 3.3 to 4.4 This system 's stars are so close , they 're either touching or nearly so . Their shapes are so distorted by gravity that - if we could see the individual stars - theyd look like eggs . At no point on their light curve is their light output steady . When observing the prototype , Lyr , compare it to nearby magnitude 3.2 Gamma ( ? ) Lyrae , which lies 2 to the east-southeast . At brightest , Beta is equal to Gamma in brightness , but it glows a magnitude fainter than Gamma when dimmest . Delta Scuti type Prototype : Delta ( d ) Scuti Right ascension : 18h42m Declination : - 903 ' Period : 4h39m Magnitude range : 4.6 to 4.8 You may have difficulty seeing the variability in this class because most Delta Scuti stars change their brightnesses by less than 0.1 magnitude . So , start with some of the easier types of variables like those of the Algol type - and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If you own a digital or CCD camera , however , you 'll find it easier to record this class of stars ' variations . W Ursae Majoris type Prototype : W Ursae Majoris Right ascension : 9h44m Declination : 5558 ' Period : 4 hours Magnitude range : 7.6 to 8.4 This type of variable star resembles the Beta Lyrae type . In both cases , contact binaries make up the systems . W UMa variables are cooler and less massive than Beta Lyrae variables . Because the stars are in contact , it 's hard to tell precisely when eclipses begin and end . Mira type Prototype : Omicron ( o ) Ceti Right ascension : 2h19m Declination : - 259 ' Period : 333.8 days Magnitude range : 2 to 10 ( both vary ) Mira-type variables are red giants with periods of up to 3 years . Keeping track of this type of star can be rewarding , however , because the best examples have wide brightness ranges . Astronomers discovered many Mira-type variables after Fabricius found their prototype in 1596 , and their designations ( noted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northern constellations , a Miratype variable was the first variable star seen . In addition to Mira , check out R Leonis , R Andromedae , R Leporis , and R Serpentis . RR Lyrae type Prototype : RR Lyrae Right ascension : 19h25m Declination : 4247 ' Period : 13h36m Magnitude range : 7.1 to 8.1 Stars in the RR Lyrae class all have roughly the same intrinsic brightness - around 60 times the Sun 's luminosity . Because of this , these stars make good distance indicators , similar to Cepheids , although astronomers can detect Cepheids at much greater distances . Astronomers find many RR Lyrae stars in globular clusters . Try to observe the prototype 's cycle in one night . Depending on your location ( and the time of year ) , you 'll see either the full range of variability or nearly all of it . RV Tauri type Prototype : R Scuti Right ascension : 18h47m Declination : - 542 ' Period : 140 days Magnitude range : 4.5 to 8.2 Although the class is RV Tauri , the prototype is R Scuti , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ RV Tau type are luminous yellow giants . The brightness minimum , slightly below 8th magnitude , has two separate levels , alternating between a shallow minimum and a deep one . Astronomers define the period of an RV Tau star as the length of time between two of its deep minima . The brightness of the prototype - even at minimum - places it well within the reach of any telescope . Delta Cepheid type Prototype : Delta ( d ) Cephei Right ascension : 22h29m Declination : 5824 ' Period : 5.37 days Magnitude range : 3.5 to 4.4 The " measuring stick " of astronomy , Delta Cepheids ( usually shortened to Cepheids ) have an amazing characteristic : Their periods relate directly to their luminosities . So , once astronomers measure a Cepheid 's period , they can calculate its absolute magnitude ( how bright it would look from a standard distance of 32.6 light-years ) . Comparing that quantity with the star 's apparent magnitude ( how bright it appears ) reveals its distance . Cepheids are young stars of several solar-masses and about 10,000 times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stars ' outer layers ionizes , which makes it opaque . As it darkens , the gas absorbs more energy , the star expands , and its brightness increases . As it expands the helium cools , causing the star to shrink . ALL CHARTS : ASTRONOMY RICHARD TALCOTT AND ROEN KELLY MIRA ( Omicron o Ceti ) , has a period of nearly 334 days . During that time , it increases in brightness from about 9th magnitude to as bright as 2nd magnitude and then dips back . At minimum , Mira disappears from naked-eye visibility . JOHN SANFORD Sidebar FOR MORE ON the history of variable-star observing , read Starlight Nights by Leslie C. Peltier ( Sky Publishing Co. , Cambridge , Massachusetts , 1999 ) . ASTRONOMY : WILLIAM ZUBACK Sidebar ONLINE EXTRA Find more types of variable stars you can observe at www.astronomy.com/toc . Author Affiliation Michael E. Bakich is a senior editor of Astronomy . <p>                     