@@405364

LATE LAST YEAR , AS UKRAINE started getting seriously hit by the financial crisis , a man in a faux-leather jacket stood on Kiev 's main avenue , Khreschatik Boulevard , strapped into a red-lettered billboard offering " Sexy Ukrainian Women Looking for Love . " Next to him on a small table was a folder of pictures of potential " brides . " Women walked past , averting their gazes . Anna Hutsol , a young woman wearing long shorts and high-top sneakers , emerged from the metro stop . She rolled her eyes at the sign before heading to a nearby caf . " People think of Ukraine as this giant brothel , " she said . " They ca n't tell you about any landmarks or monuments in Ukraine . But they can tell you that there are pretty girls in Kiev who wear next to nothing when it 's summer , and that Kiev 's an easy place to find so-called love . " Hutsol , 24 , has cropped , tangerinecolored hair . She founded the feminist organization FEMEN last spring to fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its activism via VKontakte , a Russian version of Facebook , and stages provocative protests that have won press attention . After the Soviet Union collapsed in 1993 , Russian mail-order brides became a distressing clich , but as Russia grew wealthy its women were less reliant on foreign husbands . So foreigners looking for an easy marriage turned to Russia 's neighbor , Ukraine . Traveling there was once a lengthy process involving embassies and visa fees , but in 2005 the nation dropped visa requirements for citizens of the European Union and the United States . Consequently , more than 20 million people visit Ukraine each year , and the capital , Kiev , is now a popular tourist destination . Unfortunately , one of Kiev 's main tourist attractions seems to be women . When the visa laws changed , Ukraine , once just a notorious source of sex-trafficked women , now became a sex-industry destination as well , a gateway from East to West . Explained one sex worker , prostituted Ukrainian women who had worked in other Eastern bloc countries such as the Czech Republic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevalent , since it was now easy to enter this relatively poor country and exploit underage victims , especially homeless children and orphans . Prostitution is illegal in Ukraine and difficult to track . Official police reports claim there are 12,000 prostitutes , but FEMEN believes the numbers are much higher . If someone is caught soliciting , a nominal fine is paid . No customers or Johns are apprehended . In regional cities , police contact the prostituted woman 's parents , a shaming technique intended to decrease the incidence of prostitution . But brothels remain boldly unembarrassed . The website of Gia Escorts proudly declares , " Ukraine is now die Sex Capital of Europe ! ... Ukrainian women are more agreeable , dress more revealingly and are cheaper than Western women . Men from the West can get away with saying and doing things they could never get away with with the women in their native countries . " InJuIy of last year , FEMEN organized 30 young women to stand in Independence Square in Kiev carrying signs reading " Ukraine is not a brothel " in several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that the demonstrators were dressed stereotypically as prostituted women , in tiny skirts , thighhigh stockings and feather boas . " The Ukrainian newspapers were angry , saying we were creating problems , talking about something that did n't exist , " says Hutsol . " But the Western press Reuters and AFP actually looked at the problem for what it was , and only then did Ukrainian papers follow . " The rise in sex tourism has also led to the growth of industries such as child pornography and child prostitution . " I can see a direct correlation between tourism and child prostitution , " says Iryna Konchenkova , head of the international nonprofit School of Equal Opportunities in Ukraine . According to Konchenkova , 1 1 percent of prostitutes are between the ages of 11 and 15 , while 19 percent are between 16 and 17 : " So I would say 30 percent of prostitutes in Ukraine are underage . . . . Street kids get attracted to this . They get fed , they get cleaned , they are warm ; some think it 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Konchenkova has had many cases where children became upset when they were no longer wanted by pimps : " A 14-year-old girl told me in an aggrieved voice that she was considered too old to work in pornography anymore . " Konchenkova adds that the children 's values are a problem . " When you ask these girls where they see themselves in 10 years , they say a nice house , a floor-length dress , an expensive car , " she says . " They see Western commercials of luxury life and they want it . At the same time these girls get only threes Cs at school , so they must change either their intentions or their attitude towards money . " Women are drawn to accepting " dubious " proposals from traffickers by the desire to make money , provide for families and see other countries , says Katya Cherepakha , die social assistance coordinator at the international women 's rights center , La Strada Ukraine . An exacerbating factor is Ukraine 's relative poverty : The World Bank-estimated average annual purchasing power of Ukrainians is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Women are also misled by lack of information about the true nature of trafficking and deceptive examples of successful emigrants . " Traffickers are getting smarter , " says Cherepakha . " They give a piece of true information - about the process of employment , for example - but all the rest of the information* is not true . " Women who have a lack of familial support or problems at home , such as domestic violence , are especially susceptible to such offers . In 11 years , La Strada 's helpline has received 38,500 phone calls , 64 percent from people applying for work overseas and checking on how safe a country is . But 4 percent are from people searching for loved ones , and another 4 percent are from family members trying to get help to trafficked relatives , ranging from paying for court cases to getting them to an airport . Hutsol wishes Ukrainian women would be more suspicious of littleknown men making promises of any sort : " My own friends think that if they meet a foreigner they will have the perfect life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Turkey , who sleep with them , promise them the world and do n't even leave a phone number . That 's another problem with Ukraine having a reputation for beautiful , available women : Sex tourism is n't always solely about prostitution . " - MARINA KAMENEV                     