@@415237

See also related article on page WB1 of same issue While keeping an eye on the distant tree line , waiting for another flock of giant Canada geese to make its way to our decoys , I took a moment in my blind to enjoy the pond , the grassy fields and the beautiful rolling hills in front of us . Suddenly a voice came from in back of us , bringing an end to the morning hunt . " Mind if we play through ? " a surprised golfer asked . I looked on as he and his companion walked right through my rig of goose decoys . I could n't actually complain , since my hunting party was , in fact , the real intruder . We were hunting resident Canada geese that had taken over a very exclusive golf course just outside of Boston . I had found a club that was very happy to allow us to hunt before its members came to play , just to keep the geese off the property . You might think a golf course is an odd place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limit of 10 geese at the end of the hunt dispelled all apprehensions . Golfers , groundskeepers and farmers alike deplore the exploding numbers of resident geese . Some blame the species ' ever-increasing population on short stopping , others on the lack of places one can hunt the cagey resident . Without question , geese have become a common sight and problem in suburban areas . Many states have opened an additional season with very generous bag limits in an attempt to keep Canada goose numbers in check . But hunting them requires entirely different tactics from what I would use for late-season migrators . CONCEALMENT IS KEY To be successful gunning for early-season resident geese , you have to hunt with tactics that are different from those used for migrators . With few cornfields cut , hunters should look to hayfields , sod farms or open grassy areas like golf courses . Such places attract good numbers of geese but can be a nightmare to hunt . Consistently scoring in areas where cover is non-existent requires innovative methods . To add to the difficulty , resident geese know the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every day , unlike migrators , who are happy to stop for a meal when passing through . If you set your rig improperly , chances are you 'll only witness geese flying away from your spot . Portable laydown blinds , such as the Avery Finisher , Final Approach 's X-Land'r or Wildfowler Outfitter 's Layout Blind , allow you to get where the geese want to be . Instead of hunting the edge of the field , you can hide in the middle of the field with only the slightest of cover . Fred Zink , one of goose hunting 's top championship callers , guides , call makers and blind innovators , has taken goose hunting and elevated it to a scientific level . He 's known for spending hours in the field just watching geese to learn their habits . " Portable laydown blinds are comfortable and keep you concealed from even the wisest geese . Selecting a camo pattern that matches a variety of landscapes is important , " Zink advises . " I prefer the Mossy Oak Shadow Grass pattern . Its earthy tones and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for camouflaging your setup is to use natural stubble from the fields . Place it into the camo straps on the blinds to create the image of a small scrap pile . " Mobility is a major factor for consistently hunting these smart birds successfully , Zink points out . Not only does the laydown blind offer comfort and the ability to hide without digging pits , but you can easily take it apart and set up shop in another field the geese are using . PLAYING CHESS WITH DECOYS Decoysand how to set themwarrant special attention as well . " By watching geese feed in the early fall , I 've found that they tend to feed very loosely , and away from each other , " notes Zink . " Migrators , on the other hand , bunch up and compete for the sparse food left in the fields . " " Early in the year , residents feed on grass sprouts and resprouted wheat and oats , " he continues . " This food supply is abundant and all over the field , not just in certain spots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spread out , though , is that they still have a very strong relationship with their young . Therefore they feed in small groups of three to ten . Resident birds never want to be too close to other family groups , because that could put their young in danger of harassment by adult geese . " When setting decoys in family groups , it 's good to have different body postures in your decoys . " I prefer looker-style full bodies to simulate adult geese alert for danger , and feeders that simulate the young-of-the-year , " says Zink . Use two to six dozen GreenHead Gear lifesize full-body decoys , just enough to break up the outline of the blinds . Place the decoys in a U-shaped spread with an opening in the middle see sidebar . " Remember , a goose 's instinct early in the year is not to land close to other birds , but to land near enough to use the others for protection , " says Zink . " There 's safety in numbers . " BE AN AGGRESSIVE CALLER Migrating geese are often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along their routes . But residents are quite the opposite . " With a lot of young geese in the air , strong , dominant , loud and aggressive calling is very effective . This approach will confuse most flocks early in the year and bring them in . As the season progresses , start backing off and be more conservative , " Zink says . Calling early in the season is very easyjust concentrate on sounding like a goose and you 'll be very effective . Do n't be afraid to cluck and honk at all the flocks of geese you see , even if they 're heading to other fields . Boisterous clucks will get their attention and turn them your way . Noted Tennessee professional waterfowl hunter Bill Cooksey agrees with many of the beliefs that Zink espouses . In addition , however , he notes that , outside of the old real-estate adage about " location , location , location , " adding movement to your decoys can be crucial for success . " A few full-body decoys , with their legs removed and placed on motion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Shell decoys need to be set high off the ground , especially in areas with tall grass . Migrators will sometimes sit down to feed , but early-season residents very rarely do . Outside of that , I try to mimic what the real geese do and set up a realistic spread around my laydown blinds . " STAY OFF THE ROOST World goose-calling champion Shawn Stahl chases geese from September through February . His broad knowledge of these majestic birds helps him score consistently . " It 's important to begin scouting the geese in late summer to determine nighttime roosting areas , potential feeding sites and daytime resting locations , " Stahl says . Stahl finds that geese spend less time in the fields during the hot weather of the early season . You 'll often find them under shade trees sitting down as they spend time in midday resting spots . " Ideally , you should try to obtain permission in all the sites they frequent : roost , resting spots and feeding areas . By doing this you have control over all the aspects of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of your efforts into hunting the feeding fields first and last . The resting areas are best in the middle of the day . Stahl warns , however , that you should never hunt the night roosting sites . SHOOTING A BIRDIE Not long before the early die-hard golfers passed our decoys , a small group of geese flew in , looking for their favorite fairway . They expected to find their usual friends , and we did not disappoint them with our spread . I worked them on my short-reed call . With a slight wind shift , the flock made its approach from behind us . If the geese continued their course , it would take them right over our heads . " Just wait till I say to take ' em , " I whispered , between double clucks and pleading moans , to my friend in the blind next to mine . As the flock zeroed in for a landing , another group of Canadas came over the distant trees , taking the first with them . My excitement quickly turned to fear of losing them all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geese back , I started to beg and plead into the call . To make matters worse , I had noticed that one of the geese was sporting a beautiful neckband . Boy , did I want that bird ! Both groups blended together near the far tree line , making for one large flock of resident geese that now had several calling judges and extra pairs of eyes to help spot anything amiss . The birds liked what they saw and heard , and the group turned back to our spread . " Get ready . I think they 're on us now , " I cautioned , as I pulled my Benelli just a bit closer . My retriever nudged his head out from the blind , anticipating some action . Landing gear down , cupped and committed , the flock made its way right to our rig . " Take ' em ! " I called out as I flipped the lid to my blind , quickly shouldering my gun and slapping the trigger . The large gander sporting the neckband folded in slow motion . Taking delivery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my surroundings . Surely the setting was not out of the pages of a hunting magazine or a waterfowl video , but it was satisfying nonetheless . SIDEBAR Fred Zink 's Decoy Set The most successful resident goose-hunting locations for Fred Zink are in fields , preferably ones that have been freshly cut . When targeting residents , Zink prefers to set his decoy spead in a series of smaller family groups . These consist of roughly 10 clusters of two to eight birds placed in a U-shape around the laydown blinds . Fifty to sixty yards should separate the outermost huddles . The area in between serves as the landing zone . For this decoy rig Zink suggests using five dozen life-size full-body geese . Looker-style decoys should be placed at the front , back or both of each group . These " sentry " birds mimic the watchful eyes of mother geese . Set two to six active- and feeder-style decoys around the looker . It 's important to keep at least 5 yards between each family . SIDEBAR Shawn Stahl 's Decoy Set Early-season geese often use cow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water , grazing opportunities and , in many cases , shade trees . The majority of geese will land in the water and swim up to shore . Keep your ground blinds within 10 to 15 yards of the water 's edge . Several sentry-style decoys should be placed in or near the landing zone to represent geese that have just landed and are going to join the flock . Most often approaching geese will land in front of these confidence decoys . Adjust your landing zone and blind direction according to the wind . Also , consider the trees around the pond while setting the decoys . In most cases geese will prefer a wide-open approach to landing . Avoid setting a decoy pattern that will require geese to fly directly over the treetops in order to land . Feeding decoys should be set behind the blinds . Pick Your Load One topic that is guaranteed to start debates in the waterfowling community is which shotgun shells are the best . Purists long for their old lead shot , while technologically savvy hunters are constantly seeking new combinations of synthetics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all you need is good aim and a couple of boxes of No. 2 steel shot . Some of you might groan at this suggestion , but there 's much to consider . During early September , geese will be gearing up for the colder weather , developing their coats of winter down . Their coats wo n't be nearly as thick , however , as they will be come December . Higher shot numbers should be able to get the same amount of penetration as a BB shell . Second , loads like Federal 's Ultra-Shok and Winchester 's Drylok have consistently posted feet-per-second numbers that are as good as any other high-end synthetic on the market . If you 're confident about your shotshell selection but are still missing geese , remember the basics of wing-shooting . Your lead on a goose in full flight should be roughly the same length as its neck . Illustration <p>                     