@@389246

Headnote How the zero-tolerance policies of " America 's Mayor " set us up for the Patriot Act and Guantanamo IN MIAMI LAST FALL , amid news that corrupt housing authorities and developers had deprived thousands of poor people of promised homes , Ivan Martinez began projecting immense images against the walls of the luxury towers that have sprouted with wanton ambition in the footprint of demolished low-income housing . No one commissioned these images ; Martinez is a guerrilla artist , an outlaw . As governments across America have imposed increasingly harsh penalties against postering , graffiti , and their requisite tools ( New York has made graffiti-writing a felony in some instances , as has Ohio , convicting a man for spraying " Troops Out Now " on a highway overpass ; Richmond , Virginia , threatens its citizens from the backs of buses , " Use a spray can , go to jail " ) , wall-size projections have developed as a fleet-footed alternative . One of Martinez 's ephemera featured a running silhouette crying , " Gentrification ! ! ! ! " Another showed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but where are the poor people ? " One night as Martinez and two friends were projecting from a moving car , police pulled them over and pointed guns at their heads . He has n't done a projection since . Martinez broke no window , destroyed no property . Except through the play of evanescent light , he did n't even " aesthetically alter " property , as some graffiti artists describe their work . No reasonable person would call him a vandal , one of those punks who elicit curses for their indecipherable scrawl . Like them , though , he made an unsanctioned claim on public space , which was enough to get a gun to his head , and shut him up . Among a thousand political lies , one of the most durable , and lulling , is the assertion , central to a " quality of life " or " broken windows " theory of policing , that graffiti is the first link in a criminal chain that ends in murder . Hammer petty flouting of the law , the theory holds , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this . Mayors Ed Koch and David Dinkins cracked down on graffiti writers in the 1980s and early . ' ' 90s , but it was Rudolph Giuliani who redefined quality of life in terms of a theory and practice of brute force that has since been adopted by city administrations and police departments across the land . Now the graffiti-murder continuum is widely accepted as fact . New York is officially the safest big city in the country unless one is unlucky enough to be on the receiving end of 50 shots , or 41 , or a toilet plunger , from the police . It is also a strangely passive city , its political atmosphere inert . Like the midnight wheatpaster , whose posters about displacement or AIDS death distinguished the urban vista until the early ' ' 90s , the dissenting slogan , the broadsheet alert to action from corner mailboxes , has largely vanished . Giuliani is running for president , and no handicapper counts his easy sacrifice of liberty to security as a political liability . He compares President Bush 's escalation of the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and suffers no harm for the implication ofthat admission : that he pursued a war on part of the city 's population while the rest of us became inured to punishment , to brakes on free expression and policing as a way of life . Many New Yorkers readily embraced Giuliani 's zero-tolerance politics more than a dozen years ago . Graffiti can be ugly , after all , or menacing , a gang tag , artless and political only in the sense that any act of rebellion is . Its practitioners were called riffraff , like the beggars and junkies , the sex peddlers and small-time dealers , who could be exiled to the city 's far corners , locked up on Rikers Island , or sent upriver to a penitentiary . To sit on a grand jury during those years was to witness a stream of black and brown teenagers arrested for tagging and having a joint in their pocket , wearing " gang colors " and having a Philly blunt , scamming MetroCards , or dealing small amounts of drugs to cops who arranged the sale . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that on principle I would n't vote for indictment on any quality-of-life or drug charge . " Do n't worry about it , " he said , " I 'll always get a majority , " and he always did . This was before New York made selling spray-paint to those under 18 a crime and created a database of graffiti writers ' tags for surveillance . It was before the city criminalized affixing , " by whatever means , " posters , stickers , painted slogans , and postings to almost any surface , and raised the graffiti penalty to as much as $1,000 per hit and/or a year of jail time ; before it started rewarding snitches and allowed the sanitation commissioner to subpoena telephone records of numbers that appeared on offending posts . It was before corporate tags and ads impinged everywhere on empty space , and surveillance cameras ( 3,160 in public housing , approximately 15,000 in Manhattan alone ) put privacy in the past tense . As in New York , communities across the country gave police more reasons to stop and frisk people , hence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put more people away for a longer time . America 's prison population nearly doubled in the 1990s , and no one much complained . Prisoners were stripped of legal rights to challenge their conditions , and no one much beyond the Southern Center for Human Rights in Atlanta intervened . State after state restricted the rights of journalists to interview prisoners , and punished prisoner whistleblowers . In the speed of a decade , this self-declared free country had denied more of its people liberty than any country in the world , with stunningly little protest . Having gradually resigned ourselves to the trade-off of liberty for a promise of safety during the supposed good times of the Clinton years , is it surprising that after 9/11 Americans would acquiesce to secret prisons , kangaroo courts , torture as policy , the shredding of habeas corpus and due process , the invasion of our mail and private conversations ? One might retort , Absurd to think graffiti has anything to do with this catalog of restraints ! Besides , a city has a right to regulate public space . True @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is n't a great city without vice . The trick has always been to arrange society so that virtue tolerably outweighs it , so life is supple enough to accommodate the floating world where the two overlap , and sanctions are proportionate . Civil libertarians used to joke darkly that under Giuliani , New York became " a First Amendment-free zone . " His policing fetish did n't just purge gang tags and pom houses ; it closed public spaces to protest and led to a host of other efforts to quash dissent . Most of the latter were reversed in court , but the chill was on . " For the collective impact of such an unprecedented-and unprincipled-assault upon First Amendment values , " the Thomas Jefferson Center for the Protection of Free Expression gave Giuliani its first Lifetime Muzzle Award . More than print , more than blogs or mass marches , outlaw art and political sloganeering are implicating acts , public but intimate , instant messaging for a culture of internal debate , ideological commerce on the cheap . Now in a time of cascading crises , people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show in galleries or huddle their images , " bombing " discreet buildings that like shrines to the dead , like the protest pens into which police herd demonstrators , manage anger into a curiosity . Activists tell my friends at the Public Works Project , which has produced striking graphics for organizations in hope of invigorating the culture of visual dissent , that it 's too risky to slap up posters . Last year Public Works made stickers of a bloody handprint labeled " Stop the War ! " Protesters wore them on a march but refrained from pasting them on city walls as an after-echo . Later a similar handprint , not bloody , appeared in my neighborhood on multiple panels of a Levi 's ad . I bought a fat red marker and drafted a series of lines to run like a chant against indifference along the 18 panels , then asked a friend to act as lookout . " Are you insane ? ! " she said . Her friend 's teenage son had recently been arrested trying this kind ofthing a couple of blocks away . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made a comeback . Fear , like polite restraint or getting caught , is for amateurs . What does it take these days not to be polite , politically speaking ? Up to 650,000 Iraqi dead , our government stalking Iran , arrogating to itself the right to pick anyone off the street anywhere in the world , declare him an enemy , put him in prison , scramble his brains-that 's not enough ? Oh , settle down ; ranting is juvenile . And the culture shrivels with our maturity . When anarchist kids spray-painted the Capitol terrace during an antiwar protest in January , liberals scorned the disrespectful " morons . " If police had cracked the graffitists ' heads or followed conservatives ' urgings to hunt them down and imprison them for violence against property , I doubt there 'd have been a lament from the throng that marched in pens chanting , " This is what democracy looks like ! " Actually , the anarchist tags were not big enough in their disrespect . Two years ago an artist , JeanChristian Bourcart , projected giant images of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , parked cars , churches in a small New York town at night . " A desperate gesture , " he said . I can think of none better . Imagine legions of imitators bathing the Capitol with the light-figures of those disappeared into prison or war or terrible want ; disturbing the sheltering vistas of our cities and suburbs , so that we might live with what we pay for and allow until we refuse to live with it . Author Affiliation JoAnn Wypijewski ( " A Message to You , Rudy , " page 26 ) recalls New York before Rudy Giuliani 's clean sweeps erased the city 's graffiti and , with it , political will : " In 1987 ACT-UP ignited protest with panache . It 's harder to go along " La-la-la , not my business " when everywhere the street is whispering , " Silence = death . ' ' " . <p>                     