@@375580

Walking across Boulevard St. Michel in Paris last week , on the night before Bastille Day , I bumped into an old friend  --  an American who has lived in the city for 25 years  --  who told me he was taking up the tango . When I asked him why , he suggested I take a stroll along the Left Bank of the Seine , opposite Ile St. Louis , and so of course I did . <P> It was one big party . A drop-dead-gorgeous crowd was tangoing away in a makeshift , open-air amphitheater . Nearby , a multiethnic group was doing the merengue . Hundreds of others were tucking into picnics by the river as a full moon rose in a cloudless sky . Much later that night , after a perfect fish soup in the Place des Vosges , I walked into the narrow passages of the Marais district and stumbled upon an impromptu block party . Someone had set up a sound system on the sidewalk , and the street was packed with people  --  straight and gay , young and old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe is enjoying itself . O.K. , in late July , it always does . The weekend I was in Paris , an estimated 500,000 kids descended on Berlin for the annual Love Parade , a carnival of techno music , dope and sex . Meanwhile , tens of thousands of families started their treks from the damp north of the Continent to their vacation homes in the warm south . But even when the sun is n't shining , Europeans seem to be throwing themselves into fun and festivity with unprecedented zeal . Each weekend , central London is one great bacchanal . Cities that for reasons of politics or religion were once gloomily repressive  --  Madrid , say , or Dublin  --  now rock to the small hours . In Prague the foreign visitors who get talked about are not the earnest young Americans who flocked there in the early 1990s , but British partygoers who have flown in for the cheap beer and pretty girls . The place that British historian Mark Mazower once called the true dark continent  --  and from whose curdled soul the horrors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a community at play . <P> Funny . This is how the U.S was supposed to be . In a famous series of essays collected in his 1976 book , The Cultural Contradictions of Capitalism , Daniel Bell noted how the decline of the Protestant small-town ethic had unhinged American capitalism from its moral foundation in the intrinsic value of work . By the 1960s , Bell argued , " the cultural justification of capitalism had become hedonism , the idea of pleasure as a way of life . " This magazine agreed . In a 1969 cover story titled " California : A State of Excitement , " TIME reported that , as most Americans saw it , " the good , godless , gregarious pursuit of pleasure is what California is all about ... ' I have seen the future , ' says the newly returned visitor to California , ' and it plays . ' "                     