@@390668

" Never in the history of the United States had lawyers had such extraordinary influence over war policy as they did after 9/11 . " Those are the words of Jack Goldsmith , the Harvard law professor who was one of those lawyers , as head of the Justice Department 's Office of Legal Counsel in 2003 and 2004 . They appear in his book The Terror Presidency , hailed as a criticism of the Bush administration 's legal policies , which in part it is . Believing that some of his predecessor 's opinions , particularly two on interrogation techniques , were " deeply flawed , " he reversed them . He argues that the administration would have ended up with more latitude in fighting terrorism if it had worked with Congress to get legislation , even if those laws would not have been as expansive as the administration wanted . It 's a serious argument , and he also presents fairly , I think , the opposing view that such restrictions would make it harder to protect the American people . But anyone who goes beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another message . For one thing , Goldsmith also supports many much-criticized policies  --  the detention of unlawful combatants in Afghanistan and their confinement in Guantnamo , trials by military commissions , the terrorist surveillance program . And he rejects the charge that the administration has disregarded the rule of law . Quite the contrary . " The opposite is true : the administration has been strangled by law , and since September 11 , 2001 , this war has been lawyered to death . " There has been a " daily clash inside the Bush administration between fear of another attack , which drives officials into doing whatever they can to prevent it , and the countervailing fear of violating the law , which checks their urge toward prevention . " It was not always so , he points out . In 1942 , Franklin Roosevelt ordered military commissions to try the eight Nazi saboteurs who had landed on our shores ; the Supreme Court unanimously approved , and six were executed six weeks after they were apprehended , to the applause of the media of the day . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barely recognizable to us today . " In the wake of Vietnam and Watergate , Congress passed laws that criminalized military and civilian officers who broke the rules on electronic surveillance and detainee treatment : " the criminalization of warfare . " Its ban on political assassination deterred the Clinton administration from gunning down Osama bin Laden . The CIA has become so wary of possible criminal charges that it urges agents to buy insurance . Developments in international law , especially the doctrine of universal decision , also threaten U.S. government officials with possible prosecution abroad . All of this creates a risk-averseness that leaves us more vulnerable to terrorists . 10,000 lawyers . The CIA today employs more than 100 lawyers , the Pentagon 10,000 . " Every weapon used by the U.S. military , and most of the targets they are used against , are vetted and cleared by lawyers in advance , " Goldsmith notes . In this respect , the national security community resembles the larger society . As Philip Howard of Common Good points out , we are stripping jungle gyms from playgrounds and paying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audiotapes released last week of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed 's interrogation remind us that we are faced with evil enemies and that getting information from them can save lives . Goldsmith , who withdrew his predecessor 's interrogation opinions , nevertheless understands this and makes a strong case that our national security apparatus is overlawyered . Most Americans seem to agree ; an Investor 's Business Daily poll shows that more than 60 percent of Americans  --  and majorities of Democrats as well as Republicans  --  favor wiretapping terrorist suspects without warrants , increased surveillance , retaining the Patriot Act , and holding enemy combatants at Guantnamo . Unfortunately , the 30 percent or so who disagree are disproportionately represented in the legal profession and in the media . The 1970s laws that have helped produce the overlawyering of this war were prompted by the misdeeds of one or two presidents . But they will hamper the efforts of our current president as well as his successors in responding to a threat that is likely to continue for many years to come . Illustration Picture omitted :      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @    