@@413542

See also additional image in Table of Contents of same issue If you want the sun-filled pleasures of an express cruiser but ca n't bring yourself to give up the spacious interior layout of an aft cabin motoryacht , then the new 455 Express Motoryacht from Cruisers will fulfill your need for both . This Wisconsin-based builder has created an efficient hybrid by fusing an express cruiser deck to a capacious motoryacht hull . The Cruisers 455 has a single-level cockpit , save for the helm area that 's raised one step for improved visibility . There 's bench seating to starboard , a J-shaped companion seat to port and a wide , comfortable bench aft under a standard motoryacht-style hardtop with solid weatherboards . Molded scoops on the weatherboards direct clean air under the hardtop , helping to keep fumes and carbon monoxide behind the yacht . Wing doors give access to the sidedecks , which are wide enough to transit without crab walking . An optional full hardtop offers protection for the entire cockpit . The 455 I tested was equipped with an optional Side-Power bowthruster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and out of tight docking situations , but the yacht answered the throttles and clutches well . On acceleration , the Cruisers rose gradually up onto plane in roughly 14 seconds without tabs . Visibility all around was excellent , as was the protection offered by the wide and tall express-style windshield . The SeaStar hydraulic steering was precise , responding quickly to my commands and holding turns firmly . The mild chop we experienced that day was no match for the stately , graceful ride of this design . As for range , the builder reports that the 455 can travel 245 nautical miles at 2400 rpm ( 23 knots ) , burning 42.2 gph when equipped with the 480-hp Volvo Penta diesels on the test boat . Headroom in the main salon is 6 ' 5 " . A large , open area , this space spans the full beam of the yacht . The galley , entertainment center , settee and dinette are all on one level . Abundant solid-surface counters , a Sharp Carousel microwave/convection oven , a full-size Tundra upright refrigerator/freezer and deep stainless sinks are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The insulated engine compartment is under the salon sole . A hatch is built into the sole , and it offers easy access to the engines for routine maintenance . The Cruisers 455 is a three-stateroom motoryacht , including a luxuriously spacious master aft , a comfortable guest cabin forward and a smaller cabin with twin berths to starboard . From bulkheads to built-in furniture , all wood is attractive , high-gloss natural cherry . Fittings and fixtures are top-notch . In terms of livability above and below decks , the 455 Express Motoryacht offers owners the best of both worlds . You do n't have to settle for one or the other when you can have it all . Specifications : LOA 45 ' 6 " Beam15 ' 4 " Draft3 ' 3 " Disp. ( dry ) Table <p>                     