@@383333

Have too many cooks spoiled the prebiotic soup ? // Twenty-five years ago , Francis Crick , who codiscovered the structure of DNA , published a provocative book titled Life Itself : Its Origin and Nature . Crick speculated that early in Earth 's history a civilization from a distant planet had sent a spaceship to Earth bearing the seeds of life . Whether or not Crick was serious about his proposal , it dramatized the difficulties then plaguing the theory that life originated from chemical reactions on Earth . Crick noted two major questions for the theory . The first one-seemingly unanswerable at the time-was how genetic polymers such as RNA came to direct protein synthesis , a process fundamental to life . After all , in contemporary life-forms , RNA translates genetic information encoded by DNA into instructions for making proteins . The second question was , What was the composition of Earth 's early atmosphere ? Many planetary scientists at the time viewed Earth 's earliest atmosphere as rich in carbon dioxide . More important , they were also skeptical about a key assumption made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Earth 's early atmosphere was highly " reducing , " or rich in methane , ammonia , and possibly even free hydrogen . In a widely publicized experiment done in 1953 , the chemists Stanley L. Miller of the University of California , San Diego , and Harold C. Urey had demonstrated that in such an atmosphere , organic , or carbon-based , compounds could readily form and accumulate in a " prebiotic soup . " But if a highly reducing atmosphere was destined for the scientific dustbin , so was the origin-of-life scenario to which it gave rise . In Crick 's mind , the most inventive way to solve both problems was to assume that life had not evolved on Earth , but had come here from some other location-a view that still begs the question of how life evolved elsewhere . Crick was neither the first nor the last to try to explain life 's origin with creative speculation . Given so many difficult and unanswered questions about life 's earthly origin , one can easily understand why so many investigators become frustrated and give in to speculative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how life evolved on Earth is a scientific exercise fraught with guesswork . The evidence required to understand our planet 's prebiotic environment , and the events that led to the first living systems , is scant and hard to decipher . Few geological traces of Earth 's conditions at the time of life 's origin remain today . Nor is there any fossil record of the evolutionary processes preceding the first cells . Yet , despite such seemingly insurmountable obstacles , heated debates persist over how life emerged . The inventory of current views on life 's origin reveals a broad assortment of opposing positions . They range from the suggestion that life originated on Mars and came to Earth aboard meteorites , to the idea that life emerged from " metabolic " molecular networks , fueled by hydrogen released during the formation of minerals in hot volcanic settings . This flurry of popular ideas has often distracted attention from what is still the most scientifically plausible theory of life 's origin , the " heterotrophic " theory . The theory holds that the first living entities evolved " abiotically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the primitive Earth . ( The term " heterotrophic " was originally coined to describe a kind of metabolism in which " nutrients " such as carbon and nitrogen must be obtained from nature as complex organic molecules such as amino acids , rather than from extremely simple compounds such as carbon dioxide . ) According to the theory , organic molecules such as amino acids were chemically combined in a prebiotic soup and " cooked " by various sources of energy . True , some of the details of Miller and Urey 's recipe for prebiotic soup presented difficulties , such as the ones Crick highlighted . But abandoning the premise of a prebiotic soup when new findings largely support its account oflife 's origin is to " throw the baby out with the bathwater . " One strong argument in favor of the heterotrophic theory is the surprising variety of biochemical constituents that emerge in laboratory simulations of Earth 's prebiotic environment , and the remarkable similarity between them and the constituents of some carbon-rich meteorites . On September 28 , 1969 , for instance , a meteorite landed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amino acids . Among them were several amino acids that occur in proteins . Also embedded in the Murchison meteorite were purines , pyrimidines , carboxylic acids , and compounds derived from ribose and deoxyribose , the sugars present in RNA and DNA . ( In fact , ribose is the " R " of RNA , deoxyribose the " D " of DNA . ) Such relics of the early solar system provide insight into the kind of organic chemistry that took place some 4.6 billion years ago . The similarity between the products of laboratory synthesis and the components of the meteorite seems more than accidental . In fact , it offers strong justification for bringing the study of the possible reaction pathways of prebiological molecules into the laboratory . Perhaps reactions such as the ones Miller and Urey simulated were common throughout the solar system , or at least in a prebiotic soup on Earth . What about the criticisms that the highly reducing atmosphere in the Miller-Urey experiment was unrealistic ? The hydrogen in such an atmosphere , according to the critics , would have escaped into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemistry . But the critics may have overstated their case . Recent theoretical models by Feng Tian , an atmospheric chemist at the University of Colorado , Boulder , and his colleagues suggest that hydrogen in the atmosphere of the early Earth may have escaped more slowly than planetary scientists previously assumed . So although Earth 's primitive atmosphere may not have been as strongly reducing as Miller , Urey , and their followers have assumed , it may not have been lacking in hydrogen , either . The hydrogen would have coexisted with carbon dioxide . The presence of both gases would have helped forge hydrogenrich molecules , which would have transformed into organic compounds . Certainly , the classical recipe for prebiotic soup requires updating . It must take into account such additional , newly recognized factors as extraterrestrial organic compounds , minerals such as combinations of iron and nickel with sulfur that act as chemical catalysts , and organic molecules synthesized in hydrothermal vents . None of those factors threatens the plausibility of a heterotrophic theory as an explanation for the origin of life . The heterotrophic theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ RNA , which have shown that RNA may have played a far broader role during life 's evolution than it does in life today . In 1982 the molecular biologists Thomas R. Cech , now at the Howard Hughes Research Institute in Chevy Chase , Maryland , and Sidney Altaian of Yale University independently discovered that RNA molecules can act not only as messengers and repositories of information , but also as enzymes , which catalyze chemical reactions . The discovery of such " ribozymes " gave strong support to the idea that RNA might have both stored information and catalyzed reactions in the first living organisms-a hypothesis first put forth independently in the late 1960s by Carl R. Woese of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign , Leslie Orgel of the SaIk Institute for Biological Studies in LaJoIIa , California , and Crick himself . If true , the hypothesis suggests that an " RNA world " may have preceded life as it occurs today . In such a world , RNA would have performed many functions that other molecules , including DNA and proteins , have now assumed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would help explain how such biological functions as protein synthesis and genetic information storage and replication may have begun . The history of modern thinking about the origins of life begins with the eighteenth-century naturalist Jean-Baptiste de Monet , chevalier de Lamarck , Charles Darwin 's most distinguished predecessor . Darwin himself was reluctant publically to address the question of life 's origin . But the idea that living organisms evolved from lifeless matter became widespread soon after the publication of Darwin 's Origin of Species in 1859 . Darwin expressed his private views on the matter in 1871 , in a letter to the English botanist J.D. Hooker . Life , Darwin famously wrote , may have started in a warm little pond , with all sorts of ammonia and phosphoric salts , light , heat , electricity , etc. present , that a proteine compound was chemically formed ready to undergo still more complex changes . The nineteenth-century German zoologist and evolutionist Ernst Haeckel perhaps best epitomized the leading scientific beliefs after Darwin . The first life-forms , he contended , had been plantlike microorganisms , capable of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to physical laws . In 1924 , the Russian plant biochemist and evolutionary biologist Aleksandr I. Oparin questioned Haeckel 's scheme . Oparin could not reconcile his Darwinian view-that simple organisms had gradually evolved into more complex ones-with the prevalent belief that life had suddenly appeared on Earth with a self-sustaining metabolism . So he proposed an alternative scenario . He posited that a long period of abiotic synthesis on early Earth had caused organic compounds to accumulate in a prebiotic soup , which had preceded life . Oparin then described how organic molecules could have evolved , via simple , ubiquitous fermentation reactions , into precellular systems on the primitive Earth . Such systems , he maintained , could then have led to cells that survived without oxygen and fed on the prebiotic soup . Not too surprisingly , that line of thinking has sparked disagreement . As recently as 1988 , the German chemist Gunter Wa'chtershauser , now a patent attorney in Munich , proposed an alternative " iron-sulfur " hypothesis . Wachtershauser 's core insight was that when iron sulfide ( FeS ) mixes with hydrogen sulfide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , the reaction releases copious quantities of hydrogen gas ( Hsub 2 ) . With the release of the hydrogen , on Wchtershuser 's view , organic compounds could form from carbon dioxide in the atmosphere . Life began when self-catalyzing molecular systems emerged from the organic compounds . Experiments confirm that the formation of pyrite can indirectly yield a few organic compounds as well as ammonia ( NHsub 3 ) . But compared with the variety of biochemical compounds synthesized in simulations such as Miller and Urey 's , the process Wachtershauser described gives rise to only a limited range of molecules . Moreover , the Miller-Urey apparatus sought to simulate Earth s real environment shortly after our planet formed from the primordial solar nebula . In contrast , there is little empirical support for Wachtershauser 's hypothesis . Unfortunately , since the Earth 's geologic record from those early times is so sparse , the rocks can not answer the kinds of questions raised by the Miller-Urey and Wachtersha'user experiments . Most rocks that are more than three billion years old have so thoroughly metamorphosed that life 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct evidence of Earth 's environmental conditions at the time of life 's origin , either . No one knows the temperature of the early Earth , its ocean acidity , the composition of its atmosphere , or any other factors that may have substantially affected early life . Nor is there any fossil record of entities predating the first cells . In a sense , Miller and Urey were also heirs to a second tradition of scientific thought , distinct from that of Darwin , whose aim can be understood today as an attempt to synthesize molecules of prebiotic significance . Such experiments date back as far as 1807 , with the work of the French chemist Joseph Louis Proust , as well subsequent chemists , including the Swede Jns Jacob Berzelius , the Germans Friedrich Whler and Adolph Strecker , and the Russian Aleksandr Mikhaylovich Butlerov . All of them attempted to synthesize biologically related molecules under what today would be called primitive conditions-though they were not the conditions Darwin imagined in his " warm little pond . " True prebiotic simulations began with Miller and Urey , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confirmed that amino acids , purines , and pyrimidines-all molecules of biological significance-readily formed under atmospheric conditions thought to be similar to the ones present on the early Earth . Most likely , those molecules would also have formed in the prebiotic soup , along with many other biologically related compounds : urea and carboxylic acids , sugars formed from formaldehyde , and various hydrocarbons , alcohols , and fatty acids , including some known to develop into bilayered membranes-the probable precursors of cell membranes . In addition to all those molecules , other , extraterrestrial molecules may have spiced the prebiotic soup . They would have arrived on Earth aboard fragments of comets , meteorites , and interplanetary dust , as the chemist Juan Or of the University of Houston first suggested in 1961 . Yet exactly how those simple organic compounds assembled themselves into more complex molecules , or polymers , and then into the first living entities remains one of the most tantalizing questions in science . Earth 's primitive broth must have included a bewildering array of organic compounds , a virtual chemical wonderland that synthesized , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in ongoing cycles of transformation . One feature of life , though , remains certain : Life could not have evolved without a genetic mechanism-one able to store , replicate , and transmit to its progeny information that can change with time . That condition , of course , does not imply that nucleic acids ( the stuff of RNA and DNA ) wriggled in the primitive oceans , ready to serve as primordial genes . Nor does it suggest that RNA arose completely assembled from simple precursors in a prebiotic soup . Rather , precellular evolution likely resembled a branching tree of chemical transformations . Some of the branches would have become evolutionary dead ends . Others would have grown in fits and starts toward the earliest living entities . It is also likely that Darwinian-style natural selection winnowed entire populations of molecules and chemical systems . From that perspective , the first entities that could replicate , catalyze , and multiply would have truly marked the origin of life and its evolution . Surely , RNA meets all those requirements . But RNA is also highly unstable . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spontaneously . So where did it come from ? The answer is not so clear . This difficulty has led to the suggestion that a pre-RNA world of primordial living systems predated and gave rise to the RNA world . Such a pre-RNA world would have spawned the first " genetic polymers " capable of encoding and perhaps transmitting information . If that view is correct , the denizens of a pre-RNA world may actually have initiated what is now called heredity . They , in turn , would have subsequently evolved through natural selection toward RNA . To explore the possibilities of such reactions , Albert Eschenmoser , an organic chemist at the Eidgenssiche Technische Hochschule in Zurich , and his colleagues have modified nucleic acids to include various versions of ribose and other simple sugars . Still other investigators have synthesized similar polymers without ribose or phosphate . Did systems of such polymers predate the RNA world ? The answer to that question remains unknown . Precisely how the first genetic machinery evolved also persists as an unresolved issue . The hypothesis of a pre-RNA world does not presume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in a never-ending succession of molecular takeovers . But it does point toward a need to simulate , under plausible prebiotic conditions , the pathways that simple monomers and genetic polymers might have taken to become evolutionary precursors of RNA . Perhaps the best way to comprehend life 's emergence is through the molecular dynamics , and evolution , of systems with " replicating entities , " endowed with polymers that can store genetic information and replicate differentially . Whether or not membranes enclosed such entities is also not yet clear . But as I mentioned earlier , lipids and other fatty acids were almost certainly present in the prebiotic soup . Thus cell-like enclosures may have been present as well . Nevertheless , it is reasonable to assume that protein synthesis and the encapsulation of machinery to replicate information did not originate until the RNA world emerged . As the molecular biologists Gerald Joyce of the Scripps Institute , Jack W. Szostak of the Howard Hughes Research Institute , and David Bartel of the Whitehead Institute for Biomdical Research in Cambridge , Massachusetts , among others , have shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ key chemical bonds . Taking into account the latest experimental evidence , it seems likely that abiotic synthesis generated the raw materials needed to assemble the first self-maintaining molecular systems capable of replicating . Even if the first living systems had little capacity to synthesize their own compounds , their primary sources of raw materials would have been organic molecules synthesized in the prebiotic soup . Perhaps the energy needed to enable these primitive systems to grow and reproduce came from cyanamide or other high-energy compounds . Yet by the time RNA-based life appeared on Earth , the supply of raw materials needed to sustain life had probably become exhausted . This famine , so to speak , would have favored the natural selection of simple metabolic-like pathways that could supply materials needed to sustain simple living beings . Ribozymes may have helped maintain some metabolic pathways , until they eventually gave way to protein-based catalysts-that is , enzymes . In spite of au of the scientific debates , the hypothesis that a prebiotic soup fostered an RNA world that then spawned life still offers the most coherent framework to explain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ origin may never be known . Many gaps in understanding persist . Yet , however imperfect it may be , today 's evolutionary framework is rich enough not to require any appeal to the supernatural or to religious accounts such as those based on " intelligent design . " Evidence of scientific incompleteness is not evidence for creationism . Although healthy disagreements on this subject will continue , scientists see such debates as challenges , not as reasons to abandon reason or data . The fact that people can reconstruct life 's emergence at all , albeit with imperfect precision , should be cause for celebration : an intellectual achievement of the first rank in shedding so much light on one of the fundamental questions of existence . Sidebar Primitive terrain of the early Earth set the stage for life 's evolution . Fueled by raw materials from volcanoes , meteorites , and undersea thermal vents , and enerqized by liqhtninq , cosmic rays , and the planet 's own internal heat , life 's precursor molecules probably formed in a " soup " of prebiotic organic compounds about 4 billion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over at most a few hundred million years . The schematic diagram indicates several kinds of chemical reactions that led , over perhaps several " generations " ( blue , red , and green , respectively ) to increasingly elaborate molecular complexes . ( As the keys beneath the two leftmost panels indicate , the products of one generation become the building blocks for the next . ) Among those complexes , some began to carry out functions associated with the basic molecules of life . At some stage , complex polymers emeraged that could store and transfer information via template matching . Such " genetic " polymers ultimately became encapsulated within cell-like membranes formed by lipid molecules . The resulting cell-like complexes thereby housed self-replicating molecules capable of multiplying-and hence evolving-genetic information . Many specialists consider the emergence of genetic replication to be the true origin of life . Sidebar Stanley L. Miller is pictured above with his experimental apparatus that sought to simulate Earth 's primordial conditions during life 's molecular evolution . The apparatus , shown schematically at right , blended ammonia , hydrogen , methane , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primary constituents of Earth 's early atmosphere-inside a sealed loop of glass tubes and flasks . The gases , mixed with water vapor in the lower flask , flowed into the upper flask , where electrodes , simulating lightning , sparked the vapor . The circulating vapor then condensed and trickled into a collecting trap . After one week , Miller and Urey found that between 10 percent and 15 percent of the system 's carbon had formed organic compounds , including many of the amino acids needed to make proteins . The photograph was made in the mid-T950s . Sidebar Extraterrestrial molecules may have spiced the prebiotic soup . Author Affiliation ANTONIO LAZCANO ( " The Origins of Life " page 36 ) was trained as both an undergraduate and a graduate student at the Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mexico in Mexico City , where he is now professor of the origins of life . After working for some time on the prebiotic synthesis of organic compounds and the role of extraterrestrial molecules in shaping the primitive environment on Earth , he has become increasingly engaged in comparative genomics as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metabolic pathways . Lazcano has just been re-elected president of the International Society for the Study of the Origins of Life ( ISSOL ) . // <p>                     