@@390658

Americans are n't known for unlimited patience . That 's one reason why President Bush is having such trouble rallying the country behind the Iraq war , which has dragged on for 4 1 / 2 years with no end in sight . Bush 's prime-time address last week promised more of the same . He said the war is going well enough to allow the withdrawal of 5,700 troops by Christmas and thousands more by July , but he indicated that he will leave 130,000 there indefinitely . That 's the same number as a year ago , before he sent in reinforcements . More irksome to the antiwar critics , Bush argued for a strategic commitment to Iraq " that extends beyond my presidency " and suggested that troops should remain there for years . Not the most optimistic message . Those who have talked to Bush in private recently say he is in no mood to compromise . He believes so strongly that the United States must win the war  --  to prevent chaos in the overall Middle East and deny terrorists a new sanctuary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he retains enough support among Republicans in Congress to prevent majority Democrats from forcing a quick withdrawal . He 's probably right . What 's left is the status quo , guaranteeing a very divisive presidential campaign next year with Iraq remaining at center stage . Democratic candidates such as Hillary Clinton , Barack Obama , and John Edwards are already arguing for faster disengagement . Many Republicans worry that Bush is more interested in staying the course in Iraq than in helping his party . An admirable commitment to principle , perhaps , but GOP leaders say that if Iraq does n't go well , congressional Republicans are headed for disaster . So Long To The Squabbler . Hello To The Plain Talker Tony Snow , who left the West Wing last week after 16 months , was the ninth White House press secretary I 've covered over the past 21 years . Reflecting his background as a conservative commentator , he focused above all on sparring with reporters at his daily briefings , just as he used to do with guests on TV and radio . Some West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tony Snow Show . " But President Bush liked the feisty approach . Reporters respected Snow for confronting his diagnosis of recurring cancer with unrelenting optimism . But on the professional level , they say he was n't very interested in the more mundane aspects of his job , such as providing insights into his boss as a flesh-and-blood human being or explaining decisions with more than boilerplate or sharp ripostes . Dana Perino , Snow 's successor , is n't such a forceful personality , nor does she relish the daily tug of war . But she may return to a more traditional  --  and many pros in the press corps would say beneficial  --  role for the press secretary . This would mean serving not only as chief spinner but as a straightforward dispenser of facts . Wooing The Golden State On Hawkeye Time Here 's a measure of how fast the presidential campaign is moving : There are only about 100 days before California voters  --  perhaps 2 million of them  --  receive absentee ballots for the megastate 's crucial primary on February 5 . The ballots go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in early January , when Iowa is expected to hold its first-in-the-nation presidential caucuses . This means Iowa will loom larger than ever , because the victor will get tremendous media attention and momentum just when all those California voters are receiving their ballots . Watch for the contenders to devote big resources to the Golden State as they court those absentees . PHOTO OP : 11:24 a.m. , September 14 , Quantico , Va President Bush , tray in hand , stands in the chow line with military personnel at the Marine Corps base in Quantico , Va . On the lunch menu : roast beef , chicken , and fish , with sides like mashed potatoes  --  and pumpkin pie for dessert . Bush visited the base a day after his prime-time TV speech regarding the progress of the troop surge in Iraq . Illustration Picture omitted : PHOTO OP : 11:24 a.m. , September 14 , Quantico , Va - CHARLES DHARAPAK  --  AP <p>                     