@@415168

Tell Us Your Trail Tales Have you ever ripped the seat out of your hiking pants halfway through a trip ? Accidentally brushed your teeth with sunblock before a predawn start ? Tried to set up camp at night with nothing but a few matches to light your way ? We have .. and still chuckle at our mishaps . Recounting backcountry calamaties is a great way to pass long miles and rainy days on the trail . BACKPACKER wants to hear your favorite tales . Send us your funniest , scariest , most embarrassing , or inspirational wilderness stories . We 'll excerpt the best throughout the year in Backtalk . Include your name , address , and phone number with your story . Send to : BACKPACKER Trail Tales , 33 E. Minor St. , Emmaus , PA 18098 ; fax : ( 610 ) 967-8181 ; **25;1441;TOOLONG . CRYING WOLF " The Great Mystery " should be read again and again ( The Journey , February 2001 ) . It helps us understand that for the world to be healed , for wolves and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " spirit that moves through all things , " as Tom Brown , founder of the Tracking , Nature and Wilderness Survival School , says . Meredith Gorsuch Manalapan , NJ I read your magazine to learn about places to enjoy the great outdoors , not to hear personal views against trapping . I am both a backpacker and hunter . While I do n't trap , I have assisted my nephew in trapping and it 's as much a valid sport as hiking . Your magazine should appeal to all outdoorsmen and women , regardless of their reason for being out there . Bill Shields via e-mail HOT TOPIC You fail to mention the best treatment for burns ( Body Language , February 2001 ) , which is prevention . Since most burns involve the hands , I never leave home without a pair of leather work gloves , and always wear them while cooking . Bob Montgomery , M.D. Knoxville , TN NO SONORAN PARK The Cabeza Prieta and Goldwater areas of Arizona 's Sonoran Desert do not need national park status ( " The Big Empty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimal regulation . Occasional ORV tracks and illegal fire rings are a small price to pay for avoiding heavy-handed bureaucracy . If given a toehold , National Park Service officials will enact archaic and irrelevant rules that will prevent free access , just as they did in Death Valley . Paul Valovich Palmdale , CA Sonoran Desert update : During his final days in office , President Clinton established the 500 , 000-acre Sonoran Desert National Monument in southern Arizona . The new monument encompasses several Bureau of Land Management ( BLM ) wilderness areas and lies just north of the 1 million acres of wide-open desert that is targeted for preservation by the Sonoran Desert National Park Project . " This is a big step for the Park Project , which we 're now seeing as a Sonoran Desert International Peace Park , " says Park Project coordinator Bill Broyles of the new monument designation . " The park could include the Sonoran Desert National Monument , run either by the BLM or Park Service . " If the Tucson-based grassroots organization gets its way , the international park would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prieta National Wildlife Refuge , Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument , the Barry Goldwater Range , the Sonoran Desert National Monument , and in Mexico , the Pinacate Biosphere Reserve . For more information , go to www. sonorandesertnp. org. - Annette McGivney POLE BOLES I read your recent review of trekking poles ( December 2000 ) , and I 've seen the significant damage they cause on soft trails and trail shoulders . This is particularly noticeable on steep hills where people really lean on the poles . While I love my poles and the way my body feels when I hike with them , I 've gone back to a stout walking stick , which leaves less impact . Should we be concerned about the high impact of trekking poles ? Pat Clancy via e-mail We 've seen more scratch marks on rocks and more holes in the trail as a result of trekking poles You can reduce the impact of your poles by keeping them within the tread ( worn part ) of the trail and using rubber ups in areas that are particularly sensitive . For more pole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SHELTER FROM THE STORM I noticed that one of your pack photos included an umbrella ( " Five-Day Packs , " December 2000 ) , yet I 've never seen anyone carrying one . My backpacking buddies would laugh me out of the Sierra if I ever popped open an umbrella for rain ( sounds like a good idea , though ) . Tom Demund Sausalito , CA Northwest Editor John Harlin responds : I would n't carry an umbrella on a typical blue-sky Sierra day , but if you suspect it 's going to rain , there 's nothing better . You 'll sweat less and see more because you do n't have to wear a hood . If it 's chilly , you 'll save weight by wearing a light windshell instead of a heavy rainjacket . An umbrella also doubles as a shade tree in searing weather . Have your doubting friends stay tuned , because testing is underway for an upcoming umbrella review . Sidebar <p>                     