@@402048

The many facets - and faces - of community at Dancing Rabbit Ecovillage near Rutledge , Missouri . // Nestled in the rolling hills of rural northeastern Missouri , in the middle of what was once 280 acres of corn and soybean fields , lies a town center unlike any other in the United States . This place , just outside Rutledge , Missouri , is called Dancing Rabbit Ecovillage . Small passive-solar straw bale cabins with dun-colored earthen plaster walls and white metal roofs , a larger two-story straw bale residence , and a tall metal grain bin cleverly converted into studio apartments are clustered together . Photovoltaic panels pepper the yards and rooftops . Cars , which run on a vegetable oil fuel called biodiesel , are corralled together instead of parked outside each residence . Gardens abound . This experiment in living on the land and in community truly is a grassroots movement , arising from the rolling hills of northeastern Missouri . In 1994 , to " push the envelope " for environmental and social sustainability , Dancing Rabbit 's young eco-activist founders created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local and recycled materials and for establishing a car-sharing co-op and fueling their vehicles with biodiesel . But their commitment to sustainable living goes beyond their environmental ethic , into the realm of social and economic sustainability . Residents make decisions by consensus , eat most meals together and generate their own homegrown entertainment , from musical events to yoga to study groups . As residents of a model ecovillage demonstration site , they teach courses on natural building and host throngs of eager visitors each year . Photograph The many facets - and faces - of community at Dancing Rabbit Ecovillage near Rutledge , Missouri . // CREATING CONNECTIONS " Ecovillages are intentional communities dedicated to creating and demonstrating ecological , social , economic and spiritual sustainability , " Cleveland EcoVillage member Manda Gillespie writes in Communities magazine . " ( Although ) they take many forms , from rural to urban , from small experiments to large districts in transition , and exist in many cultures and geopolitical climates , all have made a commitment to model community development while considering how present actions affect future generations . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Diane and Robert Gilman describe ecovillages as " human-scale , full-featured settlements , where human activities are harmlessly integrated into the natural world in a way that is supportive of healthy human development , and ( which ) can be successfully continued into the indefinite future . " Ecovillages attempt to provide housing , income-producing work and social opportunities on-site , creating as self-reliant a community as possible . To achieve their goals , proponents typically rely on permaculture design in planning the sites , looking to nature as a model . They also make efforts to build energy efficient and nontoxic houses ; organically grow much of their own food ; eliminate waste ; conserve and recycle water and energy ; and use renewable energy power when possible . Most ecovillages limit their size to ensure that through some form of participatory decision-making , such as consensus , each member can influence the community 's direction . Ecovillages are a worldwide movement . Many well-known ecovillage projects were launched on other continents , including Findhorn in Scotland ( 1962 ) , Lebensgarten in Germany ( 1985 ) and Crystal Waters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near Copenhagen , Denmark , won first prize in a 2000 Danish competition for the best sustainable design for the 21st century . And construction is to begin soon on the first such project in Japan , Kobunaki Ecovillage , a 250-home settlement on 30 acres near Kyoto . The Global Ecovillage Network , an organization that helps connect and support sustainable settlements , estimates more than 15,000 identified sustainable community experiments exist today . To foster a more holistic viewpoint , GEN has broadened the definition of ecovillages beyond the ecological aspect of sustainability to include social sustainability ( cooperation and democratic decision-making ) and spiritual sustainability ( supporting its members ' shared or diverse spiritual beliefs and practices ) . " From the early stages of our networking activities , we and other ecovillage activists considered whether it would be useful and appropriate to specify criteria and establish a minimum threshold of achievement for a community to identify itself as an ecovillage , " writes Albert Bates , GEN member and director of the Ecovillage Training Center at Summertown , Tennessee , in Communities magazine . " We decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; rather , we 're encouraging everyone to do what they can in order to live sustainably . " Photograph Pictures of life at Ecovillage at Ithaca , New York . Above : A pathway , lined with garden beds , winds through the neighborhood to the common house . Left : An annual community bake-off - " Guys Bake Pies " - is just one of many creative community events . Right : An on-site organic **31;3511;TOOLONG ( CSA ) farm provides summertime sustenance to community members . // DESIGN FOR THE FUTURE While they have certain commonalities , every ecovillage has its own design for the future . One of the most common strategies for community design draws from the concept of cohousing . A type of intentional community , cohousing developed in Denmark in the early ' 70s and was introduced to North America in the late ' 80s . In cohousing developments , residents live in smaller-than-average housing units and share a large community building where they dine together several evenings a week . Residents own their own homes and share ownership of all common facilities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasingly they partner with a local development company . Often they begin with undeveloped land , like Ecovillage at Ithaca , in Ithaca , New-York , or farmland , like Munksoegaard , whose founders built five 20-unit cohousing clusters around the original farmhouse . Cohousing is a good fit for ecovillages because of its many environmental benefits , which include efficiently using land through the building of attached or multilevel units and sharing green space . Renewable energy systems , such as photovoltaic panels , high-efficiency water heaters or greywater systems also become more feasible when housing units are linked together . The sheer organizing power of community also makes other endeavors easier . Centralized facilities make composting and recycling easy . Many communities establish common gardens where residents share the responsibilities of tending and harvesting , ( assuredly , the bounty never goes to waste ) ! Carpooling becomes more convenient , although the biggest reduction in reliance on the auto comes from the fact that a resident 's social group generally resides in the immediate area . Cohousers do n't have to go far to enjoy a meal or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the heart of Ecovillage at Ithaca , which currently consists of two 30-household neighborhoods with a common house , each on 3 1/2 acres . In the first neighborhood , known as FRoG ( First Residents Group ) , a short pedestrian walkway winds among the flowers , herbs , small fruit trees and shady trellises nestled between two rows of russet-colored two-story duplexes . Forty-five households currently live in two of three planned small , densely clustered neighborhoods two and a half miles from downtown Ithaca . Residents live in energy-efficient , passive-solar homes , reeycle almost everything they use , share ownership of their common facilities and make community decisions by consensus . Half the adult wage-earners work at least part-time on site , in home offices or rented offices in the common house . They carpool extensively , participate in car-sharing and ride the bus , having successfully lobbied the local bus company to make a stop by their entry road . The large , two-story common house sits at the entrance to the village . Here , residents gather together to cook and dine several nights a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laundry room , and let their teens socialize in a sound-proofed hangout room enhanced by a music system . A children 's playroom with tumbling mats and large pillows also is used for yoga , meditation , meetings and classes . Homes in the village receive passive solar gain through 14-foot-high , triple-glazed window-walls . Although the neighborhood currently uses grid power , the south sides of the gable roofs are pitched at just the right angle for the photovoltaic panels they 'll add in the future . Clusters of six to eight homes are linked through underground conduits to a central utility room with two natural-gas-fired boilers that supply zoned radiant heat and hot water to each home . This decreases energy use and utility metering costs , keeps combustion byproducts out of the homes and will allow easy retrofitting to solar hot water heating in the future . Residents conserve water through 1 1/2-gallon toilets and low-flow faucets , and by watering their heavily mulched gardens only during the coolest part of the day . With simple energy conservation measures and wise use , Ecovillage at Ithaca residents consume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the natural gas and 22 percent of the water used by the average household in the northeastern United States . SoNG ( Second Neighborhood Group ) , still under construction , is similar , except some of the individual homes are powered by solar panels and have composting toilets and heat-recovery ventilators . Fifteen homes are built and occupied ; the neighborhood will be complete when 30 households are in residence . At Ecovillage at Ithaca , sustainability goes beyond the home , too . Residents have established a large community garden , and chickens and sheep occupy a 3-acre meadow . Several members have established an organic community supported agriculture ( CSA ) farm , producing everything from greens to beans . Future plans include building a biological wastewater treatment facility and greywater recycling system ; creating a village center for dances , classes , performances and sports ; establishing a U-pick organic berry farm and orchards ; and building a village cemetery . Central to the members ' ecovillage vision was the preservation of 90 percent of their 176 acres as open space for organic agriculture , woods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acres as a permanent conservation easement , administered by a local land trust . GREEN CITIES , GREEN ACRES But not all ecovillages focus on preserving green acres . A testament to this is the ecovillage growing in the heart of one of the most populous cities in the United States : Los Angeles . Founder Lois Arkin began Los Angeles EcoVillage as a response to the 1993 riots in that city . At that time , racism , crime and drugs were prevalent in the Latino/Korean neighborhood that Arkin calls home . Graffiti sullied the walls of apartments , houses and commercial buildings ; families were leaving in droves . To stop the mass exodus , some serious community building needed to take place . Arkin and a few of her neighbors launched a neighborhood networking newsletter , went door-to-door to meet people , and organized neighborhood events , from planting fruit trees on the parking strips to hosting a brunch in the middle of an intersection . " People thought we were crazy , " Arkin says , " but traffic did slow . And some drivers even stopped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts , the nonprofit sponsoring organization , Cooperative Resources and Services Project , raised more than $1 million in low-interest loans to buy two 80-year-old apartment buildings , which provide permanently affordable housing to residents . LA Ecovillage is now in the process of buying the buildings from the nonprofit to take the next step in economic self-reliance and create their own resident-owned housing co-op . Today , the village is 35 " intentional neighbors " strong . Besides sustainably renovating the apartment buildings , residents have established several small organic gardens , planted 100 fruit trees in their neighborhood , and set up shared compost and recycling facilities . They 're retrofitting their apartment buildings with environmentally friendly materials , and are creating plans to add solar hot water . Resident T.H. Culhane 's apartment is entirely off the grid . Twelve solar panels on the roof and a backup bike-powered generator power an air conditioner , freezer , phone , computer , radio , TV and VCR , lights , generators , pumps and Culhane 's electric guitar ( though not all at the same time ) . LA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buildings and the community , and gather for Sunday potlucks and spontaneous midweek meals in the courtyard garden or lobby . About a dozen of the residents make some percentage of their living at home , offering services to their neighbors such as maintenance and repair , remodeling and housecleaning . Embryonic businesses onsite include a bike repair co-op and a bed and breakfast ; future entrepreneurial plans include a healing center and a food co-op and cafe . In order to encourage walking , bicycling or riding the bus , all car-free households receive a $20 monthly discount on rent . Of 35 active neighbors , 13 moved to the community without cars , and seven more have shed their cars since moving in . They 're redesigning their street to slow traffic , and the city has committed more than $250,000 to implement the plan . They also have applied for a grant from automotive company DaimlerChrysler for 10 small electric vehicles , with which they plan to organize a neighborhood car co-op . CITY VERSUS COUNTRY CONCERNS Founders of urban ecovillage projects must usually forego any dreams of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are rigidly enforced . Yet urban ecovillagers have the advantage of finding abundant recycled building materials and unused warehouses , old factories and similar buildings in economically depressed neighborhoods . With enough energy , sweat equity and willingness to meet , respect and learn from existing neighbors , urban ecovillagers often can create effective demonstration models more quickly than their rural counterparts . Photograph With fewer restrictions on land use and building codes , rural ecovillages can experiment with green building and alternative systems . Above : An Earthaven family outside of the straw-bale high-rise . Below : A grain bin-turned-shelter at Dancing Rabbit Ecovillage near Rutledge , Missouri . // While urban ecovillagers focus on community renovation and rejuvenation , rural ecovillages literally start building from the ground up - frequently using cob construction and earthen plasters on their homes . Less restricted by building codes and regulations , they often can build with alternative materials , and design and employ innovative systems for water treatment and power generation . While urban or suburban ecovillage projects often are built and finished all at once , rural ecovillages tend to build @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of graded , un-landscaped soil ; stacks of lumber and straw bales ; heaps of clay and barrels of slaking lime ; and piles of construction debris . Because recycled materials are highly valued , visitors must often pick their way around stacks of what for some are valuable reusable goods , and for others , unsightly piles of junk . Earthaven Ecovillage , tucked in the verdant western North Carolina hills near Black Mountain , sits on 320 forested acres with abundant springs and streams . Its 40 residents live in small passive-solar dwellings with apricot-colored earth-plastered walls and green metal roofs . Most lumber for building has been felled and milled on site . Solar panels and a stream-side micro-hydro unit power the village ; wood or propane heats the homes in winter ; composting toilets recycle human manure ; and greywater is clarified in small constructed wetlands . Although rural ecovillages often are established in idyllic settings , these projects are not always comfortable . Neither Dancing Rabbit nor Earthaven has enough housing . Both are frequently dusty or muddy . Both are in areas where summers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it taxes the renewable energy systems too completely . In winter , water lines freeze at Earthaven , and electricity can be scarce after a week of cloud cover . Members can go for days without showers , their computers inoperable , cooking dinner or reading by flashlight and candles . Rural ecovillages also can be plagued with difficulties of making a living . Most residents of Ecovillage at Ithaca and Los Angeles Ecovillage are able to keep the jobs they had , although many changed their mode of transportation , and some now do more work at home . But Earthaven is 50 minutes , and Dancing Rabbit 90 minutes from jobs in the cities . A handful of Earthaven members formed the worker-owned Forestry Co-op , felling and milling community trees and building timber-framed homes , and a few others operate on-site businesses that employ other members part time ( Red Moon Herbs , Permaculture Activist magazine , and soon , a tree nursery ) , but many barely cover their expenses doing odd jobs for others or taking part-time jobs in nearby towns . A few have intermittent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commute several days a week to a nearby college town ; and several live on retirement or investment income . At Dancing Rabbit , several members have sufficient computer skills to make a good living telecommuting to jobs in Silicon Valley . Others work construction on and offsite ; a few work for the community doing repair and maintenance , gardening or cooking . Some work cyclically , alternating their time between work and leisure . Although ecovillage living is not without its challenges , residents avow the rewards are many . " Earthaven is a positive response to the world crisis , " says cofounder Chuck Marsh . " It 's an opportunity to figure out how to live social and ecologically responsible and spiritually conscious lives in right relationship with the natural world . We desperately need living examples , and the best examples to be found are in the ecovillage movement . " IT AI N'T EASY BEING GREEN Cohousing-based urban and suburban projects like Ecovillage at Ithaca often are funded by two-salary professional families that buy into them , are aided by bank financing for the construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from nonprofits or government agencies . Urban retrofit projects affiliated with nonprofits , like those in Los Angeles and Cleveland , also tend to get grants and low-interest loans with interest-only payments for several years . But rural , more ecologically radical projects such as Dancing Rabbit and Earthaven face a suffer challenge . Most do n't obtain bank financing to buy their properties , partly out of choice and partly because of many banks ' refusal to back alternative construction methods . Members do n't secure construction loans or mortgages to build individual homes , either , primarily because they do n't want mem - and they ca n't qualify anyway since they do n't liave title to their home sites but lease them from their communities . To purchase their properties , founders often borrow money from friends , family and more affluent members . As they can afford it , they construct their homes incrementally . Photograph // ZONING : THE BANE OF ECOVILLAGES Like most urban cohousing communities , Ecovillage at Ithaca underwent the expensive , time-consuming process of petitioning local planning authorities for a higher population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Instead of engaging themselves in potential planning battles , Dancing Rabbit and Earthaven residents established their villages in counties with no zoning . But the founders of O.U.R . ( One United Resource ) Ecovillage in rural British Columbia helped create a whole new zoning designation in their district specifically to accommodate ecological demonstration sites like theirs . In 1999 , with the help of permaculture designers , a local land-use consultant , interested local elected officials and the planning board , they undertook a series of public healings and on-site open houses for neighbors . Taking into account the suggestions , needs , and concerns of these sources , members of O.U.R . Ecovillage and the local planners wrote the new legislation , which allowed for multiuse zoning on their property : Woodlands/Wetlands Conservation , for sensitive ecosystems , woodlot management areas and nature trails ; Agricultural , for organic gardening and animal husbandly ; Ecological Education and Infrastructure , for educational activities and guest housing ; and Residential , for clustered housing and natural-building demonstration sites . Mer receiving overwhelming public support for this intiative , the Regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SEEDS OF CHANGE Although each developing ecovillage faces its own set of unique challenges , collectively , their positive impacts are being recognized at the global level . In 1998 , the United Nations named ecovillages in their " Top 100 List of Best Practices . " " We stand at the junction between two millennia , " says Albert Bates of the Global Ecovillage Network . " The past millennium was about building societies that ran on fossil sunlight and militarism . The next one , still a mysteiy , must be more conscientious and humane , or we wo n't survive . It 's on the shoulders of ecovillage pioneers that the dream rests for peace , security , prosperity , family and happiness for the coming generations of our children - whether we or they recognize it yet . " Sidebar Resources BOOKS AND PUBLICATIONS Creating a Life Together : Practical Tools to Grow Ecovillages and Intentional Communities , Diana Leafe Christian . On MOTHER 'S Bookshelf , Page 94 . Communities Directory . Fellowship for Intentional Community , 2002. ( 800 ) 462-8240 ; directory.ic.org Community magazing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 800 ) 462-8240 ; fic.ic.org/cmag/ Ecovillage Living : Restoring the Earth and Her People , Hildur Jackson and Karen Svensso , eds . Ecovillages and Sustainable Communities : Models for 21st Century Living , Jillian Conrad , ed . ORGANIZATIONS Ecovillage Network of the Americas ( ENA ) : ( 931 ) 964-4324 ; ena.ecovillage.org . The Fellowship for Intentional Community : ( 800 ) 462-8240 ; fic.ic.org The Cohousing Network : ( 510 ) 844-0865 ; www.cohousing.org CONFERENCES 2903 North American Cohousing Conference . June 19-22 . University of Colorado , Boulder . ( 303 ) 772-5851 ; www.cohousing.org Author Affiliation Author Dan Chiras writes about community issues , natural building and energy efficiency . Diana Leafe Christian is editor of Communities magazine and author of Creating a Life Together : Practical Tools to Grow Ecovillages and Intentional Communities ( see MOTHER 'S Bookshelf , Page 94 ) . She lives at Earthaven Ecovillage in North Carolina . // <p>                     