@@386051

Jordanians Study the Environment-in Israel // When Said Saleh Abu Ghosh chose to pursue a masters degree in desert studies , he knew there would be a price to pay . Not the price of hard work or intense competition , but as a native of Amman , Jordan , Abu Ghosh was facing backlash by way of venue : He is currently researching algae 's medicinal properties at the Albert Katz International School for Desert Studies-in Israel . " We Jordanian students do n't write on our resumes that we studied in Israel , " Abu Ghosh admits . " I did it once applying for a job and they did n't take me . I 'll go on to get a Ph.D . to cover up the Israel portion of my studies so I can get a job . I have to be realistic . " A razor-stubbled , good-natured mid-twenty-something oft decked out in lab whites and safety goggles , Abu Ghosh is one of a growing number of Jordanians who make their way to Israel each year to study desertification and land degradation despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is twothirds desert with limited resources , " Abu Ghosh says . " This school has professors who are international experts in the fields of desertification and algae research . Also , I needed to improve my English and I wanted to study with people from different backgrounds . " Despite a U.S.-fostered Non-Belligerence Treaty signed in 1994 , relations between Israel and Jordan are strained , largely due to the ongoing Israeli-Palestinian conflict . Jordan 's population , according to U.S. Census Bureau figures , is more than 50 percent Palestinian . Jordanian students opt for environmental studies at the Albert Katz Institute because the school 's team of professors and researchers is renowned globally for breakthrough desertification research , including drip irrigation , solar energy harnessing , algae cultivation and brackish water salmon farming . They also come to experience a different culture and " see these people we 've fought with and heard about all our lives with our own eyes , " one student confides . What they find is sometimes surprising and at other times bothersome . " At home we 're not used to speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Here it 's all out in the open . " Politics , however , have been less breezy . " At army checkpoints in Jerusalem , when they find out I 'm from Jordan they search me piece by piece . So I 've learned to take very little with me . I always have to carry my passport everywhere . That is annoying . " Leading Israeli environmentalist and recent recipient of the prestigious Bronfman Award for Environmental Achievement , Professor Alon Tal says he has " enormous respect for the people who come here from Jordan . There is n't a Palestinian student studying in Israel who , down the road , will not feel the ramifications of the choice , " he concedes . A fast-talking Harvard graduate hailing from North Carolina , Tal has been highly instrumental in nurturing peace-building programs among students . Routine discussion sessions are factored into curricula , and debates center around the impacts of erosion , water scarcity , Middle East relations and conflicts . Semi-isolated in Israels Negev Desert some 70 miles south of Tel Aviv , the Albert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Research Institute ( both part of Ben Gurion University of the Negev ) host 200 masters , doctoral and post-doctoral students from 22 countries . The closest urban center is Beer Sheba , 20 miles north of campus , known biblically as the 4000 B.C. city where Abraham dug a well , then struck a pact with the local king over shared water resources . Long dry stretches of khaki canyon dotted with scrub , sparse electric wiring and brightly colored tent camps and roaming sheep belonging to Bedouin nomads mark the route from Beer Sheba to the Institutes . On campus , ibex ( wild goats ) graze freely and occasional sonic booms break the deserts tranquility as training fighter jets soar overhead . Most students put in 80-hour weeks and are expected to publish within the first year . The hard work ultimately pays off , however , when graduates go out into the world as " global ambassadors " of natural resource cultivation and preservation . Working in solar energy development , desalination , desert architecture and dryland biotechnology fields , students tend to maintain close ties with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undergraduate degree in Utah and is currently completing her masters in environmental studies in Israel . She 'll go to the U.S. for a Ph.D . in law or environmental policy and hopes to return to the Middle East to work as a government lobbyist . Regarding her Israel studies , Rassas , a Palestinian with relatives in Jerusalem , adheres to caution . " I 'm selective about who to tell in Jordan , " she says . " I told my best friends I 'm here and that 's it . Others I did n't tell . " For Rassas , living alongside Israelis has been a learning experience that altered pre-existing notions . " I asked a fellow student something about God , and when she said she does n't believe in God I was shocked . She was a rabbi 's daughter ! I had to differentiate between being Jewish culturally and ideologically , " she explains . Maya Negev , an Israeli Albert Katz master 's student , grew up in a liberal Jerusalem household . Currently studying environmental literacy among the country 's sixth to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environmental protection . In working towards that goal , she volunteers at a Beer Sheba Arab-Israeli youth club and helps Hebron 's Palestinian farmers harvest olives , despite Jewish settler intimidation . Negev is neither surprised nor alarmed by the code of silence taken up by Jordanian colleagues regarding their studies . " With such a large percentage of the Jordanian population being Palestinian refugees , it 's hard to acknowledge a country where the Zionist is the enemy , " she says . " But our studies together are surely changing attitudes . " We have so much more in common than differences , " Negev continues . " Even if I knew this before , it was emphasized when I lived and talked with these people . We all have the same hopes , so we 're all interested in the same things from the same angles . And the bottom line ? The environment knows no borders . " <p>                     