@@389559

Headnote HOMEGROWN FAVORITE The essential ingredient in the green salsas of Mexican cuisine is not the tomato but the tomatillo-a fruit with a citrusy , sweet flavor . Dainty paper husks encase the tomatillos , and by late summer , what seems like billions of fruits dangle from the plant 's branches , ensuring that you can more than satisfy your salsa cravings by summer 's end . - Barbara Wilde Growing Guide Native to Mexico and domesticated by the Aztecs around 800 B.c. , tomatillos are one of our most ancient vegetables . Today , you can grow varieties of the same two species the Aztecs grew . Physalis ixocarpa is commonly sold in markets and has large ( up to 2-inch-diameter ) tart green fruits , which ripen to pale yellow . P. fhiladdpbica produces sweeter , marble-size purple fruits . This species is a common field weed in Mexico , but it is no less delicious for being a weed . Choosing a site . Select a spot in full , hot sun , with well-drained , moderately rich soil . Tomatillos are lighter feeders than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they do not fare well in soggy , poorly drained soil . Work a couple of inches of compost into the soil before planting , and fork deeply to improve drainage . Raised beds work great for tomatillos in gardens with heavy clay soil . Planting . Start tomatillos indoors six to eight weeks before your frost-free date . Harden off indoor-started plants before transplanting outdoors . Set out at the same time you plant your tomatoes , when all danger of frost is past and the soil is thoroughly warm . Much like their cousin the tomato , tomatillos sprout roots along their stems , so they profit from being planted deeply . The indeterminate , sprawling plants grow 3 to 4 feet tall and at least as wide , so space the plants 3 feet apart in rows 3 to 4 feet apart . Plan to give them support unless you want to pick the fruits off the ground . Two to four plants are sufficient for fresh use . Growing . Tomatillos are hugely prolific and fruit nonstop until laid low by frost . Apply 2 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to suppress weeds and conserve soil moisture . Although moderately drought-tolerant , tomatillos do best with an inch or two of water per week . If space is limited , pinch off the growing tips to control spread . Harvesting . You 'll be preparing your first salsa verde about 75 to 100 days after transplanting . Pick the fruits when they fill out their husks and the husks just begin to split . If the fruits feel like mini marbles inside loose husks , wait awhile , but harvest before they turn pale yellow , as they become seedier and their flavor loses the desired tangy acidity as they ripen . Store harvested tomatillos in their husks at room temperature for up to a week or in the refrigerator for up to three weeks . Recommended Varieties " Toma Verde " is the standard large-fruited variety , with golf-ball-size , tart green fruits . Extra early at 60 days from transplanting . " Purple " has small , intensely purple fruits and green husks . Highly decorative and long-storing. 65 days . Problem Solving Though tomatillos seem exotic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffer disease and insect pest problems . Cage the plants off the ground to allow air to circulate-which protects them from diseases , such as early blight-and to keep them out of reach of slugs and snails . The plants are n't as heavy as tomato plants , and the undcrsize wire cages typically sold for tomatoes work fine for supporting tomatillos . Preparation Techniques Preparing tomatillos for cooking or storage is easy . Just remove the papery husks and wash the sticky fruits inside . Tomatillos need no coring or seeding before being incorporated into your favorite recipe . To freeze , simply place washed , dry fruits in freezer bags and seal . Although tomatillos are usually cooked , they can also be eaten raw . Barbara Wilde writes about gardening and cooking in France on her Web site , frenchgardening. com . Sidebar Ripe and ready : Pick tomatillos when the fruit splits its husk open . Sidebar Newbie hint Harvest all your tomatillos to prevent a forest of self-sown seedlings next year . Consign overripe and rotten fruits to your hot compost heap . Sidebar Oil-free tomatillo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your meals and snacks . One tomatillo contains only 7 calories and is a rich source of vitamins A and C plus dietary fiber . Sidebar Master 's tip When frost threatens , pull up your tomatillo plants and hang them upside down in an unheated garage . The fruits will keep for at least a couple of months . <p>                     