@@397275

NATIONAL AFFAIRS Headnote " Changes in the intelligence craft must go beyond redrawing the organizational chart and redesigning its chain of command . " // TRAGEDIES like the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon have produced three reactions : hot-tempered and hastily written allegations of intelligence failure in the popular literature , postmortem studies of the intelligence record by groups inside and outside government , and follow-on official commissions advocating far-reaching reorganization of the U.S. intelligence apparatus . Of those three things , only one-hard-hitting postmortems-is certain to be useful . The actions suggested by follow-on official commissions never seem to eliminate subsequent intelligence shortfalls . Fingerpointing has a singularly unproductive history . The mission of the intelligence community has been revisited since the end of the Cold War . Nevertheless , countless reorganizations later , the intelligence community has not yet been " fixed " to the nation 's collective satisfaction . If there is blame to assign , it must be shared by the intelligence community and those who have had a hand in " reforming " it , such as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts since then . It would be fair to point out that U.S. intelligence counterterrorist programs have actually recorded a fair number of operational successes , as noted in a balanced assessment of what intelligence can and can not be expected to accomplish . For instance , the intelligence community is publicly credited with thwarting planned attacks on New York 's Lincoln and Holland tunnels in 1993 and attacks against airports on the West Coast on the eve of the millennium . However , intelligence can not achieve omniscience , and if we wait long enough , we are bound to be surprised by unfolding events . Osama bin Laden founded the structure that became Al Qaeda during the Afghan war against the Soviets , and it took him two decades to achieve his present notoriety . It is not as though the intelligence community had never contemplated assaults on the American homeland . In his unclassified testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee on Feb. 7 , 2001 , Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet effectively described the sorry state of Afghanistan , the corruption of the Taliban , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Terrorists are also becoming more operationally adept and more technically sophisticated in order to defeat counterterrorism measures . For example , as we have increased security around government and military facilities , terrorists are seeking out " softer " targets that provide opportunities for mass casualties . " He warned plainly of the threat to American citizens from bin Laden , noting that terrorist assaults appeared increasingly likely to be directed against soft targets , rather than U.S. military assets , as was the attack on the U.S.S. Cole in October , 2000 . Before Sept. 11 , the public was probably lulled by a drop in press coverage of terrorist attacks , the statistics about relatively few casualties from terrorism , and a misunderstanding of the adversary 's changing approach to risk-taking . According to " Patterns of Global Terrorism 2000 , " compiled by the U.S. Department of State , the number of terrorist incidents worldwide increased in 2000 , but only because of a sharp uptick in assaults against pipelines in Colombia . Discounting the latter incidents , the number of American casualties from terrorism showed no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resonate like an attack on the U.S. homeland would a year later . Partly as a result , terrorism moved down on the list of problems to be dealt with by the Bush Administration . The Sept. 11 attacks , ironically , interrupted the last stage of the Administration 's defense review , which was to focus on the need to retool the Department of Defense to deal with longer-term threats . In such an atmosphere , providing warning is the intelligence officer 's most difficult task . The devil is partly in the details . It is impossible to preempt a threat without knowledge of the specific plot or plots , and it is almost impossible to unearth all of them . Preempting a general threat , as Tenet was attempting to do in his testimony almost seven months before the assaults on New York and Washington , is even harder . Warning is inconvenient when it calls for a change in the basic approach to a national security issue-such as mandating a commitment to homeland security-and it is especially difficult when it comes in advance of the specific events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Inside government , bureaucratic politics and internal organizational struggles for resources are forces that define issues and indeed often carry the day in debates in the intelligence community and on policy . Thus , advance warning of details that would discredit the advocates of business as usual is often unwelcome and can go unheeded . All things considered , and acknowledging that there is no excuse , it is hard to imagine the report or intelligence briefing that would have forced the government to conduct national security business as differently before the attacks of Sept. 11 as it has in their aftermath . The intelligence community-especially the Central Intelligence Agency-has a workforce and information resources that agencies in the rest of the Federal government properly envy . Whatever its record before Sept. 11 , the intelligence community reacted quickly and constructively to the event . Instead of fingerpointing , therefore , one needs to ask how intelligence can be brought to the level of efficiency needed in the long term . What we are seeing is not the more-familiar state-supported terrorism , which has been in gradual decline for two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , selfgenerating , and tied to the existence of failed states and the battle for the soul of Islam . Two dimensions of the threat should disturb us and influence any initiatives taken to improve intelligence . First , the U.S. is caught up in what Michael Doran of Princeton University calls " somebody else 's civil war . " In almost every Sunni Muslim country , he points out , there are calls by conservative religious elements for the revival of very old traditions . Those elements view modern Western civilization as threatening the survival of traditional Islam as it bolsters the real enemy-secularism . The struggle is not new , but the identification of America as an ally of the enemies of Islam has gathered momentum with U.S. policy support for secular , corrupt regimes throughout the Middle East and with escalating Palestinian-Israeli tensions . Civil wars are agony for all participants . Economic historian Brad DeLong has compared the contemporary struggles among Islamic factions with the Protestant Reformation of the 16th century : " The parallels are striking : a dominant clergy and aristocracy that seem to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the mass distribution of personal copies of the Holy Book so that people can read it and think for themselves ; and then terror-as those who have convinced themselves that they hear the will of God take action . In Europe , it lasted for 120 years-with one-third of Germany dying in the 30 Years War . " One can argue the details of those parallels , but is it reasonable to expect that the struggle between secularism and Muslim tradition will last for another generation or more , and that the numbers of casualties that will result from the struggle will shock American sensibilities . Second , while the threat from Al Qaeda is different from that from state-sponsored terrorism-because of its grassroots flavor-Al Qaeda differs from many other grassroots terrorist movements , such as Hamas . Al Qaeda 's objectives are on a grand scale , rather than local and specialized . Hamas is concerned with the plight of the Palestinians . In contrast , Al Qaeda is quite literally the irregular force that represents one side in the " Islamic Reformation . " Thus , it presents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which America has been long accustomed-and with which the U.S. intelligence community was originally built to cope . The U.S. is comfortable fighting adversaries that are similar to itself and collecting intelligence against such foes . The new adversary , though , has a completely different nature , and " mirror imaging " is thus likely to fail . This adversary is an evolving , adapting force-a network with roots that spread everywhere and for which models of deterrence fail . The protracted struggle will be daunting , and defeating a broad-based , self-organized network like Al Qaeda is an unprecedented chore . Vietnam provided a glimpse of the challenge , but even there , the other side featured a government and command-and-control machinery for U.S. forces to target . The Al Qaeda brand of terrorism more closely resembles a virus that morphs as its environment changes . To further complicate matters , individual nodes are capable of evolving their own strategy and " gaming " their opposition , as Sept. 11 so convincingly demonstrated . They are capable of self-healing , dispersal , reassembly , and innovation . The challenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rather than plans , and remains capable of decentralized changes in strategy against our vulnerabilities . In many respects , America has been lucky that the evolution of the adversary is not more advanced . It seems unlikely that the terrorists had a complete prepackaged war plan that could have unfolded autonomously once the battle was under way and that would have been invulnerable to allied strikes against its command-and-control infrastructure in Afghanistan . This probably will be one of the lessons the adaptable adversary takes from the current war . Its combat operations have to be completely scripted well in advance of the first battle so that the larger war can not be interrupted by bombing or ground-force operations . The intelligence community needs to ask what further adaptation by the enemy the war in Afghanistan will foster . The White House and senior intelligence community management should recognize that they have been lucky that the development of a radiological bomb or nuclear device by terrorists is not further along . They have to wonder how long their luck will hold . Has the U.S. intelligence community yet imagined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adversary may employ ? Is it sensitive to the right signals of the alternative development paths as they may appear in raw intelligence reporting over the next several years ? Does this analytic challenge-and others that demand similarly unconventional imagination-reside only on the drawing board of the intelligence community , and if so , why ? The need for new approaches The magnitude of the threat and the fact that the new terrorist groups bear little resemblance to either conventional armies or statesponsored terrorist organizations ensure that Al Qaeda and its follow-on movements will require innovations in U.S. intelligence . Changes in the intelligence craft must go beyond redrawing the organizational chart and redesigning its chain of command . The collection of raw intelligence will remain critical , but will be insufficient against an adversary that is a dynamic , evolving force . operations against U.S. interests . Thus , there is no triumph of intelligence collection that can completely remedy all intelligence shortfalls . The intelligence community will win small battles against terrorism , but it is still at risk of losing far-larger ones . In addition to gathering even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adaptable adversary with adaptation . A $30,000,000,000 U.S. intelligence empire , coupled with a Department of Defense ( DoD ) that vastly outspends even its most-threatening rivals , has most of the advantages , to be sure . Nevertheless , hierarchies are handicapped when confronted by flexible , highly adaptable , and networked enemies . Several remedies to U.S. intelligence 's shortcomings are either on the drawing board or being implemented within the intelligence community . How vigorously they will be undertaken or how quickly they will mature can not yet be known . Breaking down barriers . The U.S. intelligence community remains handicapped by internal barriers and walls meant to protect intelligence sources and methods . There is no clearer manifestation of stifling hierarchy than intelligence community " stovepipes " that have persisted for years and prevent many of the people working against terrorist targets from effectively communicating with each other . At times , the stovepipes even prevent organizations from becoming aware of each other 's existence . The current stovepipe approach-which erects barriers to lateral collaboration by restricting communications and rewarding only bureaucratic loyalty within the organization  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do essentially the same work against terrorist targets , wasting resources and preventing many professionals from leveraging the efforts of counterparts who remain outside their immediate circle . Good academics invest considerable energy in finding out about the research efforts of their colleagues in other institutions . Intelligence community professionals would reap dividends from similar efforts that at least match those of their academic counterparts . U.S. intelligence components working against terrorist targets need the ability to share data and analyses spontaneously ( as academic experts do when communicating routinely over the Interet ) , and should not be forced to deal with a maze of bureaucratic and security-derived obstacles . That is one of the hurdles implicitly referenced by Tenet in the Sept 16 , 2001 , admonition to the intelligence community to erase bureaucratic blockages to fighting the war on terrorism effectively . The intelligence community 's electronic connectivity in addressing the non-state-sponsored terrorist threat is ironically held hostage to counterintelligence concerns that emanate from threats from state actors who , unlike Al Qaeda , have ample budgets to staff their own intelligence apparatus and target it against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysts and collectors function in largely separate electronic compartments . The " need to know " principle , of course , can not be jettisoned entirely , but the tradeoff between protecting security and promoting collegiality certainly bears recalibration . Moreover , the people fighting terrorism need to break down barriers to their ability to form alliances with external centers of expertise . In recent years , the intelligence community has improved analysts ' access to all of the resources made available by the information revolution . It is safe to say that intelligence community data systems are unparalleled . Some elements of the analytic community have created outreach programs to get beyond the walls protecting classified data . Still , for those in the counterterrorism community , more needs to be done to create connections with substantive experts who do not yet have all the security clearances . No organization , not even one large and deep , can have a monopoly on expertise-especially on a subject as complex as the Islamic Reformation . Creative alliances with think tanks , academics , and other centers of expertise should be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than impede , informal and mutually beneficial contact between the analyst and the business community . With the stakes as high as they are , some of those prospective relationships even deserve to be formal , institutionalized partnerships . Bolstering in-house analysis . U.S. intelligence must integrate operational **25;1004;TOOLONG that supports operational planning and covert action-at which it already excels , with multidisciplinary expertise , thus capitalizing on expertise in politics , demographics , economics , and culture . The original focus of the Counterterrorist Center , created by then-Director of Central Intelligence William Casey , was almost exclusively operational , leaving all multidisciplinary analysis to the Office of Near East , South Asian , and African Analysis and similar components in the Directorate of Intelligence . As Al Qaeda gathered momentum in the 1990s and the Middle East peace process eroded , the burden on operators and analysts alike to put out daily fires intensified , leaving little time for the sort of research and digging that was routine in the intelligence community during the Cold War . The press of daily tasks also reinforced its tendency to insulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of excellence on the roots and substance of terrorism-one that makes the time to do its own research while routinely exchanging insights with a well-developed network of allies on the outside . At the very least , the intelligence community needs an analytic effort that carries great prestige , rather than one subordinated to supporting operational planning and covert action . In the course of bolstering analysis , there is considerable room for more-creative approaches , and it makes sense to ask if the intelligence community needs its own analytic " skunk works " to foster such methods . These approaches include assembling " red teams " whose purpose is to simulate adversary stategy and doctrine , perhaps replicating , to the extent feasible , the decentralized nature of the threat . Military intelligence units do this from time to time during conflict , and the DoD has become adept at using this approach to test its own vulnerabilities . The intelligence community should be equally practiced at exploring terrorist strategy , especially that of an evolving , adapting enemy whose future stratagems are not yet on the drawing board . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respected bureaucratic base of operation , informed by the most-creative thinking of exports in the defense community and the private sector . Red team mechanisms should be standing requirements , rather than the onetime experiments that are routinely applied to issues such as terrorist innovation with nuclear technologies . Modeling and simulation . The intelligence community should develop advanced software tools to support data processing and analysis . It should be using new techniques to explore the evolution of terrorist networks and their adaptability . One new approach-agentbased modeling-focuses on bottom-up computer simulation of human interaction and generates exactly the form of decentralized , spontaneous organization of social networks that can be observed in the formation of political movements and in the world of terrorism . A decade ago , an adaptable network of adversaries could have been spoken of only metaphorically . As agent-based modeling shows , with recent advances in computing power and software , synthetic adversary networks can be built in digital space and their evolution simulated harmlessly . In addition , the intelligence community should routinely adopt the best practices of the DoD and private sector for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should prod the DoD to create new warfare models that go beyond evaluating conventional weapons systems . To be able to influence and shape DoD modeling , the intelligence community must become so good at modeling and simulation that it can influence the development of those arts outside its own walls . The art of analytic gaming remains a uniquely effective tool for assessing the interplay of competing strategies , as senior military officers learn in staff colleges . A properly framed game can shed light on the calculations of adversaries and coalition partners alike . It is surprising that intelligence community components have not exploited this technique for assessing terrorism more robustly and routinely . There is now expertise to draw from within the intelligence community and a greater appetite for experimentation than existed a year or two ago . Those techniques might illuminate many examples of adversary strategy that could surprise us next time . Their strategy may depend on how much the terrorists have learned from the strikes against the U.S. and the war in Afghanistan . For instance , attempts by Al Qaeda to inspire jihad in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attacks appear to have prompted an unlikely spontaneous partnership with whoever conducted the anthrax mailings in the U.S. in the weeks that followed . Will terrorists design their own approach with a more-creative view of spontaneous partnerships next time ? How does the intelligence community assess their capacity for learning ? The intelligence community should continue to counter denial and deception efforts by terrorist networks . Denial and deception analysis is a relatively new element in the intelligence tool kit and refers to measures to counteract the efforts of U.S. adversaries to escape detection by American intelligence satellites and other collection means , as well as measures to counteract enemy efforts to mislead U.S. intelligence purposefully by generating data that point in the wrong direction . Washington can not allow an adversary to play games with the American intelligence community by placing false leads and producing false warnings . It is uncertain whether the general alerts issued by the Office of Homeland Security during late 2001 and early 2002 were prompted by clever manipulation on the part of the terrorist networks that , if they were paying attention , surely noticed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partially offline for days at a time by allowing their own communications to leak . It may be no coincidence that senior Al Qaeda leaders in late 2001 publicly framed future assaults on America as attacks on the U.S. economy . The intelligence community must determine the magnitude of the threat to the economy and the strategies likely to be used in an attack aimed solely at economic disruption . The realization , on the part of senior management of the intelligence community , of the need for creative new approaches is encouraging . Until shortly after Sept. 11 , the intelligence community was not in the traditional multidisciplinary analysis business , but the creation of the Office of Terrorism Analysis within the CIA 's Counterterrorism Center changed that . This kind of initiative in analytic methodology holds promise , and efforts to reinvigorate the long-term effort to generate more-creative raw intelligence collection are in the works . Moreover , in the last three or four years , the Directorate of Intelligence has taken measures to create and sustain " out-of-the-box " analytic approaches to difficult intelligence issues , as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community . What is needed is a period of growth and development of those programs and the spread of best practices into the counterterrorism community . The focus on what is secret . It is de rigueur for an analysis of intelligence priorities to cite the need to invest in human intelligence collection . Indeed , in a speech to CIA employees in May , 1998 , Tenet cited counterterrorism as an essential reason to strengthen the Directorate of Operations . The war on terrorism will place intense pressure on all intelligence collection systems . The intelligence community will be tempted to " solve " the intelligence problem by throwing resources at collection systems . Although more resources would help , even with added data , the intelligence community is likely to be frustrated by its failure to prevent every attack on U.S. interests . The adaptable adversaries who will make up the future terrorist threat will have the incentives and the means to " game " Western intelligence collection systems . Collection needs to be sharp and focused on what counts , rather than hopelessly broad . Ironically , improving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ensure that collection initiatives are well-focused . The issue is not exclusively tactical intelligence , but enabling the counterterrorism community to tailor long-term development of collection systems to targets as well . Accordingly , the destructive idea that the analytic corps of the intelligence community should confine its attention to the dimensions of the terrorism problem that play to its " comparative advantage " of secret information should be dispensed with . Intelligence community analysts will either have the expertise required to get the job done or not . In the long run , it is the job of the intelligence community to develop analytic expertise and classified data sources on issues of interest to the national security community . That is , the intelligence community must give priority to collecting information that policymakers most need and want . Heading in the right direction If a standard were invented to measure the progress of the intelligence community in the fight against terrorism , there would be tension between the wish to base measurements on results and the desire to base them on actions taken by intelligence agencies . Both are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain tactical victories , especially those enabled by a convenient , but perhaps unique , ally like NATO , as evidence that it has solved the problem . An adversary intent on surprising us will be comfortable with long lulls in its fight against the U.S. Those lulls will not necessarily mean that America has won the battle , any more than they did in 1998 and 1999 . If all goes well , some intelligence community initiatives will succeed and others will fail . The successes will be informed by lessons from the failures , which will be shortlived and corrected . Any standard the intelligence community employs to gauge progress needs to make room for intelligent risk-taking . According to economist Hal Varian , an expert in technology and innovation at the University of California , Berkeley , the keys to any successful business community revolution are experimentation , capitalization , management , competition , and consolidation . Applying that paradigm to the U.S. intelligence community , it makes sense to credit the mid 1980s creation of the Counterterrorist Center as the critical first innovation in the fight against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not go far enough . Its mission was almost solely intended to augment the collection of human-source intelligence-not to deepen expertise and produce breakthroughs in intellectual capital that might enable the U.S. to outwit the adversary . In those instances in which the terrorists made mistakes , intelligence analysis assisted some successful efforts to interdict terrorist plots against American interests . Yet , intelligence analysis and human-source collection left the nation vulnerable to terrorist plots in which the terrorists used better tradecraft . The intelligence community thus needs a more risk-taking and failure-tolerant management approach . This national security issues is not one on which to save pennies or to let the possibility of failure suppress innovative approaches . In the medium term , three broad standards should suggest progress : connectivity is well-established , multidisciplinary analysis is diverse and prospering , and individual initiative reigns supreme . Broader dividends will follow if high scores are achieved on those standards . Progress improves connectivity . Other improvements are essential as the innovation phase is completed . The successful intelligence enterprise , like its adversary , must be networked and agile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligence community entities working on counterterrorism issues . That will require creation of collaborative mechanisms along the lines set forth by Pres. Bush on June 6 , 2002 . In particular , professionals in the counterterrorist community who work in different buildings , cities , and agencies , as well as on different local computer networks , will have the ability to create their own collaborative ties , rather than wait for senior managers to authorize them and make the required hardware available . The need to form such ties and use them in countering terrorism will be the final compelling reason to reform the management of intelligence community information systems . A connected community will be one that knows immediately where to find the specialized bit of expertise or the arcane fact that makes the difference in a piece of analysis or in a clandestine collection program . Strengthening multidisciplinary analysis . Multidisciplinary analytic approaches to counterterrorism are new , and they will take time to establish and capitalize intellectually . If all goes well , managers of counterterrorism analysis will make room for research and teamwork under the press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanes and the demands for current intelligence support are less pressing . Perhaps the most-telling measure of the health of the intelligence analysis function will be how the transition from the current war to the longer-term fight is handled and whether analysts are given the chance to take the time to dig deep and think creatively . If developments are moving along the right track , the more-creative approaches to analysis will be well-staffed , reasonably funded , and institutionalized within the counterterrorism community . No approach would remain untested for its applicability to the counterterrorism problem . The output would be reports and briefings based on research , workshops , conferences , games , red teams , advanced data processing and analytic software , and collaboration across agencies and institutions , as well as , of course , the improved collection of raw intelligence that all of this may help to make possible . The optimum mix of approaches will take time to determine , but it will be diverse and not focused exclusively on current analysis . There must also be accountability . Eventually , clever approaches have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be shared within the community at large . High standards must apply to the new counterterrorism product line . Fostering individual initiative . Common wisdom is that the U.S. intelligence community is so vast and its organizational structure so complex that changing its leadership or altering its organizational chart is not likely to accomplish much , as lessons drawn from the hierarchical , military model can miss the point . The successful intelligence enterprise can be sufficiently agile if-like its adversary , the terrorist network-it is driven largely by individual initiative , rather than commanded entirely from the top . Senior intelligence community leaders , while being careful in crafting their daily message to the Oval Office , need to delegate and promote initiative and creative thinking ( including so-called outof-the-box thinking ) by the workforce . Another reason to empower individuals is the efficiency gains produced by reducing layers of supervision . The intelligence community is not only stovepiped , it is riddled with layers of management designed to provide redundancy in an effort to avoid mistakes . Analysts have traditionally been subject to multiple layers of supervisory review , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although there has been an effort to streamline the review process in recent years , there remain abundant economies to be realized by placing the individual analyst closer to the decisionmakers who are the end users of the product and relying on individual accountability to ensure quality . Emphasis on the individual would represent a sharp break with the past . Intelligence community senior leaders are accustomed to being the authors of new initiatives , rather than their enablers . Meanwhile , managers and senior analysts climbing the ranks are used to avoiding risks that would take them off the fast track . The tendency to confine risk-taking to the top and to constrain individual initiative because it might lead to a mistake is one of the things that must change if the fight against terrorism is to succeed . Author Affiliation James W. Harris , senior analyst for Centra Technology , was formerly chief of the Strategic Assessment Group , Directorate of Intelligence , Central Intelligence Agency , Langley , Va . This article is based on a Cato Institute Policy Analysis . // <p>      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      