@@367212

It sounded almost like the good old days on Al Gore 's presidential campaign , with lots of dire talk about his opponent 's risky schemes and secret plans , arrogant approaches and smug assumptions . Last week Gore managed to parlay what was to have been a simple health-care speech to medical reporters in Chicago into a dissertation on George W. Bush 's coziness with the National Rifle Association . ( A top N.R.A . official had been videotaped saying of Bush , " We 'll have a President ... where we work out of their office . " ) Gore also savaged the Texas Governor 's Social Security plan with predictions that it could force waitresses to shoulder heavy trays until they are 70 years old , just " to finance some risky tax scheme . " <P> Democrats should have been heartened to see their candidate in fighting trim . But with a new round of polls suggesting that Bush 's return to sunny centrism is getting a surprisingly warm reception in at least half a dozen states that Democrats generally take for granted  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wisconsin and even West Virginia  --  many in the party are worried about whether Gore 's campaign team is ready for the general-election brawl . Renewed infighting and finger pointing have brought fresh doubts about the cadre that is taking over the national campaign machinery  --  doubts largely centered on Gore campaign chairman Tony Coelho , a former California Congressman with a 20-year history of generating both intense loyalties and animosities . " It 's not something you worry about , " Coelho declared in an interview last week . " You 've got decisions to make , and you make them . The campaign ca n't be run by 100 outsiders . " <P> This is not the first time Coelho 's management has been questioned . He transformed the Gore campaign several times last year , banishing longtime advisers , firing many members of the campaign high command . His brash style proved to have been right for the moment : Coelho helped hone a sloppy , unfocused operation into one that dispatched Bill Bradley with relative ease and brought the Vice President within striking distance of Bush in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coelho 's ratio of mishaps to successes seems to be on the rise . Consider the Elian Gonzalez matter . Although Gore had distanced himself from the Clinton Administration from the outset of the controversy by saying it should be handled in family court , sources say his top advisers  --  primarily Coelho , but with backing from message gurus Carter Eskew and Bob Shrum  --  urged him to take a higher profile by calling for permanent residency for the Cuban boy . Coelho was out front in arguing that the move would bolster Gore 's chances of carrying Florida  --  the nation 's fourth most populous state  --  and proving he was no retroliberal on foreign policy . Instead , the Coelho-led gambit was almost universally dismissed as pandering gone terribly wrong . Behind the scenes in Goreland , it was derided as more evidence of how campaign decision making under Coelho has become insular and , more important , often wrongheaded.                     