@@418362

See also related article on page 55 of same issue Even if you had free run of any skybox in Madison Square Garden , you still would n't see half the action that you will in your own living room , one day soon , on a large-screen holographic television . Without ever leaving your chair , you 'll be poised to watch each play unfold from whatever perspective you choose , gazing into the depths of your TV . The only thing lacking will be the soggy cheese fries . Although this scenario is a decade away , a small-scale version exists today in the Dallas laboratory of Harold Garner , a tireless 51-year-old medical doctor , plasma physicist and biochemist at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center . The prototype he built is the first machine ever to generate holographic movies  --  true 3-D without special glasses or nausea . How did a guy who works in a medical center discover the key to depicting holographic objects in motion ? Garner 's chair in developmental biology at UT is endowed in part by the founders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ access to a digital micromirror device ( DMD ) that is now used in high-end video projectors . It is made up of nearly a million reflective panels , each of which can be angled by a computer several thousand times per second to reflect or deflect beams of light , producing moving pictures . Garner 's big idea was to blast the DMD with a laser rather than with a typical projection bulb . He programmed the DMD to reflect a sequence of 2-D interference patterns ( called interferograms ) that disrupt the laser light in such a way that it reflects a 3-D hologram . Garner 's biggest challenge has been to find a suitable screen . To unfold the 2-D interference patterns into true 3-D images , the projection surface must have volume . A column of mist will work , as will a tub of Jell-O , but both diffuse the projected image , marring sharpness . So Garner is working with a display composed of layers of microthin LCD panels , each of which can , when electrically charged , be made clear or opaque . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assemble the hologram , the speed is more than sufficient to convince the eye that it 's seeing a solid object . Such displays exist today , but they work without the benefit of holography ; instead they have to slice up a 3-D image and send it sliver by sliver to the LCD screens . The picture is almost the same as Garner 's would be , but this method requires far greater processing power , because you need the x , y and z coordinates for every slice . This is why Garner 's approach is the most viable solution for 3-D TV . " We 're sending the 3-D images as a 2-D interferogram , " Garner says , pointing out that this does n't require any more bandwidth than today 's television signals , " so we can use the current broadcast infrastructure . " As for creating holographic content , it would have to be recorded with a series of cameras shooting from different viewpoints . The first application of Garner 's technology may be in the holographic imaging of MRIs or in head-up displays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. Air Force and Lockheed Martin ) , so it 'll be a while before this TV makes it to Circuit City . Still , it may well happen before the Knicks win the NBA title again .  --  JONATHON KEATS THE ROAD TO 3-D TV 1947 While working for the Thomson-Houston Electric Company in Rugby , England , Hungarian physicist Dennis Gabor invents the hologram , for which he is awarded the Nobel Prize in 1971. 1987 TI engineer Larry Hornbeck invents the digital micromirror device , an optical semiconductor used in video projectors and TVs starting in 1996. 2003 University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center researcher Harold Garner demonstrates the first holographic video-projection system , screening hazy red images of a helicopter circling a jet . 2008 The U.S. Air Force installs holographic head-up displays in fighter jets , bringing aviators 3-D images of battlespace positions . 2015 Holographic TV goes live with a pay-per-view satellite broadcast of the heavyweight boxing championship . Illustration <p>                     