@@390669

NABLUS , WEST BANK  --  Iyad Awad , a Palestinian visiting the village he left for Canada six years ago , is appalled at the Israeli Army 's power over people in the West Bank . Bunched in line on a hot , dusty afternoon with hundreds of other Palestinians , Awad , 25 , has waited two hours for Israeli soldiers to check his bags and ID and let him pass through Hawara checkpoint , just north of the city of Nablus , so he can get back to his family . " Even animals in a pen are n't treated this way , " he says loudly behind the turnstile . The other Palestinians remain silent , anxious to be waved through . The soldiers look blank with boredom , except one young woman who defends the system . " Do you know we caught a boy trying to come through here with a bomb ? " she tells Awad , but he holds his ground . " There 's no reason to punish everyone like this , " he says before finally being allowed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each partly right : West Bank checkpoints do intercept armed terrorists , but they also hobble the daily lives of 2 million Palestinians , over 99.9 percent of whom are found to be unarmed . These way stations are a key sticking point in peace talks between Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert  --  talks that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will try to encourage during her Mideast visit this week in preparation for a promised November peace summit . The White House hopes the summit will hasten an end to Israeli occupation and Palestinian terrorism . But underneath the diplomacy , on the actual ground that Israelis and Palestinians have fought over so long , President Bush 's " vision " of a Palestinian state living in peace alongside Israel is nowhere to be seen . What ca n't be missed , though , are the slow-moving lines of hapless Palestinians facing fatigued Israeli soldiers searching for a metaphorical needle in a haystack . Caught . Last week , they found one . At another checkpoint outside Nablus , a Palestinian teen was caught trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombing in Tel Aviv . In the first half of the year , soldiers at checkpoints reported seizing 199 lethal weapons , including 87 bombs . But these discoveries were made during millions of checkpoint crossings . And that 's the dilemma . Retired Israeli Brig . Gen. Ilan Paz , a top official in the West Bank during the uprising known as the intifada , says checkpoints stop terrorists but also create new ones by stifling Palestinians ' chance for a normal , decent life . " By restricting people 's basic mobility , " he says , " the checkpoints have a decisive effect on preventing the Palestinian economy from raising its head . " Another way checkpoints create terrorists is by the humiliating , at times brutal behavior of some soldiers on duty . Members of Machsom ( Checkpoint ) Watch , an organization of female Israeli monitors , say beatings and shootings of innocent Palestinians are rare , but ridiculing them and detaining them for " answering back " are not . Monitor Naomi Kalo tells of one soldier " who would urinate on the shoes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Army before he was taken off checkpoint duty . " Outside the city of Tulkarm , facing a line of Palestinian drivers idling in the heat , a jaunty young soldier says Palestinians often try to jump the queue , or yell , or fight with other drivers . " We send them to the back of the line , we pull them out of line , and make them stand off on the side . There are ways to handle them . It 's not a problem , " the soldier says . Then he pointed out the bullet holes in a concrete block shielding the checkpoint , saying they 'd been put there a few weeks before by a driver firing off-target at the soldiers , who shot him dead . Machsom Watch women say Palestinian witnesses told them the same story . Obviously , the peacemakers ' goal is a West Bank security system that stymies terrorists but not civilians . Abbas reportedly asked Olmert to remove 16 checkpoints  --  Machsom Watch counts 47 total , the Army is n't giving a number  --  and Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are alternatives to checkpoints , says Paz , the ultimate one being the " gradual , careful " handover of West Bank security responsibility to Palestinian police . U.S. military advisers have been training them for just that purpose . As long as West Bankers remain in a vise between enemy soldiers and homegrown terrorists , there can be no Palestinian state living in peace alongside Israel . To reach that final goal , removing the checkpoints safely is a necessary but not sufficient step . So Rice 's to-do list spans the range of contentious issues , including Hamas rule in Gaza , permanent Israeli and Palestinian borders , Jerusalem , Israeli settlements , and Palestinian refugees . Illustration Picture omitted : Palestinians wait to have their IDs checked by Israeli soldiers at the Hawara checkpoint . - JAAFAR ASHTIYEH  --  AFP/GETTY IMAGES Illustration Map omitted : ISRAEL - GRAPHIC BY USN &WR; <p>                     