@@376376

These are the men in the middle now . Warrant Officer Kamal Aziz , a 29-year veteran of the Saddam-era police corps , spent a few weeks retraining last May , learning American-style arrest techniques and the basic art of urban warfare . " It was almost the same training as we had before , " he says , standing guard outside the Yarmuk police station in west Baghdad . But now that stations like his are top targets for insurgents fighting the U.S. occupation , he says , " the challenge is bigger . " A few men at his station wear borrowed U.S. body armor , but many have yet to get uniforms or the Glock pistols promised by the U.S. The bluff policeman , 46 , claims the spiraling risk to men like him only " makes me stronger . " But he 's not sure his salary of about $100 a month  --  three times his former pay  --  is enough to justify putting his life on the line . " If I find a new job that pays better , " says Aziz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baha Ali Abbas , 25 , was jobless before the war , so he was eager to join the Facilities Protection Service , the 20,000-man Iraqi security force hurriedly set up by the U.S. to guard such sites as embassies , ministries , banks , aid offices and oil fields . When Abbas signed on in the summer , he says , " they trained us for a week in how to shoot AKs , how to talk to people properly , how to handle yourself if someone attacks you . " Two months ago , a rocket-propelled grenade flew over his head and slammed into a street near the bank he was guarding . A few weeks later , while he was inside the bank making tea , an attacker tossed a grenade over the coiled razor wire surrounding the building , shattering its windows . Abbas knows he 's a prime target but says , " Since I want to live , then I must work , whether it 's dangerous or not . " Sergeant Kenneth Smith , one of the U.S. soldiers posted at the bank , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You can have all the training in the world , but all you 're basically doing is standing here waiting to stop the bad guys . " <P> President Bush is counting on men like Aziz and Abbas to halt the escalating violence convulsing post-Saddam Iraq . Just as U.S. forces thought they were getting a handle on security , a series of coordinated , deadly attacks last week raised the Administration 's Iraq troubles to an alarming new level . One day after rockets slammed into Baghdad 's al-Rashid Hotel , where Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz was staying , the city was hit by four bombings within 45 minutes  --  three at police stations and one at the headquarters of the Red Cross . Thirty-four Iraqis and one American were killed , and more than 200 people were wounded . The insurgency looked bolder and more sophisticated as it advanced from simple hits to complex , orchestrated strikes .                     