@@367006

Maybe part of the problem is the word . Globalization . It has a sinister ring , like a euphemism from the same technocrats who gave us " downsizing " during the Reagan years and " pacification " during Vietnam . The term conjures up a futuristic vision of vast , implacable economic processes steamrollering their way across the earth , leveling forests , languages and customs without regard for puny individuals . Globalization : right or wrong , it sounds unstoppable . <P> Which may be one reason so many people of so many different persuasions have sworn to stop it . The word itself throws down a challenge . The first mass uprising to meet that challenge occurred last year in Seattle , when 40,000 protesters from across the ideological map surrounded , shouted down and roundly embarrassed the assembled representatives of the World Trade Organization . In Seattle  --  a city whose name has since become a political rallying cry akin to " Chicago in 1968 "  --  environmentalists , union members , human-rights crusaders and old-school populists locked their arms around a spinning globe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down . <P> They tried to do it again in Washington . Their target : a meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund , two great institutions of global finance and , say critics , corporate dominion over the planet 's poor and disfranchised . When the organizations met a year ago , about two dozen protesters showed up  --  barely enough to block a single limo . But mindful of Seattle 's violence , D.C. cops last week shut down the demonstrators ' " convergence " point ( a warehouse ) and came out in force . This time , they faced not dozens but thousands of demonstrators on the barricades , all joined by a feeling that the new world order is really a slick new version of the old one , ruled by Big Money and Big Government . On Saturday night alone , police arrested nearly 600 anti-globalists for " parading without a permit . " Thanks in large part to the Internet , which has allowed them to cement their bonds , air their grievances and swell their ranks , the activists have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welded to the cybersavvy of campus radicals . Their growing movement makes Hands Across America look like a game of ring-around-a-rosy . <P> A movement of whom toward what , though ? That 's the puzzle . What 's the opposite of globalization ? Socialism ? Isolationism ? Vegetarianism ? The answer is all three things , and many more . The radical-chic outfit of the season is a coat of many colors . If you trained a license plate-reading surveillance satellite on Washington last week ( or better yet , swept low in a black helicopter ) , you would have seen bumper stickers , signs and buttons promoting animal rights , organic farming and Pat Buchanan for President . You 'd even have seen a soccer ball or two being kicked around by  --  this is real  --  something called the Anarchists Soccer League . ( Q. How do anarchists score goals ? A. Any way they damn well please. )                     