@@391909

Whole Foods Market prides itself on its commitment to sustainable agriculture and community-building . But when it tried to build its first store in Hawaii , the gourmet natural-food grocer unwittingly ran into protests . The problem was that when the developer broke ground in the downtown Honolulu project last year , construction crews unearthed an old native Hawaiian burial site with at least 64 sets of remains . Work has been delayed for months by court battles , and the broader project may have to be redesigned . Even a well-intentioned company like Whole Foods can find itself caught up in a dilemma that seems increasingly problematic  --  the tension between the drive for development and the growing urge to protect endangered sacred places . In recent years , the preservation forces have become more vocal , more organized , and , in some cases , better funded . But the sheer scope of the spiritual places vulnerable  --  whether to development or neglect  --  is intimidating . " We have to practice triage , " says Bob Jaeger , who runs Partners for Sacred Spaces , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and synagogues . " We ca n't help them all . " For the past two decades , the National Trust for Historic Preservation each year has highlighted what it considers America 's 11 most endangered historic places . These range from urban historic districts to cultural landmarks , but many have a strong sacred identity  --  American Indian burial grounds , southern black churches , Boston 's old Catholic churches , even petroglyphs in New Mexico . This year , the group chose a 175-mile corridor from Pennsylvania to Virginia . Dubbed the " journey through hallowed ground , " the swath comprises , among other things , the nation 's highest concentration of Civil War battlefields . These sites , which include Antietam and Gettysburg , have obvious historical significance , and they remain hallowed ground for many . One night a year at Antietam National Battlefield Park , for instance , volunteers light 23,000 luminarias , one for each soldier who died on the bloodiest single day of the war . Today , however , the corridor is facing sustained pressure from suburban sprawl , overdevelopment , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's fragile electricity grid . As in most of these cases , there are no clear right-or-wrong answers but , rather , competing visions of the trade-offs . Such disputes are nothing new , of course . In 1823 , the city of New York banned all burials in the city 's private urban cemeteries , citing hygiene concerns . This effectively cut off a key revenue stream for the maintenance of these cemeteries , prompting Brick Presbyterian Church to sue the city . The church lost , but in his ruling , municipal court Judge John Irving admitted , " I am aware that it is an ungracious task to mar those feelings which cling to the remembrance of those who were dear to us in life . " High-rise housing . The debates get even more complicated when the issues are , in effect , global . For instance , Mecca , Islam 's holiest city , is facing its own issues with overdevelopment . With some 3 million pilgrims a year taking part in the annual hajj , Saudi Arabia is funding large housing projects . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towers will soon dwarf the nearby Great Mosque that contains the Kaaba , the cubelike shrine revered by Muslims around the world . The flip side of the development issue is that of sacred spaces threatened by neglect . Cemeteries that are not being maintained , for example , quickly deteriorate and often fall prey to weather and vandals . Careless lawnmowers can run over tomb markers . Harsh weed killers can damage the stones . " Cemeteries suffer frequently because they do n't have a particularly loud constituency , " says Michael Trinkley , an anthropologist who runs the Chicora Foundation , a nonprofit that specializes in preservation of cemeteries . " But people were buried there with the expectation of eternal rest and that is one of our responsibilities as a society . " The landscape has also changed around them . Trinkley points out that in the South , African-American slaves were once encouraged to bury their dead near the water 's edge because it was less valuable for farming . Today , of course , waterfront land is in very high demand from developers . Older African-American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are frequently written off as abandoned . But the scruffy appearance is a deliberate part of the tradition . Historically , there was little money for formal landscaping . While graves were sometimes marked by stones , wood or ornamental plantings were also used . Others were left purposely unmarked . Either way , these cemeteries often remain an active part of the local African-American communities . For Trinkley , a defining moment came after a battle with the city of Columbia , S.C. , over plans to build a golf driving range on the site of an old cemetery where African-American mental patients had been buried early in the last century . Local officials said they were responding to residents ' complaints that the rundown land was turning into an open-air drug market . " The response is not , " We have drug dealers , so let 's tear it down , ' ' " insists Trinkley . " My response was , " Let 's fix it up . " We have other options . " The city did agree to spend an extra $200,000 to redesign the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a net to catch stray drives . But Trinkley remains unhappy with the end result , complaining that promises to restore the cemetery went unfulfilled . " I realized that if we were going to protect these cemeteries , we would have to be more aggressive , more determined , " he says . Today , he does not hesitate to make much blunter arguments : " How would you feel if it was your family buried here and a politician decided they were not important ? " Illustration Picture omitted : The Antietam Civil War battlefield is in a historic area facing suburban sprawl and proposed electricity transmission lines . - JIM LO SCALZO FOR USN &WR; <p>                     