@@388239

Headnote Want to curb your appetite and stop sugar cravings ? Then put these on your grocery list . By Denise Foley // Thirty billion a year-that 's about how much Americans spend on slim-down products , many of which do n't even work . A better way to get real weight-loss results ? Go grocery shopping . New research points to more than a dozen foods , from beans to beef , that can help you fight hunger , kick your candy addiction , boost your metabolism-and ultimately shed pounds . And some of these superfoods deliver health bonuses too . 1 . EGGS Skip the bagel this morning . Eggs , which are full of protein , will help you feel fuller longer-a lot longer . A multicenter study of 30 overweight or obese women found that those who ate two scrambled eggs ( with two slices of toast and a reduced-calorie fruit spread ) consumed less for the next 36 hours than women who had a bagel breakfast of equal calories . Other research has shown that protein may also prevent spikes in blood sugar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You 've probably never heard of cholecystokinin , but it 's one of your best weight-loss pals . This digestive hormone is a natural appetite suppressant . So how do you get more cholecystokinin ? One way , report researchers at the University of California at Davis , is by eating beans : A study of eight men found that their levels of the hormone ( which may work by keeping food in your stomach longer ) were twice as high after a meal containing beans than after a low-fiber meal containing rice and dry milk . There 's also some evidence that beans keep blood sugar on an even keel , so you can stave off hunger longer . Heart-health bonus : High-fiber beans can lower your cholesterol . 3 . SALAD Do you tend to stuff yourself at meals ? Control that calorie intake by starting with a large salad ( but hold the creamy dressing ) . In a study of 42 women at Penn State University , those who ate a big , low-cal salad consumed 12 percent less pasta afterward-even though they were offered as much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the sheer volume of a salad , which makes you feel too full to pig out . Health bonus : A study published in the Journal of the American Dietetic Association found that people who ate one salad a day with dressing had higher levels of vitamins C and E , folic acid , lycopene , and carotenoids-all disease fighters-than those who did n't add salad to their daily menu . 4 . GREEN TEA The slimming ingredient is n't caffeine . Antioxidants called catechins are what help speed metabolism and fat burning . In a recent Japanese study , 35 men who drank a bottle of oolong tea mixed with green tea catechins lost weight , boosted their metabolism , and had a significant drop in their body mass index . Health bonus : The participants also lowered their ( bad ) LDL cholesterol . 5 . PEARS They 're now recognized as having more fiber , thanks to a corrected calculation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration . At six grams ( formerly four grams ) per medium-size pear , they 're great at filling you up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per medium-size fruit . Both contain pectin fiber , which decreases bloodsugar levels , helping you avoid between-meal snacking . This may explain why , in a Brazilian study that lasted 12 weeks , overweight women who ate three small pears or apples a day lost more weight than women on the same diet who ate three oat cookies daily instead of the fruit . 6 . SOUP cup of chicken soup is as appetite blunting as a piece of chicken : That was the finding of a Purdue University study with 18 women and 13 men . Why ? Researchers speculate that even the simplest soup satisfies hunger because your brain perceives it as filling . 7 . LEAN BEEF It 's what 's for dinner-or should be , if you 're trying to shed pounds . The amino acid leucine , which is abundant in proteins like meat and fish as well as in dairy products , can help you pare down while maintaining calorie-burning muscle . That 's what it did for 24 overweight middle-aged women in a study at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign . Eating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a roughly 1,700-calorie diet helped the women lose more weight , more fat , and less muscle mass than a control group consuming the same number of calories , but less protein . The beef eaters also had fewer hunger pangs. 8 . OLIVE OIL Fight off middle-age pounds with extra virgin olive oil . A monounsaturated fat , it 'll help you burn calories . In an Australian study , 12 postmenopausal women ( ages 57 to 73 ) were given a breakfast cereal dressed either with a mixture of cream and skim milk or half an ounce of olive oil and skim milk . The women who ate the oil-laced muesli boosted their metabolism . Do n't want to add olive oil to your oatmeal ? That 's OK-it works just as well in salad dressings , as a bread dip , or for sauting. 9 . GRAPEFRUIT It 's back ! A 2006 study of 91 obese people conducted at the Nutrition and Metabolic Research Center at Scripps Clinic found that eating half a grapefruit before each meal or drinking a serving of the juice three times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12 weeks . The fruit 's phytochemicals reduce insulin levels , a process that may force your body to convert calories into energy rather than flab. 10 . CINNAMON Sprinkle it on microwave oatmeal or whole-grain toast to help cure those mid-afternoon sugar slumps . Research from the U.S. Department of Agriculture found that a little cinnamon can help control post-meal insulin spikes , which make you feel hungry . Health bOHUS : One USDA study showed that just a quarter teaspoon of cinnamon a day lowered the blood sugar , cholesterol , and triglyceride levels in people with type 2 diabetes . 11 . VINEGAR It 's a great filler-upper . In a Swedish study , researchers found that people who ate bread dipped in vinegar felt fuller than those who had their slices plain . The probable reason : Acetic acid in the vinegar may slow the passage of food from the stomach into the small intestine , so your tummy stays full longer . Vinegar can also short-circuit the swift blood-sugar rise that occurs after you eat refined carbs such as white bread , cookies , and crackers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filling , but a study at Louisiana State University showed that tofu does the job . Researchers tested it against chicken as a pre-meal appetizer for 42 overweight women-and the participants who had tofu ate less food during the meal . The secret : Tofu is an appetite-quashing protein . 13 . NUTS Yes , they are fattening : A handful of peanuts is about 165 calories . But research shows that people who snack on nuts tend to be slimmer than those who do n't . A study from Purdue University found that when a group of 15 normalweight people added about 500 calories worth of peanuts to their regular diet , they consumed less at subsequent meals . The participants also revved up their resting metabolism by 11 percent , which means they burned more calories even when relaxing . Health bODUS : Walnuts contain omega-3 fatty acids . And researchers at Loma Linda University recently found that eating 10 to 20 whole pecans daily can reduce heart disease risks . 14 . HIGH-FIBER CEREAL studies show that you can curb your appetite by eating a bowl for breakfast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the VA Medical Center and the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis tested the theory against the ultimate diet challenge : the buffet table . They gave 14 volunteers one of five cereals before sending them out to the smorgasbord . Those who 'd had the highest-fiber cereal ate less than those who did n't have as much fiber in the morning . Try General Mills Fiber One ( 14 grams per serving ) or KeIlogg 's All Bran With Extra Fiber ( 13 grams per serving ) . 15 . HOT RED PEPPER Eating a bowl of spicy chili regularly can help you lose weight . In a Japanese study , 13 women who ate breakfast foods with red pepper ( think southwestern omelet ) ate less than they normally did at lunch . The magic ingredient may be capsaicin , which helps suppress appetite . Sidebar To get real weight-loss results , go grocery shopping // <p>                     