@@387669

. Kiss the cube farm goodbye . In a decade , the place you work will be as comfortable as a chair in your neighborhood coffee shop , while the tech will preserve your privacy . " I CA N'T REMEMBER the last time I had a great idea at my desk , " says Robert King , the CEO of Humanscale , which manufactures ergonomic office equipment . King , like every major manufacturer or designer involved in the modern office , is seeing a shift away from the grid of six-by-eight-foot cubicles and toward the casual office " landscape " that designers and efficiency experts agree will soon be the paradigm . If you 've been in a Starbucks , you 've got a rough idea of what 's coming . But in your future office , while you enjoy the open , airy feeling of a casual caf , sophisticated technology will be invisibly supporting your need for privacy and concentration . The reason for the shift is simple : More people share workspaces with other employees ( a recent survey commissioned by the furniture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spend more time working out of the office . College enrollment stats predict more women ( who tend to involve more co-workers in decision-making ) than men in the white-collar workplace of the future . After a 40-year reign , the building block of the traditional office  --  the cubicle  --  looks like it 's going the way of the typewriter and the Rolodex . Highly flexible furniture systems are already taking its place . Swiss manufacturer Vitra 's new Level 34 is a bench-based modular system with quickly detachable seats , cabinets and shelving that foreshadow an era of itinerant workforces that collaborate briefly but intensively , like film production crews . For extra flexibility , Level 34 provides built-in wiring channels . Zeeland , Michigan-based manufacturer Herman Miller is placing its hopes on a programmable data and electrical infrastructure called Convia , which allows office dwellers to wirelessly reconfigure and network their space with an infrared remote control . When Wi-Fi is secure enough to be ubiquitous in offices , King says , less networking means " desks are going to be simpler and smaller because they wo n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lighter display screens will also allow workers to plug in to any number of screens in the workplace . The Holopro projection screen , from German firm Pronova , uses a photographic film between two sheets of glass that , when illuminated by a laser , generates thousands of holographic optical elements that redirect the light of a projector back toward the viewer , producing a clear image regardless of light conditions . Dennis Gaffney , a vice president at Baltimore-based architecture firm RTKL , has proposed using Holopro for the glass partitions between workstations . " It can be transparent , or you can use it to project photos of your kids or what 's on your laptop screen , " he says . In an open , light-filled workplace full of impromptu meetings , of course , the most endangered characteristic is privacy . " Group space will be more important than personal space , " says Cameron Campbell , a Herman Miller designer , but people will still need a corner they can call their own . The subtle details of the future office preserve the ability to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , initially developed at Kent State University , make it possible for an executive anticipating an incognito meeting to press a switch to turn the walls in her glassed-in office opaque ; electrical current through an epoxy-based liquid crystal realigns the molecules to scatter light . For delicate conversations , new sound-masking technology is coming on the market that counteracts the confidentiality hazards of a more open , casual office . Sonare Technologies , a Herman Miller company , recently introduced a tool called Babble that scrambles the sound of your voice and transmits it over a speaker to render your words nonsensical to eavesdroppers . Less distracting is a ceiling-mounted noise generator such as Cambridge Sound Management 's Oasis system of small speakers that issue a sound-masking whoosh not unlike the sound of an air conditioner . With all this tech for protecting your privacy , office habits will have to evolve . Steelcase recently unveiled a collection of furniture that offers acoustical solitude , from a " cell cell " ( a hanging tent for private calls ) to an acoustical-tile fabric " echo wall . " The problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely wandering into one raises eyebrows and pricks up ears . But that 's only true in an office where you attract attention by leaving your row of cubes . When your co-workers are curled up in easy chairs and videoconferencing from quiet corners , you 'll be able to inconspicuously pick a place to get things done . BOX TECHNOLOGY FOR THE OPEN OFFICE SOUND MASKINGConnected to your landline , the Babble device records your end of the call and emits a duplicated scramble of your voice and others via speaker to obscure your conversation within a low murmur of cocktail-party chatter . " It turns you into a small crowd , " says Sonare Technologies president Bill DeKruif . PRIVACY GLASSLiquid crystals have the fluidity of a liquid but the ordered structure of a solid . In privacy glass , applying an electrical charge causes the molecules to switch from a random , light-admitting arrangement to an orderly , light-blocking one . MODULAR FURNITURESystems like Vitra 's Level 34 offer an infinite variety of work areas without altering the physical substance of the building . The components can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , allowing for collaborative work at a moment 's notice . Reference See also introduction on page 40 of same issue . Author Affiliation Peter Hall Illustration PETER BOLLINGER ; CUBE NO MORE : An open , organic design , along with privacy-saving technology , will make desks a pleasant place to sit. ; ILLUSTRATION PETER BOLLINGER ; CHOOSE YOUR SPOT : Irregular layouts let the room breathe. ; ILLUSTRATION COURTESY HERMAN MILLER ; PHOTO COURTESY POLYTRONIX ; PHOTO COURTESY VITRA ; PHOTO <p>                     