@@414999

How Clean is Your Bottled Water ? // There 's no question about it , bottled water has become a hot commodity . Americans pay $4 billion a year for the privilege of drinking it . Sales of bottled water have grown nine-fold in the past 20 years , and tripled in the last 10 , making it the fastest-growing seg- ment of the beverage industry . According to a 2000 consumer usage survey , a third of the people who buy bottled water do so because they trust that it comes from a clean source . But is the fragmented system that regulates bottled water really able to give people the peace of mind they pay for ? While the quality of public water supplies is regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) , bottled water that crosses state lines is regulated as a food product by the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) . City water supplies must assess sources of potential contaminants , but federal rules specify no requirements , such as setbacks from dumps , industrial facilities or underground storage tanks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's more , if the bottles are packaged and sold within the same state , as 60 to 70 percent of U.S. bottled waters are , they are subject only to state standards , which vary widely from each other and from federal guidelines . Disinfection to eliminate chemical and microbiological contaminants has become common practice as a result . Although bottlers are not required to do so by the FDA , disinfection is required by at least five states , including such water-guzzlers as New York , California and Texas , making it an unavoidable step to marketing a national product . But a loophole has recently allowed one bottler to divorce itself from this system of inconsistent state and federal rules . By letting the quality of its water speak for itself , Trinity Springs is raising fundamental questions about the condition of all groundwater . Water packaged under the Trinity Springs name flows in Paradise , Idaho , from a group of three geothermal hot springs , which rise through a crystal  --  lined granite batholith from 2.2 miles below the surface . Carbon dating places it at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is heated to a temperature of over 300 degrees Fahrenheit . The absence of tritium , a ubiquitous product of fallout from nuclear testing in the 1940s , indicates its unusual isolation from surface waters and any other potential contaminants such exposed waters may carry . Extensive testing that exceeds both FDA and EPA standards prompted Trinity to decide that it was n't necessary to disinfect its water . High levels of naturally occurring minerals  --  silica and fluoride-have instead allowed the product to find a home as a dietary supplement under the 1997 Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act . As the first and only spring source to take that approach , Trinity has raised eyebrows in at least eight states . Texas outright embargoed the brand in July-first for selling what appeared to be a non-disinfected bottled water within state lines , then for technicalities on the font-size of its mineral supplement label . Why not just save itself the legal headache and disinfect for national distribution ? " When you inject a high quantity of disinfectants , it creates a blank palette , destroying any naturally beneficial bacteria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trinity Springs . And besides microbes , good or bad , nitrogen , pesticides , solvents and arsenic have also been detected throughout groundwater supplies , and have subsequently found their way into bottles , regardless of disinfection . A third of the 103 bottled water brands tested in a four-year scientific study by the Natural Resources Defense Council ( NRDC ) contained such contaminants in at least some samples , at levels that exceed state or industry standards . The results point out the limitations of an end-of-pipe solution to water-quality problems . Chemicals typically used to disinfect water may react unpredictably with such substances , adding their own potentially dangerous element as well . Chlorination , which can create byproducts suspected to be carcinogenic , is used primarily on municipal water supplies ( from which 25 percent of bottled waters are actually sourced ) . Most bottlers use processing methods like reverse osmosis , filtration , ultraviolet light and treatment with ozone gas . Although ozone does create far fewer byproducts than chlorine , it may react to produce bromate , which in EPA studies has been shown to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the standards dumbed down to benefit large bottlers , " says Johnson . " You can get away with a lot when you disinfect water . If you do n't disinfect , you must protect the source and increase environmental awareness so that the source stays protected . " The need to protect our water supply is more important now than ever , with an additional three billion people likely to press its limits over the next 50 years , says the Worldwatch Institute . Groundwater pollution is essentially permanent , because it recycles slowly , remaining in aquifers for an average of 1,400 years . It 's also exceedingly expensive-initial cleanup of contaminated groundwater at some 300,000 sites in the United States could cost up to $1 trillion over the next 30 years , says the National Research Council . " Obviously , the right thing to do is to have very strong protection of source water so that it 's pristine , constantly monitor it and have public disclosure of test results on the label , " says Eric Olson , lead author of the 1999 NRDC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says Olson . The FDA requires the disclosure of only three things : the class of water ( such as spring or mineral ) , the manufacturer and the volume . " Consumers are most worried about paying good money for water that comes from a pristine source , " Olson says , " while it may really be pulled from sources like the Akron water system . " It 's a consumer-driven industry , says Bill Miller , president of the National Spring Water Association . " There are people who wo n't protect the source until it becomes necessary to keep from driving consumers away , and others who feel it 's the right thing to do . Patronizing the companies that produce a high-quality product , " says Miller , " will give them the income and ability to protect that source . " <p>                     