@@386338

. Q Why does the corpse flower smell so bad ? A The better to gross you out , my dear . That distinct scent , somewhere between rotting pumpkin and decaying animal carcass , plays an important evolutionary role for the corpse flower , Amorphophallus titanium . " The plants have learned to mimic those smells for the sake of attracting pollinators , " says Ernesto Sandoval , the curator of the University of California at Davis 's Botanical Conservatory and proud caretaker of Tammy , Tommy , Ted and Tabatha , the a resident grotesques . The corpse flower , more formally known as titan arum , has found its peculiar evolutionary niche in appealing to flies and carrion beetles . ( The titan arum is one of many species of flowers and fungi that use the smell of death to lure carrion-eating pollinators . ) If all goes the corpse 's way , sometime during the few days the plant blooms every two years , pollen will rub off on curious insects , which will then fly on to other titan arum plants in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the flowers crank up the heat . Through a process called mitochondrial uncoupling , the corpse flower ( which can grow up to nine feet high ) takes the energy produced through photosynthesis and , instead of using it to make food , releases the energy as a form of heat . This extra heat  --  the tip of the plant can become as hot as 100F  --  produces a so-called chimney effect , and the warmth makes the smelly compounds become more volatile , allowing them to spread farther in the surrounding environment . The odor can be detected a mile away . No one knows precisely which chemicals are responsible for the stink of the corpse flower , but the main odorants are sulfur-containing molecules such as the aptly named putrecine and cadaverine . The combination of these chemicals , along with their concentrations , creates the varied nuances of the scent detected throughout the plant 's blooming cycle . Whatever the recipe for the corpse flower 's smell , though , the universal response is , predictably , " Gross ! " Q How do quartz watches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gears inside watches are , for the most part , a thing of the past . Modern watches are far simpler as a result of a curious property of quartz called piezo-electricity : When jolted with an electrical current , a quartz crystal vibrates at a very specific frequency . Quartz has been used in larger , laboratory clocks since 1927 , but it was not introduced in commercial form until the second half of the 20th century . " After World War II , watchmakers realized that they had basically hit the limit of accuracy with mechanical watches , " says Carlene Stephens , curator of the division of work and industry at the Smithsonian National Museum of American History in Washington , D.C. The big challenge for watchmakers was creating a quartz crystal that was small yet vibrated at a relatively low frequency , because interpreting high-frequency vibrations hogs battery power . Researchers chose 32,768 hertz because this equals 215 vibrations per second , a number that is easily converted using a digital counter . To get the whole thing going , electricity from the watch battery induces the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " counted " by the internal circuitry and converted into a signal that , depending on the type of timepiece , drives either the second hand of an analog watch or the counting circuit in a digital watch . Q Can men produce breast milk ? A In fact , yes . Cases are rare , though . The impetus for milk production begins in the pituitary gland , a pea-size organ on the underside of the brain . Normally , the pituitary churns out signals that keep our bodies functioning and producing the correct types and levels of hormones . But oh , the horrors that may befall the man whose pituitary gland starts misbehaving . " This gland is susceptible to disease , just like any organ in the body , " says Charles F. Abboud , who specializes in endocrinology at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester , Minnesota . One of the side effects of a wonky pituitary can be the production of a pregnancy hormone , prolactin , a compound that encourages the breast tissue to produce milk . For most men , extra prolactin would shut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sperm . In a select few , however , it can also lead to , as Abboud delicately puts it , " unusual breast secretions . " BOX LEGAL EAGLES CALIFORNIA LOVE PLUTO From California Legislature House Resolution No. 36 , introduced , upon Pluto 's demotion , by assemblymembers Keith Richman and Joseph Canciamilla . Intended as satire , it gained 53 mostly unwitting co-authors . WHEREAS , The mean-spirited International Astronomical Union decided on August 24 , 2006 , to disrespect Pluto by stripping Pluto of its planetary status and reclassifying it as a lowly dwarf planet ; and WHEREAS , Pluto ... affectionately sharing the name of California 's most famous animated dog , has a special connection to California history and culture ; and WHEREAS , Downgrading Pluto 's status will cause psychological harm to Californians who question their place in the universe and worry about the instability of universal constants ; and WHEREAS , The downgrading of Pluto reduces the number of planets available for legislative leaders to hide redistricting legislation and other inconvenient political reform measures ; now , therefore , be it RESOLVED by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly hereby condemns the IAU 's decision to strip Pluto of its planetary status . BOX 120 Can men produce breast milk ? 123 Pluto has a friend in the California legislature Author Affiliation <p>                     