@@414175

A Grassroots Group Pressures Coke to Use Recycled Plastic Photograph Every day , Coca-Cola sells 25 million virgin plastic bottles like these ; GRRN is pushing for recycled content with campaigns ( inset ) asking the public to " Think before you drink Coca-Cola . " // We 're a little mosquito on the back hide of this $19 billion elephant , " says Bill Sheehan , national coordinator of the GrassRoots Recycling Network ( GRRN ) , of the nonprofit advocacy group 's relationship with Coca-Cola . Ever since the soft drink giant abandoned the use of recycled material in its plastic containers six years ago , GRRN has been steadily gnawing away at Coke 's corporate image . Coke 's 1990 promise to use 25 percent post-consumer recycled plastic content in bottles sold in the U.S. was a considerable step in the right direction for the industry leader , which four years later took one giant leap backwards . Although it continues to use recycled plastic in Australia , New Zealand , Switzerland and Sweden , and even refillable bottles in France and Latin America , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. market in 1994 , while simultaneously introducing a single-serve 20-ounce bottle which incorporates more plastic still . GRRN blames backsliding by CocaCola for the plummeting rate of recycling plastic PET ( polyethylene terephthalate ) soda bottles-from 53 percent in 1994 to 35.6 percent in 1998 . Over 25 million of the PET Coke bottles are sold every day , totaling 10 billion bottles . That 's 800 million pounds of virgin plastic , land-filled each year-plastic that could otherwise be incorporated into the manufacture of pillow stuffing , fleece jackets , carpets , auto parts , or more importantly , reformed into plastic Coke bottles , closing the manufacturing loop . Closing the loop is something that GRRN , founded in 1996 as a North American network of recycling activists , is determined to see happen . " This is more important than just a big bunch of plastic bottles , " says Sheehan . " It 's away of raising the issue of the need for corporate accountability for waste , and the need for extended producer responsibility . " Coca-Cola is not alone in its negligent corporate policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't followed through . And while the American Plastics Council abandoned its goal to recycle 25 percent of rigid containers in 1996 , citing cost , it spent $20 million to advertise the benefits of plastic that same year . " There are responsibilities that go along with leadership , " reminds Sheehan , " and Coke 's the market leader . It 's being irresponsible , and if the company wants to do that , it has to be prepared to deal with the consequences . " " Think before you drink Coca-Cola " was the message delivered in full-page ads in The New York Times and Wall Street Journal , urging consumers to call a company hotline and mail crushed two-liter bottles back with the message to " Use it again ! " Long-distance phone company Working Assets also joined the campaign , printing action alerts on the phone bills of over 300,000 customers ; local governments in Florida , Minnesota and California passed resolutions targeting Cokes recycling waste ; and socially responsible investors such as The As You Sow Foundation have asked the company to stop its ardent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 78 percent of beer and soda containers are recovered , as opposed to 38 percent elsewhere . ) GRRN 's Coke campaign has most recently added the momentum of a " dirty job boycott " from students at 150 universities , and a 20-foot inflatable Coke bottle that has made appearances across the country at events from the Washington , D.C. Earth Day rally to the Superbowl . According to GRRN , Coke could produce a 20-ounce bottle made with 25 percent recycled plastic for only about a 10th of a cent more than virgin plastic , using recycling techniques already approved by the US . Food and Drug Administration . Yet in March , the only concession from the company was to up its recycled content to 2.5 percent . As the battle with Coke continues , GRRN has tackled a few other recycling offenders : Miller Brewing , for instance , which began test-marketing an ambercolored plastic beer bottle with aluminum caps and metalized labels in 1998 . The huge problem this poses for recycling systems burdened by sorting the colored bottles has inspired the support of local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in February , requesting that Miller not only resolve the recycling issue before further marketing its bottle , and incorporate 25 percent recycled plastic into the manufacture , but for the city 's Bureau of Sanitation to give Miller the bill that taxpayers would likely have to foot for recycling problems . Along with Friends of the Earth , Earthjustice Legal Defense Fund and Chicagobased Sustain , the nonprofit is taking on the federal government as well , charging that Congress runs one of the most poorly managed recycling programs in the US. , and demanding that the nation 's leaders at the very least play catch-up with the recycling practices of the rest of the country . " Congress should be the role model for the nation on recycling ; we should n't be asking the country to increase their recycling efforts when we do nothing to advance our own , " agreed Representative Sam Farr ( D-CA ) in the Capitol Hill newspaper Roll Call , noting that Congressional offices are not required to comply with even the minimum standards for separating trash . According to the Office of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collected in House buildings last year-nearly five million pounds of paper-was too contaminated with food waste , metals , glass , plastics and medical waste to recycle . House leadership had eliminated recycling requirements in the fiscal year 2000 Legislative Appropriations Bill , costing U.S. citizens the loss of recycling revenue ( an estimated $300,000 last year ) and the added expense of landfill fees . Corporate and Congressional offenders alike are still but building blocks to GRRN 's larger goal : to eliminate waste at the source , rather than manage its outcome . The organization has been spearheading the North American arm of a growing international movement that promotes Zero Waste , a radical resource efficiency that comes about through reducing consumption and maximizing reuse and recycling . " The power of GRRN is that it does n't have to compromise , " says Eric Lombardi , executive director of Eco-Cycle , the largest nonprofit recycler in the U.S. " GRRN is a group of people from the trenches , not your ivory tower types , who know you change the world one company , one electoral office , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Zero Waste were as aggressively pursued in the U.S. as it is elsewhere ( Canberra , Australia has aimed to eliminate waste completely by 2010 ) , it could have big ramifications , not only for land use , but for climate change as well . The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that cutting the amount of waste created in the U.S. back to 1990 levels , and increasing our national recycling rate from its current level of 28 percent to 35 percent , would slash greenhouse gas emissions by an amount equal to that produced by the annual electricity consumption of roughly 11 million households , or by taking seven million cars off the road . Although increasing recycling rates is certainly a priority , GRRN is looking beyond the weight of a few billion containers to a much larger-and heavier-issue. coNTACT : GRRN , ( 706 ) 613-7121 , www. grrn.org ; www.recyclecongress.org/ . <p>                     