@@416716

" Extinct " for 50 million years , an enigmatic fossil species may still live at the bottom of the sea-but it defies capture . // So little is known about the deep ocean , that those of us who explore it should expect surprises . Yet even I and my research team from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration were dumbfounded in 1976 , when we studied photographs of the seafloor in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean . From our research ship Discoverer , we had slowly towed a deep-sea camera on a cable two and a half miles long . Pings of sound had guided the camera roughly ten feet above the seafloor , while strobe lights fired every twenty seconds to illuminate patches about the size of a bed sheet . In those days we had to wait until we were back on land-Florida , in this case-to process the film and view the images . At first all we saw was the silt that coats the ocean floor . Then something a little bigger than a poker chip caught our attention . Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared in our photograph . The dots were evenly spaced and arranged in crisscrossing rows , forming a perfect six-sided figure that resembled the center of a board of Chinese checkers see lower photograph on page 53 . Once we knew what to look for , we recognized thousands of these hexagonal forms in our sequence of hundreds of photographs . Could such a uniform pattern be the sign of some unimagined life-form ? Certain corals , for example , build structures with hexagonal symmetry , but not in seafloor sediment . Our imaginations ran wild . Was this a hoax perpetrated by the people who had processed our film ? Was this some strange cargo spilled from a shipwreck ? A message left by extraterrestrials ? Surely my local marine biology colleagues at the University of Miami would quickly enlighten us . But they were just as puzzled as we were . They referred me to their counterparts at the National Museum of Natural History , Smithsonian Institution , in Washington . The area we had surveyed was in the rift valley that lies along the center of the Mid-Atlantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Atlantic from north to south . The ridge links with similar ridges in the Arctic , Indian , and Pacific oceans see map on page 52 . Along this global ridge system , continent-size tectonic plates , which form the outer shell of the planet , are moving apart , and new crust is constantly being created by the upwelling of magma from the Earth 's hot interior . As it emerges , the molten rock cools , solidifies , and spreads apart at a rate of a few inches per year . Earthquakes accompany the slow widening of the seafloor . Armed with a dozen black-and-white photographs , I made the rounds behind the scenes at the Smithsonian . My first consultation was with Frederick M. Bayer , an expert on corals . But Bayer concluded that the form was not a coral at all , and introduced me to an expert on another phylum of marine invertebrates . By the end of the day , specialists in every major group of marine invertebrates had examined the photographs and had drawn a blank . Their only advice was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with photographs showing the pattern as related to " an invertebrate of uncertain identity . " No sooner had the suggested article appeared , than I received a letter and a reprint of a paper from Adolf " Dolf " Seilacher , a paleontologist then at the University of Tbingen in Germany . Seilacher is an expert on classifying and interpreting traces of life-such as the trails left by worms-that are preserved in ancient marine sediments . " Your pictures were a real thrill to me , " his letter began . " Hoping that you have in the meantime received my reprint , the perfect identity with the trace fossil Paleodictyon nodosum of my paper is beyond any doubt . " Seilacher 's paper described a fossil form preserved at least 50 million years ago in sediments of the deep-sea floor , which were now exposed on land at various sites in continental Europe . He was particularly excited that our discovery would enable us to find out what had left this enigmatic form in the fossil record . In other words , he proposed , we had stumbled onto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was still alive today . If we could confirm Seilacher 's confident belief in the identity of the fossil and the pattern on the seafloor , it also seemed possible that we could discover what creature had produced it . From the sketches in Seilacher 's paper , we learned that the black dots visible in our photographs might be holes that led straight down a fraction of an inch to a horizontal network of tubes or tunnels just beneath the sediment surface . The tubes in the fossil forms interconnected in an orderly hexagonal network see upper photograph on opposite page . Seilacher 's interpretation was that the network was a tunnel system excavated by some kind of worm . This creature , he believed , augmented its sparse supply of food in the deep ocean by " farming " and harvesting bacteria in the tunnels . Furthermore , he proposed , the hexagonally arranged network was an evolutionary descendant of simpler traces preserved in 500-million-year-old sediments . As he envisioned it , the first organisms that excavated such tunnels inhabited shallow waters , but soon they retreated to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their feeding strategy undisturbed . Over time the tunnels became more regular , and multiple exits were added to improve circulation , culminating in the strikingly regular Paleodictyon form . In 1977 , a discovery was made near the Galapagos Islands , in the eastern equatorial Pacific , that fundamentally changed the biological understanding of life on Earth . At a depth of about a mile and a half-far deeper than sunlight can penetrate to provide the energy needed for photosynthesis-an oasis of life was unexpectedly found in the desert of sediment and lava flows that covers most of the deep-sea floor . In an area about the size of a football field lived foot-long clams and red-plumed tubeworms that stood taller than a person . These and what turned out to be hundreds of other animal species new to science were prospering in warm springs issuing from cracks in pillow-shaped lava flows . Biologists immediately wondered how these animals could make a living , apparently without depending on nutrients generated through photosynthesis . It turned out that at the base of the food chain were bacteria that nourished themselves through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissolved in the warm springs , mainly hydrogen sulfide , they were able to manufacture sugars and starches from carbon dioxide and water . The Galpagos discovery was soon followed by the revelation of similar ecosystems at hot springs discharging from spectacular " black smoker " vents along the ridge system in the Pacific . The temperatures in these hydrothermal vents ranged as high as a scalding 750 degrees Fahrenheit ( 400 degrees Celsius ) . With these discoveries geologists realized that the ocean basins are really leaky places . The cold , heavy seawater can sink downward for miles , through cracks in the underlying volcanic rock . There it is heated as it flows near reservoirs of magma at sites beneath the ridge system , expanding and rising until it discharges from the seafloor . Along the way it dissolves metals and picks up gases from the rocks and the magma . The metals precipitate out of solution as iron-rich sulfides , coalescing into chimney-like structures and pouring into the surrounding cold seawater as a black cloud of particles ( hence the name " black smoker " ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being a member of a Star Trek crew and finding a previously unknown basis for life on another planet . More astonishing still , certain heat-loving , chemosynthetic microorganisms living in those ecosystems turned out to have genetic characteristics that place them near the base of the tree of life . That raises the tantalizing possibility that life on Earth began at such hydrothermal vents in the early ocean , rather than in shallow waters at Earth 's surface . The initial consensus of the scientific community was that the hot springs and their ecosystems were confined to the Pacific Ocean , where the seafloor is spreading as much as ten times faster than it is in other ocean basins . Challenging such a consensus can give one pause , but I became convinced that similar hot springs and ecosystems existed along the slow-spreading Mid-Atlantic Ridge . I spent several years with my team developing techniques to explore the mountainous terrain of the Atlantic seafloor , both by remote sensing and by sampling in situ with instruments lowered from the surface . In 1985 our efforts paid off . We discovered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associated vent ecosystem in the Atlantic Ocean-still one of the largest such fields known . We named it the TAG Hydrothermal Field , after the Trans-Atlantic Geotraverse Project that brought us there . For biologists , the most surprising aspect of our discovery was that the animals at the Atlantic vents differed from those in the Pacific . The red-plumed tubeworms and giant clams were nowhere to be seen . In their place , the dominant vent animal is a new variety of shrimp . But for me the greatest surprise was that the vent field lay in the same region of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge-near the latitude of Miami , Florida-where we had photographed the hexagonal forms nearly a decade earlier . Our Atlantic site now became the cutting edge of seafloor hydrothermal research . Almost overnight , we gained ready access to collaborators and support for undersea expeditions in human-occupied deep-sea-diving submersibles . Although we were focusing our efforts on an actively venting mound the size and shape of the Houston Astrodome , in 1990 I managed to piggyback some dive , time with the submersible Alvin to visit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east of our mound . That was where our photographs of Paleodictyon-or whatever the creature was-had been taken years earlier . Accompanied by Dudley Foster , Alvin 's pilot , I was able to view our mysterious hexagonal patterns up close . Then , with one of the sub 's manipulator arms , Foster and I pushed clear plastic tubes , about two-and-a-half inches in diameter , a foot down into the seafloor sediments . The coring tubes were just wide enough to recover a cylindrical sample of the sediment with the intact pattern on the top . Back on the surface support vessel , I could see that what had appeared as black dots on our original photographs were indeed tiny holes , just like the ones in Seilacher 's sketches of the fossil Paleodictyon . But to my dismay , when we sieved some samples to look for the worm or other organism that might have made the pattern , the sediment passed through the sieve and left nothing behind . Other samples that we preserved in formalin to take back for study by biologists were also a disappointment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the expected underlying hexagonal network of tunnels or tubes was nowhere to be seen . My next opportunity to pursue this elusive phenomenon came in 1991 , when the Canadian director Stephen Low began work on his IMAX film about the Titanic . Because the wreck lies in 12,500 feet of water several hundred miles off Newfoundland , Low had contracted with the P. P. Shirshov Institute of Oceanology in Moscow to use its two state-of-the-art submersibles Mir 1 and Mir 2 . The underwater photographer Emory Kristof of the National Geographic Society in Washington , D.C. , and I arranged for a series of dives en route to the filming off Newfoundland , in which we would test the IMAX cameras while exploring the TAG Hydrothermal Field . Our tests of the cameras contributed little to the film , revealing only the inadequacy of the lighting system then available . In research terms , however , the dives paid rich rewards . The Mir 's passenger compartment-a steel sphere no wider than one persons outstretched arms-can accommodate only three people at a time . I made the first of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Shirshov Institute , and Mir chief pilot Evgeny Chernjaev . Our aim was to explore the region from our Astrodome mound eastward to the hexagonal forms . The dive was breathtaking . After a two-and-a-half-mile descent , at a rate of about one mile an hour , we landed on top of the Astrodome mound next to chimneys that poured forth turbulent clouds of black " smoke " and swarmed with shrimp . From there we set our course eastward , slowly gliding away from the rusted bright red and yellow mineral deposits of the mound and over the monotonous light tan sediments and pillow-shaped lava flows of the surrounding seafloor . Then we began to see the hexagonal patterns on the surface of the sediments . As we continued eastward , the sediments gradually changed from light tan to reddish brown . Inactive chimneys , several feet high , began to appear , while the hexagonal patterns disappeared . Farther on , the chimneys became much taller , and we found ourselves traveling about a hundred feet above the seafloor near the level of the dead chimney tops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a forest of redwoods . Finally we were able to descend near to the seafloor , which was littered with fallen chimneys , each several feet in diameter and fluted like a column of a Greek temple . After fifteen hours on the seafloor , my companions apologetically asked me whether I was ready to ascend . By comparison , the Alvin typically spends only about four hours on the deep-sea floor . When Bogdanov , Chernjaev , and I returned to the surface , we were chilled to the bone . The temperature of the deep water is near freezing , and deep-diving submersibles lose heat quickly through their metal hulls . But back up on the support vessel , we warmed up quickly in a mercifully hot sauna . We collected no hexagonal forms during the Mir dive , but I did secure several a couple of years later , using the Alvin . One core was dried and impregnated with liquid epoxy resin , finally preserving the curious surface pattern of holes . But nothing more definitive was learned , and the sample was stored away . My @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when I joined a team making a new IMAX film , again directed by Stephen Low . The star of the enterprise was the Alvin , now equipped with IMAX and high-definition TV cameras and a powerful underwater lighting array capable of illuminating an area half the size of a football field . The team had already made spectacular images of a vent site in the Pacific . I was there to help with filming the contrasting Mid-Atlantic Ridge . The new equipment performed beautifully . Only one thing seemed to be missing-a story that could tie together all the spectacular images . When I recounted how Seilacher and I had converged on the fossil Paleodictyon and its apparently living counterpart , and how we were trying to solve its mysteries , Low became intrigued . He invited me to make a dive with Emory Kristof to point out the form and its setting . We used the high-definition TV camera and replayed the video to a packed house in the ship 's laboratory that evening . The next day , Low sent his director of photography , William Reeve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ images . Our detective story ultimately became the narrative thread for the film , Volcanoes of the Deep Sea . With Paleodictyon in the limelight , some nagging questions resurfaced : Did the form on the seafloor really correspond to the fossil ? If it did , where was its hexagonal network of tubes or tunnels ? I remembered the sample I 'd preserved in epoxy and gave it to Seilacher , who set out to dissect it . I received a photo from Seilacher with a handwritten note : " Epoxy did not evenly penetrate . Still hexagonal network of tunnels can clearly be seen . " Drawing on his mental picture of what it should look like , Seilacher could see a network , but I was skeptical . By now the film was a wrap , but to unequivocally prove the existence of the network , and to try to discover what was making the patterns on the seafloor , Low supported an Alvin dive for Seilacher and me . The dive took place in July 2003 . Twenty-five years had passed since I had received Seilacher 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my seafloor photographs . We climbed into the Alvin together and , after our long descent , landed " knee deep " in hexagon country . Crouched by the window on his side of the sub , Seilacher exclaimed at the abundance of the patterns . We immediately began collecting cores , targeting the freshestlooking hexagons with the sharpest margins . With time growing short , our pilot , Pat Hickey , dexterously aimed a hose he had rigged at a fresh pattern and began blowing away the surface sediment with a gentle stream of water . Within seconds , as we watched oil the video monitor , the hexagonal pattern of tiny holes on the sediment surface disappeared and a hexagonal network of tubes or tunnels emerged , exactly like those in the fossil form . For me , it was a " eureka " moment ! Unable to jump up and down in the confined space , I reached across and shook hands with my companions . The living form on the seafloor and the fossil form that lived on the seafloor more than 50 million years ago were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ served as a sanctuary , a place where Paleodictyon had lived on for an unimaginably long time , protected even from the global environmental changes that caused the extinction of many of the animals living in shallow water and on land . We carefully preserved the sediment cores we had collected , and I felt confident that we finally had the answer in hand . Experts are now examining the structure of the forms and the microorganisms they contain , and chemically analyzing the sediment and sampling it for organic matter that will be genetically sequenced . But Paleodictyon remains elusive . Two hypotheses for its origin are being tested . One is Seilacher 's original explanation , that the form is constructed as a burrow by an as-yet-unknown worm . The alternative hypothesis is that the form itself reflects the shape of the organism , perhaps a large single-celled organism whose living tissue fills the horizontal network . In that event , the organism might take up the sediment to make a kind of hexagonal exoskeleton , leaving holes in the sediment open to catch food from above . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to my surprise , the mystery of Paleodictyon still seems as deep as the waters where it lives . Sidebar " Eyeless " shrimp , belonging to a species discovered by the author , cluster around a hydrothermal vent along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge , two and a half miles beneath the ocean surface . They live off bacteria , which derive their energy from the rich , sulfurous brew ( smokelike discharge ) created when water leaks into the rock below the seafloor , gets heated by nearby magma , and circulates up to the vent . Sidebar Hydrothermal vent system dubbed the TAG Hydrothermal Field was discovered by the author . It lies in the rift valley of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge , an undersea volcanic mountain range that connects with ridges in the Arctic , Indian , and Pacific oceans . Sidebar We sieved samples to find the organism that made the patterns , but the sediment passed through , leaving nothing behind . Sidebar " Black smoker , " an undersea vent in the Pacific , discharges hot water carrying a cloud of iron-rich mineral particles . The accretion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is partly oxidized , creating a range of rusty colors. // <p>                     