@@371698

Donald Rumsfeld is the kind of guy who takes no prisoners . Literally . A couple of weeks ago , Rumsfeld said at a press conference that the U.S. military was not " in the position to have people surrender to us . If people try to , we are declining . " Rumsfeld added that the U.S. did not have enough forces on the ground to accept prisoners and that the Northern Alliance should " make their own judgments on that . " Most U.S. journalists seemed satisfied with the explanation . When CNN anchor Judy Woodruff came back on the screen after the press conference , she did not mention the no-surrender rule in her summary . The next day the New York Times and the Washington Post only briefly noted it . <P> News consumers in Arab and Muslim nations , however , got an earful about it . In newspapers and on TV in many predominantly Islamic nations , Rumsfeld 's " declining " of surrenders was seen as a barbaric order to kill anyone with a white flag . Al-Hayat , a Saudi-owned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uttered the words with a " coldness that makes the hearts of legal experts shiver . " Pundits on al-Jazeera , the 24-hr. views-and-news channel based in Qatar , asserted that Northern Alliance troops were mostly shooting those from Arab nations who had gone to help the Taliban . Though Rumsfeld clearly said he opposed such executions , it seemed to many Arab journalists that he was implicitly condoning them . Charged Abdelbari Atwan in the London-based al-Quds al-Arabi : " This is racist hatred in its ugliest form . " <P> In other words , the Afghan war that Arabs and Muslims are seeing and reading about is n't the one on ABC or in the pages of USA Today . Al-Jazeera reporters routinely say the U.S. is fighting a war on " what it calls terror . " Most Americans saw scenes of joy in the streets of Kabul after the Taliban fled last month . But Dawn , the respected English-language newspaper in Pakistan , published an editorial that mentioned the discarded beards and burkas but dwelled more heavily on the " fury and vengeance " of Northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendly to the U.S.-led coalition . Pakistan 's Urdu-language papers , Jang and Nawa-i-Waqt , have largely adopted a blame-the-victim approach to Sept. 11 . " They regularly point out why some people are angry at America , " says Riaz Ahmad , founder of the Pakistani American Congress . " They regularly remind everybody that if you solve the Israel-Palestine issue , those killings would stop . " <P> Many Arab newsmen agree . They say the bitterness that the U.S. has sown with its policy toward Israel has intensified because of the civilian casualties in Afghanistan . Two weeks ago , Yasser Abu Hilalah charged in the Jordanian daily al-Rai that the Americans are ignoring war crimes committed by the Northern Alliance . " The U.S. has lost the propaganda war , " Abu Hilalah concluded .                     