@@405406

Up Voices by Ed Asner , Christopher Plummer , Jordan Nagai PG 4 stars BLAST FROM THE PAST ! ANIMATED Fred , 9 , my consultant on kids ' movies , nailed it . " Pixar never disappoints , " he said after seeing Up , the latest offering from the animation studio that previously gifted moviegoers with Toy Story , Finding Nemo , Wall-E and more . Fred got that right . Up , the story of a crusty codger who goes aloft on an extraordinary adventure after attaching a giant bouquet of helium balloons to his house , is pure delight from start to finish . Carl Fredricksen ( Asner , who 's perfect ) planned for decades to go exploring in South America with his beloved wife , Ellie . Now a widower and faced with moving to an old-age home , he instead takes off on that long-delayed trip . Unbeknownst to him , there 's a pint-size stowaway aboard : Russell ( Nagai ) , a Wilderness Explorer scout set on earning a badge for " assisting the elderly . " The evolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's enduring love for his wife , imbues Up with a strongly beating heart . Early on , a montage shows the long arc of Carl and Ellie 's marriage , poignantly -- and wordlessly -- illustrating how life 's everyday shared moments ( housecleaning , meals , a picnic ) end up mattering the most . I challenge you not to tear up . Drag Me to Hell Alison Lohman , Justin Long , Lorna Raver PG-13 3 stars SCARY FUN ! HORROR Who says a director ca n't go home again , especially if that home is a haunted one ? Sam Raimi , the talented director of the Spider-Man series , made his early name with creepy chillers ( 1981 's The Evil Dead ) , and he giddily returns to the form with Drag Me to Hell . Equal parts funny and frightening , this entertaining tingler is about Christine Brown ( Lohman ) , a bank officer who denies an ailing old lady ( Raver ) an extension on a home loan . The woman curses Christine , who starts suffering demonic visions . Knowing that her very soul is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Long ) and spiritual seers . Hell is scary , but also wonderfully wacky . My favorite line : A hallucinating Christine yells at a coworker , " Get your filthy pig knuckles off my desk ! " BOX 3 THINGS THAT MAKE UP 'S ED ASNER ... REALLY GRUMPY * He 's been Hollywood 's go-to grouch since The Mary Tyler Moore Show . Now Asner , 79 , voices Up 's cranky hero . FANS RECITING HIS CLASSIC MTM LINE " I HATE SPUNK ! " I hate that ! It 's almost as obnoxious as when I was doing the show . People would come up to me and say , " Why do n't you treat Mary better ? " And I 'd say , " Get the hell away from me ! " NO SMOOCHING Not being kissed enough makes me grouchy . You can never have too much love in life . MAINTAINING HIS IMAGE People expect me to be a grouch . So I give it to them . But really I 'm soft inside . BOX TERMINATOR SALVATION 'S SAM WORTHINGTON HOT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great Aussie superstar ? HE WAS ALMOST JAMES BOND He was on the shortlist to play 007 in Casino Royale before Daniel Craig won the role . But do n't feel bad for Worthington : After his high-impact turn as a cyborg in Terminator , he 'll be the lead in Titanic director James Cameron 's special-effects extravaganza Avatar , due in December . HE WORKED AS A BRICKLAYER Before winning a spot at the drama school Mel Gibson and Cate Blanchett attended , " I built houses , " he has said . " I never had any intention of being an actor . " HE 'LL KICK BUTT IN HOLLYWOOD " Here 's the thing : Australians fly 15 hours to get here , so we 're not going to waste our time . We 're coming here to make an impact . "                     