@@380877

Imagine a cell nestled happily in the human body and enjoying the best of all possible worlds . It is endowed with immortality , the remarkable ability to divide indefinitely . Each time it cleaves , it makes two daughter cells with different fates . One divides again and again and again , spawning hundreds of copies of itself before exhausting its powers of duplication and dying out . The other progeny is a bit more cunning , inheriting from its parent the gift of never-ending life . That cell resists the temptation to multiply and march to an inevitable death , choosing instead to divide only occasionally and , by doing so , live forever . <P> It is that cell that is suddenly sparking the interest of cancer researchers and molecular biologists around the world . Known as a cancer stem cell , it could be the culprit behind a malignant tumor 's nasty habit of recurring year after year and popping up in distant parts of the body long after the primary growth is gone . Studies of that cell are helping scientists unravel some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ultimate goal of any cancer therapy  --  a cure . Think of the stem cell as a tumor 's master print ; as long as the original exists , copies can be made , and the disease can persist . But destroy the tumor at its source , and the abnormal cells ca n't survive . " This represents a conceptual revolution in cancer biology , " says Dr. Robert Weinberg , a cancer-research pioneer at the Whitehead Institute in Cambridge , Mass . " This is going to explain the way a wide variety of human cancers originate and the way they grow . " Says Dr. Jean-Pierre Issa , a leukemia researcher at MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston , Texas : " If we are able to eradicate the cancer stem cell , we will be able to cure patients . " <P> Those ideas are already changing the way doctors think about cancer . They are starting to set aside their decades-old obsession with reducing the bulk of a cancerous growth and appreciate instead that the vast majority of its mass is cellular noise , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few as 3% to 5%  --  that are the real culprits . At the latest meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research , researchers at City of Hope Cancer Center in Duarte , Calif. , announced that they had isolated a group of stem cell  --  like cells in lungs that seed the abnormal growth of small-cell lung cancers . Scientists at Stanford University took the concept even further . They were able to isolate stem cells from breast-cancer tumors and identify a genetic signature that allowed them to predict the progression of the disease . " Everybody wants to talk about cancer stem cells now , " says John Dick , a University of Toronto professor and one of the leading researchers in the field . " From funding agencies to institutions to scientists , people are recognizing that this is probably the game to be in. "                     