@@412184

What major museums have on display is just the tip of the iceberg : there 's more in storage . But if It 's not Shown , why keep it ? // BENEATH THE GREAT GALLERIES OF paintings , sculptures and objects on display in any major American art museum there exists another world the general public never sees . It 's a locked-up , dustfree , climate-controlled world where paintings are hung close together on floor-to-ceiling sliding metal frames , where Old Master drawings , rare prints and centuries-old textiles are stored in long , flat boxes lined with acid-free material , and where the temperature is kept at a constant 70 degrees , with 50 percent humidity . This is the museum 's storeroom-its basement , although these days it 's not always located underground . " There 's an endless fascination with things in storage as opposed to things on view , " observes Anne d'Harnoncourt , director of the Philadelphia Museum of Art . " People somehow believe that the museums are hiding wonderful paintings and objects . " While no one seriously disputes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wonderful paintings and objects do end up hidden away in storage-and not always by accident . Consider the following : Washington 's National Gallery of Art stores about twenty French Impressionist works that deputy director and chief curator Alan Sheftack rates as " good to excellent . " So why are they not on view ? The ones on view are judged to be even better , and with eighteen rooms of French paintings , Sheftack says , " We do n't want to overweight any particular period . " The Los Angeles County Museum of Art has a famous 16th-century Persian rug of enormous proportions ( 23.5 by 13 feet ) known as the " Ardabil " carpet , but it is rarely shown , and then only for short periods . The intricately patterned silk-and-wool carpet is so delicate that it is only taken out of storage every ten years or so . // Drawings , prints and textiles are the items most often stored , because ( 1 ) the collections are usually large and ( 2 ) museums have yet to devise a safe method of displaying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of serious fading and other damage . The National Gallery of Art 's famous page from Renaissance architect Giorgio Vasari 's folio , perhaps the finest Old Master drawing in America , makes rare but brief appearances in the gallery 's rotating exhibitions chosen from its thousands of drawings and prints . The Metropolitan Museum of Art 's Web site boasts that the Met possesses 11,000 drawings and 1.5 million prints , but when was the last time Michelangelo 's chalk studies of the Libyan sibyl-among the Met 's most prized drawings-were put on display ? Answer : three years ago . Fleeting appearances by rarely seen treasures , tight security and the usually sketchy information about what 's actually being held in storage ( some museums wo n't even reveal the exact location of their storage facility for publication ) have combined to create a mystique about museum storerooms , a sense that they are little more than exclusive curatorial playpens-especially since many museums store a great deal more than they put on public display The National Gallery , for example , has 102,309 objects in its collection , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanent view at any given time . At the Metropolitan Museum ofArt , it 's about 5 percent . The Philadelphia Museum of Art also shows some 5 percent of its objects , and the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond displays about 14 percent . The typical storeroom of a major museum is a record of the museum 's growth , its curatorial mistakes , changing tastes and the shifting sands of scholarly opinion-in other words , a combination of treasure-trove and junk room . Paintings that have been removed to make way for others of better quality hang beside works whose attributions are in question ; they are waiting for new scholarship to rehabilitate them , sometimes in vain . Downright fakes share space with the dross that so often accompanies the few sought-after masterpieces in donated collections . Huge sculptures that once captured headlines lie dismantled and forgotten . The Cleveland Museum of Art stores a collection of 15th-century Italian primitive paintings acquired in its early years . Once the pride of the museum , they do n't measure up to the museum 's much higher standards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she will not deaccession the paintings.They are " an important part of the history of the Cleveland Museum , " she explains . Recently , she was on the verge of deaccessioning another early acquisition , a portrait she felt was not good enough to ever go on view . Then she discovered that it depicted one of the museum 's founders . That stayed , too . " Any museum has a number of paintings that move out of the shadow into the light , and out of the light into the shadow , " says Anne d'Harnoncourt . Her museum is one of several in the country to have in storage works originally attributed to Rembrandt but discredited a decade ago by a group of scholars whose scorched-earth survey nearly halved the existing number of authentic works by the Dutch master . Then , a few years ago , museum storerooms began to make room for casualties of a similar scrutiny of the works of Goya . Worst hit was the Metropolitan Museum , which was told that only seven of the sixteen works in its collection were indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ news , too . Among the works to have gone on permanent view in Philadelphia recently is a Fra Angelico painting that 's been in and out of the storeroom several times as scholars debated its authenticity . Now the work seems to have been absolutely confirmed as a Fra Angelico . At the Virginia Museum of Fine Art , a painting by Watteau called The Ogler had been in and out of favor with scholars for years , " until subsequent scholarship triumphantly restored it to the gallery , " says associate director for collections management Kathleen Schrader . The most embarrassing section in any museum storeroom is the one that houses the out-and-out fakes-works that no amount of scholarship will ever rehabilitate . " Every museum department has ten or so fakes , " says Thomas Hoeing , former director of the Met and now a regular columnist for an art Web site . " If you have a strong case , you can usually get your money back from the dealer who sold you the fake , but you keep itto prevent it being sold to someone else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same mistake twice . " One such reminder in the VMFA 's basement is a small , delicately worked silver creche with the infant Jesus that was acquired as a Gothic devotional object dating from the 1400s and exhibited as such for thirteen years . When the creche turned out to have been made during the Gothic Revival period four centuries later , it was " demoted " to the storeroom . While the National Gallery of Art 's board of trustees adopted a policy many years ago to not deaccession works in its collection ( except for duplicate prints ) , other museums are free to lighten the load in their storerooms by selling off works at auction . But museums are both acquisitive and conservationist by nature , says Diane De Grazia . " Unlike what my mother taught me about food - when in doubt throw it out-with museums it 's usually when in doubt , keep it , " she says . So as long as today 's dubious attribution continues to be tomorrow 's potential Rubens , deaccessioning will remain a museum 's last resort . Besides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is useful for filling in gaps when works from the permanent collection are put on exhibition or lent to other museums . Still other works of art are kept as " study material " - available to scholars , though unlikely to ever be exhibited . Instead of whittling down their collections , some museums that can afford it are addressing the storage question by expanding-the Houston Museum of Art has opened a vast new building to house its European collection ; the Nelson-Atkins Museum in Kansas City is gaining new space by building mostly underground ; Southern Methodist University in Dallas has a new , larger building for its Meadows Museum . Still , many leading museum directors and curators favor selectiveness over putting more works on view Argues Anne d'Harnoncourt : " If you put everything of the very best quality and of middle quality on view , you run the risk of confusing people , which is not our mission . It would be less informative for the public to have everything out . " As Thomas Hoeing puts is , " Too much Wedgwood on view is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Earl ( Rusty ) Powell III , who says " the issue of actually looking and seeing " is not necessarily linked to available space , recalls a remark by Henry Adams : " The eye sees a profusion of details , which it regrets . " And regret is the last thing museums want their public to feel . Sidebar OUT OF COLD STORAGE There is something profoundly disturbing about the fact that most museums keep the greater part of their permanent collections in storage . Is n't there something better they could do with all that art ? Here are some options : Let people see it on the Internet . A few leading institutions , including the National Gallery of Art in Washington , have made a strong start in putting their entire collections-including the objects in storage-on the Web . But most museums have n't . The process involves digitizing thousands of images and will take years to complete . Lend it . Top museums could be more generous in lending stored artworks to museums around the country , making use of the Museum Loan Network of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrange such loans . Another approach : more traveling exhibitions like the National Gallery 's show of works chosen from its massive holding of Rothko paintings , which toured some twenty American museums . Display it . More museums can open " study galleries " like the one at the Yale Center for British Art or the Egyptian galleries at the Metropolitan Museum . In these , a large number of objects that would otherwise be in storage are crowded onto the walls in a manner reminiscent of old museum displays . They thus become available to visitors interested in seeing more than the major works . Exhibit it . Let 's have some " From the Storerooms " exhibitions , mixing curiosities , fakes , objects of lesser quality , works by artists who did n't live up to their promise , and finer works . Such shows are fim-not least because of the implied admission that even museums make occasional errors in judgment . // <p>                     