@@416029

BONDING I was disappointed in your answer to " A. Albany 's " question about how the mother-child bond differed between her two children ( " Ask Dr. E. , " June 2001 ) . She needed more reassurance that the bonding process is validwhether it is instantaneous or gradual . Also , you should have referred her to her physician to be evaluated for post-partum depression.Though your point that time and perspective would resolve many issues is valuable , I feel that you responded to this question too lightly . Charlene Colvin via email SOCIAL STATUS " Heads Up on Health " June 2001 ) provided information about mental health and behavioral sciences , commending four leaders in the field including the presidents of the American Psychiatric and American Psychological associations.The president of the National Association of Social Workers was omitted , however-an exclusion that detracted from the balance of the feature . Social workers are the largest group of mental health providers in the U.S.What 's more , clinical social workers provide more services than psychiatrists and psychologists combined , so mentioning clinical social work would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Phillip L. Elbaum Maywood , Illinois DR . EPSTEIN REPLIES : Social workers are essential mental health professionals . As you 'll see , we 'll be rotating through a number of mental health leaders in coming " Heads Up " columns . See page 10 this issue . A SAFE ALTERNATIVE After reading Harvey Milkman 's article about Project Self Discovery ( " Better than Dope , " April 2001 ) , an after-school program that provides artistic alternatives to high-risk teenagers , I 've come to believe that the program would be beneficial to school districts nationwide.As a high school student involved in art , I understand the good that artistic expression does for both the student and his or her community . Being aware of the drug and alcohol abuse of fellow students in my school and community , I was not surprised to read that students involved in PSD showed not only an improvement on tests reflecting mental health and family relations but also a decrease in drug and alcohol use . PSD is a safe alternative for kids and a good way for communities to help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russell South Thomaston , Maine HELP YOURSELF Annie Murphy Paul 's excellent article , " Self-Help : Shattering the Myths " ( April 2001 ) , was marred by one statement of advice : " self-affirmations : " It says that the only way to change self-esteem is through " feedback from other people . " While I agree that chanting self-affirmations is not the best way to raise selfesteem , I do take issue with an assertion that other people define our selfworth . In my book , Emotional Honesty &; Self-Acceptance , I conclude that self-acceptance is the core issue behind our feeling genuinely accepted by others , not the other way around . For example , we may be hurt by negative remarks , yet we have the power to accept and heal these wounds.This keeps us from damaging and punishing ourselves for erroneous beliefs that we are unworthy of love and acceptance . Ronald Brill Photograph // Novato , California Last year Psychology Today named Celinda Jungheim and Recovery Inc . Survivor of the Year , but the mental health organization was completely overlooked in April 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ article on cognitive behavior in one of your future editions featuring the fine work of Recovery Inc. , which is probably the best kept secret in the mental health field . Robert Day Los Angeles SLOW PROGRESS The report on the work of Johns Hopkins ' physician Vassilis Koliatsos ( " Help From Hormones ; April 2001 ) brings to mind a Hopkins project done several years ago that used lower animals just as foolishly and cruelly . Its ophthalmology lab experimented with a new surgical technique that slit the corneas of rabbits in seeking a cure for glaucoma . Upon " success " the procedure was performed on a group of humans.All procedures failed , resulting in blindness in several cases . Now Koliatsos is using rats for , of all things , hormonal research . During my training with the late William Masters , Ph.D . ( of Masters and Johnson ) , back in the early ' ' 70s , such models were abandoned because at birth , a rat pup has matured gonads but its brain does not mature for another 72 hours . Thus , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Homo sapiens . Koliatsos is using an animal that thrives in a sewer on vermin and waste , can crawl through a crack and gnaw through concrete.And that data is to be used for human treatment ! No wonder world medicine makes such slow progress-it continues to rely on such spurious information . Don Sloan , M.D. New York HAPPY EMPLOYEE State employees should read " Sounding Off at Work " ( April 2001 ) . After having been promoted recently and given an enclosed office , I can vouch for the truth of the article . Ringing phones , tapping keyboards , the chatter of others and people stomping by were all noises that left me tense at the end of the day.A happy employee now , I 'm sure it 's the door between the clamor and me that has eliminated the stress . Paul Dale Roberts Elk Grove , California FAMILY SUPPORT Herbert Gravitz , Ph.D. , in " The Binds That Tie and Heal " ( April 2001 ) , has successfully and sensitively illustrated the pain and frustration of having a family member who suffers from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is just gaining coverage , more needs to be written about these hardships . I am certain that my sister-who suffers from a form of schizophreniawould be dead or homeless if my family had not been loving and supportive . The true agony of dealing with my sister 's illness came forward while trying to hospitalize her . Because California laws mandate that a patient can not be hospitalized unless she poses a threat to herself or to society , we were often left to fend for ourselves even when she was delusional and psychotic . I hope to see more articles written for the mentally ill and their families . Gaya Ekuan via email THE KEYS TO HAPPINESS My husband and I enjoyed your article " Secrets of Happiness " ( February 2001 ) and found the 16 keys to happiness very useful in revealing differences between us . I believe the 16 areas fluctuate during different life stages , and couples must be receptive to their evolving priorities.While Idealism might be of high value in our twenties , Saving might be of higher priority in our forties . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a socially sanctioned pursuit.We must not agree to take justice into our own hands , for this path has dire consequences for society . While the dictionary definition of vengeance is " infliction of injury , harm , humiliation on a person ; violent revenge with force , " I suggest that the idea that " revenge can be fun " is leading young teenagers to school shootings . Rather than being troubled or depressed , perhaps these teens are trying to satisfy their urge for vengeance . I was surprised that my husband included it in the five or six areas that he values . While I have no place for this particular value , it is good to be aware that others do . I think dialogue about this source of happiness would bring these urges to our attention so we may find alternative means of expressing them . Wendy Nelson Port Richmond , California <p>                     