@@389619

Headnote If you 've been eating this wonder bean in the hopes of staving off disease , you may be surprised by the latest research . Read on to find out What soy can really do for you . BY SUSAN LEARNER BARR , M.S. , R.D. Long touted as a miracle food , soy has morphed from a vegan staple to a mainstream meal ingredient over die past three decades . Ever since 1999 , when the FDA first allowed soy products to claim on their packaging that they decreased cholesterol and die risk of heart disease , sales have skyrocketed . Americans started swapping meat for tofu and adding soy-protein powder to smoothies , spurring a $4 billion-a-year business . But recently a backlash has kicked in , as numerous studies paint a less-than-rosy picture of soy and its reputation as a healthy deterrent of breast cancer , osteoporosis , and other diseases . The American Heart Association ( AHA ) has also changed its position on soy , concluding in a recent report that it does n't lower LDL ( bad ) cholesterol as much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health perks of this legume ? " Soy is a lowfat protein that 's beneficial in a balanced diet , " says Leena Hilakivi-Clarke , Ph.D. , a Georgetown University professor who has studied the link between soy and breast cancer . " Many condition-specific claims , however , seem to be inflated , misinterpreted , or just not based on sound scientific studies . " Here , Shape sets the record straight about the real benefits of eating soy . 1 THE CLAIM SOY PREVENTS HEART DISEASE What you need to know According to a recent study from Johns Hopldns University , soy appears to play a role in lowering cholesterol in postmenopausal women . By mimicking the hormone estrogen , isoflavones ( plant compounds in soy that act like weak forms of the hormone ) may prevent cholesterol levels from rising in postmenopausal women . But young women produce estrogen on their own , so additional benefits from soy would likely be minimal . The explanation : " Estrogen keeps cholesterol levels steady ; cholesterol tends to Increase after women enter menopause and no longer make this hormone , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an associate dean for research at Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing . The bottom line Just because your cholesterol levels wo n't plummet from eating soy does n't mean it wo n't help your heart " Soy is a good alternative to meat because it 's lower in cholesterolraising saturated fat , " says Alice H. Lichtenstein , D.Sc. , a professor of nutrition science at Tufts University . Use soy-based meat substitutes in lasagna or tofu in stir-fries occasionally , and try tofu as a replacement for cheese ( also high in saturated fat ) . 2 THE CLAIM SOY PROTECTS YOUR BONES What you need to know Do n't count on tofu and tempeh to strengthen your skeleton . Research in the Journal of the American College of Nutrition ( one of the only studies among premenopausal women ) revealed that women In their early 20s who took soy Isoflavone supplements for one year dldnt experience any more of an Increase In bone density than a group who dldnt take them . Results for older women are more promising but still mixed . The AHA report found that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others . " Estrogen helps spur the growth of certain bone cells , so isoflavones may have a greater bone-building effect on women who no longer produce the hormone , " says John J.B. Anderson , Ph.D. , a professor of nutrition at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill . And though a study from the Archives of Internal Medicine found that postmenopausal Chinese women who ate the most soy foods were nearly 40 percent less likely to suffer broken bones than those who ate the least , scientists caution that more research is needed to conclude that eating soy alone caused the reduction in risk . The bottom line Calcium-rich foods like lowfat dairy products are the best bone boosters for young women . The mineral is n't abundant in most soy foods , but calciumfortified soy milk and tofu can be good sources . Just one cup of calcium-enriched soy milk has more than 30 percent of the 1,000 milligrams you need daily ; a half-cup of fortified tofu has about 25 percent . 3 THE CLAIM SOY LOWERS YOUR RISK OF BREAST CANCER What you need to know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eating soy in adulthood will stave off cancer and keep their breasts healthy . In a recent review of 18 previously published studies , researchers could n't find enough proof to recommend diat adult women begin eating soy or taking supplements to reduce the chance of breast cancer . While Asian women , who eat a soy-rich diet , have a breast cancer rate one-fifth that of American and European women , scientists suspect one key difference may be that Asian women consume a lot of soy throughout childhood . " The estrogen-like qualities of isoflavones may cause changes to breast tissue that make it less susceptible to developing into cancer later in life , " says Larissa Korde , M.D. , a researcher in the National Cancer Institute 's division of epidemiology and genetics . Some scientists even believe that eating too much soy or taking isoflavone supplements may be harmful to women who are at a higher risk of getting cancer . Animal studies have shown that large doses of isoflavones may trigger changes in estrogen-responsive breast tumors , which grow in the presence of the hormone . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most researchers agree that women at risk of breast cancer , including those with a family history of the disease , should steer clear of isoflavone supplements . 4 THE CLAIM SOY MAKES YOU SMARTER What you need to know The jury 's still out . Some animal studies have shown that estrogen enhances the connections between brain cells , improving memory and problem-solving skills , so it follows that soy 's estrogen-like properties might produce similar brain-boosting results . But the U.S. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality examined nearly 180 studies on soy and did n't discover any significant positive effects on brain function . " Further exploration is needed , " says Pauline Maki , Ph.D. , a professor of psychiatry and psychology at the University of Illinois at Chicago , who has studied the link between estrogen , isoflavones , and brain power . The bottom line If you really want to jump-start your brain , carve out time for sleep and exercise . Several studies indicate that getting more than seven hours of slumber a night and hitting the gym frequently help keep your mind sharp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health benefits Sidebar Drink up ! Soy milk can provide calcium-just make sure it 's fortified Sidebar Should you take supplements ? As claims of soy 's disease-fighting abilities spread , women rushed to consume more , and many viewed supplements as an easy source . But there 's a big difference between eating soy foods and popping supplements , says Claude Hughes , M.D. , Ph.D. , chief medical officer of the research institute RTI International . Most supplements contain only concentrated doses of isoflavones , excluding all the other nutritious aspects of soy . What 's more , consuming too many isoflavones may prove detrimental . When you take a high dose , it 's akin to taking medicine , because it can stimulate or block hormone actions , says Hughes . " We just do n't know how extreme levels may affect your body . " A typical Asian diet provides 20 to 50 milligrams a day ; anything more than two or three times that is too much ( one pill can pack 50 milligrams ) . Stick with two to three servings of soy foods instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cure-all does nt mean If s not a smart , nutritious choice . " Most women would benefit from adding more soy to their diet , " says Mark Messina , Ph.D. , an associate professor of nutrition at Loma Linda University . " It 's not just a good lowfat protein source , if s also packed with fiber , B vitamins , and antioxidants . " Try these favorites : Soy nuts 12g soy protein cup These roasted whole soybeans are a smart desk-drawer stash for afternoon munchies . Edamame 6g soy protein cup Do n't oversell this sushijoint appetizer , also available in your supermarket 's frozen-food section . Cereal with soy 10g soy protein 1 cup Soy grits and seven whole grains make for a nutritious breakfast . Soy milk 7g soy protein 8 ounces Pour a calcium-fortified brand into your morning coffee or tea . Light tofu 5g soy protein 3 ounces As a lasagna filler , it 's a healthy alternative to ricotta . Soy yogurt 7g soy protein 6 ounces Stock some in the fridge at work for a protein-rich anytime snack . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomato , ketchup , and a whole-wheat bun for an easy , guilt-free dinner . Author Affiliation BY SUSAN LEARNER BARR , M.S. , R.D. Author Affiliation SUSAN LEARNER BARR , M.S. , R.D. , is a health and nutrition writer in NYC . <p>                     