@@373986

No gloating , " read the e-mail that greeted euphoric Republican leaders as they sleeplessly stumbled into work last Wednesday . The command came directly from the White House , which hours earlier had pulled off the biggest presidential triumph in a midterm election in nearly a century . George W. Bush and his strategists were worried that excessive celebration by congressional Republicans could infuriate Democrats , polarize the electorate and poison the slim , precious mandate the President had at last won . And so on Wednesday , White House aides fanned out across Washington holding strategy sessions and conference calls with congressional leaders and top G.O.P. operatives . Even as they discussed what to do with their new power , Administration officials conveyed the directive Bush had handed down that morning : Do n't overreact . Stay calm . No gloating . <P> But in private some Republicans just could n't resist . At 2 a.m. on election night , shortly after incumbent Missouri Democrat Jean Carnahan conceded defeat , an aide to Trent Lott sneaked into his empty Capitol office and placed a bronze plaque @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The plaque had been stowed in the bottom drawer of the desk since the Republicans lost control of the Senate 18 months ago , when Vermont 's Jim Jeffords abandoned the G.O.P. , but Lott never threw it away , just in case he returned to the Senate 's top job . " I just feel exhilarated about having another opportunity , " he told TIME . <P> Even at a White House determined not to appear self-congratulatory , the sense of elation was inescapable . In the Oval Office early Wednesday , Bush surprised his senior staff by bounding in on five hours ' sleep for a 7 a.m. meeting and laying out his postelection strategy . " Right off the bat he said we 're going to focus on the economy and unfinished business , " says an official . Bush instructed the aides  --  Karen Hughes , Vice President Dick Cheney , National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice , chief of staff Andrew Card , communications director Dan Bartlett and strategist Karl Rove  --  to " tone it down . Let it speak for itself . " But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " is a great day . " <P> Until last week , the presidency of George W. Bush was not so much historic as shaped by history , created out of the mold of an extraordinary election and given form by the terrorist attacks of September 2001 . Despite broad support for his campaign against al-Qaeda , Bush , in the eyes of his detractors , has never fully shaken his image as a fortunate son whose approval ratings would eventually collapse under the weight of a sagging economy . Democrats figured that would be enough to at least hold their ground , but last week Bush 's appeal blindsided them . After securing control of both houses of Congress and then winning unanimous approval for a new Security Council resolution against Iraq , Bush has the potential to become the most powerful American politician since Ronald Reagan .                     