@@390683

Headnote MEET THE ELUSIVE TROGLOBITES , CAVE-DWELLING CREATURES THAT NAVIGATE WITHOUT EYES , GO WEEKS OR MONTHS WITHOUT FOOD , AND CAN LIVE FOR MORE THAN A CENTURY . CAVE CREATURES LIVE BURIED ALIVE . Troglobites-the technical name for these millipedes , spiders , worms , blind salamanders , and eyeless fish-are made to navigate , mate , and kill amid perpetual darkness , desperate starvation , poison gases , and endless labyrinths of stone . Evolved in isolation and unable to disperse , species often consist of just a handful of individuals in one cave , or one room of one cave . Their existence raises many questions . How did they get there , and when ? How do they survive-and how much longer can they hang on ? Increasingly , many are threatened by pollution , quarrying , and vandalism . Ultimately , they are connected to a surface ever more populated , and penetrated , by us . They are the wildest canaries in the coal mine . Worldwide , perhaps 90 percent of caves lack visible entrances and remain undiscovered . Even in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roughly 7,700 species known are probably only a small taste of what lives below . To survive stagnant , low-oxygen air in deadend recesses and months without food , many troglobites have super-slow metabolisms . And because they live slow , they live long . The Orconectes australis crayfish of Shelta Cave in Alabama may reproduce at 100 years , and live to 175 . Many troglobites possess extraordinarily long legs ( and lots of them ) with spiky feet adapted for getting over rocky terrain and sticking to moist surfaces . Pigments ( which protect surface organisms from ultraviolet rays ) and eyes disappear ; for some creatures , eyeless sockets serve as fat reservoirs . Instead of vision , many have elaborate appendages and beefed-up nerve centers to interpret slight air-pressure or temperature changes , sounds , and smells . This sensory equipment lets them travel , sense objects moving or still , ambush prey , and , according to a recent study of troglobitic fish , judge the size and suitability of prospective mates , sight unseen . Cave biology might be dated from 1797 , when foot-long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the first , and still among the largest , known troglobites ; locals at first thought they were baby dragons . Since then , scores of blind salamander and fish species have turned up in places like Texas ' vast Edwards aquifer , where they sometimes shoot up in artesian wells tapping unseen watery caverns below . Startling new discoveries are now coming out of Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks , in the Sierra Nevada mountains of California . Here , scientists recently announced the discovery of some 30 new invertebrate species-an extraordinary number for such a small area-all still undescribed and unnamed . Scientists are also finding new caves-255 at last count , a number that increases every few months . California 's aboriginal Yokut people , who used some of these caverns for ceremonies , may have been the first to glimpse the Sierra troglobites ; they left pictographs of scorpions and spiders at entrances . Starting in the 1970s , scientists spotted a few , including a blind harvestman ( daddy longlegs ) with gigantic jaws for seeking out prey in the dark . In 2002 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the region , the parks commissioned a survey led by Jean Krejca , an Austin biologist , and the parks ' cave specialist , geologist Joel Despain . One summer day last year , Krejca and Despain threaded their way down a remote , brush-choked canyon through poison oak and heaps of giant boulders toward Sequoia 's Hurricane Crawl Cave . Tucked into a cliff was a black , funnel-shaped hole , fringed with thimbleberry shrub . On an otherwise still morning , the shrub 's broad leaves were dancing : A breeze from the hole signaled it as an entry to another world , one with its own weather system . Krejca and Despain drew a deep breath , thrust their arms forward , and wriggled through 60 feet of twisting tube that pressed like a tight suit . They emerged in a tall , chill , shoulder-wide corridor floored with rubble . Cut off from the fruits of photosynthesis , most caves are places of hunger . Yet , most depend indirectly on the sun . In some caves , like Hurricane Crawl , rootlets from trees far above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leaves and twigs wash in on spring floods from nearby connected creeks . Rodents penetrate surprisingly far , bringing seeds and nesting material . Bats also come and go , leaving behind guano , and their dead . Occasional " accidentals " - big animals like raccoons or snakes-wander in but do n't wander out , providing banquets that may stoke the food chain for centuries ( in one Sequoia cave , debris and bones are piled a hundred feet deep in a pit trap ) . Hurricane Crawl is named for 30-mile-an-hour gusts that roar in through blow-holes , driven by temperature fluctuations outside ; these gusts may bear organic dust . At least a dozen known caves from Romania to Wyoming have no ecological connection to the surface ; they run on purely geologic substances such as sulfur compounds , methane , iron , and hydrogen eaten by specialized microbes , which in turn feed higher organisms . Israel 's Ayalon Cave , uncovered accidentally in May 2006 by excavation in a rock quarry near Tel Aviv , was probably sealed for millions of years . Warm groundwater laced with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least ten previously unknown crustaceans and other creatures . The fact that Ayalon was found in an area inhabited by people since ancient times suggests that the world holds many more such caves . In Hurricane Crawl , the scientists turned over rocks until something crawled out of a pore on the underside of one . It was a dipluran-a translucent , eyeless insect with eerily long appendages that waved slowly in a headlamp 's beam . It was almost certainly a new species , never seen by humans until that moment . For the next few hours , Krejca and Despain wove their conveniently slender bodies into tiny side passages like millipedes themselves , overturning rocks and scanning walls . Little more of note emerged . The problem is , there are two miles of known human-size passages in Hurricane Crawl , but vastly more unobservable " mesocaverns " : endless small crevices and tubes with multiple layers of floor rubble . That is probably where the real action is . Krejca 's advice : If you do n't have time to leave bait-rotting shrimp and blue cheese are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be lean , ready for action . One day in nearby Crystal Cave , members of the team crawled through a low , lifeless passage floored with sand . They came upon a single acorn , probably brought in by a pack rat , and a squirt of rodent poop . These objects had sprouted whole ecosystems : cotton candy gardens of multicolored fungus , near-microscopic springtails , detritus-eating beetles , and quarter-inch Taiyutyla and Striariidae millipedes . The innards of a see-through Striariidae told the short story of its life : The yellowish blotch in its midsection was part of its gut ; the brownish stuff farther back , its latest meal . Nearby lurked tiny predators : Nesticus spiders spun slender webs , and pale , venomous centipedes peculiar to Crystal darted with startling speed . Often caves contain a weird overabundance of predators ; this suggests that prey often runs out , leaving the hunters to go after anything alive or dead , including each other . Up another sandy passage in Crystal Cave , one very lost acorn had used its stored energy to sprout a six-inch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being devoured in this alien world . Another morning the team hopped a rushing creek and climbed up to Kaweah Cave , whose airy cliff entrance was camouflaged with buckeye trees . Krejca disappeared through a tiny hole in back , and an hour later emerged with a prize : a new species of pseudoscorpion she had just discovered under a rock 200 feet back . Eyeless and gray , it looked like a scorpion minus the stinging tail ; these creatures inject their venom instead with their sharp claws . These were wildly outsize compared with the body , and covered with fine sensory cilia that waved independently . Krejca breathed gently on it . It ran backward , then raised its poisoned hands as if to strike . Luckily , it was no bigger than a letter on this page . Being small is an advantage if you live in small spaces , and many cave critters are . However , some go the other way . Recently researchers in Venezuela reported seeing Scolopendra centipedes nearly a foot long devouring whole roosting bats . Titiotus spiders of Kaweah Cave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than twice the size of their surface relatives . They do not spin webs but simply run down prey and grab them with their spiny legs . These spiders are found mainly near entrances and still have eyes and pigments , so they are classified as troglophiles-troglobites in training , retaining enough surface characteristics that they might also live under rocks or in soil burrows . Scientists believe that virtually all terrestrial troglobites evolved from such animals , preadapted as they are to cool , moist , confined conditions . It is thought that at some point they moved farther down and stayed , either because they liked it or because they were confined there by climate swings on the surface . But how long ago particular creatures went underground is rarely clear , for the immediate surface ancestors of most seem to have gone extinct . Scientists think aquatic organisms in the Edwards aquifer are descended from marine creatures stranded there some 60 million years ago when shallow seas receded . Remipedes , Earth 's most primitive living crustaceans , dwell in saltwater coastal caves across the globe . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the supercontinent of Pangaea was breaking up . Today related remipedes are scattered from the Caribbean to Australia , possibly brought there by eons of continental drift . Palmer Cave , the oldest dated cavern in Sequoia-Kings , goes back some 4.7 million years , but the local troglobites could be far older . The Sierra have been uplifting and eroding for tens of millions of years , and mountains long gone may once have held caves ; when they wore out , the occupants could just have moved downstairs . On the other end of the evolutionary timescale are endemic diplura and harvestmen in near-freezing Panorama Cave , in the alpine zone at 10,600 feet . This area was glaciated only 10,000 years ago , and it is hard to believe anything survived under a mile of ice and meltwater . Like Darwin 's finches , these creatures must have arrived and evolved not over eons , but in human time . Unfortunately , the futures of many troglobites may be shorter than their pasts . Just 41 species are on federal endangered or threatened lists , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States are actually imperiled . Caves provide ready conduits for seeping pesticides and sewage from cities and farmlands ; troglobites are exquisitely sensitive to such poisons . Entire aquifers such as the Edwards are fast being drained , and as the water disappears , so does aquatic habitat . Some caves are simply excavated out of existence for roads and buildings . The Kauai wolf spider , which inhabits lava tubes in Hawaii , is facing competition from a new invader : the brown recluse spider . In Sequoia-Kings , officials worry about airborne fertilizers and pesticides from the heavily farmed adjoining San Joaquin Valley-not to mention scores of marijuana growers who have invaded the parks ' backcountry and apply the same stuff . Even scientific expeditions , it must be admitted , can be a hazard . More than once , team members lightly brushed a tiny bug while turning over a rock , or crawling along : end of troglobite . In Crystal Cave , they peered respectfully at-but did not touch-a sink-size series of rimstone pools supplied with water dripping from the ceiling . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cruised the surface 's underside-newly discovered aquatic flatworms known from this spot , and this spot only , on Earth . One must be careful : Hairs , dandruff , and lint shed by humans may provide food sources that nourish competing alien surface mites , fungi , and bacteria , which also hitchhike in on humans . Finally , climate change-the force that may have helped create many troglobites-could help destroy them . Most caves have cool , constant temperatures that reflect the yearly mean outside . The critters are finely tuned to this constancy . If temperatures keep ascending at their current rate , some troglobites may not adjust rapidly enough . For now , the frontier is still there . In late August last year , four amateur cavers were poking around a cliff face in the Sierra . They found a softball-size blowhole , enlarged it , climbed in , and discovered one of the most spectacular caves in the western U.S. Its cathedrallike spaces are up to a hundred feet wide and richly decorated with sparkling crystals and formations in every color of the rainbow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skeleton of a bear found lying at the foot of a curtain of stone . The first people to rappel in saw unidentified reddish worms clinging to the wall next to them . Farther back , one man thought he saw a flicker of movement in a pile of rocks . Sidebar A species of millipede discovered in California 's Sierra Nevada skitters through life underground , at home in eternal darkness . This and fellow troglobites were photographed against a white backdrop in or near their native caves . STRIARIID , UNIDENTIFIED SP. , 1.25 INCHES ( BODY LENGTH ) , HIDDEN CAVE Armed with long-reaching legs and sensory hairs that pick up vibrations and temperature shifts , this cave spider has no need for eyes-or body pigment Less visible adaptations to a life of scarcity may include lower metabolism and fewer young . YORIMA NEW SPECIES , 0.2 IN . CLOUGH CAVE All curves , this eyeless flatworm inhabits a series of cave pools where its kind has likely made a home for thousands of years . Vulnerable in its tiny world , " it shows that no matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cave specialist Joel Despain , " life is persistent . " TRICLADID . UNIDENTIFIED SR , 0.2 IN , CRYSTAL CAVE Sidebar LOSING SIGHT Plying cave soil for invertebrates in Sequoia National Park 's Ursa Minor Cave , Benjamin Tobin ( above ) shed his muddy boots and stayed on red-marked trails to protect the cave 's fragile formations and troglobites . Scientists discovered some 30 new species during recent cave surveys in California 's Sierra Nevada mountains . One clear message : Vision is overrated where the sun never shines . Take spiders . At cave entrances they see just fine , but species farther in often have fewer than the typical eight eyes , and those restricted to pitch black ( far right ) , no eyes at all . How has this gradation occurred ? Many biologists believe that natural selection has diminished eyes in favor of more touchy-feely senses-such as vibration sensitivity-which are heightened in blind spiders . FULLY SIGHTED Lives near the cave entrance TITIOTUS N. S.P. , 0.85 IN CLOUGH CAVE In the granite canyons of Sequoia National Park , pockets of marble and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Species evolve in isolation in these caves , which date back nearly five million years . MATTERS OF SIZE Though cave animals have evolved a range of sizes , little creatures dominate . " If you 're small , you can survive on less , " says biologist Jean Krejca , " which is important in a place where food is erratic . " Meals may also be tucked into tight spaces-detritus in a rock vein , roots in a ceiling crack , a bug hunkered down in a hole-giving tiny hunters an edge . These recently found arthropods from Sierra Nevada caves , all shown at six times life-size , run the gamut from small to downright minute . Some are eyeless ( true troglobites ) ; others retain some sight ( troglophiles ) . Massive , venom-spitting pincers make this pseudo-scorpion a formidable predator that can grapple with feisty prey from a safe distance . A single cave yielded three species . " They 're a cave 's great white sharks , " Joel Despain says . CHTHONIID , UNIDENTIFIED SP. 0.14 IN , KAWEAH CAVE A Tight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story in the dark , in passages too small to turn around in . Read more in On Assignment at ngm.com/0709 . Author Affiliation Kevin Krajick writes often about extreme environments . Photographer David Liittschwager chronicles rare and endangered plants and animals . <p>                     