@@364157

Friends can be hard to come by when you 're fighting for your political life . During a recent session of the Knesset , Israel 's parliament , Ariel Sharon sat impassively as a former supporter harangued him from the podium , addressing the Prime Minister by his nickname , Arik , and attacking his plan to evacuate 7,500 Israeli settlers from the Gaza Strip . " Why ca n't you be the man you once were ? " shouted the man , a settler named Nissim Slomiansky . " Be the old Arik ? " Slomiansky accused Sharon of selling out longtime comrades in his single-minded quest to redraw Israel 's borders according to his own design . After listening to several minutes of invective , Sharon turned wearily to the minister seated next to him . " Does n't he understand , " the Prime Minister whispered , " that it 's impossible to go back ? " <P> After a 31-year political career during which he has established himself as one of the most divisive , yet enduring leaders in the world , Sharon once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last week recommended that Sharon be indicted on corruption charges stemming from allegations that he gave favors to a political supporter in return for payments to Sharon 's son Gilad . Sharon denies the allegations , but if the Attorney General goes forward with the indictment in early June , Sharon will probably face enormous pressure from the public and the media to resign . Yet the prospect of being forced from office seems only to have added to Sharon 's desire to carry out his bold policy of " disengagement , " which calls for the withdrawal of Israeli forces from the Gaza Strip and perhaps much of the West Bank and the completion of a wall to seal off Israel from Palestinian-dominated territory . If implemented , the plan would result in the first evacuations of settlements by Israel since the signing of a peace deal with the Palestinians a decade ago . <P> The fate of the plan could be decided next week , when Sharon is due to visit Washington in an effort to win the White House 's endorsement . Critics of disengagement range from Palestinian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and subvert the peace process to right-wing Israelis who say Sharon is rewarding Palestinian terrorism . Many see in the Israeli leader 's refusal to compromise with his opponents a familiar , stubborn determination that , while useful in the battles young Sharon won as a general , may prove to be his undoing . Among Sharon 's longtime nemeses , there has been glee at news of his possible downfall . When an aide informed Palestinian Authority leader Yasser Arafat of the prosecutor 's call to indict Sharon , Arafat smiled broadly and , according to people who were present , interrupted a meeting he was chairing . " Did n't I tell you , " said Arafat , a man not unfamiliar with charges of corruption , " that he will be consigned to the trash can of history , where he will be ignored ? "                     