@@426190

An archaeologist traces a sacred Hawaiian valley from myth to modern times . // The Waimea River flows westward into the Pacific , on the northwest coast of the island of O'ahu . About 900 years ago , according to Hawaiian lore , a chief named Kamapua'a ( the breath mark is pronounced as a glottal stop ) recognized the rugged valley formed by the river and its tributaries as a special , spiritual place and awarded its oversight to high priests of the Pa'ao lineage . The priests , members of one of the ancient Hawaiian ruling classes , were known as kahuna , and the elite members of this group were known as kahuna nui , or " big kahunas " -a label that ( stripped of its respectful meaning ) has found its way into colloquial English . Among the religious structures they erected in and around the valley was Pu'u o Mahuka . Situated on a cliff overlooking the valley , it was O'ahu 's largest heiau , or temple . The valley was also witness to human sacrifice , the darkest element of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its sacred precincts stood as one of Hawai'i 's principal cathedrals . Yet little more than a century after 1778 , the year of the first European contact , the native Hawaiians were all but swept from the valley . Much of that pre-contact past now lies buried along with its former residents , whose bones rest in caves on the valley sides . The reconstruction of that past has fallen to historians and archaeologists . As an archaeologist who has reviewed what is already known about the valley , I think its grounds offer tremendous potential for revealing details about past lives . There are just a few tidbits of ancient lore about the importance of the valley , recorded during the early contact period . One tale about Waimea Valley is set in the bay at the mouth of the river . It seems a man named Kane'aukai transformed himself into a stone the size of a human head and a log the size of a body . Local fishermen pulled his two parts from the sea and reunited them within a shrine , ensuring ever afterward that fish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are long gone , but the shrine , made of rocks and recently reconstructed , still stands on the shoreline . When O'ahu was first visited by Westerners , the kahuna nui in charge of Waimea Valley was Ka'opulupulu . According to several later historical accounts , Ka'opulupulu built temples in the valley in the late 1700s and used some of them for psychic communication with people on the island of Kaua'i . He believed that thoughts were like little gods that flew above the earth as freely as soaring birds . Although archaeology certainly can not verify such psychic events , preliminary radiocarbon dating of the sites attributed to Ka'opulupulu appears to confirm the time frame . The first Western ships to anchor off O'ahu , in Waimea Bay , were Discovery and Resolution , commanded by captains Clerke and King , shipmates of the English explorer James Cook . They were on their way to Kaua'i , following Cook 's murder on the Big Island of Hawai'i in February 1779 . King commented that the setting " was as beautiful as any Island we have seen , and appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his journal : On landing I was reciev 'd with every token of respect and friendship by a great number of the Natives who were collected upon the occasion ; they every one of them prostrated themselves around me which is the first mark of respect at these Isles . The Englishmen had Hawaiian women on board , brought from the Big Island . At Waimea the women danced a hula , which the sailors found quite lascivious . From the deck of the Discovery , William Ellis , the ship 's surgeon 's second mate , painted an idyllic watercolor of the valley . Westerners ' next visit to Waimea , thirteen years later , proved to be a far less idyllic encounter . Richard Hergest , a former midshipman on the Resolution , was in command of his own vessel , the supply ship Daedalus . Recalling the warm reception and sweet water he had earlier received , Hergest anchored in the bay on May 7 , 1792 . In spite of warnings from two Hawaiians on board that " evil people " resided in Waimea Valley and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the astronomer William Gooch , a sailor named Franklin , and a Portuguese hand named Manuel . After reaching shore , Franklin and Manuel busied themselves with the water casks while Gooch and Hergest wandered inland . Suddenly , men armed with spears , daggers , and rocks came running down from the valley 's left flank . The men were not ordinary villagers , but the wild and fearsome-looking warriors called pahupu . Each man had one side of his body tattooed black from head to toe . Manuel was killed first , his mangled body left on the beach . Franklin managed to break away and escape in the boat . The last he saw of Hergest and Gooch , they were being mobbed , stoned , and stabbed . Years later a native historian , recounting how the two men met their end , reported that the natives said , " They cry , indeed-they are men perhaps , - we thought them gods , their eyes were so bright . " In 1795 Kamehameha the Great , chief of the Big Island , also brought Maui and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major Hawaiian islands . As king , with thousands of square miles at his disposal , Kamehameha recognized the importance of Waimea Valley and awarded it to his top spiritual adviser , Hewahewa , the last of the Pa'ao line destined to serve as the kahuna nui . The king died in 1819 on the Big Island , with Hewahewa at his side . The following year the first Christian missionaries reached the archipelago from New England . According to John Swift Emerson , one of the missionaries , their arrival had been prophesied by Hewahewa , who had told Kamehameha , " O King , the god will soon land yonder , " and had pointed to the exact spot where the missionaries later made landfall . Hewahewa may well have invented this story as a means of ingratiating himself with the missionaries . Powerful Western influences were now propelling Hawai'i into an era of rapid change . With Kamehameha 's death , the traditional system of laws or rules , called kapu , had begun to crumble . In only a few generations , Christianity would supersede Hawai'i 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million at the time of first contact-would shrink by three-fourths because of introduced disease . The land itself would fall largely into foreign hands . American business interests would put the final touch on the process in 1898 , with the forceful overthrow of the Hawaiian monarchy . Hewahewa , who saw the beginning of the transition , died in 1837 and was buried in Waimea Valley . Rights to the valley eventually passed to his granddaughter Pa'alua . In 1848 the islands ' newly formed Land Commission offered to give her outright ownership of roughly half of Waimea Valley , on condition that she relinquish any claim to the rest . And to receive even half , she was required to formally present a claim to the Land Commission by a certain time , which she failed to do . She and her husband managed to hold on to a portion of the valley until 1884 , but in the process fell heavily into debt . The native Hawaiian descendant of the last kahuna nui in Waimea had to mortgage and lease the land . Soon after she died , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next twenty years the valley changed hands at public auction several times , and by the turn of the twentieth century it was in the control of a pineapple and sugarcane company . For a brief time cowboys roamed the valley , using it for ranching . After Pearl Harbor soldiers took over , building artillery positions and other installations . In the 1960s and 1970s commercialism further obscured the valley 's sacred past . The Waimea Falls Ranch and Stables offered seventy-five-cent stage-coach rides , complete with actors who rode alongside , playing both cowboys and North American Indians . A restaurant and gift shop appeared , guided tours were offered in open-air trolleys , and visitors could attend a cliff-diving show or see a hula dance . The archaeological richness of Waimea Valley went largely unnoticed . But neglect has not been the only order of the day . In 1900 the Hawaiian Historical Society conducted the first survey of archaeological sites around O'ahu . At Waimea , though , the survey recorded only the spot where the murder of the Daedalus crewmen had taken place . In 1906 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two largest lieiau at Waimea , called Kupopolo and Pu'u o Mahuka see map on page 22 . But it was not until 1930 that any more sites were formally recognized . Gilbert McAlister , an archaeologist at the University of Chicago , produced his Archaeology of O'ahu , alerting scholars to the existence of thirteen more sites at Waimea . In 1974 archaeologists at the Bishop Museum in Honolulu were able to raise the total to thirty-three . Since that time a botanical garden and an arboretum for native and endangered Hawaiian plants have been established in Waimea Valley . Rudy Mitchell , a native Hawaiian , surveyed the territory and conducted limited archaeological testing . Mitchell even rebuilt a temple site that , through neglect , had become buried under tons of soil and detritus . Now the City and County of Honolulu has moved to take over the valley , although the financial terms are still in litigation . Meanwhile , the National Audubon Society has managed the property on a month-to-month lease and has shifted the emphasis from commercial entertainment to the valley 's natural and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with funding from the Office of Hawaiian Affairs , my archaeological consulting firm conducted a preliminary assessment of the valley this past April . Our reexamination of the literature has already more than doubled the number of sites of interest . Many more undoubtedly await discovery . At least 80 percent of the valley has not even been inspected for archaeological sites , because access to inland areas and up the steepest valley sides is so difficult . Moreover , much of the human history of Waimea is probably hidden well below the surface . In the mid-1980s , for instance , workmen removing soil unexpectedly uncovered a temple buried near the center of modern valley activities . Other surprises should come to light with more deliberate excavations . How could a valley considered sacred for forty generations be so poorly recorded and understood ? The answer is that in the late 188Os the Hawaiian people abandoned it rather suddenly ( and not at their own choosing ) , and they took their stories with them . In the climate of those times , there was little incentive to collect their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Little remains of the oral tradition , often just bits and pieces passed down from grandparents and great-grandparents . In those circumstances , archaeological investigation is the surest way of recovering the valley 's lost story . Once the number of surface sites is determined , such work can establish a reasonably respectable chronology of events and render a better appraisal of what lies underground . With time , that study may even reveal the nature of sacred lands , and tell us what powers were invested in the kahuna nui . Sidebar Waimea Valley , occupied in more recent times by plantation workers , cowboys , soldiers , and operators of tourist attractions , conceals most of its indigenous past underground and in hard-to-reach hillside caves . Sidebar Etching based on a sketch by the Protestant missionary Hiram Bingham shows Bingham preaching in Waimea Valley in 7826 . Seated near him are the Hawaiian queen , Ka'ahumanu , and , in all likelihood , Hewahewa , the last of the valley 's high priests . Sidebar Author 's compilation of known surface sites reflects the archaeological richness of Waimea Valley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unsurveyed areas upstream and on steep valley sides . Sidebar Kalaipahoa idol was hidden in a cliffside of Waimea Valley , then knocked down by goats and recovered in the mid-1800s . Such idols , used for protection and sorcery , were carved on the island of Moloka'i from trees reputedly rendered poisonous by powerful spirits . Author Affiliation JOSEPH KENNEDY is the senior archaeologist with Archaeological Consultants of the Pacific , Inc . His article " The Wild Man of Samoa " appeared in Natural History in February 2004. // <p>                     