@@375292

The campaign by African Americans for slavery reparations is expected to get a boost this month when Los Angeles passes a measure requiring any company doing business with the city to disclose whether it has ever profited from slavery . Los Angeles ' ordinance is modeled on one passed by Chicago last October . Detroit ; Cleveland , Ohio ; and New York City are considering similar measures . States have moved in the same direction . California passed a law three years ago requiring insurance companies to report slavery profits ( eight companies have thus far disclosed that they sold policies on 614 slaves ) , while Georgia and Pennsylvania are considering following suit . " There can never be any real justice until we discover this information , " says L.A. councilman Nate Holden . <P> These efforts mark a shift in tactics . Rather than seek slavery reparations from the U.S. government  --  a move that has little support in Congress  --  advocates are taking a cue from successful compensation suits by Holocaust victims and focusing on corporations . Among the defendants are such insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J.P . Morgan Chase ; and such railroad giants as CSX and Union Pacific . Although the municipal ordinances do n't address reparations , they require companies to research their records to disclose whether they benefited from slavery  --  information that could help identify " specific targets for reparations , " says Deadria Farmer-Paellmann , a New York attorney leading the campaign . " Multibillion-dollar corporations are still around spending money they earned stealing people , breeding humans and torturing people . " <P> The corporations vow they will fight any efforts to make them pay . " These suits are absurd and racially divisive , " says Robert Hartwig of the Insurance Information Institute , an industry group . " Slavery was abhorrent . But should government contractors have to go back 140 years , spending millions on research and legal fees ? "  --  By Margot Roosevelt                     