@@389404

Headnote Nature is so cost-conscious that Darwinian principles apply even when cells are selecting the building blocks of proteins . Honeybees . Sea urchins . Black cottonwood trees . Those are just three of the species that had their genomes published last year . It 's amazing to think that a dozen years ago , the sequencing of any whole genome was a sensational event . Back then , just a few viruses and one puny bacterium had had theirs done . Now DNA sequencing is almost as automated as sausage-making , and geneticists have whole-genome sequences for a menagerie that includes dogs , rice , humans , chimpanzees , roundworms , mosquitoes , chickens , silkworms , red algae , at least four species of fruit fly , scores of fungi , hundreds of bacteria , and hordes of viruses . More exciting still , whole-genome sequences for species that do n't even walk the planet any more , such as the Neanderthal , the dodo , and the woolly mammoth , will soon be available . Each genome is a treasure trove of surprise and revelation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large and complicated immune system , which may explain why some of them manage to live well beyond their hundredth birthdays . A glance at the genome of trypanosomes-the single-celled parasites that cause sleeping sickness and Chagas ' disease-shows why they are so good at evading the human immune system . About a quarter of their 12,000 genes is a disguise kit , the molecular equivalent of wigs , hats , sunglasses , and false mustaches . Just when the immune system knows what it 's looking for , the trypanosomes change their appearance . But it 's not just the individual genomes that are fascinating . It 's the comparisons . Without comparisons , you do n't know which attributes of a sea urchin are unique , which are shared by close relatives such as starfish , and which are common to all organisms , from bacteria to people . More important , you ca n't detect evolutionary patterns and trends . It was only by comparing teeth from many different animals , from horses to the fruit-eating fish of South America , that anatomists learned that diet reliably affects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genomes of parasitic bacteria with those of their free-living relations did biologists discover that becoming a parasite has predictable effects on genome evolution . The genomes of the parasites are smaller and more streamlined than those of their freeliving relatives . Which makes sense : if you live inside another organism , you do n't have to bother much about finding food . Indeed , it was by comparing everything , from the miniature males of certain species of barnacle to the beaks of the finches living in N the Galpagos Islands , that Charles Darwin discovered natural selection in the first place . In each generation , some organisms have more offspring than others . Some offspring die before they make it to adulthood ; others make it to adulthood but are n't very good at reproducing . Darwin reasoned that if those differences were due to certain heritable traits , those traits would be subject to natural selection . Natural selection is not the only force in evolution , but it is the most important one : it is the sculptor of beaks , and songs , and immune @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evolutionary thought in the nineteenth century , comparative genomics appears set to form the basis of evolutionary biology in the twentyfirst . Darwin did n't know about genes , but ultimately , it is on genomes that * natural selection leaves its y fingerprints . And a close look at those fingerprints shows natural selection acting in a new way . That matters , because until recently it 's been an open question whether natural selection is as pervasive and powerful at shaping molecules as it is at shaping bodies . At its most elemental level , natural selection acts on genes . And a gene is nothing more than an instruction to make a protein . Proteins are essential building blocks of the body ( along with fats and sugars ) ; they are large molecules that come in a wide range of shapes and sizes and have a variety of jobs . Some , ' such as hemoglobin , carry oxygen around in the blood . Others , such as alcohol dehydrogenase , help digest alcohol . Still others form the scaffolding that helps cells stay in the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calmodulin affects the shape of your beak . Cells make thousands of proteins-if you dry out a cell , the proteins will make up more than half the remaining mass . But whether big or small , working in blood or beaks , each protein is just a chain of dozens or even hundreds of smaller molecules called amino acids . And each gene in DNA is an ordered list of the amino acids needed for making a particular protein . It 's no longer news that natural selection acts on protein function , that is , on how well proteins work . Mutations-changes in the DNA sequence of a gene-that improve how a protein does its job tend to spread : the owners of the mutations tend to produce more descendants . The bar-headed goose is a good example . This small , elegant goose from Central Asia has a white face and two dark bars , or stripes , on its head . But what makes the bird remarkable is that it has evolved a form of hemoglobin so sensitive to oxygen that it can breathe the thin air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a protein needed for survival may appear from time to time , but it can not spread . If you 've got a faulty collagen-the stuff of which cartilage and bones are made-you 're likely to die as a baby , or even before you 're born . How well a protein does its job-its ability to carry oxygen or digest alcohol or act as scaffolding-depends to a great extent on its having a particular shape . Hemoglobin carries oxygen because the hemoglobin molecule has a little " pocket " that attracts and loosely holds oxygen molecules-a bit like one of those magnetic cups for paper clips . The shape of a protein depends on the way the string of amino acids folds up , which in turn depends on the properties of the amino acids in question . There are just twenty standard amino acids , and each is useful in particular ways , like the various shapes of Lego bricks . The amino acid glycine , for instance , is small and simple ; it can serve as a hinge . Tryptophan is huge and bulky . Cysteine lends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often , only a few of the amino acids in a protein are essential to its function . At position 122 , say , you must have glycine and no other-whereas the rest are interchangeable , at least to some extent . ( Occasionally any of the twenty will work ; more typically it 'll be a choice between the two , or five , or ten that for the purposes of the protein have broadly similar properties . ) The question , then , is what determines which amino acids the cell evolves to use in the less critical parts of a protein ? Until recently , the choice was put down to mutation-and assumed to be more or less random . Now investigators-among them Hiroshi Akashi of Pennsylvania State University in University Park , Jonathan Swire of Imperial College London , and Takashi Gojobori of the National Institute of Genetics in Mishima , Japan-have discovered it is not random , but to a large extent predictable . And it comes down to how much proteins cost to manufacture . To see how cost comes into the picture , think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an assembly line churns out cups for paper clips . The components-in this case , the amino acids-of the final product have to be built , or acquired.That takes energy . Furthermore , not all amino acids cost the same energy to make . Bulky , complicated tryptophan is particularly expensive ; small and simple glycine is notably cheap . If cells are sensitive to cost , you would expect them to evolve to use cheap amino acids wherever possible-particularly in the proteins they mass produce , compared with the ones they make only occasionally . The reason is straightforward : if you make protein A thousands of times more often than you make protein B , a mutation that enables you to make a cheaper version of protein A will have a far more pronounced effect than a similar mutation in protein B. The organism with the cheaper ( but equally effective ) version of A will get more substantial savings on its energy bills . If reducing cost is important-if the more miserly , costefficient creatures are more likely to survive and reproduce-then such a mutation is more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You can look within the genomes of organisms that have one cell-such as brewer 's yeast , or that common resident of the human gut , the bacterium Escherichia coll . Or you can look within the genomes of animals such as fruit flies , roundworms , and people , which have lots of different cells . But either way , you find that selection to reduce cost has been pervasive . Given a choice among several arnino acids , genomes reliably evolve to use the cheapest ones . In brewer 's yeast , for instance , proteins that play a role in metabolism are made in large numbers , and are cheap , whereas transcription factors ( proteins that control whether or not a particular gene gets turned on or not ) are made in small quantities , and are generally expensive . That " cost accounting " explains subtle but systematic differences in the ways various organisms build their proteins . For example , the energy it takes to make a given amino acid is different for creatures , like us , that live on the Earth 's surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the deepest seas . There , the water is infernally hot , the pressure is immense , and life and its protein-building machinery are bathed in a volcanic brew . That changes the dynamics of chemical reactions . Some amino acids that are cheap for us surface-dwellers become expensive , and vice versa . Those discoveries are exciting , for three reasons . First , selection to reduce cost operates differently from selection on how well a protein works . Without knowing a great deal about a particular protein , it 's hard to predict whether a given mutation will affect how well it does its job . But cost selection is something that applies to every position in a protein , and in a clear way . Each amino acid has a known price tag , so you can just go down the list of amino acids that a gene specifies , and work out which mutations would lead to cost savings , and by how much . It 's a weaker force : a mutation that reduces cost can spread only if it does n't mess up how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it 's no good making proteins cheaply if they do n't work . Cost selection is therefore most pronounced in the parts of the protein that are least critical to its function . Second , cost selection opens up a new way to understand how evolution proceeds , molecule by molecule . It shows that natural selection is as powerful and pervasive in the sculpting of proteins as it is in the sculpting of beaks . But it also shows that comparing beaks and comparing genomes are not simply questions of scale . Processes that are invisible to the beakologist nonetheless exert profound effects on the very molecules from which the beak is made . Finally , it 's not every day that a new facet of natural selection is discovered . Since the publication of Darwin 's Origin of Species , only three or four have come to light . There 's sexual selection , which explains the evolution of extravagant traits , such as peacocks ' tails , that increase mating success at the expense of surviving . There 's kin selection , which explains such odd phenomena as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not their own . ( They do so because they share many of the same genes . ) There 's selection on protein function . And now , there 's selection on protein cost . When it comes to making proteins , Mother Nature , it seems , is a terrible Scrooge . Author Affiliation OLIVIA JUDSON , a research fellow in the Division of Biology at Imperial College London , is the author of Dr. Tatiana 's Sex Advice to All Creation : The Definitive Guide to the Evolutionary Biology of Sex ( Owl Books , 2003 ) . <p>                     