@@365533

THE GRENADE WAS VISIBLE WHEN THE INSURGENT STEPPED IN FRONT of our car . His sinewy arm was cocked , ready to throw . Fifteen more men poured out from the corner of a nearby tenement , swirling about the car like angry floodwaters . They brandished grenades and AK-47s , pistol grips nudging out from under the folds of their shirts . Spotting me in the backseat , they went into a frenzy , yanking on the handles of the doors , thumping the window with the grenades . Across Iraq , the insurgents have gone on a kidnapping spree , seizing Italian aid workers , French journalists and American construction workers . As they ordered us out of the car , I wondered whether we were about to become their latest catch . <P> An Iraqi resistance fighter traveling as an escort was quickly out of the car , speaking to the group in a somber , authoritative tone , insisting they let us go . A furious curbside debate flared . My escort continued to plead , dropping the names of high-level insurgent leaders . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They pushed me back into our Mazda sedan and ordered us to leave . We were lucky . The fighters included Iraqis , Syrians and Jordanians . They were members of Attawhid wal Jihad ( Unity and Holy War ) , a militant group loyal to Abu Mousab al-Zarqawi , the most wanted terrorist in Iraq . The group 's black flags flutter from the palm trees and buildings along the Baghdad boulevard where we were stopped , an area known as Haifa Street . It 's a no-go zone for U.S. forces . <P> The fact that insurgents tied to al-Zarqawi are patrolling one of Baghdad 's major thoroughfares  --  within mortar range of the U.S. embassy  --  is an indication of just how much of the country is beyond the control of U.S. forces and the new Iraqi government . It also reflects the extent to which jihadis linked to al-Zarqawi , 37 , the Jordanian believed to be al-Qaeda 's chief operative in Iraq , have become the driving forces behind the insurgency and are expanding its zone of influence . Though the U.S. has long believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stage operations , the militants appear to have also consolidated their grip on parts of the capital . Last week al-Zarqawi 's forces launched one of their deadliest offensives yet , setting off at least a dozen car bombs in attacks across the country . On Tuesday , Sept. 14 , alone , the insurgents killed at least 59 Iraqis , including 47 in a car bombing outside a Baghdad police station packed with men waiting to apply for jobs . Twenty U.S. troops died in seven days of fighting , bringing the total for September so far to 54 . With militants roaming unmolested in parts of Baghdad , no one is safe . One week after gunmen abducted two Italian women from their home , a group of insurgents raided a house in an affluent Baghdad area and seized two Americans and a British engineer without firing a shot .                     