@@405437

Published in July 6 , 2009 issue : SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT : In a review of the movie Food , Inc. , we mischaracterized E. coli as a virus ; it is a bacterium June 22 . Food , Inc. takes a critical look at the American food industry . Do n't despair -- there 's hope . There 's a corner of my bookshelf that I think of as the region of Reader Guilt crossed with Digestive Despair . Michael Pollan 's 2006 best seller , The Omnivore 's Dilemma , resides there , its elegant shoulder pressed up against that of greasier , grittier but also very fine Fast Food Nation ( 2001 ) , another best seller , by Eric Schlosser . While first enraptured by these books , I eagerly regurgitated their messages about what 's wrong with the U.S. food system ( essentially , everything ) to everyone around me , throwing out data about the horrors of our centralized feedlots , where livestock is fattened on an unnatural diet based on corn , or the horrors of our supermarkets , where we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by-products are found in everything from Coke to ketchup . And yet I admit to abandoning Pollan on page 182 and Schlosser not long after his chapter " Why the Fries Taste Good , " which should have been called " Let Me Rid You of That Fry Craving for Good . " Why ? I was overwhelmed . Every meal I had to shop for , cook and serve my family between chapters loomed like a toxin-filled minefield . Now I have the bracing tonic of Robert Kenner 's passionate , witty documentary Food , Inc. to reinspire me . As important as any of Michael Moore 's polemics but free of his obnoxious techniques , the film presents the wealth of Pollan 's and Schlosser 's reporting in a succinct and compelling format . Starting with a tour of our supermarket shelves , it traces our evolution from an agrarian nation to one of **26;752;TOOLONG 30% of U.S. cropland is planted with corn , which is easy to grow but , since it 's rarely served in healthful ways , hard to stomach . We meet the meat , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and on its way to centralized slaughterhouses and processing plants . Kenner shows us farmers in peril , powerful corporations in charge , scientists cooking up genetically modified foods and the toll the system takes on our health and sometimes even our lives . But in giving us a taste of the rising rebellion against this centralized food system , the film offers the crucial kernel of encouragement that the whole mess might not be insurmountable . Meeting the Meat Food , Inc. features interviews with Pollan and co-producer Schlosser , as well as one of Omnivore 's most charismatic characters , Joel Salatin , a Virginia farmer . Salatin feeds his livestock grass and waxes eloquent while reclining in a patch of his animals ' dinner entre , looking nearly ready for Playgirl 's Multiple-Organic Issue . But the film is not just a distilled version of Pollan and Schlosser ; it produces fresh faces to neatly illustrate some of the denser but crucial points of their reporting . ( The 2006 feature film Fast Food Nation , director Richard Linklater 's adaptation of Schlosser 's book , diminished its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among the new characters Kenner introduces us to are an impoverished immigrant family of four -- the dad is diabetic -- struggling with the baffling reality that fast-food hamburgers are cheaper than a head of broccoli . And a brave chicken farmer lets Kenner 's cameras see her operation , only to subsequently lose her contract with Perdue . The emotional anchor of the film is a lifelong Republican named Barbara Kowalcyk , who has been lobbying on behalf of food safety since she lost her 2-year-old son Kevin to E. coli after he ate tainted ground beef . ( In 2007 , 73,000 people were sickened by the E. coli virus , one of many chilling statistics cited in the film . ) She 's a steady woman of few words , but the ones she uses to convey her anguish are devastating : " He begged for water , " she remembers of her child 's 12-day struggle to stay alive . Since 2002 , she has lobbied -- unsuccessfully to date -- on behalf of Kevin 's Law , which would allow the USDA to close plants that have repeatedly turned out tainted products , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2001 after being taken to court by the meat and poultry associations . The people we do n't hear from are those who control the U.S. food industry . The film takes us to meat-processing plants and slaughterhouses ( sometimes with hidden cameras ) , offering glimpses of chickens collapsing under the weight of their own breasts or the truly revolting production of bleached hamburger " filler . " But nearly every time Kenner asks a corporation such as Perdue , Smithfield or Monsanto for comment , he 's refused . Only Wal-Mart is represented on camera , taking a careful , profit-conscious step toward selling organically produced foods . The company 's executives earn points for smiling through a farmer 's gleeful pronouncement that she boycotts the store . That they , along with Stonyfield Farm organic-yogurt mogul Gary Hirshberg , come off favorably might not sit well with Pollan , who devoted a damning chapter to what he calls " Big Organic . " But there need to be bright signs in a film like this , if only to allow its hopeful message to get through . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me courage to finish ) , " We can still decide , every day , what we 're going to put into our bodies , what sort of food chain we want to participate in . " And as the movie demonstrates , we can vote at the market or even with the gardens we plant . Speaking of which , if a certain lady in Washington with an organic garden , who happens to be married to a guy who loves a hamburger , would like a screening of Food , Inc. , Kenner would probably be happy to oblige . PULLQUOTE The film produces fresh faces to illustrate some of the crucial points of Fast Food Nation and The Omnivore 's Dilemma                     