@@390029

Headnote They were the prime movers behind the great Wyoming park . This summer , the Rockefellers are donating a final 1,106 acres , a spectacular parcel to be open to the public for the first time in 75 years BY TONY PERROTTET Who does n't love the tart taste of forbidden fruit ? Hiking through a pine forest high in Wyoming 's Teton Mountains , I felt as if I 'd been issued a pass to a secret world . This particular slice of the West , a scenic parcel of lakeside wilderness known as the JY Ranch , has been off-limits since 1932 , when philanthropist John D. Rockefeller Jr . claimed it as a summer retreat . Few people have ever seen beyond its entrance , a discreet gate on the gravel Moose-Wilson Road , or the wooden buck-and-pole fences that mark its boundaries . But this September the property will be open to the public-as a new Rockefeller donation to the Grand Teton National Park . Clay James , the longtime Rockefeller family associate overseeing the transfer , was giving me a tour . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high-mountain valley dominated by the 13,770-foot Grand Teton-the JY is extraordinary " There are seven different natural environments on the ranch , from open meadows to lakefront to woodland , " James was saying as we walked . " It 's rich with huckleberries and hawthorns . You can see moose , eagles , coyotes , black bears . There are wolves in the area . . . . " It was a classic summer morning , the Wyoming air crisp and clear , the sky an almost electric blue . We arrived at an overlook just above the water , and the trees suddenly parted to reveal jewel-like Phelps Lake framed by Mount Albright Peak . " This is where the main lodge once stood , " James said , indicating a spot at our feet where purple wildflowers now burst between bare rocks . " The Rockefeller guests would gather here before dinner to enjoy the view . " I followed James down to the lake : along its shallow shore , crystal water rippled over pebbles as smooth and pale as eggs ; an osprey cruised high overhead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of coda to the family 's involvement in Jackson Hole , which began when John D. Jr. , son of the founder of Standard oil , first visited here in 1926 . The next year , he started secretly acquiring land in the area with the eventual aim of giving the entire valley to the government , which would protect its dramatic scenery and wildlife within the national park system . He purchased thej Y , a working dude ranch , in 1932 for $90,000 . Over the years , various members of the Rockefeller family fell in love with the rustic retreat ; John D. 's son Laurance S. Rockefeller honeymooned here in 1934 , as did another son , David , in 1941 . As a result , the JY Ranch was the only parcel John D. held onto when , in 1949 , he gave more than 33,000 acres to the government , which established the park as we know it today . Just over 50 years later , in 2001 , Laurance , then 91 , announced he would give the JY to the park . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crafted from recycled Douglas fir and pine , as well as a spectacular four-mile loop trail to Phelps Lake . What visitors wo n't see are the JY 's 30 log buildings , many of which dated to its pre-Rockefeller days as a dude ranch-the first in Jackson Hole - from 1908 to 1932 . The buildings , along with seven miles of asphalt roads , were removed in 2005 and 2006 ; twelve were given to the park service and the remaining 18 set aside for a new Rockefeller family ranch outside the park . " The log cabins were not ostentatious , " says Jackson Hole historian Robert Righter , and " they just fit into the landscape so awfully well . " It was to this idyllic retreat that the Rockefeller family repaired every summer to canoe , hunt , hike , swim and fish-activities not so very different from those pursued by the Shoshone , Crow , Blackfoot and other Native American tribes that were among the first to camp in Jackson Hole during the warmer months . But today , a visit offers more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was here that some of the key discussions were held in the protracted battle over Jackson Hole in the 1930s and ' ' 40s- " one of the great conservation success stories of American history , " says Joan Anzelmo , the park 's former chief of public affairs . Few of the nearly four million people who visit the park each year , or the many more who know the Teton Mountains from Hollywood movies such as Shane and The Big Sky , or from Ansel Adams photographs , are aware of the epic valley struggles involving a larger-than-life cast of characters , cowboy standoffs , heated passions and wild accusations . You could call it a classic western . Jackson Hole has been shaped by isolation . Despite its relative proximity to Yellowstone , which Congress proclaimed a national park with little controversy in 1872 , Jackson Hole remained a remote and little-known destination to most Americans until the boom in auto tourism in the 1920s . For most of the early 19th century , most white visitors to this lush valley thick with wildlife were fur trappers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanderers coined the term " hole " to describe the unusual high plateau surrounded by mountains . Famously , a group of lovelorn French-speaking trappers dubbed the dominant peaks les trois ttons ( the three breasts ) , now called the South , Middle and Grand Teton . When one of the first official surveying groups , under the authority of scientist-explorer Ferdinand V. Hayden , arrived in 1872 , they found the Gallic comparison baffling . Up close , the peaks ' shapes " become harsh and rugged and angular , " wrote member Nathaniel Langford in Scribner 's Magazine , and looked more like " shark 's teeth " than features of the female anatomy . Only after William Henry Jackson released photographs he 'd taken on the expedition did the area begin attracting attention , if largely among the intrepid . One mountaineer , the outdoor-loving aristocrat William Baillie-Grohman , arrived on horseback in September 1880 on his third tour of the West and found himself the only tourist in the valley . He camped for ten days , dining on trout and beaver tails and drinking in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of the Swiss Alps . " The whole picture , " he wrote in his travelogue Camps in the Rockies , had " the air of a splendid , trimly-kept old park . " The first settlers-a trickle of cattle ranchers and farmers-arrived to scratch a living from the land soon after , barely surviving the brutal winters . In the early 1900s , some of the ranchers began inviting wealthy Easterners to the valley . Travelers had to take a long train journey to St. Anthony , Idaho , then transfer to a horse-drawn wagon for a bone-jarring , 104-mile journey that took them over 8,500-foot Teton Pass . Once arrived , they found few creature comforts . In 1911 , Owen Wister , author of the classic western novel The Virgian , stayed at the JY Ranch for the summer with his family . His daughter later recalled that they dined on elk , salted bear meat ( " like dark brown leather " ) , canned tomatoes and breakfast flapjacks with dead flies between the layers . It was into this rugged Shangri-La that the reserved , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his wife , Abby , and their three youngest sons . They had just toured Yellowstone with Horace Albright , that park 's visionary 30-year-old superintendent . Sitting down tor a boxed lunch some 25 miles north of Phelps Lake , Rockefeller was thunderstruck by the jagged , snowcapped Tetons looming above the emerald-green marshes around Jackson Lake . The peaks , he later wrote , were " quite the grandest and most spectacular mountains I have ever seen . . . they present a picture of ever-changing beauty which is to me beyond compare . " But as the group , led by Albright , continued south into the valley , they were dismayed by the first clumsy incursions of modern development . Telephone lines marred the view from the road . Around Jenny Lake , perhaps the most picturesque and accessible part of the range , touristy Elbo Ranch- " the home of the Hollywood cowboy " - had set up a rodeo grandstand , complete with concession stands , a parking lot , cafs , a gas station and cabins for the first " tin can tourists " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hall and even , Abby Rockefeller was particularly appalled to note , a bootleg whiskey joint . It was the beginning ot the kind of devastation that many Easterners had already witnessed in places like Niagara Falls . Later in the trip , Albright confided to Rockefeller that three years earlier , in 1923 , he had met with six local residents , including a dude rancher , a businessman and a newspaperman , in settler Maud Noble 's cabin near Moose Junction , about 12 miles north of Jackson . The residents could already see that Jackson Hole 's future lay with tourism , not cattle , and that a conservation strategy was essential . Maybe they could convince a rich Easterner to buy the ranches of the valley and turn them over to the government . That way Jackson Hole could survive as a natural history " museum on the hoof , " in the words of one member , author Struthers Burt . The idea of protecting the Tetons germinated in 1882 , when Union general Philip Sheridan toured Yellowstone and the surrounding area ; concerned that settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Jackson Lake , north of Jackson Hole . The proposal languished , but 15 years later , in 1897 , Col. S.B.M. Young , Yellowstone 's acting superintendent , revived it in a more ambitious form . He believed that the only way to protect the park 's migrating elk herd was to include all of Jackson Hole , where the animals wintered , under his jurisdiction . For the next two decades , the possibility of protecting the valley was regularly raised-Charles D. Walcott , director of the U.S. Geological Survey , suggested in 1898 that Jackson Hole could form a separate " Teton National Park " - but the idea found little support in Congress . The prospect was greeted no more warmly in Jackson Hole . The fiercely independent ranchers who had moved there felt that any government interference would lead only to the valley becoming overcivilized . ( In 1919 , at a public meeting in Jackson , residents shouted down even Albright when he proposed an expanded road system in the valley . ) Most felt that a national park would reduce their personal freedoms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , as the 1920s progressed , many grudgingly accepted that the remote mountain areas and glacial lakes , useless for grazing or farming , could be protected . In 1929 , a rump Grand Teton National Park was created- " a stingy , skimpy , niggardly park , " as one historian called it . But there was no agreement , grudging or otherwise , about the valley floor , including the land next to the lakes , the Snake River and the sagebrush flats , which was already dotted with cattle ranches and landholdings . Albright and his allies feared they could be purchased by unscrupulous developers and turned into a Western version of Coney Island . Unless , of course , someone else purchased them first . Jackson residents first learned that somebody was buying up property in the valley in 1927 . Although some ranchers were near bankrupt and eager to sell , they were also concerned that someone might try to gain control of Jackson Hole by stealth . Finally , in April 1930 , the Snake River Company , as the purchasing entity was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's richest men was buying valley land and that he intended to donate it to the National Park Service . Though Rockefeller 's secrecy had made good business sense-he had sought to avoid sending land prices skyrocketing-word of his involvement set off shock waves . The news evoked a recurring Western nightmare : an Eastern millionaire in cahoots with the federal government to muscle out the " little man . " And as historian Robert Righter notes , the secrecy established a " foundation of mistrust " in future dealings between Jackson residents and the Rockefellers . Wild stories about the Snake River Land Company 's tactics began to circulate-of poor ranchers coerced , of mortgages foreclosed early , of homes being torched by Snake River thugs . Opposition hardened . Jackson Hole residents even founded a newspaper , The Grand Teton , whose aim was to denigrate " the Rockefeller crowd " and the park service . Relying on gossip - much of it malicious - the paper attacked , as traitors , locals who supported the park , impugned Albright 's honesty and denounced Rockefeller . Wyoming senator Robert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1933 , dispatched a U.S. Senate Subcommittee on Public Lands and Surveys to Wyoming to investigate . A small army of reporters followed , eager to cover a scandal in this feisty Western town . But after four days of hearings , it was clear that the allegations were largely untrue ; in only one case had national park officials exerted undue pressure . For his part , Rockefeller took the long view of the project . A year earlier he had told the Jackson Hole Courier that " his thanks must come from posterity when wildlife and primitive areas will he less abundant . " His stoicism would be sorely tested . For the next 17 years , the park extension would be mired in a mind-boggling array of proposals , counterproposals , histrionic debates and legal challenges . When President Franklin D. Roosevelt ordered that much of the valley be made a national monument in 1943 , a group of Jackson ranchers , rifles slung conspicuously across their saddles , staged a protest , driving a herd of cattle across the land . Hollywood actor Wallace Beery led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invasion of newly affluent tourists demonstrated just how profitable a national park could be , and both sides agreed to concessions . Rockefeller deeded 33,562 acres to the government and , on September 14,1950 , the enlarged Grand Teton National Park was signed into law . Today , those concessions have led to some anomalies . Grand Teton is America 's only national park , For example , with a commercial jet airport and a working dude ranch ( the Triangle X ) . Elk hunting is still permitted ( park officials admit that some culling is necessary ) , and cattle ranchers still enjoy grazing rights , which leads to an occasional sighting of park rangers helping herds across roads . Anumber of parcels of private land survive - including Dornan 's in Moose , a resort on the Snake River , which today has one of the most spectacular bars in the United States . And there are 318 historic structures scattered across the valley . ( See sidebar , opposite . ) The Rockefellers ' 3,300-acre JY Ranch was one of the parcels left in private hands . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it in 1949 to create the park , except that his son Laurance , who shared his father 's passion for the outdoors , was so fond of it . Laurance began donating pieces of the JY in the 1980s ; the 1,106 acres to be handed over this September make up the final piece of the jigsaw . One hope for the new acreage , Rockefeller overseer Clay James told me , is that it will lure visitors out of their SUVs and into the wilderness . Since so much of the park can be seen from roadside lookouts , not everyone ventures into it . Admittedly , the mountain scenery can be a little intimidating : the Teton range rises so precipitously from the valley that it looks impenetrable to all but trained climbers . But all you have to do is hike down any of the trail heads-along the shady String Lakes , for example , where shallow , crystalline waters create a stunning , if frigid , sand-floored swimming pool - to enter a landscape untouched since the days of the fur trappers . One morning I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canyon . As I climbed the trail above the tree line , sunlight ricocheted off the canyon 's multicolored rock walls . After about three hours , I reached Holly Lake , a near-trozen tarn surrounded by moss and gnarled shrubs . Here , I ran into the only soul I 'd seen-an elderly New Englander who told me he 'd visited the park each year since 1948 . I Ie lamented how global warming had made the glaciers recede and all but disappear . " But the experience has n't changed , " he told me. " lfou can still come up here in the middle of summer and there 'll be just two people , you and me . " Gazing across the valley below-a landscape unmarred by motels , gas stations , souvenir stores or strip malls - I recalled the words of William Baillie-Grohman , that lone camper of 1880 . He had found the Grand Teton " the boldest-shaped mountain I am acquainted with , " and Jackson Hole " the most striking landscape the eye of a painter ever dreamt of . " It turns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " are less abundant , it 's hard to believe there ever was a time when national park employees may have been afraid to wear their uniforms in town . The parade of travelers heading to the Tetons every summer has brought great prosperity to Jackson , where cowboys , bikers , white-water rafting instructors and Hollywood stars rub shoulders in former gambling palaces like the Silver Dollar Bar . Clifford Hansen , a Wyoming senator who rode in the armed protest against the park in 1943 , has admitted publicly that the expanded park has been a godsend for the state , and even the news that the Rockefellers have purchased a new ranch outside the park , opposite Teton Village , has been greeted warmly . " We 're all now thankful that the Rockefellers are keeping up their association with the park , " says Righter . " Philanthropy on that scale is hard to find these days . " Sidebar John D. Rockefeller Jr . ( with wife , Abby , in 1931 ) made Jackson Hole his summer home , and declared the Tetons the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ park service quickly recruited Rockefeller into its conservation efforts . Sidebar Alarmed at the commercialism ( an early billboard , left , and a cowboy bar ) that greeted him when he first toured Jackson Hole in 1926 , John D. Rockefeller Jr . began secretly buying up valley land for future preservation . His tactics brought him many enemies . Sidebar Many local residents feared that the creation of a national park would threaten their livelihoods . In 1943 , ranchers armed with rifles ( above ) protested against the newly established Jackson Hole National Monument , a precursor to the park ( below ) . Sidebar Ghosts in the Sagebrush Tumbledown structures recall dude ranching 's heyday No signposts point the way to the Bar BC Ranch in the Grand Teton National Park . Visitors must find a rutted , sagebrush-shrouded dirt accessway near the Cottonwood Creek turnout of the main Teton Park Road . A bone-rattling ten-minute drive leads to a locked gate atop a hill . Sprawling by the Snake River below , the Bar BC looks perfectly preserved , with several log cabins and a horse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go closer and most of its structures seem about to collapse . A look through the buildings ' dusty , shattered windows reveals old stone fireplaces , antique wallpaper , porcelain bathtubs and broken floorboards thick with marmot scat . Purple wildflowers poke through the timbers of what appears to be a dance floor . Back in the 1920s , dude ranching 's heyday , the Bar BC lay at the crossroads of the Jackson Hole social whirl . It was run by Princeton-educated author Struthers Burt and physician Horace Carncross-both early supporters of the national park . Here , Burt and his wife , western novelist Katharine Newlin Burt , held gatherings for local residents and their guests , which included Eastern writers , artists , poets and socialites , and Hollywood filmmakers . Each summer , for about $300 a month , the Burts and Carncross would host some 50 dudes in the ranches ' 45 cabins , and these tenderfoots , along with the wranglers and ranch hands who worked there , created a thriving seasonal village within the valley . Today , the Bar BC is but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( The Bar BC operated as summer cabins until the late-1980s , when it was taken over by the park service . ) Purists want to see all man-made objects removed from the park , but others argue that the rough-hewed " vernacular architecture " should be preserved . Best known from photographs is the picturesque Mormon Row on Antelope Flats , structures built by Mormon settlers who crossed Teton Pass in 1893 . One of them , the very photogenic Moulton Barn , has appeared on innumerable calendar and guidebook covers . Constructed in 1913 , its weathered peaked roof echoes the jagged , snowcapped mountains behind it ; where the corral once stood , the park 's resurgent buffalo herd now grazes . Less known but equally spectacular is the Lucas-Fabian Ranch , which lies off an unmarked road at the foot of the Grand Teton . It was also built in 1913 , by Geraldine Lucas , a New York City schoolteacher who took up homesteading as she approached age 50 . She was so passionate about her new life that she had her ashes interred on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good condition , they remain boarded up ; several plans have been fielded for the site 's use , including one to turn it into an artists-in-residence center , although as yet nothing has come of them . Meanwhile , at the southern end of the park , the White Grass Ranch , built in 1913 as well , is now a facility for teaching people how to restore classic Western structures . Perhaps the greatest preservation success story is the Murie Ranch , just south of the Moose Visitor Center on the Snake River . When husband-and-wife environmentalists Olaus and Mardy Murie moved here in 1946 , this then-primitive outpost became the unlikely nerve center of some of America 's most important conservation campaigns . Here , the Muries orchestrated the creation , in 1960 , of the Alaska National Wildlife Range and hosted the key meetings that led to the Wilderness Act of 1964 . After her husband 's death in 1963 , Mardy stayed active as " the mother of the conservation movement , " helping to add 54 million acres of Alaskan land to the Wilderness Preservation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at age 101 in 2003 , she lived to see the 15-cabin ranch restored to carry on her and her husband 's work . It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 2006 . Today , it hosts retreats and conferences on environmental issues , while the Muries ' own cabin remains open , filled with photographs , books , a piano-even the Muries ' snowshoes . Murie Center director Brooke Williams hopes that more of the park 's deserted ranches can be saved . " These log cabins are as close to nature as a manmade structure can get , " he said . " Jackson Hole is one of the places where the modern American conservation movement really began . So where better to discuss how to save our world in the 21st century ? " - T.P. The Bar BC ( right ) wasfone of Jackson Hole 's earliest and most popular dude ranches ( a costume party , above ) . Said proprietor Struthers Butt : " We have entertained millionaires and poets and . . . spoitpd little bobbed-haired flappers . " Sidebar " You can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there 'll be just two people , you and me , " says a longtime visitor to Holly Lake ( above ) in Grand Teton National Park . Author Affiliation TONY PERROTTET is the author of Pagan Holiday and The Naked Olympics : The True Story of the Ancient Games . <p>                     