@@390646

Headnote Mountains of new data are challenging old views When scientists unveiled a draft of the human genome in early 2001 , many cautioned that sequencing the genome was only the beginning . The long list of the four chemical components that make up all the strands of human DNA would not be a finished book of life , but a road map of an undiscovered country that would take decades to explore . Only 6 years later , the landscape of the genome is already proving to be dramatically different than most scientists had expected . The established view of the genome began to take shape in 1958 , just 5 years after Francis Crick and James D. Watson worked out the structure of DNA . In that year , Crick expounded what he called the " central dogma " of molecular biology : DNAk genetic information flows strictly one way , from a gene through a series of steps that ends in the creation of a protein . That principle developed into a modern orthodoxy , according to which a genome is a collection of discrete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This old view got the basics right : that genes encode proteins and that proteins do the myriad work necessary to keep an organism alive . Researchers slowly realized , however , that genes occupy only about 1.5 percent of the genome . The other 98.5 percent , dubbed " junk DNA , " was regarded as useless scraps left over from billions of years of random genetic mutations . As geneticists ' knowledge progressed , this basic picture remained largely unquestioned . " At one time , people said , " Why even bother to sequence the whole genome ? Why not just sequence the protein-coding part ? ' ' " says Anindya Dutta , a geneticist at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville . Closer examination of the full human genome is now causing scientists to return to some questions they thought they had settled . For one , they 're revisiting the very notion of what a gene is . Rather than being distinct segments of code amid otherwise empty stretches of DNA-like houses along a barren country road-single genes are proving to be fragmented , intertwined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even more surprisingly , the junk DNA may not be junk after all . Most of this supposedly useless DNA now appears to produce transcriptions of its genetic code , boosting the raw information output of the genome to about 62 times what genes alone would produce . If these active nongene regions do n't carry code for making proteins , just what does their activity accomplish ? " What we thought was important before was really just the tip of the iceberg , " says Hui Ge of the Whitehead Institute for Biomedicai Research in Cambridge , Mass . With the genome sequence in hand , exploration has moved at a brisk pace during the past 6 years . A milestone was reached in June , when a project called the Encyclopedia of DNA Elements ( ENCODE ) thoroughly mapped the functional regions in 1 percent of the human genome . The effort involved was staggering : Thirty-five teams of scientists from around the world worked for 4 years and compiled more than 600 million data points , the consortium reported in the June 14 Nature . From the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picture of how the genome works as a whole . They have found mutations in nongene regions of DNA that are linked to common diseases such as diabetes and forms of cancer . And some researchers propose that DNA once labeled junk could have spawned the complex bodies of higher organisms-even the complexities of the human brain . SECOND FIDDLE TO SUPERSTAR In the emerging picture of the genomes functioning , many of the key elements identified so far are molecules of RNA , a chemical cousin of DNA . In the old central dogma , RNA had a strictly subservient role in the all-important task of making proteins . An RNA molecule is made from units of genetic code strung together , much like DNA . But while DNA has two strands twisted together into a double helix , RNA usually has only a single strand . Protein synthesis begins when the two strands of a section of DNA unzip . Units of RNA then pair up with their counterparts on one of the DNA strands , forming a complementary messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecule . The mRNA detaches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where it hooks up with machinery that transcribes its coded message into a protein . If RNA 's only job were making proteins , then nearly all the RNAs produced in cells should be transcripts of protein-coding genes . ( A small fraction of RNAs serve in the protein-transcription machinery . ) But in 2005 , Jill Cheng and her colleagues at Affymetrix , a genomics company in Santa Clara , Calif. , showed that less than half of the RNA produced by 10 of the chromosomes in human cells represented transcripts of traditional genes . In the team 's experiments , 57 percent of the RNA was transcribed from noncoding , " junk " regions . The results from ENCODE were even more striking . In the slice of DNA studied in that project , between 74 percent and 93 percent of the genome produced RNA transcripts . What becomes of this tremendous output is uncertain . John M. Greally of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York says it 's likely that some portion of it is made accidentally and simply discarded . But the discovery that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underscores how out-of-date the central dogma has become . Indeed , the closer researchers look , the more functions they find that RNA transcripts perform . An alphabet soup of new acronyms describes the newfound roles of RNAs . First there were short nuclear RNAs ( snRNAs ) and short nucleolar RNAs ( snoRNAs ) , both of which reside inside the nucleus and help control production of other RNAs . These were joined by microRNAs ( miRNAs ) and short interfering RNAs ( siRNAs ) , which can modulate the activity of protein-coding genes . In mice , about 34,000 of the RNA transcripts produced by the genome are nonprotein-coding , outnumbering the roughly 32,000 transcripts that code for proteins , according to a 2005 study by an international group of scientists called the Functional Annotation of Mouse Consortium . These new families of RNAs add a layer of regulation that fine-tunes the production of proteins . While scientists already knew that some proteins influence the activity of other genes , " there are many more RNAs than proteins that play a regulatory role , " Ge says . Gene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful way for a cell to evolve complex behaviors using the tools-proteins - that it already has . Consider the difference between a one-bedroom bungalow and an ornate , three-story McMansion . Both are made from roughly the same materials-lumber , drywall , wiring , plumbing-and are put together with the same tools-hammers , saws , nails , and screws . What makes the mansion more complex is the way that its construction is orchestrated by rules that specify when and where each tool and material must be used . In cells , regulation controls when and where proteins spring into action . If the traditional genome is a set of blueprints for an organism , RNA regulatory networks are the assembly instructions . In fact , some scientists think that these additional layers of complexity in genome regulation could be the answer to a long-standing puzzle . GENOME AS NETWORK The biggest surprise in the first sequence of the human genome was how few protein-coding genes it contained . " We humans do not have that many more genes than simpler organisms like flies or mice , " Ge says . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as high as 100,000 , but the published sequence in fact contained only about 23,000 . That 's not much more than the roughly 21,000 genes possessed by the roundworm , a microscopic creature without a brain . If protein-coding genes are the only functional elements in an organism 's DNA , where does the extra information come from that 's needed to assemble and operate the complex bodies and brains of people , as compared with the simplicity of roundworms ? " If we just look at the number of genes , it does n't make sense , " Ge says . While the number of genes is n't much different in roundworms and people , the human genome is 30 times the size of the roundworms ' ' . People have a much larger quantity of DNA beyond what codes for proteins . Since much of this " junk " DNA is being transcribed into RNA , perhaps it 's responsible for much of the complexity of human bodies and brains . In fact , organisms simpler than roundworms , such as single-celled bacteria , carry little noncoding DNA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scientists have been suspecting that it is the regulatory networks that lead to this amazing complexity " in higher organisms , Ge says . John S. Mattick of the University of Queensland in Brisbane , Australia , points to a known example of the importance of regulatory RNAs : their crucial role in fetal development . For example , most multicellular animals possess a gene called Notch that helps guide neural development . While the gene itself has much the same form in both simple and complex animals , its activity is regulated by miRNAs that are highly variable from one animal to another . Such miRNAs also influence a gene called Hox , which acts in many animals to define a fetus ' body axis and the placement of its limbs . What 's more , the changes that distinguish human brains from those of chimpanzees and other apes could be due in part to evolutionary changes in RNAs that do n't encode proteins . A group led by Katherine S. Pollard of the University of California , Davis identified DNA sequences shared by people and chimpanzees , but with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two species shared a common ancestor . The researchers found that one of these sequences is a noncoding region of DNA that 's related to brain function , they reported in the Sept. 14 , 2006 Nature . Pollard and her colleagues speculate that this region produces a regulatory RNA and that changes in this RNA contributed to the evolution of the human brain . With regulatory RNAs appearing to play such an instrumental role in animal development , it 's no surprise that scientists are finding disease-associated mutations in regions of the genome formerly regarded as junk . David Altshuler of the Broad Institute in Cambridge , Mass. , and his colleagues looked for DNA mutations in 1,464 patients with type 2 diabetes . Three of the mutations that correlated with the disease were in DNA segments that do n't code for proteins , the team reported in the June 1 Science . Other scientists have found mutations in noncoding DNA that link to diseases such as autism , breast cancer , lung cancer , prostate cancer , and schizophrenia . To be sure , the specific functions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as ENCODE have focused on identifying the broad functional categories for active regions of the genome without working out the specific cellular function of each transcript , a task that will take biologists years , if not decades . In fact , scientists debate whether some fraction of the genome 's copious RNA output might do nothing at all . It may simply be that once the cellular machinery that transcribes DNA into RNA gets started , it sometimes does n't know when to stop . On the other hand , making lots of RNA that does nothing would be a waste of a cell 's energy . That 's something that natural systems tend to avoid , so the fact of its production argues for at least some of this RNA being biologically active . THE GENEIS DEAD In the old view , each gene sat in splendid isolation on its segment of the genome . Other genes might be nearby , but scientists assumed that they did n't overlap each other . Now it 's clear that a single length of DNA can be transcribed in multiple ways to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others constituting regulatory RNAs . By starting and stopping in different places , the transcription machinery can generate a regulatory RNA from a length of DNA that overlaps a protein-coding gene . Moreover , the code for another regulatory RNA might run in the opposite direction on the facing strand of DNA . According to the ENCODE project results , up to 72 percent of known genes have transcripts on the facing DNA strand as well as the main strand . " The same sequences are being used for multiple functions , " says Thomas R. Gingeras of Affymetrix . That introduces complications into the evolution of the genome , which had until recently been assumed to act through single DNA mutations affecting single genes . Now , " a mutation in one of those sequences has to be interpreted not only in terms of one gene , but of all the other transcripts going through the region , " Gingeras explains . The implications of this single mutation-multiple consequence model are still a matter of debate . In some cases , the RNA transcripts from DNA that overlaps a protein-coding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affect both the structure and the regulation of a protein . But often , those transcripts regulate genes that are far away , or even on different chromosomes . This complex interweaving of genes , transcripts , and regulation makes the net effect of a single mutation on an organism much more difficult to predict , Gingeras says . More fundamentally , it muddies scientists ' conception of just what constitutes a gene . In the established definition , a gene is a discrete region of DNA that produces a single , identifiable protein in a cell . But the functioning of a protein often depends on a host of RNAs that control its activity . If a stretch of DNA known to be a protein-coding gene also produces regulatory RNAs essential for several other genes , is it somehow a part of all those other genes as well ? To make things even messier , the genetic code for a protein can be scattered far and wide around the genome . The ENCODE project revealed that about 90 percent of protein-coding genes possessed previously unknown coding fragments that were located @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many scientists now argue that this overlapping and dispersal of genes , along with the swelling ranks of functional RNAs , renders the standard gene concept of the central dogma obsolete . LONG LIVE THE GENE Offering a radical new conception of the genome , Gingeras proposes shifting the focus away from protein-coding genes . Instead , he suggests that the fundamental units of the genome could be defined as functional RNA transcripts . Since some of these transcripts ferry code for proteins as dutiful mRNAs , this new perspective would encompass traditional genes . But it would also accommodate new classes of functional RNAs as they 're discovered , while avoiding the confusion caused by several overlapping genes laying claim to a single stretch of DNA . The emerging picture of the genome " definitely shifts the emphasis from genes to transcripts , " agrees Mark B. Gerstein , a bioinformaticist at Yale University . Scientists ' definition of a gene has evolved several times since Gregor Mendel first deduced the idea in the 186Os from his work with pea plants . Now , about 50 years after its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being called into question . Sidebar JUNK BOOM - Simpler organisms such as bacteria ( blue ) have a smaller percentage of DNA that does n't code for proteins than more-complex organisms such as fungi ( grey ) , plants ( green ) , animals ( purple ) , and people ( orange ) . Sidebar TANGLED GENES - In the classic view of the genome ( top ) , individual genes were distinct segments of DNA that a cell transcribed into RNA whole and in one direction . New data show that multiple and overlapping genes can occupy a single strip of DNA that also produces several functional RNAs that do n't encode proteins ( bottom , not to scale ) . <p>                     