@@383332

What would Earth look like from deep space if inquisitive aliens were scanning for planets ? // Whether you prefer to crawl , sprint , swim , or walk from one place to another , you can enjoy close-up views of Earth 's inexhaustible supply of things to notice . You might see a vein of pink limestone on the wall of a canyon , a lady-bug eating an aphid on the stem of a rose , a clamshell poking out of the sand . All you have to do is look . Board a jetliner crossing a continent , though , and those surface details soon disappear . No aphid appetizers . No clams . Reach cruising altitude , around seven miles up , and identifying major roadways becomes a challenge . Detail continues to vanish as you ascend to space . From the window of the International Space Station , which orbits at about 225 miles up , you might find London , Los Angeles , New York , or Paris in the daytime , because you learned where they are in geography class . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By day , contrary to common wisdom , with the unaided eye you probably wo n't see the pyramids at Giza , and you certainly wo n't see the Great Wall of China . Their obscurity is partly the result of having been made from the soil and stone of the surrounding landscape . And although the Great Wall is thousands of miles long , it 's only about twenty feet wide-much narrower than the U.S. interstate highways you could barely see from a transcontinental jet . Indeed , apart from the smoke plumes rising from the oil-field fires in Kuwait at the end of the First Persian Gulf War in 1991 , and the green-brown borders between swaths of irrigated and arid land , from Earth orbit the unaided eye can not see much else that 's made by humans . Plenty of natural scenery is visible , though : hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico , ice floes in the North Atlantic , volcanic eruptions wherever they occur . From the Moon , a quarter million miles away , New York , Paris , and the rest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a twinkle ( unless you build a large telescope before you take a look ) . But from your lunar vantage you can still watch major weather fronts move across the planet . From Mars at its closest , some 35 million miles away , massive snow-capped mountain chains and the edges of Earth 's continents would be visible through a large backyard telescope . Travel out to Neptune , 2.7 billion miles away-just down the block on a cosmic scale-and the Sun itself becomes embarrassingly dim , now occupying a thousandth the area on the daytime sky that it occupies when seen from Earth . And what of Earth itself ? It 's a speck no brighter than a dim star , all but lost in the glare of the Sun . A celebrated photograph taken in 1990 from the edge of the solar system by the Voyager 1 spacecraft see photograph on page 55 shows how underwhelming Earth looks from deep space : a " pale blue dot , " as the late American astronomer Carl Sagan called it . And that 's generous . Without the help of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What would happen if some bigbrained aliens from the great beyond scanned the skies with their naturally superb visual organs , further aided by alien-state-of-the-art optical accessories ? What visible features of planet Earth might they detect ? Blueness would be first and foremost . Water covers more than two-thirds of Earth 's surface ; the Pacific Ocean alone makes up an entire side of the planet . Any beings with enough equipment and expertise to detect our planet 's color would surely infer the presence of water , the third most abundant molecule in the universe . If the resolution of their equipment were high enough , the aliens would see more than just a pale blue dot . They would see intricate coastlines , too , strongly suggesting that the water is liquid . And smart aliens would surely know that if a planet has liquid water , the planet 's temperature and atmospheric pressure fall within a well-determined range . Earth 's distinctive polar ice caps , which grow and shrink from the seasonal temperature variations , could also be seen optically . So could our planet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at predictable intervals . The aliens would also see major weather systems come and go ; with careful study , they could readily distinguish features related to clouds in the atmosphere from features related to the surface of Earth itself . Time for a reality check : We live less than a dozen light-years from the nearest known exoplanet-that is , a planet orbiting a star other than the Sun . Most exoplanets lie more than a hundred light-years away . Earth 's brightness is less than one-billionth that of the Sun , and our planet 's proximity to the Sun would make it extremely hard for anybody to see Earth directly with an optical telescope . So if aliens have found us , they are likely searching in wavelengths other than visible light-or else their engineers are adapting some other strategy altogether . Maybe they 're doing what our own planet hunters typically do : monitor stars to see if they jiggle at regular intervals . A star 's periodic jiggle betrays the existence of an orbiting planet that may otherwise be too dim to see directly . The planet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mass . The more massive the planet , the larger the star 's orbit must be , and the more measurable the jiggle when you analyze the star 's light . Unfortunately for planet-hunting aliens , Earth is puny , and so the Sun barely budges , further challenging alien engineers . Radio waves might work , though . Maybe our eavesdropping aliens have something like the Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico , home of Earth 's largest single-dish radio telescope-which you might have seen in the early location shots in the 1997 movie Contact , based on a novel by Carl Sagan . If they do , and if they tune to the right frequencies , they 'll certainly notice Earth , one of the loudest radio sources in the sky . Consider everything we 've got that generates radio waves : not only radio itself , but also broadcast television , mobile phones , microwave ovens , garage-door openers , car-door unlockers , commercial radar , military radar , and communications satellites . We 're just blazing-spectacular evidence that something unusual is going on here , because in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radio waves at all . So if those alien eavesdroppers turn their own version of a radio telescope in our direction , they might infer that our planet hosts technology . One complication , though : other interpretations are possible . Maybe they would n't be able to distinguish Earth 's signal from those of the larger planets in our solar system , all of which are sizable sources of radio waves . Maybe they would think we 're a new kind of odd , radio-intensive planet . Maybe they would n't be able to distinguish Earth 's radio emissions from those of the Sun , forcing them to conclude that the Sun is a new kind of odd , radio-intensive star . Astrophysicists right here on Earth , at the University of Cambridge in England , were similarly stumped back in 1967 . While surveying the skies with a radio telescope for any source of strong radio waves , Anthony Hewish and his team discovered something extremely odd : an object pulsing at precise , repeating intervals of slightly more than a second . Jocelyn Bell , a graduate student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to notice it . Soon Bell 's colleagues established that the pulses came from a great distance . The thought that the signal was technological-another culture beaming evidence of its activities across space-was irresistible . As Bell recounts , " We had no proof that it was an entirely natural radio emission . . . . Here was I trying to get a Ph.D . out of a new technique , and some silly lot of little green men had to choose my aerial and my frequency to communicate with us . " Within a few days , however , she discovered other repeating signals coining from other places in our galaxy . Bell and her associates realized they 'd discovered a new class of cosmic object-pulsing stars-which they cleverly , and sensibly , called pulsars . Turns out , intercepting radio waves is n't the only way to be snoopy . There 's also cosmochemistry . The chemical analysis of planetary atmospheres has become a lively field of modern astrophysics . Cosmochemistry depends on spectroscopy-the analysis of light by means of a spectrometer , which breaks up light , rainbow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tools and tactics of spectroscopists , cosmochemists can infer the presence of life on an exoplanet , regardless of whether that life has sentience , intelligence , or technology . The method works because every element , every molecule-no matter where it exists in the universe-absorbs , emits , reflects , and scatters light in a unique way . Pass that light through a spectrometer , and you 'll find features that can rightly be called chemical fingerprints . The most visible fingerprints are made by the chemicals most excited by the pressure and temperature of their environment . Planetary atmospheres are crammed with such features . And if a planet is teeming with flora and fauna , its atmosphere will be crammed with biomarkers-spectral evidence of life . Whether biogenic ( produced by any or all life-forms ) , anthropogenic ( produced by the widespread species Homo sapiens ) , or technogenic ( produced only by technology ) , this rampant evidence will be hard to conceal . Unless they happen to be born with built-in spectroscopic sensors , space-snooping aliens would need to build a spectrometer to read our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eclipse its host star ( or some other light source ) , permitting light to pass through our atmosphere and continue on to the aliens . That way , the chemicals in Earth 's atmosphere could interact with the light , leaving their marks for all to see . Some molecules-ammonia , carbon dioxide , water-show up everywhere in the universe , whether life is present or not . But others pop up especially in the presence of life itself . Among the biomarkers in Earth 's atmosphere are ozone-destroying chlorofluorocarbons from aerosol sprays , vapor from mineral solvents , escaped coolants from refrigerators and air conditioners , and smog from the burning of fossil fuels . No other way to read that list : sure signs of the absence of intelligence . Another readily detected biomarker is Earth s substantial and sustained level of the molecule methane , more than half of which is produced by human-related activities such as fuel-oil production , rice cultivation , sewage , and the burps of domestic livestock . And if the aliens track our nighttime side while we orbit our host star , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streetlights that switch on at dusk . Most telling , however , would be all our free-floating oxygen , which constitutes a full fifth of our atmosphere . Oxygen-which , after hydrogen and helium , is the third most abundant element in the cosmos-is chemically active and bonds readily with atoms of hydrogen , carbon , nitrogen , silicon , sulfur , iron , and so on . Thus , for oxygen to exist in a steady state , something must be liberating it as fast as it 's being consumed . Here on Earth , the liberation is traceable to life . Photosynthesis , carried out by plants and many bacteria , creates free oxygen in the oceans and in the atmosphere . Free oxygen , in turn , enables the existence of oxygen-metabolizing creatures , including us and practically every other creature in the animal kingdom . We earthlings already know the significance of Earth s distinctive chemical fingerprints . But distant aliens who come upon us will have to interpret their findings and test their assumptions . Must the periodic appearance of sodium be technogenic ? Free oxygen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , is chemically unstable , and yes , some of it is anthropogenic . But methane is also produced by bacteria , cows , permafrost , soils , termites , wetlands , and other living and nonliving agents . In fact , at this very moment , astrobiologists are arguing about the exact origin of trace amounts of methane on Mars and the copious quantities of methane detected on Saturn 's moon Titan , where cows and termites surely do not dwell . If the aliens decide that Earth 's chemical features are sure evidence for life , maybe they 'll wonder if the life is intelligent . Presumably the aliens communicate with one another , and perhaps they 'll presume that other intelligent life-forms communicate too . Maybe that 's when they 'll decide to eavesdrop on Earth with their radio telescopes to see what part of the electromagnetic spectrum its inhabitants have mastered . So , whether the aliens explore with chemistry or with radio waves , they might come to the same conclusion : a planet where there 's advanced technology must be populated with intelligent life-forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and how to apply its laws for personal or public gain . Beginning in 1995 , my planet-hunting colleagues got busy . Since then , they 've discovered more than 150 exoplanets , and there 's plenty more where they came from . After all , the known universe harbors some 100 billion galaxies , each with some 100 billion stars . The search for life drives the search for exoplanets , some of which probably look like Earth-not in detail , of course , but in overall properties . Those are the planets our descendants might want to visit someday , by choice or by necessity . So far , though , nearly all the exoplanets detected by the planet hunters are much larger than Earth . Most are at least as massive as Jupiter , which is more than 300 times Earth 's mass . Nevertheless , as astrophysicists design hardware that can detect smaller and smaller jiggles of a host star , the ability to find punier and punier planets will grow . In spite of the 150-planet tally , planet hunting by earthlings is still in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be answered : Is this thing a planet ? How massive is it ? How long does it take to orbit its host star ? No one knows for sure what all those exoplanets are made of , and only a couple of them eclipse their host stars , permitting cosmochemists to do their thing . But abstract measurements of chemical properties do not feed the imaginations of either poets or scientists . Only through images that capture surface detail do our minds transform exoplanets into " worlds . " Those orbs have to occupy more than just a few pixels in the family portrait to qualify , and a magazine reader should not need a caption to find the planet in the photo . We have to do better than the pale blue dot . Only then will we be able to conjure what a faraway planet looks like when seen from the edge of its own star system-or perhaps from the planet s surface itself . For that , we will need spaceborne telescopes with stupendous light-gathering power . Nope . We 're not there yet . But perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ photographed from Mars by the Mars Orbiter Camera , 2003 Sidebar Among the biomarkers for aliens to ponder in Earth 's atmosphere : chlorofluorocarbons , vapor from mineral solvents , escaped coolants , and smog Sidebar Earth ( pale dot near center of light ray at right ) as photographed in 1990 by Voyager 1 , from a distance of 4 billion miles Author Affiliation Astrophysicist NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON is the director of the Hayden Planetarium at the American Museum of Natural History . His Natural History essay " In the Beginning " ( September 2003 ) won the 2005 Science Writing Award from the American Institute of Physics . An anthology of his Natural History essays will be published in 2006 by W.W. Norton . // <p>                     