@@406449

SETTING : COAL TOWNSHIP , Pennsylvania . Time : the 1970s . Characters : parochial high school students . Event : the vocation fair . I was there , a typical adolescent in a bad plaid uniform , Peter-Pan collared white blouse , and penny loafers , contemplating rows of stalls in the auditorium arranged to determine my place in the life of the church . The priesthood was hugely represented as the most impressive option , with photos of flocks of seminarians in long black cassocks and solemn faces lining the booths . The diocesan priesthood was the kind most familiar to us since the diocese supplied all the local parishes as well as our school chaplaincy office . Booths also proclaimed the more mysterious call to religious orders : Franciscans and Dominicans and Jesuits , as well as some nearly unpronounceable communities with founders we 'd never heard of . For those who did n't experience the eerie flash of summons to the priesthood , there was always the life of a religious brother or monk These vocations were even less clearly defined for us since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one religious brother , who taught sophomore religion class . He was a truly weird man who did not make a great advertisement for recruitment to any lifestyle remotely normal . Of course , since I was not a boy , none of these stalls had any meaning for me . THE SIDE OF THE AUDITORIUM THAT intrigued me more was composed of stalls representing religious orders for women . I knew the difference between " women religious " - the sisters who taught us all through school - and nuns , like the ones who lived in the Carmelite cloister just outside of town . Already in the mid70s , most of the sisters were showing a bit of hair from underneath their shortened veils , and it was now also clear that they had legs and arms of the usual variety . The cloistered nuns , however , could only be glimpsed behind a screen when we came to deliver food supplies and to receive a blessing for our generosity . Most of our information about them came from movies like The Nun 's Story with Audrey Hepburn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girl . The very idea of these separated ones made my heart pound with curiosity and excitement . What would God do to make this special summons known to a girl ? How would the call to any vocation come , and how specific would it be ? " I , God , am calling you , Miss X , to be a Sister of the Immaculate Heart of Mary-but not the conservative ones in Philadelphia , but the more progressive branch out of Detroit . " One of the sisters who taught us English was an IHM , and she had told us about the distinctions : Those Immaculate Heart Sisters with a motherhouse in Philly were known as the " No-Nos " because their rule was the most severe . The sisters who hailed from the Midwest group were called " So-Sos " because they accepted compromises in dress and lifestyle . The IHMs from Los Angeles were the " Go-Gos , " since they had moved beyond the traditional roles and markers of religious life as it had once been defined . The sister who outlined these distinctions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Go-Go " leanings that made her wistful . I figured that God would have to be very precise about issuing the call these days or risk some terrible mismatches . WHAT WAS OBVIOUSLY MISSING FROM THE VOCATION FAIR in that 1970s auditorium was any hint that vocation was a word that had significance for those who were not supernaturally selected for a celibate form of service to the institutional church . No one had set up a stall for good Christian parents or dedicated professional men and women , for the call to works of justice and social services , or leadership in the community beyond the doors of the church and the school . No one had thought to set up a booth for the person I turned out to be , a lifelong lay minister of the church who has served in various ways in parishes , campus ministry , women 's shelters , and now as a catechetical writer . These expansive forms of service had always been rendered , but in the mid-70 s they were not yet recognized as genuine vocations from God . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known as Good Shepherd Sunday , is also the World Day of Prayer for Vocations . When I hear the word vocation , I still default to the memory ofthat auditorium , standing in front of rows of categories of the authentically " called " and wondering if God would call me or pass me by as unfit or unworthy . I believe now that no one is passed by- and that all of us , certainly , are unworthy . But I fear that many of us whose pictures were not hung in those stalls at the vocation fair still do not recognize the richness of the vocation that is ours . The gospel reading for Good Shepherd Sunday is always from John 's account and always about Jesus as the guardian of the sheep . Since the World Day of Prayer for Vocations has been celebrated for 46 years , it is no wonder that the identification was originally made between " the Good Shepherd " and the need for good church leaders . BUT I 'M AFRAID THIS IMAGE HAS MADE IT TOO EASY FOR many of us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it seems so directly concerned with the men who hold the shepherd 's crook and those who make formal promises of obethence to them . Now more than ever we do need wise and deep-hearted men to hold that crook and women and men of conviction to make formal pledges of lifelong service to the church 's many vital ministries . When I meet young people of great passions and abilities , I urge them to consider the truly heroic roles of shepherding available in the church . God knows that some of the most noble and influential people in my life have been the sisters and priests and lay ministers whose gifts were surrendered to the service of the gospel . But as I listen to the rest of the Sunday readings for the month of May , I realize the Good Shepherd passages are subordinated to the all-encompassing theme in John 's gospel of Jesus as the Great Lover . The Sixth Sunday of Easter is awash in tender words of love : " Remain in my love . " " Love one another as I love you . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lay down one 's life for one 's friends . " If there is a great vocation in the church , it is the call to love . And all of us are summoned to it as powerfully and dramatically as any biblical call was visited upon our forefathers or annunciation came to our foremothers . At the center of any modern-day vocation fair , I say , set up a booth for love , and make it the radiant heart of the whole enterprise . The call to love is the baptismal call : to die to self and live for God , who is Love most essentially . If we are Christians , we can do no less than commit our destiny to love and to seek ways of deepening the channels of love through our words , deeds , and relationships . If there is an impediment to our love , as a result of emotional injury , it is our obligation to seek healing . If our love is refused in one venue , we must work to express it in another . All of us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limited by our prejudices , imperfect due to selfishness , twisted by our sinfulness in ways that make our attempts to be loving people close to ridiculous . This is why we have sacraments , to flush out our failures , heal our woundedness , nourish us for each new beginning , and consecrate us for great purposes at every phase of the journey . The only thing we can not afford to do is waste our love . The world needs it so urgently , and love is the reason we are here at all . Safeguard your vocation , wherever you are and whatever you do . You are in mission territory , and that mission is to give your heart .                     