@@405433

10 ESSENTIAL STORIES . 1 Washington Health-Care Battle Heats Up With details of the much heralded health-care overhaul beginning to trickle through the capital , interest groups are gearing up for a fight . President Obama 's June 13 proposal to cut $313 billion in Medicare and Medicaid spending over 10 years rankled hospitals , and doctors bristled because of his refusal to endorse caps on malpractice claims in a speech to the American Medical Association two days later . Some physicians also oppose a public-health-insurance option , a centerpiece of Obama 's plan . Anticipated draft legislation has been delayed while Capitol Hill continues to haggle over how to slash costs and extend coverage to the 48 million Americans without health insurance . Obama has exhorted lawmakers to produce a bill for him to sign by October . 2 Russia Planning for A Post-U.S . World Russian President Dmitri Medvedev hosted the first summit of the world 's largest emerging economies to discuss efforts to reduce their reliance on the U.S. The so-called BRIC states -- Brazil , Russia , India and China -- are forecast to become four of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which holds some 40% of the world 's gold and hard-currency reserves , has announced plans to shift some out of U.S. dollars . " There can be no successful global currency system , " said Medvedev , " if the financial instruments used are denominated in only one currency . " 3 Tel Aviv Netanyahu 's Change of Heart For the first time since assuming office in April , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu endorsed the prospect of establishing a demilitarized Palestinian state . Netanyahu 's departure from his hawkish stance against statehood was welcomed as a " positive movement " by President Obama , who has pressured Israel to resume peace efforts . But senior Palestinian officials vehemently rejected Netanyahu 's statements ; negotiator Saeb Erekat said the Prime Minister 's intransigence on crucial sticking points -- like his insistence on demilitarization and refusal to consider the dismantling of Israeli settlements in the West Bank --  " closed the door to permanent-status negotiations . " 4 London Reassessing the Road to War British Prime Minister Gordon Brown authorized a long-awaited inquiry into Britain 's role in the deeply unpopular war in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But news that the inquiry would be closed to the public and that its results would not come out until after the next election outraged critics and opposition parties . Foreign Secretary David Millibrand dismissed claims of " an Establishment stitch-up , " saying , " If you are looking for a great conspiracy , you are not going to find it . " 5 Bermuda Free at Last Four former Guantnamo Bay detainees have been released in Bermuda as the U.S. continues its push to shut down the facility by 2010 Others have been transferred to Saudi Arabia , Iraq and Chad , while Italy and the U.K. say they will take former prisoners . More than 500 detainees have been sent home in recent years ; 50 have been cleared and are ready to be released , and 220 others await trial . Recently cleared detainees find new homes : The following text appears within a chart . Please see hardcopy or PDF for actual chart . BERMUDA CHAD FRANCE IRAQ ITALY PALAU SAUDI ARABIA U.K. Accepted Pledged Temporarily relocated Belgium , Ireland , Portugal and Spain have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former detainees 6 Pyongyang TAKING THE GLOVES OFF In a meeting with South Korean President Lee Myung Bak , President Obama pledged to " break the pattern " of rewarding North Korea with aid only to have the country later renege on its promises to halt nuclear proliferation . On June 15 , thousands of North Koreans gathered in Pyongyang for a demonstration against U.S.-led sanctions , which include the inspection of North Korean ships in an effort to block the transport of nuclear materials . The inspections are still voluntary , and most experts believe that North Korean vessels most likely would not agree to them . Pyongyang has threatened a " thousandfold " military retaliation if it is provoked . 7 Washington Benefits for Gay Partners Extending an olive branch to critics who say he has failed to follow through on campaign promises , President Obama signed a memo on June 17 granting long-term-care and other benefits to the same-sex partners of federal employees . The White House most recently drew criticism from gay-rights advocates for supporting the Defense of Marriage Act , which opposes same-sex marriage . 8 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stop using three Zicam cold and allergy products , after receiving more than 130 complaints that the popular sprays and swabs can permanently damage or destroy users ' sense of smell . The announcement highlights the FDA 's attempt to regulate drug companies more aggressively and underscores the agency 's lack of power -- it can not order product recalls and does not consistently monitor " homeopathic " remedies like Zicam . Matrixx Initiatives , the product 's manufacturer , refused to stop selling the medications and called the alert " unwarranted . " In 2006 the company , based in Scottsdale , Ariz. , paid $12 million to settle 340 lawsuits regarding Zicam 's side effects . 9 Islamabad Taliban Manhunt Pakistan 's security forces are stepping up their offensive against the nation 's Taliban leader , Baitullah Mehsud , and his estimated 20,000 fighters . The " full-fledged " escalation planned in South Waziristan , a Mehsud stronghold , reflects the government 's heightened resolve to confront Pakistan 's growing insurgency . But analysts warn that assaults in the mountainous region will be difficult to carry out and may prompt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration 's first climate-change survey found " unequivocal " evidence of man-made global warming with potentially dire consequences in the U.S. Temperatures and sea levels are rising , rainstorms are strengthening , and snow cover is shrinking , according to the report by a consortium of federal agencies and research groups . One potential casualty : maple-syrup production , which may be displaced from New England to Canada as temperatures rise . The sobering report is sure to draw notice on Capitol Hill , where lawmakers are debating a landmark " cap and trade " emissions proposal . The average temperature in the U.S. has risen 2F over the past 50 years . If carbon emissions are not reduced , it may climb as much as 11 more by 2090 Precipitation in the U.S. has increased an average of 5% in the past 50 years . Models show Northern areas getting wetter , while the South and West grow drier Sea levels have risen as much as 8 in. ( 20 cm ) over the past century and may continue climbing , which could cause coastal erosion and harmful flooding RECESSION @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , British Airways is asking its 40,000 employees to volunteer for one to four weeks of unpaid work . Chief executive Willie Walsh -- who has agreed to go without a salary in July -- called the request part of a " fight for survival . " It could be worse . At least BA 's pilots are n't being asked to handle luggage , as those of Dutch airline KLM were in early June . BOX Numbers : 4 MILLION Average weekly increase in the number of people who go hungry because of rising food prices , according to the World Food Program 19 Number of cats found killed in Miami since May ; police arrested a local teen on animal-cruelty charges $55 MILLION Amount the State Department overpaid Xe , formerly known as Blackwater Worldwide , for private security in Iraq , according to a government audit 78% Percentage of online households in the U.S. that use Facebook , according to a recent report                     