@@371691

Every morning military brass in a nondescript office called the intelligence fusion cell at General Tommy Franks ' U.S. Central Command headquarters in Tampa , Fla. , look up at wall charts for any changes on the lists . These are what the war in Afghanistan is all about : the scorecard of America 's most wanted , the bad guys responsible for the global terror jihad , the men whom the Bush Administration has vowed to bring to justice  --  dead or alive . One list runs down roughly 40 senior Taliban leaders , coded by color as someone defects or is killed or negotiates to surrender . The other names the 20 or so top al-Qaeda terrorists Washington wants , starting with Osama bin Laden . Most of the names accompany color photographs of varying quality . When good news comes in , a fresh version is printed with a bold INJ or KIA ( injured or killed ) printed across the picture . " If there 's nothing there , " says a Pentagon official , " it means he 's a work in progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Defense intelligence briefs , battlefield reports , local newspapers , spies , rumors . Every day the intelligence bloodhounds search for fresh clues on where these leaders might be and vacuum up electronic and human after-battle reports to see if they can cross another name off . But so far , the scorecard is all too blank . Pentagon list keepers say only three of the 20 men on the al-Qaeda list are thought to be dead ; perhaps 12 of those on the Taliban list have been killed or wounded or have defected . On Saturday came word that the Taliban governor of Kandahar and a dozen of his commanders could be marked KIA , after a U.S. bomb took them out in a village outside the city . <P> Revving up the manhunt should get a bit easier . Opposition forces closed in on the Taliban 's last stronghold at Kandahar last week . U.S. Marines were deployed on Afghan soil to seal off avenues of retreat . The fall of Kandahar  --  whether by surrender or defeat  --  will peel away the terrorists ' last major base @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to put an X through all the names on Tommy Franks ' lists . <P> The biggest name stricken so far is Mohammed Atef , the al-Qaeda military-operations chief suspected of planning the Sept. 11 attacks , who was killed in a mid-November air strike . Two other high-ranking al-Qaeda lieutenants , Egyptians Fahmi Nasr ( a.k.a . Mohammed Salah ) and Tariq Anwar , senior leaders of Egyptian Islamic Jihad , have also been marked KIA . The top commander of an al-Qaeda ally , the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan , has reportedly been eliminated as well . But in some ways , Pentagon officials are even more eager to interrogate those taken alive . Defense Department officers have heard that Taliban intelligence chief Qari Ahmadullah is either in Northern Alliance custody or negotiating to surrender to rebel forces in Kandahar . Taliban sources claim he has gone home to Ghazni . He would be a potential gold mine if captured .                     