@@378497

We are sitting in a Starbucks coffee shop in the toniest neighborhood in Shanghai , around the corner from the Louis Vuitton store , and Wang Ling is getting steamed up over being evicted from her home . " They 're liars , " she says , pulling out official documents . " They 're not going according to government regulations ! " The Wangs got caught up in the dealings of a shady property tycoon who is serving three years in jail for stock manipulation  --  but not before they and thousands of others were tossed out of their homes to make way for the tycoon 's now deferred project . They allege the developer got the property unfairly because of his cozy relationship with state officials . Wang has traveled to Beijing several times  --  so far with no success  --  to petition for help from the government . " We are fighting for our rights , " she says . <P> To anyone who has followed China , it 's an incredible scene . Not long ago , it would have been unimaginable for Wang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the law  --  and all while sipping a cappuccino . True , Wang has n't found justice yet . But compared with the repression of the past , when complainers went to jail and the Communist Party controlled every aspect of life , China can be exhilaratingly free . The Chinese can do virtually anything today , from finding a job to singing karaoke in sparkling brothels to organizing to protect the environment . If you stood on a street corner and cursed the leaders , passersby might think you were nuts , but you might not even be arrested . <P> As long as you were alone . The government can still be brutal  --  particularly with anyone who tries to organize politically . Remember Falun Gong ? After 10,000 practitioners of the meditation philosophy showed up outside Beijing 's leadership compound in 1999 to protest discrimination , the government launched an effort to wipe out the religion , arresting and , according to believers , beating thousands of members . In China 's Northwest , the government has jailed ethnic Uighurs who complained about Han Chinese repression of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Chinese assistant in the New York Times 's Beijing bureau was detained in September for allegedly leaking state secrets ) , and it blocks websites it does n't like : authorities shut down Everything Is a Mess , a lively political site . <P> Should China be praised for its progress on human rights or criticized for its continued failings ? Probably both . According to human-rights monitor John Kamm , some 3,000 people are sentenced for nonviolent political and religious offenses every year . And yet , China 's people have gained room to maneuver , especially in pursuit of their livelihood . That has set off shock waves  --  huge income disparities and corruption  --  that could threaten party control . By official accounts , there were 58,000 protests in 2003 , as workers , peasants and even stock-market investors fought everything from corruption to overtaxation . China ca n't stop the outbursts , but it wo n't let anyone use those grievances to challenge party rule .                     