@@385846

Five antispyware apps focus on tackling the latest threats . SECURITY // TEST Center THE QUESTION IS when , not if , adware and spyware will strike your PC . That 's why you need a good antispyware program , and several companies specialize in delivering just that . We tested three paid products ( two of which were in beta ) and two popular free products . The chart on the following page lists the names and versions of the packages . To evaluate each program , we looked at price , features , ease of use , and performance . We contracted German research company AV-Test.org to evaluate each product 's ability to detect and disinfect 20 adware and spyware applications . AV-Test.org also pitted the apps against nine rootkits , programs that allow malware to install and operate clandestinely . Analysts tested the products ' ability to provide real-time defense on contact with threats , as well as their propensity to falsely identify harmless files . Our chart is a snapshot of the test results . Browse to our online chart at find.pcworld.com/54596 for additional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sweeper 5.0 emerged as our Best Buy . It earned the top scores in our detection and disinfection tests , and it offers protection against rootkits and phishing sites . It also includes conveniences such as the ability to choose between a fast system scan that takes priority over other work and a slower but less intrusive scan . Spyware Doctor 3.8 came in a close second overall and in performance . It fought active rootkits the best , and its scanning interface offers results that are easy to read , understand , and act on . The beta version of Counter-Spy 2.0 did n't fare as well as expected . This perennial top contender offers solid malware detection and real-time protection , but it struggled with disinfection . Of the two free programs , Ad-Aware SE Personal 1.06 produced better results , ranking fourth in performance . As the app lacks real-time protection , however , it makes a great choice for a second opinion but not much more . The popular Spybot did the worst . One of the first antispyware programs , it was built in the proverbial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but these days it is just not competitive with the other options here . SPYWARE , ADWARE , AND ROOTKITS IN DETECTING ACTIVELY running adware and spyware samples , Spy Sweeper and Spyware Doctor tied for first place , catching 90 percent of our test set . CounterSpy and Spybot brought up the rear , nailing 80 percent . In detecting a collection of inactive adware and spyware ( apps that sit dormant on your PC until activated ) , Ad-Aware scored first by far , detecting 69 percent of 837 samples . At the other end , Spybot caught a mere 2 percent of samples . Three of the five apps-CounterSpy , Spy Sweeper , and Spyware Doctor-profess to fight an increasingly important category of malware known as rootkits . Spyware Doctor detected all nine of our actively running rootkits , and Spy Sweeper detected four . CounterSpy managed to nab only two . The free tools caught none . All five programs-regardless of their rootkit capabilities-found one or two inactive rootkits . According to AV-Test.org , the apps ' standard code-based scanning can detect inactive rootkits , but they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ malware is one thing ; cleaning it thoroughly from your system is another . We tested these products ' abilities to remove files and Registry changes caused by ten pieces of adware and ten pieces of spyware . Disinfecting the spyware proved difficult : To elude security software , spyware writers continually change the way their malware behaves . In our spyware disinfection tests , Spy Sweeper and Spyware Doctor ranked first , disinfecting 65 percent of the files . Spybot came in last , disinfecting merely 20 percent of the files . ( Our chart combines adware and spyware disinfection results . ) Evaluating the disinfection of adware apps is more complicated , because their changing behavior can cause antispyware firms to modify policies on them . Take the free version of hotBar , an adsupported toolbar for Internet Explorer . Webroot classifies hotBar as adware ; in contrast , PC Tools no longer does and therefore wo n't disinfect it , as our tests confirmed . Overall , Spyware Doctor cleaned up adware the best , disinfecting 50 percent of the files and Registry entries . Spybot and Ad-Aware @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CounterSpy came in fifth with a 35 percent disinfection rate . Sunbelt Software says that CounterSpy 's low score is due to the beta status of the program . All of the products have real-time adware and spyware protection except Ad-Aware , whose Ad-Watch feature is available in Lavasoft 's $27 AdAware SE Plus . Spy Sweeper and CounterSpy detected all changes to HKCU and HKLM Run keys , Windows Startup , and the Hosts file , as well as Internet Explorer Home and Search pages . Spyware Doctor missed some Hosts file and IE Search page changes . Spybot failed to catch Startup changes . See our online chart for more test details . EXTRA TOOLS SPYWARE DOCTOR HAS the best selection of features , with full startup , scheduled , and custom-file scanning options . It lets you set a system restore point in case you accidentally delete important files . It 's also the only product to scan within some IM clients . Spyware Doctor 's antiphishing protection guards you as well , by preventing access to known bad sites . The second most feature-rich program , Spy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analyzing suspect Web sites on the fly . In version 5.0 , Webroot has removed Spy Sweeper 's ability to set a system restore point and relies instead on the restorative features of the app 's Quarantine ( where you decide whether to remove questionable files found in scan results ) . Spy Sweeper also adds itself to the Windows Explorer contextual menu for quick scanning of files and folders . While CounterSpy lacks a startup scan and antiphishing utilities , it has system restore features and four privacy tools that we did n't test for this story : My PC Explorer , My PC Checkup , History Cleaner , and secure File Eraser . Spybot lacks antiphishing capabilities , but it offers solid scanning , CPU-usage , and system restore options . GIVING ADVICE ALL FIVE PRODUCTS proved easy to use , but CounterSpy , Spy Sweeper , and Spyware Doctor did the best job of identifying potential pieces of malware , explaining them , and presenting options for action . I preferred Spyware Doctor 's brightly colored bars and detailed levels of threat classification . Collapsible check boxes reveal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entries . Highlighting the name for a threat brings up its description and advice for action . One gripe : Spyware Doctor counted 287 doctor-themed " infections " but categorized the vast majority as low-level advertising and tracking cookies . While it took me only a few seconds to realize that most were n't dangerous , the growing count during the scan did quicken my pulse . CounterSpy also has a good threat classification , explanation , and color-coding system , though this beta software 's alert dialog boxes were n't fully complete as of press time . Spybot 's scan results are full of information about potential threats and recent changes in adware policies , but Spybot stops short of the bonehead-simple " Get rid of this " type of advice that the paid applications give you . Our recommendation is to run Spy Sweeper-our Best Buy and top performer-or Spyware Doctor , which has thorough rootkit protection . However , the results of our disinfection tests suggest that one product ca n't do it all , and that adding a second antispyware product , such as the free Ad-Aware @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( see find . pcworld.com/53488 ) makes a nice two-fisted defense . - Narasu Rebbapragada Sidebar COUNTERSPY 2.0 HAS a well-designed interface and good real-time protection , but the beta we tested produced low disinfection scores . Sidebar SPY SWEEPER 5.0 , our Best Buy and top performer , categorizes and provides detailed information on potential spyware and adware . Sidebar AD-WATCH REAL-TIME PROTECTION is missing from Ad-Aware 's free version . Sidebar SPYWARE DOCTOR 3.8 found an alarming 287 infections on our PC , most of which were low-risk tracking and advertising cookies . Sidebar SPYBOT-SEARCH &; DESTROY 1.4 is free and has deep settings , but it did not stack up to the other programs in our performance tests . // <p>                     