@@417640

In our last article we addressed internal/external detoxification , focusing on the latter as it relates to our immediate home environment . Each room is a habitat for toxic chemicals that increase a person 's susceptibility to toxic overload . One such site is the bedroom where one-third of our life is devoted to rest , relaxation , recuperation and restoration . While it may come as no surprise that indoor air pollution is ubiquitous with farreaching health consequences , toxic emissions from bedroom chemicals may be one of our most significant sites and sources of environmental stress , expressing itself in poor quality sleep ( insomnia , sweating ) and allergies . Let us therefore explore and assess the typical bedroom environment and suggest healthier options for bedroom design that minimizes toxic input while providing wares and natural materials compatible with health . Whether our focus is guided by ecological or health concerns , it is worthwhile to bear in mind that it is the sum total of our chemical input that ultimately affects and influences long-term health and the consequential disease trends ( patterns ) that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Simple changes in habits can do wonders for building a healthier system , both human and eco-based . Bedroom " intoxicants " have multiple sources including chemical , pest infestation and electric and magnetic fields ( EMF ) . Whether your bedroom is a simply  --  furnished room or an elaborate designer showroom , bedrooms are laden with chemicals emanating from paints , varnishes , carpeting , furniture , cleaners ( including polish ) , books , magazines , window treatments , televisions and stereo equipment , and plug-in air fresheners . Additionally we wrap ourselves in designer sheets and comforters , not realizing the price we pay for wrinkle-free bedding may be exposing us to unnecessary and increasing levels of formaldehyde in addition to pesticides used in growing conventional " natural " materials like cotton . Remember what goes onto the skin also goes through the skin . It is often said that what touches our skin ends up in our cells , a thoughtprovoking adage to consider next time you prioritize convenience over health risks . Polyfill pillows are economical but at what price ? Catalogues frequently tout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materials are not " breathable , " and may in fact be a source of allergenicity when inhaled and absorbed ( through the skin and lungs ) . Pest management in the bedroom is often a selling point for synthetic bedding materials . Realizing the public 's zealous concern over germ warfare , with dust mites heading the list of bedroom bug villains , polyester bed coverings are at an all-time high . We educate through advertisement , so who would n't take seriously an ad suggesting allergen etiology may stem from dust mite feces that invade your bed ? By asking a few simple questions like " do you have burning eyes or a runny nose in the morning " or " do you have A.M. headaches unrelated to alcohol consumption at dinner , " the advertiser can suggest the " appropriate resolution " by supplying just the product that will resolve the problem . No one can dispute allergens thrive in moist warm environments such as a mattress and pillows , often inciting allergy symptoms once inhaled-and who does n't " inhale " ? While it is noble to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a barrier that these nasty pests can not breach , one needs also to consider sensitivity to synthetic materials and their potential health risks posed by continuous exposure to plastic by-product emissions . Are we resolving one problem while creating another with its own set of health concerns ? Adding more chemicals to the equation concomitantly augments the probability for increased side effects . Since sleep is essential for the body to rest and replenish itself , the potential for increasing environmental " stress " ( through chemical exposures ) while resting is a major concern for anyone , whether interested in health issues ( i.e. allergies , insomnia , etc. ) or concerned over their quality of life as it profoundly affects our daily performance . Who can afford to be sleep deprived and function in any work capacity ? Compromised sleep is only part of the concern . The overall impact of chemical exposure is a long-term issue for which the side effects contribute to the increase or decrease in health status over time . Chronic exposure to chemicals is known to adversely affect psychobiological homeostasis . Chemical exposure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disclosed on the label . These include polyester-cotton blends used for " ticking , " vinyl ( Pvc made from vinyl chloride monomer ) for water resistance , most notably used on both hospital and children 's bedding , Dacron polyester ( a polymer polyester ) for batting and urethane foam ( made from polyol and TDI or toluene diisocyanate ) , to name a few . Next time you shop for a mattress , check with the sales person for a disclosure sheet itemizing the ingredients and listing their potential health hazards . The list ( if you can obtain one ) should inform you that TDI or toluene ( a classified human carcinogen ) exposure can incite pulmonary problems ( i.e. bronchitis ) and asthma . Liver damage , blood disorders and breathing problems have been known to be associated with vinyl chloride monomers , another known human carcinogen . Boric acid is a multipurpose roach powder and is used as a fire retardant . Yet , chronic exposure has been associated with reproductive , liver and kidney problems . The issue of " chronic " exposures is signif @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ homeostasis until your body reaches it 's saturation point , beyond which it can not sustain additional chemical assaults . Then it can not sustain another chemical assault . We operate on overload and then wonder why we are sick . The escalating cumulative chemical levels incurred in today 's industrialized society is at the heart of the health issue . There is no efficient way to assess individually every person 's psychobiochemcial threshold . Why test the waters when prevention and knowledge can do wonders to change and minimize the risk factors ? Given the fact that we do largely control the furnishings and attire we place in our bedrooms , it is well worth considering modifications that create a healthy , environmentally  --  safe bedroom . The Alternatives The simplest place to begin modifying the bedroom environment is by eliminating and uncluttering all items unrelated to sleep . This is a bedroom , not a work room . Reduce your toxic load by reducing the toxic input . This includes books , magazines , music , radios , scented candles , perfumes ( another source of chemical pollution ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allow fresh air into the room rather than relying on alternating heat and cooling systems . You ca n't duplicate nature 's provision for fresh air . Allergy sufferers , however , must take note as certain areas with high pollen counts make it necessary to be cautious about inviting outdoor air quality indoors . Also , some neighborhoods are subject to periodic pesticide spraying for mosquitoes and other insects , an all too common practice indiscriminately exposing the public to chemical assault . Assess your immediate living quarters to determine the wisest choice to make regarding filtered or fresh air . Minimal furnishings and minimal distractions should be a priority for creating a resting ambience . Cluttering the room only adds stress and more input for the brain to process . Focus on creating simple lines , simple furnishings and incorporate breathable natural fiber bedding that cradles the body while allowing it to respirate and sleep soundly , free from distractions and noise pollution . When possible remove carpeting , as it is a major source of chemical input , unless you have secured some of the unique and beautiful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flooring is ideal especially for those sensitive to carpeting of any kind . Both types of flooring are easily maintained with a quick damp mop using white vinegar and water . You can always use cotton or sisal throw rugs in the room , which require minimal maintenance . Try to furnish the room with all wood furniture , avoiding the health hazards of particle board materials that emit formaldehyde , among other chemicals , over time . Safer paints ( low or no vocs ) and floor finishes are now available as are furniture cleaners and polishes ( or try using a lamb 's wool duster ) . Keep a few beeswax candles or an olive oil lamp handy in case of a power outage . Finally consider the virtues , comfort and health-giving benefits of natural bedding from mattresses to pillows and wrap yourself in nature 's finest materials . Natural bedding materials such as untreated cotton and wool are traditionally used in many countries for comfort , insulation and breathability . Such materials ventilate and dissipate body heat better than synthetics or down feathers . // Natural bedding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ durable and respectful towards sustainable agriculture , free of defoliants , herbicides , pesticides , fluorocarbons and formaldehyde . Natural bedding contains no irritants , no foams , plastics or polyesters that break down and compress over time . Ideally , a " blend " or combination of natural cotton and wool complement one another for bedding materials since wool handles body moisture efficiently and maintains it 's resiliency ( loft ) better than cotton alone . Wool is nature 's ideal insulator with additional benefits : it is naturally mildew resistant . It provides an ideal microclimate ( sensitive to body temperature ) , keeping one cooler in summer and warmer in winter . European studies have determined a sleeper 's heart rate and humidity next to the skin is lower under a wool comforter than a down or synthetic-filled comforter . Considering a pint of water vapor is emitted during an eight-hour sleep cycle , wool provides the " wicking " action that keeps the skin dry instead of wet and clammy . It is the synergistic action between the fiber/air combination of the wool-fiber batting structures that cushion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flame resistant , eliminating the need for fire retardants-one less chemical to contend with . Contrast wool with wearing a parka windbreaker outdoors in the cold to provide insulation and you 'll have a clear picture of insulators that hold in moisture versus those that " breathe , " allowing moisture to dissipate . Few people realize the allergenicity , purity and quality of wool is influenced by agricultural practices and processing methods , both of which emphasize avoidance of chemicals . Chemical-free wool is raised by ranchers practicing responsible land management ( avoiding use of pesticides , herbicides and defoliants ) . Processing the wool involves adhering to meticulous inspection ( i.e. pests , dirt and length ) and hygiene practices which eliminate the need for chemical treatments ( i.e. carbonizing wool ) . Hot water and biodegradable soap are used to wash the wool . Only top-quality wool is then hand selected for " carding " ( a process of combing wool into batts used for bedding ) . " Clean shearing produces clean wool , " according to one natural bedding manufacturer . Given the versatility , tensile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material provides comfort for the most discriminating consumer . Not only is wool the most breathable fiber on the planet but contrary to popular notion that wool is only a warming or insulating material , the Saharan Bedouins wear wool to keep themselves cool , demonstrating its inherent temperature modulating properties . A combination of naturally versus commercially grown cotton and wool provide the basic materials for the bedroom with an array of bedding supplies comparable to many traditional products . These include pillows , comforters , mattresses/box springs , futons , mattress pads , " toppers " ( similar to a conventional feather bed ) and crib bedding . Variations in firmness and styles are available to accommodate individual taste . Natural latex made from the hevea brasiliensis or rubber tree is another breathable material suitable for allergy-prone individuals or those with multiple aches and pains that require pressure relief and back support . Natural bedding alternatives use the best of all three worlds in combining cotton , latex and natural wool . Noteworthy is latex 's anti-microbial and dust mite resistance . Combine these virtues with latex 's breathability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air while you sleep . Final Thought The toxicity of conventional sleeping surfaces , combined with other environmental factors in the bedroom , are at the heart of many health disorders . While we often associate insomnia and headaches with life 's stresses like job , family or finances , pesticide and chemical exposure are overlooked . When we suffer with sinusitis , bronchitis , allergies and chronic fatigue , we have exceeded our individual biochemical 11 threshold . " Consequently symptoms surface alerting us to potential health problems , if the causes are not determined and rectified . Tolerance to chemicals is highly individualized , influenced by our adaptational responses to " stressors . " Minimizing our health risks from chemical exposures is easier to resolve when we know the contents of frequently used products , their potential health hazards and viable health alternatives that reduce rather than increase our health risks . This is the best natural " prescription " for a healthy home , providing the most optimal environment for health and healing . Symptoms are a blessing in disguise . They usually precede the onset of disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The simplest method of delineating the source of our problem is to check our immediate environment both internally and externally for sources of pollution . Consider everything from food to bedding and you 'll find the list is chock-full of potential incitants . Bedding is not a total solution but a significant part of the resolution to maintaining a healthy environment and reducing our toxic load . Reference References : The Healthy Home , Linda Mason Hunter , Simon &; Schuster Inc. , NY , 1989 . Nontoxic &; Natural Debra Lynn Dadd , Jeremy P Tarcher Inc. , CA , 1984 . The New Natural House Book , David Pearson , Simon &; Schuster , NY , 1989 . The Physiology of Stress , Mary E Asterita , Human Sciences Press , Inc . NY , 1985 . Freedom From Chronic Disease , Arthur L. Kaslo and Richard B. Miles , Jeremy P. Tarcher , Inc. , CA , 1979 . Author Affiliation by Tina Wellman , Ph.D. , PNE Author Affiliation For further information you may contact Dr. Tina Wellman at ECS Distributors , phone 817-652-3792 fax 817-652-1543 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 