@@426173

Austria 's red deer feast on handouts and live half the year in fenced enclosures . Can they still fend for themselves ? // My first encounter with a rare herd of red deer wintering in the Austrian Alps came after a four-hour ascent on skis through snowed-in forests and steep terrain . The reward for my exertion was a perfect view of 160 animals , whose dark-brown bodies stood out sharply against the snow-covered pasture that spread before me . They picked their way across the concave meadow , grazing on odd bits of weathered vegetation that poked through the windswept snow . The sun shone in a glorious blue sky , while an icy wind whistled through the gaps in a pile of boulders behind which I had sought refuge . From that vantage , I could see another large herd loitering in the wintry meadows that rose on the far side of the valley , a mile away . My search for red deer had been prompted by the tales of elderly hunters . Herds of several hundred animals , the hunters told me , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet by the time I began my quest , it was widely assumed that the alpine pastures had become summer-only grazing grounds . Come autumn the herds all supposedly descended to lower elevations for the shorter winters and the more plentiful food . Even more at variance with prevailing opinion was that any herd still lived completely independent of human care . Under Austria 's game-management program , red deer are supplied with hearty meals throughout the winter-often inside fenced enclosures . So entrenched was the belief in the necessity of that program to the deer 's survival that several experienced hunters had tried to convince me that what I was seeking was absurd . A large herd could not winter above timberline without supplemental food . And yet , there they were . But twenty years have now passed since that day , still so vivid in my mind . In 1985 I was just beginning four seasons of fieldwork for my doctoral dissertation in biology , studying survival mechanisms in one of the last of the wild alpine herds . When I returned to the alpine meadows ten years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a few scattered individuals . It was n't the harsh winters that had overcome this remnant wild population , but the very management regimen intended to ensure the species ' survival and abundance . High above tree line , this renegade group had survived nicely on a diet of heather , trailing azalea , tufted hair grass , and the leaves and stems of cowberries and blueberries . The wild herd had avoided the winter feeding stations that pepper the Austrian Alps , and the enclosures where most red deer spend more than half the year . For its insubordination , most of the wild herd was culled in the 1990s-standard practice for deer that decline to be " civilized . " Today only 5 percent of Austria 's red-deer population survives without any supplemental feed . The goal of Austria 's red-deer-management scheme-among the world 's most intensive-is to keep deer populations large enough to guarantee hunting success without damaging commercial forests or farms . The objective is a worthy one , to be sure . But the program 's sheer intensity has tamed the entire hunting endeavor ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primeval pursuit of prey . And in truth , it also threatens the long-term stability of red-deer populations . The red deer ( Cervus elaplms ) has been the principal game animal in central Europe since the Bronze Age . Deer are abundant , gather in sizable herds , and are large enough to yield about 120 pounds of venison apiece . Hunters have long striven to influence the red-deer populations and the predictability of the animals ' movements . By the twelfth century A.D. , landowners distributed salt licks to attract deer , a technique so effective that the emperors subsequently forbade it except on sovereign hunting grounds . By 1500 , landowners were putting out hay to attract deer , augment their numbers , and lower their losses in severe winters . To this day , supplemental feeding remains the hunters ' most powerful management tool . As firearms became increasingly available in the seventeenth century , noble hunters flaunted their marksmanship by shooting as many animals as possible . By the early twentieth century , hunters became interested in the quality-and particularly , the size of the antlers-of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sesame , with equal parts calcium and phosphorus , to promote antler growth . In 1910 , at the First International Hunting Exhibition in Vienna , the term antler was replaced with trophy , a word that , until then , had been reserved for describing the spoils of war . Competitive trophy measurements were standardized in 1927 , and a big , heavy , many-pointed rack mounted on a hunter 's wall became a status symbol . Thus began the craze for antler size that persists to this day . When Austria became part of the German Reich in 1938 , German hunting laws were imposed . Hunters were required to provide the deer with supplementary food in winter . The intent was to redirect some of the hunters ' energy from shooting game to caring for it , thereby preserving enough game to satisfy increasing numbers of hunters . Hunters have happily complied with those laws ever since . By the 195Os , as the Austrian economy was recovering from the second World War , the duration , frequency , and abundance of winter feeding took off . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a relentless propensity to munch crops , strip bark , and browse new tree growth . Associations of exasperated farmers and foresters established zones from which the red deer were excluded through intensive hunting . These no-deer zones increasingly restricted the animals to forested , mountainous regions , where supplemental winter feed kept them from migrating to lower-elevation farmland . As for many hunters , their goal for the deer can be summed up in a simple motto : " Stuffed-alive and dead . " Today 's red deer dine lavishly for as many as nine months of the year , from early autumn until late spring . The feeding stations dole out a buffet of high-energy feed that may include apples , bran , corn , grain , hay , oilseed pellets , silage , and turnips , along with minerals , sugar licks , worm treatments , and commercial supplements to increase antler size . What deer could resist ? Of course , providing such a rich diet is expensive . In western Austria , where red deer are supplemented for about 180 days a year , costs average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a trophy stag can fetch as much as $18,000 for the landowner selling the right to hunt it , the investment in feeding may pay off . In spite of their disagreements , Austrian farmers , foresters , hunters , and the public alike all seem to share the same erroneous belief about red deer : their survival depends on supplemental feeding . The main reasons cited are that deer have lost their winter habitat to human development , and that settlements and highways have disrupted their migration routes between the high altitudes of summer and the forested river valleys of autumn . That argument is certainly valid for some populations . By and large , though , feeding was as much the cause of the disruption of historic migration patterns as it was a response to it . Often feeding was done on the upper forested slopes expressly to break the cycle of migration and to keep deer on higher-elevation hunting grounds throughout the long hunting season . Moreover , winter feeding is hardly necessary for the survival of the species : red deer are remarkably well adapted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day , various physiological systems cooperate to reduce the deer 's need to eat in winter . The rumen , or first division of the deer 's stomach , contracts . Less blood circulates to the digestive tract . The salivary glands shrink . As the animal takes in fewer calories , its body temperature falls , and its metabolism , heart rate , and activity slow to reduce the energy expenditure by more than 17 percent . When red deer are not restricted by an enclosure or a feeding station , they choose a winter habitat where they can survive food shortages through their various adaptations . Even in winter , natural forage is available around the clock , both in lowland areas near riverbanks and in alpine habitats . Such free-ranging animals follow their own feeding rhythms , which maintain an optimum environment in the rumen for microorganisms that aid digestion . The feeding itself often makes feeding necessary . Feeding stations are typically situated for easy access by the manager , often in forested mountain valleys near roads . They draw the deer into a cold , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide enough natural vegetation to sustain them through the winter . But the deer come for the smorgasbord , and they can come to depend on it . Foodsupplemented red deer show less reduction in winter heart rate than wild deer do , and no decline in body temperature . With their engines running nearly full speed , they can not slow down to winter pace on short notice . If , for instance , an avalanche blocks the roads , cutting off the feed supply for a few days , the deer simply go hungry . Ironically , then , foodsupplemented red deer are at greater risk of starvation than naturally wintering herds . Still , feeding stations are only half of the management picture . By the 1970s , more than twenty fat years of winter deer-feeding had left their mark on the forests-and upland commercial forests in particular . Stuffed with minerals and protein , foodsupplemented herds searching for dietary fiber stripped tree bark and chomped twigs aggressively . Because rejuvenating forests offered dense foliage , heavy hunting during the long hunting season ( from July through January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , compounding the problem . Individual trees had to be protected or entire plantations fenced off . Foresters labeled red deer a pest species and called for dramatic reductions in their numbers . In response , hunters took the next logical step , and fenced in some of the upslope feeding sites . That tactic kept red deer out of the downslope woods until late spring , when the new growth hardens off . Today a network of feeding stations and enclosures covers most of the red deer 's range . In some parts of Styria , Austria 's most intensely managed province , there is one winter enclosure , on average , for every twenty square miles of territory , and one feeding station for every six square miles . In some areas the density of feeding stations is more than twice that high . Each enclosure encompasses some fifty to seventy-five acres , usually including a few small pastures and stands of trees . Feeding inside the enclosures starts in late September or in October . The gates close in mid-winter , when most red deer are inside , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deer has reduced the damage to adjacent forests , but only because red deer that do not enter are culled . Many a deer in the " wild " herds has paid with its life for this management measure . Although deer feeding is common throughout Europe , by far the most intense feeding programs are in Austria , Germany , and Hungary . Only those three nations require deer feeding by law , andno coincidence-they also have the highest deer populations and densities in continental Europe . Between 1950 and 2004 , Austria 's red-deer population nearly quadrupled , from 40,000 to 150,000 individuals . Winter feeding has lowered mortality among calves and old males-the herd members most vulnerable to harsh winters-and raised birth rates among yearling hinds ( as the female deer are called ) . The feeding program has also been spectacularly successful in increasing the size of antlers . All achievements come at a price , however . The most important consequence of the program is that red deer have abandoned seasonal migrations and lost traditional knowledge of their natural winter ranges , perhaps irretrievably . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unsuitable habitat where they could not survive naturally in winter . Austria 's management program has other negative consequences , as well . Some evidence suggests that feeding sites , where deer gather in large numbers , may promote transmission of diseases and parasites . Furthermore , the competition for food at the feeding stations is paradoxically higher than it is in the wild . Normally , red deer spend November through September in segregated herds , the mature males in one herd , the hinds and youngsters in another . But at feeding stations the sexes mix , and the males inevitably dominate at the troughs , causing much social stress . Finally , when deer populations fluctuated more naturally , the native vegetation on which they fed may have had more time to regenerate before the herd passed by again . For better or worse , the constant winter food supply also affects population dynamics by blunting the effects of natural selection . For naturally foraging red deer , winter and spring weather has a lasting effect on the weight , survival , and lifetime breeding success of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provides pregnant mothers with abundant , high-quality food , and they bear strong , healthy calves . Bad weather has the opposite effect . For food-supplemented herds , however , the weather has little effect on calves ' and yearlings ' body weight . To take one example , consider what the data show about the annual variation in the average body weight of individuals of a given age . Because the quantity and quality of food remain roughly the same over time , the variation is less from year to year among the food-supplemented deer than it is among the deer that survive on their own . Furthermore , because abundant food helps lowweight calves survive winters that would otherwise kill them , supplemental feeding also increases variation within the herd . In food-supplemented herds , red deer all born in the same year show 60 percent more variation in body weight than do the deer in nonsupplemented herds . Whether the dampening of natural selection affects other population dynamics is a question for further study . Ultimately , it seems , hunters and foresters are more dependent on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The feeding program is critical to keeping hunters and foresters happy with large red-deer populations that do not interfere with timber . And yet , Austria 's management program has created a population of predictable red deer . The hunters ' romantic image of themselves as top predators in the wilderness has become a bit ridiculous . Such intensive management kills the wildness in wildlife-and slays the spirit of hunting . The answer is not to eliminate the management regimen all at once . That would immediately result in heavy losses of deer to starvation and severe damage to forests . There are simply too many deer and too many human interests to return to a totally unmanaged state of affairs . In the long term , though , a gradual shift to forestry practices that promote stands more closely resembling native forests would ease the way to a more natural balance . Such forests have thriving understories that provide natural forage for deer , and trees ranging broadly in age , making the forest as a whole less vulnerable to browsing . Realizing that vision , however , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from their sport by reviving the main thrill of hunting : unpredictability . Sidebar Red deer forage at a winter feeding station in the Austrian Alps ( above ) . Game managers provide plentiful meals at such stations for as many as nine months of the year . In some areas the stations stand within fenced enclosures , where deer are confined for about half the year . The system is intended to keep deer abundant and healthy for hunters , while preventing them from browsing on commercial forests . Sidebar Small group of red-deer hinds and young stags traverses an alpine meadow in winter . In the past , large herds of several hundred red deer lived in this seemingly sparse environment year-round . Sidebar Red-deer habitat and traditional migration patterns are depicted in the composite schematic image of an Austrian alpine valley . In years past , most red deer summered in pastures above tree line ( broken red line ) and wintered in forested valleys-though some populations lived year-round in the upper mountains . Today , feeding stations and enclosures keep most red deer in mid-elevation forests during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pockets on valley floors , where a few deer still find shelter in winter . Sidebar Ultimately , hunters and foresters are more dependent on the supplemental feeding of the red deer than the deer are themselves . // <p>                     