@@389190

Headnote How bacterial communities in the body influence human health In the womb , a fetus enjoys the protection of a sterile environment . Only when the mother 's amniotic sac ruptures before delivery does her baby face microbes for the first time . As he 's squeezed through the birth canal , he picks up millions of bacteria from his mother . Most of the microbes are friendly and quickly take up residence on the baby 's skin and in his gastrointestinal tract . The bacteria not only persist but also form complex communities throughout the newborn 's body that will aid in his general well-being throughout life . The body 's microbes play a critical role in digesting food , metabolizing drugs , and maintaining overall health . In fact , in every person 's body , there are 10 times as many microbial cells as there are human cells . " The microbial part of ourselves is highly evolved , " says Jeffrey Gordon , a microbiologist at Washington University in St. Louis . " These organisms have learned to adapt to life with us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ microbiota has captured the attention of researchers working to understand not just health , but also diseases , particularly those lacking clear diagnoses or effective treatments . With new laboratory techniques , these researchers have begun to survey the microbial communities in the body . Several groups already report that disruptions in these communities are related to conditions including obesity , inflammatory bowel disease , vaginal infections , and gum disease . Scientists have long recognized that the body 's microbiota matters . In the 19th century , Louis Pasteur declared that normal microbes are important in human health and that their disruption can lead to disease . Until recently , however , scientists studying human-microbial populations had been hampered because the majority of such microbes ca n't be cultured in the lab . Now , researchers can extract DNA from a sample and rapidly identify thousands of bacterial species at once without having to grow each bug in a dish . New studies are also showing that microbes within a community work together to influence health , a finding that may have a large impact on conventional views of disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or absence of a single pathogen , " the real pathogenic agent is the collective , " says David Relman , an infectious-disease investigator at Stanford University . GUTTING IT OUT Washington University 's Gordon regards the gut as a bioreactor-something like a living septic tank that breaks down organic matter . The human gut is filled with microbes that interact with one another and their host in mutually beneficial ways ( SJW 5/31/03 , p. 344 ) . Several years ago . Gordon and his group conducted a series of experiments in which they transplanted microbial communitii 's from the guts of normal mice into mice reared in a sterile environment . The formerly germ-free mice began to accumulate fat in their tissues . The transplanted microbes not only permitted the mice to metabolize nutrients that would otherwise have been lost but also appeared to manipulate mouse genes in a way that increased the animals ' capacity to store fat , the team reported in 2004 . The researchers homed in on the gene for a protein called fasting-induced adipocyte factor , which is known to regulate energy storage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gut . The protein blocks lipoprotein lipase , an enzyme that controls the transfer of fat molecules from the blood into fat cells . In mice that had received the transplanted gut microbes , fasting-induced adipocvte factor was suppressed . This increased the lipase 's activity , resulting in more fat being stored . The results prompted Gordon and his colleagues to hypothesize that differences in gut-microbial communities might explain differences in how well people harvest energy from food and store it as fat . So , the group decided to compare the gut microbiota of lean and obese mice . " We saw this amazing , mindboggling shift in the relative representation of the two prineipal groups of bacteria that normally inhabit mammalian guts . " says Gordon . Those bacterial types are called Firmieutes and Bacteroidetes . The researchers identified the members of the animals ' gut microbial communities by sequencing a specific gene whose sequence varies from one species to the next . Researchers frequently use this gene , called the 16S ribosomal gene , as a mini-bar code for identifying bacteria . Mice bred to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proportion of Baeteroidetes than their lean counterparts did . The change was n't the result of one bacterial species taking over a group or of another species being suppressed . " Even-thing moved up or clown , " Gordon says . To determine how changes in the bacterial communities relate to the animals ' body weights , Gordon and his team transferred gut microbes from the obese and lean mice to germfree mice . The mice receiving gut bacteria from obese animals gained significantly more fat than did mice receiving gut microbes from lean animals , the team reported in the Dec. 21/28 , 2006 Nature . In a separate report published in the same issue , the researchers addressed whether a similar pattern exists in the human gut . The team studied 12 people who volunteered to be randomly assigned to either a low-calorie , fat-restricted diet or a low-calorie , carbohydrate-restricted diet . The researchers monitored changes in the volunteers ' gut-microbial commuties over the course of a year . Sure enough , as individuals of both groups lost weight , the proportion of Firmicutes in their guts rose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quick to point out that gut-microbial ecology is n't the only factor affecting body weight . Genetics and easy access to highcaloric foods play important roles . Still , the research suggests that microbial communities in the gut form alliances with one another as well as with their host , and that scientists will need to understand the entire community to understand obesity and many other complex conditions . Inflammatory bowel disease , for instance , is a perplexing spectrum of conditions that includes Crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis . In a preliminary ' study , Relman and his colleagues identified signs of altered microbial communities in people with Crohn 's disease . Using tissue samples obtained from the colons of about a dozen individuals , the researchers found that people with Crohn 's disease had more Escherichia coli Pseudomonas . and other microbes known as proteobaeteria than did people with ulcerative colitis or healthy individuals . However , the researchers still do n't know whether these microbes cause the disease and whether other microbes contribute to it . MICROBIAL SIGNS Microbial communities are not only critical to maintaining a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other parts of the body . David Fredricks , a microbiologist at the Fred Hutchison Cancer Research Center in Seattle , has been investigating a syndrome called bacterial vaginosis , a vaginal infection that affects 10 to 20 percent of women in the United States . " It 's a curious disease because we still do n't fully understand what causes it , " he says . Although doctors can treat the infection with antibiotics , the rate of relapse is high . About half of affected women will develop another infection within a year after treatment . In late 2005 , Fredricks and his colleagues described experiments in which they sampled vaginal fluid from women with and without bacterial vaginosis . Using the 16S ribosomal gene , the researchers identified 35 bacterial species associated with the syndrome . More than half of these species had never before been identified . Three strains in particular showed up in almost all patients with bacterial vaginosis and were rare in women free of the syndrome . Fredricks says that the findings support his hypothesis that bacterial vaginosis is " a disease by microbial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found together because they are metabolically interdependent . " These bacteria ca n't exist as single species , " he says . Fredricks " lab is currently monitoring a group of 30 women for changes in their vaginal flora over a month . The goal is to determine how women acquire bacterial vaginosis and how the microbial community causing the syndrome responds to antibiotics . Investigations of the human microbiota could also shed light on complex skin conditions such as psoriasis and eczema . At present , most researchers consider psoriasis to be caused by the immune system gone awry . But because human skin is home to a complex ecosystem of mostly unidentified bacteria , Martin Blaser , a microbiologist at the New York University School of Medicine , suggests that microbes are involved . " The field of investigative dermatology has almost completely ignored the role of microbes , " he says . To demonstrate the complexity of the skin 's microbiota , Blaser 's group analyzed skin swabs taken from the inner forearms of six healthy people . Reporting in the Feb. 20 Proceedings of the National Academy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Each person showed a unique microbial makeup-only four species of bacteria were found in all six participants , and each participant aimed an average of 48 species . The results offer a first glimpse of the diverse array of microbial species inhabiting healthy skin , Blaser says . The researchers resampled four of the participants 8 to 10 months later and found many of the microbes previously identified along with 65 new bacterial species . All the volunteers had retained some of their previous microbial residents and had acquired new ones . The result suggests that each individual 's skin harbors both a core set of microbes and a group of transient members . Blaser 's lab is now examining people with psoriasis to see whether there 's a microbial signature for the skin disease . However , identifying individual species may be irrelevant in some cases of disease caused by microbial communities . " It might not matter who is there but rather what the collective is doing . " says Relman . For instance , he 's found that some people with severe gum disease liarbor an abundance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ properly classified as archaea , methanogcns live in the deep gaps between gums and teeth . But not everyone with severe gum disease hosts metbanogens . Other people 's afflicted mouths instead support large populations of hydrogen-consuming bacteria called treponemes . Hydrogen is a by-product of fermentation in oxygen-deprived environments , such as the tooth-gum gaps , and it also limits growth among hydrogen-producing microbes . Relman says that through a behavior called syntropy , the hydrogen-consuming microbes-whether methanogens or treponemes - work together with the other microbes to stabilize the microbial community and keep it going . Similarly , Gordon 's group found that two common species of gut microbes work together to boost fat storage in germ-free mice ( SN : 6/17/06 , p. 373 ) . These observations reinforce the notion that to develop new medical therapies , researchers will need to consider all the interacting members of a microbial population . HUMAN GENOME II As they delve deeper into this area , scientists expect to find great variation in the composition of microbial communities that inhabit different parts of the body . The skin microbes on a person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back , and the microbial communities in the colon most likely differ from those that inhabit the small intestine , the stomach , and the esophagus . Considering that the gastrointestinal tract is 6.5 meters long and contains up to 100 trillion microbes representing 1,000 different species , " we have our work cut out for us for a while , " says Gordon . Improvements in DNA-sequencing technology and computational tools are accelerating the pace of research . Last year , a group of scientists led by University of Buffalo ( N.Y. ) microbiologist Steven Gill and including Gordon and Relman completed the first survey of the microbial genes in the human colon . In samples from two healthy adults , the team tallied more than 60,000 genes . The researchers reported their findings in the June 2 , 2006 Science . Rather than isolating each microbe and sequencing its entire genome , the researchers treated the microbial community as a collective with a single genome . The team analyzed all the microbial genes present without regard to any single gene 's cell of origin . Called metagenomics , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but instead describes the metabolic activities going on within a microbial community . These activities include energy conversion and the transport and break down of carbohydrates and amino acids . Scientists have been using metagenomics for several years to describe microbial communities in soil and in the ocean . Only recently have they started applying the technique to the microbiota in people . The National Institutes of Health is considering a Human Microbiome Project-an extension of the Human Genome Project-that would create a genetic inventory of the microbial communities inhabiting the body 's major niches , such as the mouth , vagina , skin , and intestinal tract . This spring , NIH is expected to decide whether to proceed with the project . The Human Genome Project was an international effort that took 13 years to complete . A survey of the entire microbiota of a person would be an even more formidable undertaking . " In any one human , there are a hundred times as many microbial genes as there are human genes , " says Relman . Furthermore , microbial communities may vary significantly over small distances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Relman has found that a community 's membership changes from one part of a person 's mouth to another . There are differences between the front and back sides of teeth , he says , between the gum pockets of two adjacent teeth . To further complicate matters , different people harbor different collections of microbes . Researchers will have to focus on the microbiota within an individual and within groups of individuals . " I think this is a global project in many senses of the word , " says Gordon . Ideally , researchers would survey microbes from people living in different ecosystems and under different socioeconomic conditions , he says . The knowledge derived from such investigations could have an enormous impact not only on understanding human health and disease hut also on the development of new therapies . Take , for instance , the chemical signals that microbes in the gut might use to manipulate human genes . " These chemicals then become potential components of a 21st-century medicine cabinet , " says Gordon . Alternatively , pharmaceutical companies could develop drugs that target specific bacterial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its normal state . Ultimately , says Gordon , " we will have a broader view of ourselves as a life form , as a composite of different species . " Sidebar " In anyone human , there are a hundred times as many microbial genes as there are human genes . " - DAVID RELMAN , STANFORD UNIVERSITY Sidebar INTESTINAL INSIGHTS - The bacterium Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron is a prominent member of the diverse community of microorganisms that inhabit the human gut . In collaboration with other microbes , these natural symbionts boost the gut 's efficiency in extracting calories from food and storing them as fat . Sidebar " We will have a broader view of ourselves as a life form . " - JEFFREY GORDON , WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY <p>                     