@@374186

When the Federal Government refused to back troubled United Airlines ' request for $1.8 billion in aid last week , executives at Continental Airlines and Northwest Airlines must have patted themselves on the back . In an unusual display of ganging up on one of their own , the two carriers had for months aggressively and publicly lobbied against the payout . But now the carriers , along with Delta Airlines , are pushing to form an unprecedented three-way alliance that is causing even more consternation among their competitors . The three airlines have asked the Department of Transportation ( DOT ) to rapidly approve the alliance , which would allow the carriers to " code-share " on domestic flights , make interchangeable their frequent-flyer programs and combine sales and marketing operations . The DOT allowed a similar deal between United and US Airways , but this one would be even larger , accounting for more than 35% of the U.S. air-travel market . <P> The proposal is being fiercely opposed by seven smaller carriers , including such moneymakers as Southwest , JetBlue and AirTran , which have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such alliances give too much market power to the large carriers and could drive smaller ones out of business and hurt consumers . Says Southwest CEO Jim Parker : " This alliance is really a de facto merger that is likely to result in less competition and higher prices . " Airline observers are also concerned about how the DOT is reviewing the deal . Unusually , for a case with such large implications for U.S. travelers , the department has refused to open the matter fully for public consideration and has not made key documents available on its website , as it does for most other such matters . The department says it is conducting an informal review and that appropriate papers are available to the public . The small carriers made their case directly to Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta last month . Mineta will probably rule by the end of the year .  --  By Sally B. Donnelly                     