@@364459

Charlie Brown tried to kick a football for the first time in November 1951 . He ran , his tongue out to show his determination , and then ... disaster . In the final frame , his tormentor stands over his supine form . But it 's not Lucy ; it 's Violet . Where 's Lucy ? And who , for that matter , is Violet ? <P> Little anomalies like that are among the many pleasures of The Complete Peanuts ( Fantagraphics ; 343 pages ) , the initial volume of an extraordinary publishing project that over the next 12 years will reprint the entire run  --  50 years and 18,170 strips  --  of Charles Schulz 's towering comic-strip masterpiece . The Complete Peanuts will eventually take up 25 gorgeous hardcover books and include hundreds of strips that have n't been seen since the day they appeared in newsprint . The first volume ( 1950-52 ) confronts us afresh with what a brilliant , truly modern and totally weird idea it was to create a comic strip about a chronically depressed child . <P> The name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never seen the strip , and Schulz always hated it . ( " It 's totally ridiculous , has no meaning , is simply confusing , and has no dignity , " he fumes in a frank , funny 1987 interview reprinted in the book . ) He was n't wild about The Complete Peanuts either . He thought his early work was crude , and he did n't especially want to see it reprinted . But his wife Jean disagreed , and after his death in 2000 she worked with an editor at Fantagraphics to pull the collection together . " Unlike Sparky , the rest of his family loves those old strips , " she says ( apparently everybody called Schulz Sparky ) . " To me , what 's happening here is we 're getting back to the comic strip  --  the simplicity , the black and whiteness of it . For some people , the animation is more real than the comic strip , but the comic is what is truly him . " She 's right . To read The Complete Peanuts is to forget that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Schulz was right too . The early comics are crude , but that 's what makes them fascinating . Back then , Lucy is still a toddler , as are Schroeder and Linus , and Snoopy is a puppy . Charlie Brown 's best friend is named Shermy , and they spend most of their time with a blond named Patty ( not Peppermint ) and cruel Violet , a winsome brunet who gets a lot of semifunny gags involving mud pies . Charlie Brown is more into golf than baseball , and he says , " Great Scott ! " , not " Good Grief ! " His personality is different too . He 's more of a mischievous prankster ; he can often be seen scampering off in the last frame with a punk 'd victim in hot pursuit . Once or twice Schulz even breaks one of the cardinal rules of Peanuts : he lets us hear the voice of an adult .                     