@@425038

Today 's " Mega-cities " are Overcrowded and Environmentally Stressed Photograph Photograph // We take big cities for granted today , but they are a relatively recent phenomenon . Most of human history concerns rural people making a living from the land . But the world is rapidly urbanizing , and its not at all clear that our planet has the resources to cope with this relentless trend . And , unfortunately , most of the growth is occurring in urban centers illequipped for the pace of change . You 've heard of the " birth dearth " ? It 's bypassing Dhaka , Mumbai , Mexico City and Lagos , cities that are adding population as many of their western counterparts contract . The world ' first cities grew up in what is now Iraq , on the plains of Mesopotamia near the banks of the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers . The first city in the world to have more than one million people was Rome at the height of its Empire in 5 A.D. At that time , world population was only 170 million . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed its own sophisticated sanitation and traffic management systems , as well as aqueducts , multi-story low-income housing and even suburbs , but after it fell in 410 A.D. it would be 17 centuries before any metropolitan area had that many people . The first large city in the modern era was Beijing , which surpassed one million population around 1800 , followed soon after by New York and London . But at that time city life was the exception ; only three percent of the world 's population lived in urban areas in 1800 . The rise of manufacturing spurred relocation to urban centers from the 19th through the early 20th century . The cities had the jobs , and new arrivals from the countryside provided the factories with cheap , plentiful labor . But the cities were also unhealthy places to live because of crowded conditions , poor sanitation and the rapid transmission of infectious disease . As the Population Reference Bureau reports , deaths exceeded births in many large European cities until the middle of the 19th century . Populations grew , then , by continuing waves of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World to Third In the first half of the 20th century , the fastest urban growth was in western cities . New York , London and other First World capitals were magnets for immigration and job opportunity . In 1950 , New York , London , Tokyo and Paris boasted of having the world 's largest metropolitan populations . ( Also in the top 10 were Moscow , Chicago and the German city of Essen . ) By then , New York had already become the first " megacity , " with more than 10 million people . It would not hold on to such exclusivity for long . In the postwar period , many large American cities lost population as manufacturing fled overseas and returning soldiers taking advantage of the GI Bill fueled the process of suburbanization . Crime was also a factor . As an example , riot-torn Detroit lost 800,000 people between 1950 and 1996 , and its population declined 33.9 percent between 1970 and 1996 . Midwestern cities were particularly hard-hit . St. Louis , for instance , lost more than half its population in the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as did Buffalo , Cincinnati , Minneapolis and many other large cities , emerging as regional players rather than world leaders . Meanwhile , while many American cities shrank , population around the world was growing dramatically . In the 20th century , world population increased from 1.65 billion to six billion . The highest rate of growth was in the late 1960s , when 80 million people were added every year . According to the " World Population Data Sheet , " global population will rise 46 percent between now and 2050 to about nine billion . While developed countries are losing population because of falling birth rates and carefully controlled immigration rates ( only the U.S. reverses this trend , with 45 percent growth to 422 million predicted by 2050 ) , population is exploding in the developing world . India 's population will likely grow 52 percent to 1.6 billion by 2050 , when it will surpass China as the world s most populous country . The population in neighboring Pakistan will grow to 349 million , up 134 percent in 2050 . Triple-digit growth rates also are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ double in population to 1.9 billion by 2050 . These growth rates hold despite the world 's highest rates of AIDS infection , and despite civil wars , famines and other factors . Despite strife in the Congo , it could triple to 181 million by 2050 , while Nigeria doubles to 307 million . Big Cities Get Bigger-and Poorer According to a 1994 UN report , 1.7 billion of the world 's 2.5 billion urban dwellers were then living in less-developed nations , which were also home to two thirds of the world 's mega-cities . The trend is rapidly accelerating . People and the Planet reports that by 2007,3.2 billion people-a number larger than the entire global population of 1967-will live in cities . Developing countries will absorb nearly all of the world 's population increases between today and 2030 . The estimated urban growth rate of 1.8 percent for the period between 2000 and 2030 will double the number of city dwellers . Meanwhile , rural populations are growing scarcely at all . Also by 2030 , more than half of all Asians and Africans will live in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that time be 84 percent urban , a level comparable to the U.S. As urban population grows , rural populations will shrink . Asia is projected to lose 26 million rural dwellers between 2000 and 2030 . For many internal migrants , cities offer more hope of a job and better health care and educational opportunities . In many cases , they are home to an overwhelming percentage of a country 's wealth . ( Mexico City , for example , produces about 30 percent of Mexico 's total Gross Domestic Product . ) Marina Lupina , a Manila , Philippines resident , told People and the Planet that she and her two children endure the conditions of city living ( inhabiting a shack made from discarded wood and cardboard next to a fetid , refuse-choked canal ) because she can earn $2 to $3 a day selling recycled cloth , compared to 50 cents as a farm laborer in the rural areas . " My girls will have a better life than I had , " she says . " That 's the main reason I came to Manila . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this will lead to rapidly changing population levels in the world 's cities , and emerging giants whose future preeminence can now only be guessed . " By 2050 , an estimated two-thirds of the world 's population will live in urban areas , imposing even more pressure on the space infrastructure and resources of cities , leading to social disintegration and horrific urban poverty , " says Werner Fornos , president of the Washington-based Population Institute . Today , the most populous city is Tokyo ( 26.5 million people in 2001 ) , followed by Sao Paulo ( 18.3 million ) , Mexico City ( 18.3 million ) , New York ( 16.8 million ) and Bombay/Mumbai ( 16.5 million ) . But by 2015 this list will change , with Tokyo remaining the largest city ( then with 27.2 million ) , followed by Dhaka ( Bangladesh ) , Mumbai , Sao Paulo , New Delhi and Mexico City ( each with more than 20 million ) . New York will have moved down to seventh place , followed by Jakarta , Calcutta , Karachi and Lagos ( all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which some mega-cities are growing has slowed . Thirty years ago , for instance , the UN projected Mexico City 's population would grow beyond 30 million by 2000 , but the actual figures are much lower . Other cities not growing as much as earlier seen are Rio de Janeiro , Calcutta , Cairo and Seoul , Korea . But against this development is the very rapid growth of many other cities ( in some cases , tenfold in 40 years ) such as Amman ( Jordan ) , Dar es Salaam ( Tanzania ) , Lagos and Nairobi . The rise of mega-cities , comments the Washington Post , " poses formidable challenges in health care and the environment , in both the developed and developing world . The urban poor in developing countries live in squalor unlike anything they left behind . . . In Caracas , more than half the total housing stock is squatter housing . In Bangkok , the regional economy is 2.1 percent smaller than it otherwise would be because of time lost in traffic jams . The mega-cities of the future pose huge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Photograph Chronic urban flooding is life-threatening for residents of a Jakarta housing complex . // In Cairo , Egypt , the rooftops of countless buildings are crowded with makeshift tents , snacks and mud shelters . It 's not uncommon to see a family cooking their breakfast over an open fire while businesspeople work in their cubicles below . The city 's housing shortage is so severe that thousands of Egyptians have moved into the massive historic cemetery known as the City of the Dead , where they hang clotheslines between tombs and sleep in mausoleums . By 2015 , there will be 33 mega-cities , 27 of them in the developing world . Although cities themselves occupy only two percent of the world 's land , they have a major environmental impact on a much wider area . London , for example , requires roughly 60 times its own area to supply its nine million inhabitants with food and forest products . Mega-cities are likely to be a drain on the Earth 's dwindling resources , while contributing mightily to environmental degradation themselves . The Mega-city Environment Mega-cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Health Organization ( WHO ) /United Nations Environment Programme ( UNEP ) study found that seven of the cities-Mexico City , Beijing , Cairo , Jakarta , Los Angeles , Sao Paulo and Moscow-had three or more pollutants that exceeded the WHO health protection guidelines . All 20 of the cities studied by WHO/UNEP had at least one major pollutant that exceeded established health limits . According to the World Resources Institute , " Millions of children living in the world 's largest cities , particularly in developing countries , are exposed to life-threatening air pollution two to eight times above the maximum WHO guidelines . Indeed , more than 80 percent of all deaths in developing countries attributable to air pollution-induced lung infections are among children under five . " In the big Asian mega-cities such as New Delhi , Beijing and Jakarta , approximately 20 to 30 percent of all respiratory disease stems from air pollution . Almost all of the mega-cities face major fresh water challenges . Johannesburg , South Africa is forced to draw water from highlands 370 miles away . In Bangkok , saltwater is making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem because of excessive groundwater withdrawal . More than a billion people , 20 percent of the world 's population , live without regular access to clean running water . While poor people are forced to pay exorbitant fees for private water , many cities squander their resources through leakages and illegal drainage . " With the population of cities expected to increase to five billion by 2025 , " says Klaus Toepfer , executive director of the UNEP , " the urban demand for water is set to increase exponentially . This means that any solution to the water crisis is closely linked to the governance of cities . " Mega-city residents , crowded into unsanitary slums , are also subject to serious disease outbreaks . Lima , Peru ( with population estimated at 9.4 million by 2015 ) suffered a cholera outbreak in the late 1990s partly because , as the New York Times reported , " Rural people new to Lima ... live in houses without running water and use the outhouses that dot the hillsides above . " Consumption of unsafe food and water subjects these people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at some of these emerging mega-cities in detail , because daily life there is likely to be the pattern for a majority of the world 's population . Most are already experiencing severe environmental problems that will only be exacerbated by rapid population increases . Our space-compromised list leaves out the largest European and American cities . These urban centers obviously face different challenges , among them high immigration rates ( see companion story ) : Jakarta , Indonesia A Yale University graduate student , who served as a college intern at the U.S. Embassy in Jakarta , brought back this account : " Directly adjacent to the Embassy 's high-rise office building was a muddy , trash-filled canal that children bathed in every morning . The view from the top floors was unforgettable : a layer of brown sky rising up to meet the blue-a veritable pollution horizon . In the distance the tips of skyscrapers stretched up out of the atmospheric cesspool below , like giant corporate snorkels . Without fresh air to breathe , my days were characterized by nausea and constant low-grade headaches . I went to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to start a career working with the environment . " Jakarta is one of the world 's fastest-growing cities . United Nations estimates put the city 's 1995 population at 11.5 million , a dramatic increase from only 530,000 in 1930 . Mohammad Dannisworo of the Bandung Institute of Technology ( ITB ) says 8.5 million people live within the city 's boundaries at night and an additional 5.5 million migrate via 2.5 million private cars , 3.8 million motorcycles and 255,000 public transportation vehicles into the city during the day . This daily parade of combustion engines clogs the city streets and thickens the air , making Jakarta the world 's third-most-polluted city after Bangkok and Mexico City . Rapid growth has become one of the capital city 's greatest challenges , as migrants continue to pour into Jakarta from the surrounding countryside in search of higher-paying jobs . An estimated 200,000 people come to the city looking for employment every year . In the face of such growth , the city has been unable to provide adequate housing , despite repeated attempts to launch urban improvement programs . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1980s , was initially highly successful in boosting living conditions for more than 3.5 million established migrants , but it has been unable to accommodate the persistent migrant influx . There is an acute housing shortage , with a demand for 200,000 new units a year unfulfilled . As Encarta describes it , " In the 1970s , efforts failed to control growth by prohibiting the entry of unemployed migrants . The current strategy emphasizes family planning , dispersing the population throughout the greater metropolitan region , and promoting transmigration ( the voluntary movement of families to Indonesia 's less-populated islands ) . Jakarta is a magnet for migrants ... During the late 1980s most were between the ages of 15 and 39 years , many with six years of education or less . " The UN reports that the city 's drinking water system is ineffective , leading 80 percent of Jakarta inhabitants to use underground water , which has become steadily depleted . In low-lying North Jakarta , groundwater depletion has caused serious land subsidence , making the area more vulnerable to flooding and allowing seawater from the Java @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Suyono Dikun , Deputy Minister for Infrastructure at the National Development Planning Board , more than 100 million people in Indonesia are living without proper access to clean water . Jakarta 's environment has been deteriorating rapidly , with serious air pollution and the lack of a waterborne sewer . Jakarta officials have only recently begun to acknowledge the source of over half of the city 's air pollution , and have begun to take action against automobile congestion . The Blue Skies Program , founded in 1996 , is dedicated to updating the city 's public and private transportation technology . The project 's successes to date include an increase in the percentage of vehicles meeting pollution standards , a near-complete phasing out of leaded gasoline , and an increase in the number of natural gas-fueled vehicles to 3,000 taxis , 500 passenger cars and 50 public buses . The Blue Skies Project is pushing Jakarta toward a complete natural gas conversion and is working towards the installation of dedicated filling stations , establishing a fleet of natural gas-fueled passenger busses , supplying conversion kits for gasoline-fueled cars , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its traffic problems and undertaken both small and large scale projects to alleviate the stresses of pollution and congestion . The city has launched a " threein-one " policy to encourage carpooling , demanding that every car on major thruways carry at least three passengers when passing through special zones from 4:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m . The city has also undertaken the construction of a nearly 17-mile monorail system . But if Jakarta really wants to alleviate its infrastructure problems , it has to work from within , says Gordon Feller of the California-based Urban Age Institute . " The mayor needs to create a partnership between the three sectors-the government , the local communities and the non-governmental agencies . The job of the mayor is to empower the independent innovators , not to co-opt or block them . " Dhaka , Bangladesh Dhaka had only 3.5 million people in 1951 ; now it has more than 13 million . The city has been gaining population at a rate of nearly seven percent a year since 1975 , and it will be the world 's second-largest city ( after Tokyo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report , " Dhaka city is beset with a number of socio-environmental problems . Traffic congestion , flooding , solid waste disposal , black smoke from vehicular and industrial emissions , air and noise pollution , and pollution of water bodies by industrial discharge .... Black smoke coming out from the discharge is intolerable to breathe , burning eyes and throats . The city dwellers are being slowly poisoned by lead concentration in the city air 10 times higher than the government safety limit . " Because of a heavy concentration of cars burning leaded gasoline , Dhaka 's children have one of the highest blood lead levels in the world . Almost 90 percent of primary school children tested had levels high enough to impair their developmental and learning abilities , according to a scientific study . Water pollution is already rampant . According to the Japanese report , " The river Buriganga flows by the side of the densely populated area of the old city . Dumping of waste to the river by ... industries is rather indiscriminate .... The indiscriminate discharge of domestic sewage , industrial effluents and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the point of water-environment degradation . " Nearly half of all Bangladeshis live below the poverty line , able only to glance at the gleaming new malls built in Dhaka . Urbanization and the pressures of poverty are severely stressing the country 's once-abundant natural resources . According to U.S. Aid for International Development ( USAID ) , " Pressures on Bangladesh 's biological resources are intense and growing . " They include : Photograph // * Poor management of aquatic and terrestrial resources ; * Population growth ; * Overuse of resources ; * Unplanned building projects ; and * Expansion of agriculture onto less-productive lands , creating erosion and runoff , among other by-products . Bangladesh 's expanding population destroys critical habitats , reports USAID , causing a decrease in biodiversity . Most of Bangladesh 's tropical forests and almost all of the freshwater floodplains have been negatively affected by human activities . But despite all the negatives , there is a growing environmental movement in Bangladesh that is working to save Dhaka 's natural resources . The Bangladesh Environmental Network ( BEN ) , for instance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's water supply ( more than 500 percent higher than World Health Organization standards ) , combats the country 's severe flooding problem and tries to defeat India 's River Linking Project , which could divert an estimated 10 to 20 percent of Bangladesh 's water flow . Bangladesh Poribesh Andolon holds demonstrations and international action days to increase citizen awareness of endangered rivers . International development projects are also addressing some of the country 's environmental woes , including a $44 million arsenic mitigation project launched in 1998 and jointly financed by the World Bank and the Swiss Development and Cooperation Agency . The project is installing deep wells , installing hardware to capture rainwater , building sanitation plants and expanding distribution systems . A $177 million World Bank project works with the government of Bangladesh to improve urban transportation in Dhaka . Private companies from Bangladesh and Pakistan recently announced a joint venture to construct a waste management plant that could handle 3,200 metric tons of solid waste per day , turning it into organic fertilizer . Mexico City Mexico City is like an anxious teenager , growing up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in awkward contrasts : Sports cars zipping down crowded streets , choked with air pollution ; a Wal-Mart rising against a skyline of the ancient ruins of Teotihuacan ; and trendy designer knock-off bags lining the walls of a grungy street stall . The locale has long been a cultural hub-the ancient Aztec capital of Tenochtitln , where Mexico City now stands , was the largest city in the Americas in the 14th century with a population of about 300,000 . When the Spanish razed Tenochtitln they erected Mexico City in its place , though a smallpox epidemic knocked the population back to 30,000 . Mexico City served as the center of Spain 's colonial empire during the 1500s , but the modern-day metropolis only began to materialize in the late 1930s when a combination of rapid economic growth , population growth , and a considerable rural migration filled the city with people . The larger metropolitan area now engulfs once-distinct villages and population estimates range from 16 million to 30 million , depending on how the city 's boundaries are drawn . Regardless , Mexico City is now widely considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birth rates are high and 1,100 new residents migrate to the capital each day . Photograph // With so many people crammed into a closed mountain valley , many environmental and social problems are bound to arise . Mexico City 's air was ranked by WHO as the most contaminated in the world in 1992 . By 1998 , the Mexican capital had added the distinction of being " the world 's most dangerous city for children . " Twenty percent of the city 's population lives in utter poverty , the Mega-Cities Project reports , 40 percent of the population lives in " informal settlements , " and wealth is concentrated in very few hands . A combination of population , geography and geology render air pollution one of the city 's greatest problems . WHO studies have reported that it is unhealthy to breathe air with over 120 parts per billion of ozone contaminants more than one day a year , but residents breathe it more than 300 days a year . More than one million of the city 's more than 18 million people suffer from permanent breathing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Exhaust fumes from Mexico City 's approximately three million cars are the main source of air pollutants . Problems resulting from the high levels of exhaust are exacerbated by the fact that Mexico City is situated in a basin . The geography prevents winds from blowing away the pollution , trapping it above the city . " The International Development Research Center has observed that " despite more than a decade of stringent pollution control measures , a haze hangs over Mexico City most days , obscuring the surrounding snow-capped mountains and endangering the health of its inhabitants . Many factors have contributed to this situation : industrial growth , a population boom and the proliferation of vehicles . " More than 30 percent of the city 's vehicles are more than 20 years old . Solid waste creates another major problem , and officials estimate that , of the 10,000 tons of waste generated each day , at least one quarter is dumped illegally . The city also lacks an effective sanitation and water distribution system . According to the United Nations , " Urbanization has had a serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 80 percent of the population has piped inside plumbing , residents in the peripheral areas can not access the sewage network and a great percentage of wastewater remains untreated as it passes to the north for use as irrigation water . " Perhaps three million residents at the edge of the city do not have access to sewers , says the Mega-Cities Project . Untreated waste from these locations is discharged directly into water bodies or into the ground , where it can contaminate ground water . Only 50 percent of residents in squatter settlements have access to plumbing , and these residents are more likely to suffer from health effects linked to inadequate sanitation . Furthermore , Mexico City is now relying on water pumped from lower elevations to quench an ever-deepening thirst ; as the city continues to grow , the need for water and the politics surrounding that need are likely only to intensify . Mexican industry is centered within the city and is primarily responsible for many of the city 's environmental problems as well as for the prosperity that certain areas have achieved . Mexico City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and 2.6 million cars and buses bring people to work and shop in them . Sandwiched in between slums and sewers are glitzy , luxurious neighborhoods and shopping centers , as chic as any in New York or Los Angeles . The streets of the Zcalo , a central city plaza modeled after Spanish cities , serve as Mexico City 's cultural hub . Unwittingly , the plaza has become one of the economic centers as well . Most job growth in Mexico occurs in the underground sector-in street stalls that cover every square inch of sidewalk space , women flipping tortillas curbside , and kids hawking phone cards or pirated CDs to passersby . Despite efforts to clean up activities that are illegal or considered eyesores , street vendors make up an enormous part of Mexico 's job force and , according to the Los Angeles Times , are primarily responsible for keeping the official unemployment rate below that of the United States . While problems abound , the city is doing its best to find solutions . Bicycles are the new grassroots rage , carrying everything from tentative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The city has had a thriving light rail system for years , with nine lines , 75 miles of tracks and more under construction . Neighborhood groups band together to build houses , remove trash and cut down on crime . Volunteers also bring hope to many of the bleakest parts of the city . San Francisco has long served as a " partner " city to Mexico City through the nonprofit program Partners of the Americas . Through this program , Bay Area residents have worked with a counterpart committee in Mexico City and volunteered to teach English , bring medical supplies and develop micro-enterprises . The program has also developed numerous exchanges-in arts , economics , forestry and education , among others-that benefit citizens on both sides of the border . Tom Gaman , a California forester and the Secretary of the San Francisco/Mexico City partnership , hopes that population growth will decline as economic conditions improve in the areas . He says of his many trips south , " Every time I go there I feel renewed in hope ... the relevant issues that are so foreign to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Lagos , Nigeria In 1950 , with just 288,000 people , Lagos was n't even a speck on the map of the largest urban centers . Today , the rapidly growing city of 14 million in Africa 's most populous country is on its way to becoming the third-largest city in the world . By 2015 , the Population Reference Bureau estimates Lagos will reach number three status with a population hovering somewhere around 23.2 million people . According to John Walther , a professor of geology at Southern Methodist University , Lagos grew by 4,761 percent between 1950 and today . In comparison , New York City grew by just 5.1 percent over the same interval . Photograph // The discovery of oil in the 1950s and subsequent oil boom of the 1970s-helped by the worldwide oil crisis of that era-encouraged waves of migrants to seek their fortunes in the city . In the 1980s and 1990s , the Mega-Cities Project reports that the city grew by more than 300,000 persons per year , despite the 1981 world recession , which sent Lagos " reeling into debt and runaway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is expected to continue growing by close to four percent a year . While the city 's most affluent can afford to sequester themselves on two islands off the mainland , two-thirds of the city 's residents live at or below the poverty line in one of many slums afflicted with a slew of problems . " Unlit highways run past canyons of smoldering garbage before giving way to dirt streets weaving through 200 slums , their sewers running with raw waste , " writes Amy Otchet , a UNESCO journalist . A Lagos factory worker , interviewed by the alternative magazine NewYouth , said of living conditions for millions of poverty-stricken Lagosians : " Workers live in one-room apartments unfit for human beings . The impression upon entering these districts is one of entering a war zone with row upon row of crumbling houses . The walls have big cracks in them , the plaster is falling away and quite often bits of the roof have been blown away by the wind . In these one-room apartments , it is not uncommon to find a family of 10 . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down the roads . There are no medical facilities in these districts , no hospitals or clinics . " Even middle-class people in Lagos live in very crowded accommodations . Unsanitary conditions have led to cholera outbreaks , says Environment-Nigeria , and over 50 percent of the population is infected with malaria , according to the Mega-Cities Project . One of every 20 children is believed to die before the age of five . The population density of the built-up urban areas of metropolitan Lagos is almost suffocating , at nearly 20,000 persons per square kilometer . As a result , says Environment-Nigeria , " Residents live in what are called " face-me-I-face-you " single rooms with shared kitchen , bathroom and toilet facilities . In some buildings , these rooms can house as many as eight people . " As a result of the staggering growth rate , air pollution is a chronic problem in Lagos , owing in large part to the city 's surfeit of smog-producing automobiles and diesel generators . The U.S. Energy Information Administration says that Lagos ' central city is " daily plagued by smog @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of air pollutants forming a perpetual noxious brew in the worst affected areas . " Studies carried out by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency ( FEPA ) show a moderate-to-high concentration of pollutants such as carbon monoxide , sulfur dioxide , nitrogen oxides , organic acids and hydrocarbons in the atmosphere , " the EIA reports . A rickshaw transportation system , poorly constructed and maintained roadways , frequent road flooding and auto accidents , and the lack of a subway or intra-city rail service has made Lagos legendary for its chaotic ( and pollution-inducing ) traffic jams . Native Lagosians typically must rise at 4 a.m. to negotiate the morning rush through the now infamous " go-slow " -a ubiquitous term referring to the ritual slog of cars vying for space on the city 's super-saturated highways . With only three bridges from mainland Lagos to Lagos Island , the commercial and business hub , congestion is chronic and unavoidable . It can take an average of two to three hours to travel just six to 12 miles . Uche Onyabadi , a journalism doctoral student at the University of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming to the U.S. , says that the government tried to address the problem of bottle-necking bridge traffic in the 1980s by implementing an " Odd-and-Even " policy . On certain days of the week , Onyebadi says , only cars with license numbers starting with an odd number were permitted across the bridge . Other days were for even-numbered vehicles . " It did n't work , " Onyebadi says . " People got creative and would get two cars . " Water quality in the city does n't fare much better . The fresh water supply is often contaminated with human waste , as only half the population has toilets . Water-challenged citizens have a choice of buying high-priced water or stealing it from neighbor 's wells . Flooding is a major problem , as it is in Dhaka , and it is partially caused by similar problems : unplanned buildings block natural watercourses . Solid waste in Lagos is disposed of haphazardly , often in illegal dumps . For all its crime , poverty and chaos , the city has a vibrant pulse . " Lagos is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't explain , " Onyebadi says . " People hate to go there . They say " Oh ! The traffic is terrible , " but then you need a bulldozer to get them out again . " Innovation also breeds in the unlikeliest places . Unesco journalist Amy Otchet explains , " Behind the informal sector lies a powerful if not desperate spirit of initiative : Wheelbarrows are rolled out of a construction site at night to serve as rented beds at 20 cents a shot for homeless people seeking shelter under an overhang . When rain makes a market run with mud , kids wait with buckets of water to wash shoppers ' feet for a few coins . " Rem Koolhaas , a well-known Dutch architect , former journalist and Harvard professor , has been taking a group of his graduate design students to Lagos for the past four years as part of an ongoing project entitled " Project on the City " in an effort to study West Africa 's urbanization patterns . Koolhaas believes that Lagos ' " improvisational urbanism " may become a model for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Koolhaas helped prepare after one trip to the city , he writes , " Dangerous breakdowns of order and infrastructure in Nigeria are often transformed into productive urban forms : Stalled traffic turns into an open-air market , defunct railroad bridges become pedestrian walkways . " In his view , the " go-slow " is actually a prime example of the innovation and ad-hoc efficiency characterizing the city 's haphazard march to modernity . " Lagos is not catching up with us . Rather , we may be catching up with Lagos , " he writes . To address the city 's rapid growth , Thompson Ayodele , coordinator of the Institute for Public Policy Analysis in Nigeria , says that the government " has approved a new population policy that would force Nigeria 's population growth rate from between 2.5 and three percent now to not more than two percent by the year 2015 . " In 2000 , the state 's Ministry of Transport established the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority to help monitor and patrol traffic jams , especially at peak hours . Since then , the major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metropolis have become less burdensome . " Additional help may soon be on the way . In 2003 , Lagos was chosen by the UN to be one of seven cities to launch the New Partnership for Africa 's Development ( NEPAD ) Sustainable Cities Program . The UN will work with Lagos " to manage the challenges of its mega-city status . " Mumbai ( Bombay ) , India The Indian coastal city of Mumbai , formerly Bombay , is home to India 's vibrant film industry ( " Bollywood " ) and probably boasts more cell phones per capita than any other city on the subcontinent . The city is responsible for generating one sixth of the gross domestic product of the entire country . But Mumbai is bursting at the seams . The first glimpse of the city , as the airplane hits the runway , is Dharavi , Asia 's largest slum , home to 2.8 million people . According to a 2004 estimate , the population of metropolitan Mumbai was approximately 17 million . Every year , the city receives more than 250,000 rural-to-urban emigrants . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2020 , with 28.5 million , says the Population Institute . " With this sizeable number of people , resources are getting increasingly scarce . Buildings are getting taller , with no care for where water and space , children 's playgrounds and parking areas will come from , " says Preeti Gopalkrishnan , Communications Executive of Population First , a sustainable human development program based in Mumbai . Half of the metropolis ' population lacks running water or electricity , and the smoke from hundreds of thousands of open cooking fires joins with the sooty smoke from two-stroke auto rickshaws , belching taxis , diesel buses and coal-fired power plants in a symphony of air pollutants . Breathing Mumbai 's inversion-trapped air , experts say , is the equivalent of smoking 20 cigarettes a day . According to a 2000 estimate by the Mega-Cities Project , 70 to 75 percent of women living in slums complain of general weakness and anemia , while 50 to 60 percent suffer from chronic malnutrition , recurrent gastroenteritis and helminthic caused by parasitic worms infections . Malnutrition and paralysis are common causes of mortality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports the UN , with the level of supply so much below demand that water use is restricted and reaches emergency proportions when the monsoon fails . More than two million Mumbai residents have no sanitary facilities , and much sewage is discharged untreated or partially treated into waterways . Attempts have been made to relocate industries outside the island city , but industrial pollution remains a serious problem . In addition to this , Mumbai is also one of the noisiest cities in the world , a key factor being the considerable number of vehicles on the city 's streets . There are more than 500,000 private automobiles on Mumbai streets . Despite a substantial public transit system , congestion in the metropolitan area continues . As Business Week reports , " After years of neglect , combined with helter-skelter growth , Bombay is falling apart . Its suburban train service carries six million passengers a day , which works out to 570 per train car , nearly three times their capacity . " " Public transport in Mumbai has reached a point of almost complete gridlock , " says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emission standards of vehicles in the city are very bad and the local government is shy about talking about alternatives because it does n't know when it will implement them . " Despite the high level of poverty in the city , however , crime is n't increasing as rapidly as one would imagine . According to the State of the World Cities Report , 2004/05 , of all the world regions , developed and developing , Asia ranks lowest in almost all types of crimes . " I would n't say there is rampant lawlessness ; most people are going about their day-to-day life trying to scratch together a living , " Feller says . Photograph // Yet daily life in Mumbai is extremely difficult . This is especially true of the city 's slum dwellers . As the BBC reports , Mumbai 's poor build unstable , flimsy huts on any available land . The city 's older slums-such as Dharavi , Byculla and Khar-have houses made of brick and mortar but lack drainage systems and toilets . Many people also live dangerously close to the railway tracks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of India regularly reports vehicles backing or barreling over children , or rows of sleeping citizens . " Bombay , " wrote V.S. Naipaul in the first sentence of his India : A Million Mutinies Now , " is a crowd . " " Although the Slum Rehabilitation Scheme has been implemented to accommodate the city 's poor , most often slumdwellers sell the houses and return to the streets , " Gopalkrishnan says . " The rules have to be enforced more stringently . " The Slum Rehabilitation Scheme is one of many ventures created to improve Mumbai 's standard of living . According to Feller , several non-governmental organizations are focused on governance issues , as well as on social services . One such project is the Mega-Cities Project 's Community of Resource Organization ( CORO ) Pay Toilet Project . In July 1992 , CORO took over the management of government-constructed toilet facilities in congested slum areas . It proceeded to set up a partnership with its long-standing literacy program , combining community libraries with sanitary facilities . Local groups maintain the toilets on a cooperative basis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefit from clean facilities and adequate water , while five hundred new maintenance jobs have been created in the bargain . The Child-to-Child Program , also initiated by the organization , is an activity-based approach to health education for children in formal and non-formal systems of education . The program identifies children as " mini-doctors " who can spread awareness among children regarding their own health . Through these activities , this information is then communicated to the rest of the community . " Bombay is stretched to the limit , " Feller says . " Citizens have a mismatch between what they were promised and what they received . And their patience is wearing thin . " Tokyo , Japan Far from the struggle to survive that is Mumbai or the baked-in poverty of Lagos , Tokyo is the world 's largest and also one of the world 's most sophisticated cities . The capital of Japan , Tokyo is every bit the high-powered , tech-savvy city that its reputation suggests . Its residents enjoy one of the world 's highest standards of living , with an average income per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 96.5 percent in 1997 . Nearly 100 percent of the population has access to health care , and the city 's population is treated at 754 individual hospitals . The government has a well-developed plan for the welfare of its senior citizens . Nearly all adults in Tokyo are literate and 45 percent enroll in college . Calling Tokyo a city would be an understatement and a misnomer . It is technically a metropolis ( or to in Japanese ) , which means a collection of smaller political units . Twenty-three distinct city wards form the heart of Tokyo along with 26 individual cities , five towns , and eight villages . Included in this group are the islands of Izu and Ogasawara , located off the coast of the main island of Honshu . Tokyo spans 237 square miles and includes the cities of Yokohama and Kawasaki . Tokyo proper has less than 15 million citizens , but the entire metropolitan area has well over 30 million . The Tokyo Metropolitan Government ( TMG ) is adept at planning and is constantly seeking to alleviate the effects of having so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high standard of living buffers Tokyo from many problems faced by mega-cities ( like sanitation concerns and access to water and sewerage ) , some problems simply come with the territory . Japan 's cultural , economic and political center is the Tokyo-Kawasaki-Yokohama region , which accounts for 23 percent of Japan 's industrial manufacturing , 52 percent of all financial accumulation and 76 percent of stock market trading . The Tokyo economy grew so fast in the 1980s that the city faced a shortage of blue-collar workers . " The gap has been filled with foreign labor and illegal immigrants , who ... often create their own ethnic ghettoes , " according to Junjiro Takahashi and Noriyuki Sugiura of Tokyo 's United Nations University . The vast array of production and destruction , transactions and interactions , result in massive amounts of shipping , trading and , of course , waste . Local governments have worked hard to increase recycling and decrease waste production , but it is often community efforts that work best . Abiko City started Ecopure Abiko , the Citizens ' Campaign for Reduction and Recycling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deliver it to local organic farmers . Twelve subway lines provide convenient transportation in and around Tokyo . The impressive public transportation system alleviates pressures on roads and eliminates much of the traffic and accompanying air pollution found in other major cities ( nearly 90 percent of workers in Tokyo commute by rail ) . Photograph // Tokyo 's cars , asphalt , buildings and people cause another problem-heat . The " heat island phenomenon " has become a major problem for the city ; thermal loading in the jam-packed , hectic urban centers contributes to global warming and health problems , as well as making things downright uncomfortable . The TMG has now mapped the regional thermal environment and the city is planting trees , creating more lawns , and paving streets with water-retentive asphalt . Official regional planning began here in 1956 with the passage of the National Capital Region Development law , which was intended to limit the growth of urban Tokyo . The law failed to stop the expansion of the city , though , and was soon amended to include a " Suburban Development Area . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the late 1960s , Tokyo 's suburban fringe already stretched as far as 25 miles from the city center . " While this trend eliminated some of the downtown congestion , it magnified transportation problems dramatically by increasing the number of commuters . Under today 's plan , the suburbs expand in and among the existing city structures while green spaces are protected . Most importantly , satellite towns are developed to accommodate new industries and economic booms . This plan is pushing Tokyo away from the single-city mode and toward a concept of " multi-core " urban zones , each of which can draw congestion and people away from the center city . The Japanese government also increased spending in outlying areas to encourage further growth and development of " micropolitan areas . " <p>                     