@@391284

Headnote Human pathogens make homes on plants Jeri Barak 's tomato plants have a weird disease breaking out on them . Not the biggest surprise , perhaps , since she 's a bona fide U.S. Department of Agriculture plant pathologist . But what 's afflicting Barak 's tomatoes is n't some everyday farm ailment-their leaves are colonized with Salmonella enterica , more famous as an animal pathogen . This bacterium leads to about 600 deaths in people each year , along with 40,000 reported cases of illness . It 's the species that everyone 's supposed to guard against when handling raw meat , eating undercooked eggs , or petting baby turties . Barak , however , has started studying this animal pathogen 's role on plants . And she 's not talking about bacteria just passively smearing plants like streaks of dirt . Evidence has been growing that high-profile human pathogens , such as salmonella strains and the deadly Escherichia coli O157:H7 , actively colonize plants . In doing so , the pathogens follow variations on their attack tactics for animals . They grow structures to glue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They set up housekeeping . Barak does n't go so far as to say that salmonella and E. coli make plants sick , but these human pathogens are definitely up to something on plants . Understanding what human-disease organisms do when they go plantside could suggest new ways to combat foodborne illnesses , says Barak . Produce is increasingly often the culprit behind disease outbreaks , and cases such as the 3 people killed and more than 200 sickened in 2006 from eating tainted fresh spinach have dramatized that food safety begins with the food , not its handlers . The people-plant-pathogen interplay inspired a special symposium at last July 's annual meeting of the American Phytopathological Society in San Diego . Some pathogen species literally do cause diseases in both plants and people ( see sidebar ) . Other microbes typically do n't hurt plants as much as they hurt people . Still , plant pathologists say that discovering how these microbes set up housekeeping on plants could lead to new ways to stop them . Barak , of the USDA in Albany , Calif. , told her colleagues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deferred to human-disease specialists in the study of these pathogens , " now we need to take back salmonella . " PLANT LIFE Just what salmonella and E. coli are up to on plants did n't get much attention until recently . " It was n't until people started getting sick from fresh produce that we started looking at how pathogens do this , " says Barak . According to statistics from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) in Atlanta , only 0.6 percent of disease outbreaks from food in the 1970s could be traced to fresh produce . In the 1990s , however , produce accounted for 12 percent of outbreaks , and since a 1998 revision of surveillance criteria , the percentage has edged up to 14 . Many factors have contributed to the rise in killer fruits and vegetables . People today eat almost a third more fresh produce than they did in the 1970s . And todays produce comes from an international and industrialized system in which it often travels farther than the people who eat it . Outbreak-tracing techniques have improved too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safety and led to disturbing findings . Even a few years ago , Barak says , microbiologists had assumed that human pathogens were merely passengers on plants , and so could be dealt with by soap and water . But in test after test early in this decade , none of the available washes and sanitizers could clean produce completely . The persistence of bacteria prompted researchers to wonder whether pathogens were making more than merely casual contacts with plants . Tests showed that pathogens , either passively or actively , could infiltrate tissues far beyond the reach of surface washes . For example , Red Delicious apples dunked in water containing E. coli O157:H7 in a lab test ended up with the bacteria inside the core even though the fruit had n't been cut . The bacteria in this experiment carried a gene that made them fluoresce green , and the glow showed the bacteria near the seeds , Larry Beuchat of the University of Georgia in Griffin and his colleagues reported in 2000 . Other experiments have shown E. coli seeping into uncut , unpeeled oranges through the little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stem . Mangos and tomatoes likewise are vulnerable to salmonella through their stem scars . Even pathogens that did n't lurk deep in tissues proved virtually indelible . By 2002 , at least four studies had confirmed that neither chlorine treatment nor a good , brisk scrubbing dislodged E. coli from lettuce . Current research is addressing this challenge ( SN : 12/16/06 , p. 394 ) , but the failure of most washing systems has clued researchers in to a secret of E. coli contamination : The bacterium gets a grip on plants and hangs on . Studies of other pathogens similarly came to the conclusion that pathogens actively colonize plants . Maria Brandl , also of USDA 's Albany lab , followed up on a 1999 salmonellosis outbreak in California by testing a bacterial strain of S. enterica called serovar Thompson , which had been isolated from a patient . After inoculating chopped cilantro leaves and even some salsa with the strain , Brandl reported that the bacterium grew quickly to high concentrations in both foods . Brandl and her USDA colleague Robert Mandrell then took their test to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pathogenic salmonella strain as well as with two bacterial species common on plants . All three microbes grew and colonized the leaves . The salmonella strain did n't flourish as abundantly as the specialized plant bacteria , but it did establish a presence on the leaf . When the researchers stressed the bacteria by keeping the leaves dry , the salmonella population shrank but rebounded when Brandl rehumidified the plants . The salmonella strain responsible for the 1999 poisonings was a perfectly plausible leaf colonizer , Brandl and Mandrell reported in 2002 . Ordinary diseases of the plants , which are otherwise harmless to people , may help the human pathogens make themselves at home . Growing in a test tube , E. coli O157:H7 does n't reliably make a protective biofilm . But when researchers added the E. coli to test tubes along with a regular plant bacterial pest , Erwinia chrysanthemi , the human pathogens readily joined the biofilm of the plant pathogen . Barak is now working on a study with whole plants . She and her colleagues are finding that salmonella grows more abundantly if a plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ causes bacterial spot disease on peppers and tomatoes . SURVIVOR To tease out the genetic mechanisms behind salmonella 's ability to make itself at home on a plant , Barak and her colleagues worked their way through a set of experimentally created mutants of a strain called serovar Newport . The researchers found mutants that could n't attach themselves to alfalfa sprouts , a common source of disease outbreaks . Analyzing the genetic defects in these bacteria gave Barak a clue as to what genes the bacteria use when confronting a leaf . " It was ironic , " says Barak , that 13 out of 20 of these mutants had disruptions in genes that had never been characterized in years of previous work on how salmonella infects animals . That discovery implies that the bacteria cope with plants by using some of the same genes that power pathogenic attacks on animals-for example , a gene for strands of protein nicknamed Tafi , which attach the bacterial cell to a surface . Tafi have attracted attention from Alzheimer 's researchers trying to understand how protein deposits build up outside cells in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , salmonella cells apparently also have devices specifically for making solid attachments to plant surfaces . The latest paper from this project , in the September Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions , details two such fasteners . The molecular gadgets help the microbes hold on to each other as well as to plant tissue . The interconnected bacterial cells form a solid biofilm , which offers protection to its members from external hazards . Such capacity for living on a plant does n't surprise Barak . " I think colonizing plants may be vital for salmonella to live out their life cycle , " she says . Any such animal pathogen has to survive occasional periods when it 's outside the warm , plush world of an animal host . By comparison , a plant leaf is harsh , with no temperature regulation or protection from drought , deluge , or ultraviolet blast . Landing on a plant " is like Salmonella going to the moon , " Barak says . So it makes sense that pathogens maintain equipment for emergency landings on plants . The hardships of life in a crop field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meltz Steinberg of Emory University in Atlanta . People who get sick may just be collateral damage in a war between bacteria and their protozoan predators . She and her Emory colleague Brace Levin have been musing about what benefit E. coli , a microbe with hoofed mammals as its natural host , gets from killing people . The pathogen 's toxin might defend the bacteria against grazing protozoa typically encountered outside one of those hoofed hosts , such as in soil . Meltz Steinberg and Levin tested the idea by tracking E. coli 's survival with and without the presence of the rapacious , bacteria-hunting species Tetrahymena pyriformis . An E. coli strain carrying a toxin-making factor outperformed a harmless strain only when stalked by the protozoans , the researchers reported in the Aug. 22 Proceedings of the Royal Society B. Even though life on plants may be a stretch for human pathogens , they can be very hard to kill there . A better strategy , Barak says , is to improve farming practices so as to limit the spread of bacteria to crops . To keep food safe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " , she says . The Albany research program includes efforts to find possible routes of agricultural contamination . Barak 's been studying the life of salmonella in soil , where other research has suggested that the bacteria can survive at least for a while . In the lab , she mimicked a farmer discovering a contaminated crop of tomato plants , plowing them into the soil , waiting a week , and then planting new seeds . Even 6 weeks after reseeding , she found salmonella on the second crop . The way in which water is used on farms could also be a problem , according to several labs . For example , the USDA lab in California has recovered E. coli O157:H7 from lettuce seedlings days after experimentally irrigating them with tainted water . And when the Beuchat group painted a salmonella solution onto tomato blooms , 2 of the 8 fruits that formed from those flowers carried the pathogen . Farmers do n't go around dabbing their crops with dirty paintbrushes , but they have felt free to use untreated water from the farm for spraying pesticide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make sure they use clean drinking water in their sprayers . These and other routes of contamination need investigating , she says . In the meantime , she offers comfort-with some cautions-to fans of fresh fruits and vegetables . " Flare-ups of food pathogens are rare events , " she says . To minimize her own chance of encountering worrisome bacteria , she avoids damaged fruits and vegetables . They leak moist innards of the plant and offer fertile ground for pathogen picnics . And she minimizes store-to-fridge time as much as she can . " I tell people : " Treat your produce like ice cream . ' ' " Even with her research on the dark side of salad , she has n't given up . " Oh , I eat this stuff , " she says . " I 'm a vegetarian . " Sidebar BUT WE WASHED - Alfalfa sprouts ( ghostly blue ribbons ) rinsed with sterile water still show the green spots indicating the presence of E. coli 0157:H7 that has been engineered to fluoresce under laser illumination . Sidebar BAD TIP - Ends of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spots of salmonella dyed to appear yellow . <p>                     