@@414724

A resurgence of demands for " rules by God " - and of widespread fundamentalist thinking-could bode ill for world peace , says a business futurist. // The fundamental struggle over governance in the Western world in the last 200 years has been between rule by man and rule by law . We are increasingly seeing another element introduced into this conflict : rule by God , or thearchy ( as opposed to theocracy , rule by priests ) . While much of the impetus comes from outside the West - fueled by Islamic fundamentalism-there is a strong and growing internal component as well . Consider the case of Roy S. Moore , former chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court , who insisted on displaying the Ten Commandments prominently in the courthouse , a symbolic gesture testifying to the supremacy of the rule of God . Much of our attention since September 11 , 2001 , has been focused on Islam , but militancy is also on the rise in other religions . Orthodox Jewish militants are increasingly influential in Israel . In India , militant Hinduism plays a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that militancy is growing in both numbers and importance in Christianity . The Christian right , long a matter of discussion and dispute in the United States , now appears to be a force in Europe , too , where it is fiercely antiimmigration and is especially antiMuslim . Evangelical Protestants are the fastest-growing segment of Christianity , and they are aggressively expanding throughout the world . Zealous missionaries have made impressive gains in numbers of adherents everywhere . Indeed , they have been so effective that some observers see a shift in power in Christianity to the Southern Hemisphere . Evangelical Christians in countries such as Brazil , Mexico , the Philippines , and Congo now increasingly outnumber those in more developed Northern countries . As it becomes a more Southern religion , Christianity will change , perhaps radically . Among other things , its adherents will be more enthusiastic and therefore more militant and even aggressive . // In the United States , recent scandals involving priests and bishops have resulted in Catholic laypeople becoming more assertive in demanding change in the church . Voice of the Faithful , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2002 , became nationwide within six months , with 22,000 members in 40 states . A 2002 Time/CNN poll reported that 60% of Americans believe biblical prophecies about the coming end of the world , and 17% expect that end to occur in their lifetimes . The Left Behind series of novels about the End by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins is the best-selling fiction series of our time . Millenarianism-the belief in the end of the world ( the Rapture ) - is entering the mainstream of cultural consciousness . In addition to believing in the end of the world , millenarianists support Israel ( a sign that Jesus will return ) , detest the United Nations and other international agencies , and approve of a conservative political agenda . President George W. Bush and others say that the aim of Islamic terrorists is to disrupt and intimidate the West , particularly the United States . But studying what drives Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda reveals something very different . The Egyptian philosopher Sayyid Qutb , who was executed in 1966 , was the inspiration for Osama bin Laden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the spreading corruption of Islam by liberal Western ideas-in particular , that concept so epitomized by the United States , the separation of church and state . To Islamic fundamentalists such as Qutb and bin Laden , church and state are , and must be , inseparable . So their goal is not disruption or intimidation , it is destruction . They see the United States , particularly because of its continued espousal of separation of church and state and its superpower status , as the biggest obstacle to rule by God . To bring about their desired end , that obstacle must be removed entirely . Religious Yearning Among Westerners , too , there are signs of a yearning for a more intense or even extreme religious experience . Witness what appears to be a growing interest in voodoo , which is attributed to the search for a more direct and stronger involvement with the sacred . MeI Gibson 's astonishingly successful movie , The Passion of the Christ , also seems to testify to this deep and apparently widespread desire for a more powerful and more spiritually fulfilling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia , there is a growing link between intense religious devotion and fervent nationalism . The proposed new Afghan constitution attempts to combine human rights and Islamic principles , but many doubt that democracy and Islam can mesh in this way . Conservative religious groups are trying to form a global coalition as a counterweight to what they see as an overly secular , liberal domination of the international legal and political arenas . Photograph Workers prepare to remove Ten Commandments monument from the rotunda of the Alabama judicial Building in Montgomery , Alabama . Despite protests in support of Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore , the monument was ordered removed in 2003 because it violated the constitutional principle of the separation of church and state . // Developments in science and technology are also contributing factors . Significant numbers of people are concerned that biotech is giving humans powers over life and death that , in their minds , should belong only to God . For example , Americans are opposed to human cloning by about 4 to 1 , according to a survey by the Pew Forum on Religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may destroy embryos ) are largely driven by deeply held religious beliefs . People are also alarmed about evolutionary psychology , which seems to say that nothing matters except success in passing on one s genes and that morality and a sense of higher purpose are therefore irrelevant if not harmful to that objective . In light of these developments , social scientists are paying more attention now to the roles played by faith and religion , particularly as they affect people 's economic and social behavior . Secular Fundamentalism While religion is displaying a trend toward militant absolutism , there is a corresponding rise in what could be called secular fundamentalism . New York Times columnist David Brooks likens today 's partisan combativeness in Congress to World War I - an uncompromising war from entrenched and unmoving positions . Others in Washington see an increasing unwillingness to make the sort of accommodations that enable legislation to be crafted and enacted . In Texas in 2003 , the battle over redistricting reached new depths of partisan bitterness as House Democrats fled the state to thwart the needed quorum to vote on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At least part of presidential candidate Howard Dean 's surprising , if brief , appeal was attributed to his ability to tap into what The Economist calls " a rich vein of anger . " And American internationalists decry what they see as the Bush administration 's unilateralism based on an uncompromising belief in its own rightness . Both sides accuse the other of unreasonable militancy . Liberals complain bitterly that conservatives are getting both more powerful and more totalitarian . They also complain about conservatives ' " K Street strategy " - getting control of lobbying organizations . At the same time , conservatives accuse liberals of engaging in bitter and often very personal attacks on President Bush- just as liberals accused conservatives of such attacks on President Clinton . The 2003 California recall election was another example of militancy . Opponents of Governor Gray Davis were so furious that they could not wait for normal political procedures . So great was the anger and polarization that many observers are concerned that such anger-driven politics could spread rapidly across America . Similar values clashes are erupting elsewhere around the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both sides made big gains . And many see in the Middle East a growing acceptance of hard and uncompromising stands . What we are seeing is the increasing dominance of a hard-nosed , militant mind-set that matches the fundamentalism so rampant now in religion . To some extent , this phenomenon is fueled by disappointment . There seems to be a growing gap between what people expect and what they get . That expectations gap leads to discontent , unhappiness , and the kind of anger that can result in militancy and fundamentalism . Technology can act as a catalyst , turning these feelings into actions . Resentments that might previously have festered in dark corners can be gathered together through the Internet , engaging these individuals and giving them strength in numbers . Activists create darknets , unofficial underground networks that bring together people of like minds to create the " smart mobs " that can both affect policy and reinforce commitment . Individuals may be attracted to this form of engagement partly as a reaction to perceived decline . But it also reflects the fears of people who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves adrift and helpless . As change continues at its headlong pace , and as new technologies drive many institutions to obsolescence-even while it empowers the disenfranchised-the attractions of fundamentalist certainty are likely to increase . Photograph Pakistanis burn U.S. flag in protest of military strikes against Afghanistan . While Islamic fundamentalism is blamed for the increase in terrorist threats around the world , analysts also warn that fundamentalists ' stranglehold on military and political power threaten Pakistan 's own future prosperity . // Implications for Business Within the Western world , proponents of thearchy would probably not be able to have much effect by themselves . But the thearchy movement gets additional weight from radical Islam-particularly as Muslims populate Western countries in larger numbers . And then there are the Western anarchists , who use the Internet to good effect and whose stated objective is the destruction of governing institutions . all of this adds up to a significant threat to the orderly principles and institutions of Western democracy and to the economic concepts that underlie globalization . We should anticipate more concerted attacks on those institutions and principles . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western institutions , including businesses , that are seen as allies and bulwarks of secular society . Africa will increasingly become a battleground in which Islamic and Christian extremists will fight ferociously for the right to impose their own versions of thearchy . We may also see the various elements-radical Muslims , extreme Christian fundamentalists , and militant anarchists-working together in some places for their common objective . The World Trade Center was attacked on September 11 as a symbol of the capitalist , Christian Western world . We can anticipate attacks on other institutions of symbolic importance , such as iconic global corporations . Whatever will damage such institutions is likely to be attempted . This could include everything from hacking computer systems to abducting and killing key people . Within the workplace , harmony and civility , already strained , may be impaired more as fervent advocates clash with their ideological opponents . This could also increase the already uncomfortable level of workplace violence . Employers need to be concerned about problems coming from inside as well as outside the organization . Aggressive proselytizing in the workplace by zealots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to anything from sabotage to violence . And while mainstream millenarianism might not be aggressively militant , some of its more extreme adherents , expecting the end to come soon , may be capable of anything , including mass suicide and mass murder . The drive for increased openness and diversity in the business world may be impaired in coming years by negative reactions to this extremism . Trade and professional associations will face even more entrenched and divisive factions among their members , and negotiation and diplomacy will become both more necessary and more difficult . Organizations that attempt to do cause-related marketing will face vicious attacks from those in opposing camps . Advertising will almost surely offend some extremist positions , so marketers will have to have thicker skins and brace themselves for a more contentious climate . Attempted boycotts will increase , and more-savvy public relations and crisis management will be necessary to prepare for the inevitable offenses committed against somebody 's beliefs and opinions . Crisis anticipation will become an even more crucial part of crisis management . It will also be more difficult to get employee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and aligning members of one 's team will take more effort and skill than was the case in a hierarchical , topdown , consensus-based environment . With consensus eroding in both the public and private spheres , more decisions will be minority decisions , and they will face the consequences of extremist resistance . Employers can help alleviate the fears by offering some assurances of certainty and a sense of continuity . Unfortunately , that is more difficult today than ever as employers themselves face increasing uncertainty . But management can help by more astutely evaluating the promised benefits of technology and showing more understanding of the need for humans and their abilities . Sidebar FEEDBACK : Send your comments about this article to letters@wfs.org . Photograph Author Affiliation About the Author Arnold Brown is chairman of Weiner , Edrich , Brown , Inc. , 200 East 33rd Street , Suite 91 , New York , New York 10016 . Telephone 1-212-889-7007 ; e-mail **25;3021;TOOLONG ; **25;3048;TOOLONG // <p>                     