@@390026

Headnote Two thousand years ago , it was the capital of a powerful trading empire . Now archaeologists are piecing together a more complete picture of Jordan 's compelling rock city " Donkey , horse or camel ? " The question from my Bedouin guide reminds me of a rental car agent asking , " Economy , full-size or SUV ? " I choose economy , and we canter on our donkeys through the steep valleys that surround Petra , in Jordan , as the rock changes from red to ocher to orange and back to red . Two millennia ago our now deserted track was a well-engineered caravan route , bustling with itinerant traders on foot , Roman soldiers on horseback and rich merchants on camels . Directly ahead is a sheer cliff lined with elegant carvings reminiscent of Greek and Roman temples , a surreal vision in this remote mountain valley surrounded by desert . This is the back door to Petra , whose very name means rock in Greek . In its heyday , which began in the first century B.C. and lasted for about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealthiest , most eclectic and most remarkable cities . That was when the Nabatean people carved the most impressive of their monumental structures directly into the soft red stone . The facades were all that remained when 19th-century travelers arrived here and concluded that Petra was an eerie and puzzling city of tombs . Now , however , archaeologists are discovering that ancient Petra was a sprawling city of lush gardens and pleasant fountains , enormous temples and luxurious Roman-style villas . An ingenious water supply system allowed Petrans not just to drink and bathe , but to grow wheat , cultivate fruit , make wine and stroll in the shade of tall trees . During the centuries just before and after Christ , Petra was the Middle East 's premier emporium , a magnet for caravans traveling the roads from Egypt , Arabia and the Levant . And scholars now know that Pctra thrived for nearly 1,000 years , far longer than previously suspected . Our donkeys slow as we approach Petra 's largest free-standing building , the Great Temple . Unlike the hollowed-out caves in the cliffs surrounding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an area more than twice the size of a football field . My guide , Suleiman Mohammad , points to a cloud of dust on one side of the temple , where I find Martha Sharp Joukowsky deep in a pit with a dozen workers . The Brown University archaeologist-known as " Dottora ( doctor ) Marta " to three generations of Bedouin workers - has spent the past 15 years excavating and partially restoring the Great'Iemple complex . Constructed during the first century B.C. and the first century A.D. , it included a 600-seat theater , a triple colonnade , an enormous paved courtyard and vaulted rooms underneath . Artifacts found at the site - from tiny Nabatean coins to chunks of statues - number in the hundreds of thousands . As I climb down into the trench , it feels as if I 'm entering a battlefield . Amid the heat and the dust , Joukowsky is commanding the excavators like a general , an impression rein forced by her khaki clothes and the gold insignias on the bill of her baseball cap . " Yalla , yalla ! " she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Get to work , get to work ! " This is Joukowsky 's last season - at age 70 , she 's preparing to retire - and she has no time to waste . They 've just stumbled on a bathing area built in the second and third centuries A.D. , and the discovery is complicating her plans to wrap up the season 's research . A worker hands her a piece of Roman glass and a tiny pottery rosette . She pauses to admire them , sets them aside for cataloging , then continues barking at the diggers as they pass rubber buckets filled with dirt out of the trench . It is nearing midafternoon , the sun is scorching , the dust choking and the workday almost over . " I wanted to finish this two days ago , but I 'm still stuck in this mess , " Joukowsky says in mock exasperation , pointing to dark piles of cinders from wood and other fuel burned to heat the bath water of Petra 's elite . " I 'm ending my career in a heap of ash . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stones , but Joukowsky proved otherwise by attacking the project with a vigor she likely inherited from her parents . Her father , a Unitarian minister , and mother , a social worker , left Massachusetts to spend the years before , during and after World War II rescuing and resettling thousands of Jews and anti-Nazi dissidents . When the Gestapo shut down their operation in Prague , the couple barely escaped arrest . While they moved through war-ravaged Europe , their young daughter Martha lived with friends in the United States . Even after the war , her parents remained committed social activists . " They would be in Darfur were they here now , " Joukowsky says . " Maybe as a result , I chose to concentrate on the past- I really find more comfort in the past than in the present . " She took up archaeology with gusto , working for three decades at various sites in the Near East and publishing the widely-used A Complete Manual of Field Archaeology , among other books . But Petra is her most ambitious project . Beginning in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , students from Brown and donors from around the world and orchestrated the Herculean task of carefully mapping the site , raising fallen columns and walls and preserving the ancient culture 's artifacts . When she began her work , Petra was little more than an exotic tourist destination in a country too poor to finance excavations . Archaeologists had largely ignored the site - on the fringe of the Roman Empire - and only 2 percent of the ancient city had been uncovered . Since then , Joukowsky 's team , along with a Swiss team and another American effort , have laid bare what once was the political , religious and social heart of the metropolis , putting to rest forever the idea that this was merely a city of tombs . NO ONE KNOWS where the Nabateans came from . Around 400 B.C. , the Arab tribe swept into the mountainous region nestled between the Sinai and Arabian peninsulas and the Mediterranean Sea . At first , they lived simple nomadic lives , eking out a living with flocks of sheep and goats and perhaps small-scale agriculture . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Nabateans developed a writing system - ultimately the basis of written Arabic-though the inscriptions they left in Petra and elsewhere are mostly names of people and places and are not particularly revealing of their beliefs , history or daily lives . Scholars have had to use Greek and Roman sources to fill in the picture . Greeks in the decades after Alexander the Great 's death in 323 B.C. complained about Nabateans plundering ships and camel caravans . Scholars believe that such raids whetted the Nabateans ' appetite ror wealth . Eventually , instead of attacking caravans , the raiders began guarding them - for a price . By the second century B.C. , Nabateans dominated the incense trade from southern Arabia . Within several decades , they had assembled a mercantile empire stretching for hundreds of miles . The people who a few generations earlier had been nomads were now producing eggshell thin pottery , among the finest in the ancient world , as well as grand architecture . By 100 B.C. , the tribe had a king , vast wealth and a rapidly expanding capital city . Camels lumbered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sacks of spices from India and bolts of cloth from Syria . Such wealth would have attracted raiders , but Pctra 's mountains and high walls protected the traders once they arrived in the city . The Siq , a twisting 1,000-yard-long canyon that in places is just wide enough for two camels to pass , made the eastern part of the city impregnable . Today it serves as Petra 's main entry-way . It may be the most dramatic entrance to an urban space ever devised . In ancient times , though , the primary entrance into Petra was likely the road by which I came by donkey . Writing early in the first century A. D. , the Greek historian Strabo reported that while foreigners in Petra are " frequently engaged in litigation , " the locals " had never any dispute among themselves , and lived together in perfect harmony . " Dubious as that may sound , we do know that the Nabateans were unusual in the ancient world for their abhorrence of slavery , for the prominent role women played in political life and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large theater in the Great Temple that she partially restored may have been used for council meetings accommodating hundreds of citizens . Strabo , however , scorns the Nabateans as poor soldiers and as " hucksters and merchants " who are " fond of accumulating property " through the trade of gold , silver , incense , brass , iron , saffron , sculpture , paintings and purple garments . And they took their prosperity seriously : he notes that those merchants whose income dropped may have been fined by the government . All that wealth eventually caught the attention of Rome , a major consumer of incense for religious rites and spices for medicinal purposes and food preparation . Rome annexed Nabatea in A.D. 106 , apparently without a fight . In its prime , Petra was one of the most lavish cities in history - more Las Vegas than Athens . Accustomed to tents , the early Nabateans had no significant building traditions , so with their sudden disposable income they drew on styles ranging from Greek to Egyptian to Mesopotamian to Indian - hence the columns at the Great Temple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everybody , " says Christopher A. Tuttle , a Brown graduate student working with Joukowsky . One of Petra 's mysteries is why the Nabateans plowed so much of their wealth into carving their remarkable facades and caves , which lasted long after the city 's freestanding buildings collapsed from earthquakes and neglect . The soft stone cliffs made it possible to hollow out caves and sculpt elaborate porticoes , which the Nabateans painted , presumably in garish colors . Some caves , Tuttle says , were tombs - more than 800 have been identified-and others were places for family members to gather periodically for a meal memorializing the dead ; still others were used for escaping the summer 's heat . At its peak , Petra 's population was about 30,000 , an astonishing density made possible in the arid climate by clever engineering . Petrans carved channels through solid rock , gathering winter rains into hundreds of vast cisterns for use in the dry summers . Many are still used today by the Bedouin . Tuttle leads me up the hill above the temple and points out one such cistern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beach cottage . Channels dug into the rock on either side of the canyon , then covered with stone , sent water hurtling to cisterns near the center of town . " There are abundant springs of water both for domestic purposes and for watering gardens , " Strabo wrote circa A.D. 22 . Steep hillsides were converted to terraced vineyards , and irrigated orchards provided fresh fruits , probably pomegranates , figs and dates . The pricier real estate was on the hill behind the temple , well above the hubbub of the main thoroughfare and with sweeping views to the north and south . Tuttle points out piles of rubble that once were free-standing houses , shops and neighborhood temples . A Swiss team recently uncovered , near the crest , an impressive Roman-style villa complete with an elaborate bath , an olive press and frescoes in the style of Pompeii . At the base of the hill , adjacent to the Great Temple , Leigh-Ann Bedal , a former student of Joukowsky 's now at Pennsylvania State University in Erie , uncovered the remains of a large garden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lavish pavilion , the lush space - possibly a public park-is thought to have been unique in the southern part of the Middle East . It resembles the private ornamental gardens built to the north in Judea by Herod the Great , who lived until 4 B.C. I lerod 's mother , in fact , was Nabatcan , and he spent his early years in Petra . By the fourth century A.D. , Petra was entering its declinc . Joukowsky takes me on a tour or " the newfound spa , which includes marble-lined walls and floors , lead pipes and odd-shaped stalls that might have been toilets , all indications of prosperity . But the growing sea trade to the south had sucked away business , while rival caravan cities to the north such as Palmyra challenged Petra 's dominance by land . Then , on May 19 , A.D. 363 , a massive earthquake and a powerful aftershock rumbled through the area . A Jerusalem bishop noted in a letter that " nearly half " of Petra was destroyed by the seismic shock . Scholars long assumed the catastrophe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found abundant evidence that Fetra remained inhabited , and even prospered , for another three centuries or so . Almost 100 years after the earthquake , local Christians built a basilica now famed for its beautiful and intact mosaics of animals-including the camel , which made Petra 's wealth possible-just across the main street from the Great Temple . Some 150 scrolls-discovered when the church was excavated in 1993 - reveal a vibrant community well into the seventh century A.D. , after which the church and , apparently , most of the city was finally abandoned . FORGOTTEN FOR A MILLENNIUM in its desert fastness , Petra reemerged in the 19th century as an exotic destination for Western travelers . The first , Swiss adventurerJohann Ludwig Burckhardt , visited in 1812 when it was still dangerous to be a foreign Christian deep within the Ottoman Empire . Disguised as a Persian pilgrim , he marveled at Petra 's wonders but could not linger , since his curiosity aroused the suspicions of his local guides . " Great must have been the opulence of a city which could dedicate such monuments to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Future travelers may visit the spot under the protection of an armed force ; the inhabitants will become more accustomed to the researches of strangers , and then antiquities . . . will then be found to rank among the most curious remains of ancient art . " Petra has lately fulfilled that prophesy . It is now Jordan 's top tourist destination , attracting hundreds of thousands of visitors a year . Hollywood 's Indiana Jones sought the Holy Grail in one of Petra 's caves in a 1989 film , dramatizing the site for a worldwide audience . The 1994 peace treaty between Jordan and Israel made mass tourism possible . Foreigners began coming to Petra , and devout Jews began making pilgrimages to nearby Jebel Haroun , which , according to tradition , is the site of the prophet Aaron 's tomb ( see sidebar , p. 46 ) . The nearby village of Wadi Musa has been transformed from a straggling collection of run-down mud-brick houses into a boomtown of hotels ( the Cleopetra ) and stores ( the Indiana Jones Gift Shop ) . Petra @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name the New Seven Wonders of the World . Candidates were nominated by a panel of experts , and winners will be chosen by votes . ( You can vote online at newywonders.com . ) Winners are scheduled to be announced next month . Despite all the publicity and the parade of tourists , much of Petra remains untouched by archaeologists , hidden under thick layers of debris and sand built up over the centuries . No one has found the sites of the busy marketplaces that must have dotted Petra . And although local inscriptions indicate that the Nabateans worshiped a main god , sometimes called Dushara , and a main goddess , the Nabateans ' religion otherwise remains mysterious . So while the work byjoukowsky 's team has revealed much about ancient Petra , it will be up to a new generation of researchers likeTuttle to tackle the many rubble piles and mysteries - that still dot the city 's landscape . " We really know next to nothing about the Nabateans , " saysTuttle as he surveys the forbidding landscape . " I hope to spend most of my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be assisted by Bedouin skilled in uncovering and reassembling the past . Bedouins lived in Nabatean caves for at least a century , until the 1980s when the government pressured most to move to a concrete settlement outside the ancient city to make way for visitors who come to explore the site . My guide , Suleiman Mohammad-who worked at the Great Temple before switching to the more lucrative tourist trade and who married a Swiss tourist-tells me he is grateful to have so many foreign visitors . But not all Bedouin are so lucky , he says . In the harsh country outside Petra , he points to a group far out in the desert : " They have no shoes , wear tattered clothes , and just have goats - there are no tourists out there ! " Suleiman invited the excavation team and me to dinner at his home that night . I Ie greeted us warmly , and we climbed to the roof to enjoy the sunset . The red sun softens the ugly concrete village . Returning downstairs , we sat on cushions and ate from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into lumps with our hands and relishing the warm chicken . It was Thursday night , the start of the Arab weekend , and after dinner a young American and a Bedouin arm-wrestled to great laughter and shouting . Outside , the large waning moon rose and , tar below , the red rock of Petra turned to silver in the soft desert night . Sidebar One of the few entryways into Petra is a narrow passage , the Siq , at the end of which Petrans carved elaborate monuments ( the Treasury was likely a tomb ) into the soft rock . Sidebar A monument to Petra 's prosperity and its status as the capital of Nabatea , the Great Temple ( above ) was a pile of rubble until archaeologists ( led by Martha Sharp Joukowsky , left ) started restoring it . Sidebar Prophet on the Mount The devout pay respects to Aaron For at least a millennium , it was Jebel Haroun , not Petra , that attracted visitors . A two-hour donkey ride south of Petra , Jebel Haroun is a rugged mountain crowned by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aaron , a brother of Moses and the mouthpiece for the stuttering prophet . The Old Testament relates that , at God 's command , Aaron was left naked to the of exposure at the top of a mountain for a lack of deference to the Lord . Ageold tradition says this desolate spot- " Jebel Haroun " is Arabic for Mount Aaron-is where he died . Today , Jewish Hasidim , Muslim villagers and Christian tourists make the arduous trek up the steep mountainside out of reverence to Aaron , who , like his brother , is regarded as a prophet by all three religions . At the top , the view to the west is of the shimmering Negev Desert in Israel . When my guide and I arrive , the shrine is locked and deserted . But soon a lanky man named Nimet Defala arrives with his wife and mother . " This is my 47th birthday , " he explains . " My mother lost her previous child , and she vowed that if I lived , we would visit the shrine every year . " They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles away . " When we come here , we feel our heart . Aaron was close to God . " Defala fishes out a key borrowed from a caretaker , opens the small metal door and invites us into the shadowy space . We go inside , light candles and creep down the worn stone stairs to pay our respects to Aaron . Carvings of Christian crosses , Koranic verse and Hebrew prayers are interspersed across the cool stone walls . Here is the Middle East in all its sacred and profane complexity . The simple building dedicated to a Jewish prophet is a fourth-century Christian sanctuary renovated by a 13th-century Egyptian sultan . On the plateau just below the shrine are the remains of a Byzantine monastery used between the fourth and seventh centuries A.D. ( and excavated since the late 1990s by Finnish archaeologists ) . The prophet Muhammad himself is said to have visited Jebel Haroun as a child . One of the Byzantine monks living there at the time proclaimed that Muhammad was destined to change the world . Yet the bitter animosities that cleave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12th century appealed for help to the Crusaders , who built a string of forts in the vicinity . The Muslim conqueror Saladin expelled the invaders , and non-Muslims were not welcome at this holy site until the 1990s . The very morning I make my pilgrimage , in July 2006 , the latest war begins , in Israel and Lebanon . The one-month conflict will take 1,000 lives . My guide and I come out of Aaron 's temple blinking in the bright sun , say goodbye to Defala and untether our grazing donkeys . We gallop down the bare mountain , raising dust and whooping like movie cowboys . - A.L . Sidebar According to the latest archaeological discoveries , Petra prospered for about 1,000 years , even after a devastating earthquake . ( Christopher Tuttle inspects a Byzantine bath . ) Sidebar A church used until the seventh century A.D. and excavated in the 1990s ( a Bedouin man cleans a mosaic on the church floor ) contained papyrus scrolls that attest to Petra 's longevity . Sidebar The main road in Petra , once spectacularly colonnaded , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must have been forbidden ; there are no wheel prints in the soft stone . Author Affiliation ANDREW LAWLER wrote about the archaeology of Alexandria in the April issue of SMITHSONIAN . He avoids riding camels . <p>                     