@@398773

The Growing Religious Mission to Protect the Environment Photograph Photograph // When conservative evangelical Christians call for action on global warming , Hindu holy men dedicate themselves to saving sacred rivers and Buddhist monks work with Islamic mullahs to try to halt the extinction crisis , boundaries are clearly being redrawn in the ongoing struggle for the political hearts and minds of the world 's believers . Faith-based environmental activism is soaring , and with it comes new criticism that some religious leaders are straying from church doctrine . Many of the arguments hinge on a seemingly simple point : Did God give human beings " dominion " over the Earth , to control as we see fit , or did God give us " stewardship " of creation as a sacred trust ? One factor in the resurgence of faith-based environmentalism is the 1993 founding of the National Religious Partnership for the Environment ( NRPE ) by a former radio talk show host and spokesperson for New York City 's Episcopal Cathedral of St. John the Divine named Paul Gorman ( see sidebar interview ) . NRPE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such disparate and mainstream bodies as the U.S. Catholic Conference ( the policy agency for all Catholic bishops , clergy and parishes ) , the National Council of Churches of Christ ( a federation of Protestant , Eastern Orthodox and African-American denominations ) , the Coalition on the Environment and Jewish Life ( COEJL , an alliance across all four Jewish movements ) and the Evangelical Environmental Network ( a coalition of evangelical Christian agencies and institutions ) . With such dynamic leadership , churches are moving environmental concerns to the heart of their ministry , and they are calling on their congregants to take increasingly radical action . " A child born in a wealthy country is likely to consume , waste and pollute more in his lifetime than 50 children born in developing nations , " said the Archbishop of Canterbury in a New Year 's address on the eve of 2001 . " It may not be time to build an ark like Noah , but it is high time to take better care of God 's creation . " In 1997 , the Patriarchate of the Greek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polluters . " To commit a crime against the natural world is a sin , " he said . " For humans to cause species to become extinct and to destroy the biological diversity of God 's creation . for humans to degrade the integrity of the Earth by causing changes in its climate , stripping the Earth of its natural forests or destroying its wetlands ... for humans to contaminate the Earth 's waters , its land , its air and its life with poisonous substances , these are sins , " he said . In a 1990 World Day of Peace message , Pope John Paul II emphasized that Christian responsibility toward nature is an essential part of faith . Statements like these are common across many denominations , but it 's the concrete actions and growing faith-based activism that represents an important change . The impassioned Earth Charter , which grew out of the 1992 Rio Earth Summit , calls for an ethically based " global partnership to care for the Earth and one another . " Last June , Patriarch Bartholomew and the Pope issued a strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " God has not abandoned the world , " it said . " It is His will that His design and our hope for it will be realized through our co-operation in restoring its original harmony . In our own time we are witnessing a growth of an ecological awareness which needs to be encouraged , so that it will lead to practical programs and initiatives . " The declaration can be read as a call to action . " It 's one thing to have theological arguments , but the average congregation needs to connect those with their own lives , " says Rebecca Gould , professor of religion and environmental studies at Vermont 's Middlebury College . " Environmental issues are a reminder that there is a connection . According to Gould , congregations are beginning to step forward and say , " Our house of worship should reflect our beliefs for creation . " Some , like Ursula Goodenough , a professor of biology at Washington University , go even further and say that we may , indeed , need new houses of worship . " There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she says . " One is working within the traditions and greening them , and the other is trying to articulate new religions where environmental transformation is the whole point . " The religious reawakening has rippled across faiths , creating unlikely coalitions . NRPE 's priority is to " weave the mission of care for God 's creation across all areas of organized religion . " Since 1993 , it has incorporated environmental activities into already established social programs . Habitat for Humanity , a Christian housing organization , began identifying chemical threats in construction and promoting environmentally friendly materials ; the United Jewish Appeal underwrote curricula for environmental education . The Association of Evangelical Relief and Development agencies prepared field staff to become environmental and antihunger campaigners . Photograph Devout Hindu women praying in the Ganges River , whose growing pollution is stirring some of the faithful to environmental action . // Congregation-based projects were soon born as well : Jesus People Against Pollution in Columbia , Mississippi has surveyed 20,000 citizens affected by the chemical dioxin and forced Superfund clean-ups . The Sisters of the Immaculate Heart in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a community garden and cleared 120 lots for planting trees and flowers . The Hamburg Presbyterian Church in upstate New York adopted a nearby creek , monitoring pH levels and winning it state designation as a protected habitat . Since pollution concentrates in poor and often non-white neighborhoods , many churches see the struggle for environmental justice as ideally combining the twin missions of concern for the world 's disadvantaged with concern for the Earth itself . The United States Catholic Conference 's Environmental Justice Program awards grants to help parishes develop reuse plans for abandoned brownfields , educate communities about the health problems of toxic emissions , and train teachers in land stewardship and ethics . According to Program Director Walt Grazer , some 20,000 environmental justice resource kits have been distributed to every parish in the U.S. Target Earth , a national Christian group , has activities in 15 countries , including field stations , hands-on service projects and conservation programs . Particularly active on college campuses , Target Earth educates students and sends them on green-themed alternative spring break programs . The environmental work of Christian churches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects as the tree planting organized by Zimbabwe 's African Independent Churches ( AIC ) that has transformed what were once barren landscapes . Working with the indigenous Shona people of Zimbabwe , the churches ' ZIRCON environmental arm plants more than one million native and non-native fruit trees per year . Ultimately , the care for creation agenda will be advanced congregation by congregation , at the grassroots level . That 's just the approach taken by Seattle-based Earth Ministry , which has recruited what it calls colleagues in 90 mainline Christian churches in the Puget Sound area . According to Nancy Wright , a Congregational minister and program associate with Earth Ministry , the colleagues lead book discussions , organize hikes and stream restorations , promote community-supported agriculture and conduct top-to-bottom " greenings " of church facilities . Wright is optimistic about the chances for spreading this new gospel , but she 's also realistic . " Unfortunately , " she says , " the churches are declining in membership , and that is a factor . But I see wonderful developments like the Patriarch 's statement and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing that fellowship with God includes care for creation-it goes back to scripture . But we 're awakening to new possibilities . " Science and Religion Meet There is an uncomfortable moment during the film Contact in which the scientist Ellie Arroway ( Jodie Foster ) is asked if she believes in God . Never having been confronted with this question before , the usually voluble scientist answers evasively , and it temporarily sinks her mission as Earth 's representative to other worlds . Many of today 's scientists would be more prepared for religious questions . In 1995 , for example , Heinz Award-winning marine biologist Jane Lubchenco was a participant in a conference organized by the Greek Orthodox Church that marked the 1,900th anniversary of the Book of Revelations and focused on " The Apocalypse and the Environment . " She says , " There 's a reawakening in many different faith groups , and it 's informed by science but certainly not driven by it . " Photograph Jesus People Against Pollution , based in Columbia , Missouri , has spurred cleanup of dioxin  --  contaminated Superfund sites @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like this one on the Duwamish River in Seattle . // In 1937 , Nobel Prize-winning physicist Max Planck wrote in his essay " On Religion and Science , " " Man needs science in order to know ; religion in order to act " In their book The Good in Nature and Humanity , Stephen Kellert and Timothy Farnham talk about the need for " a common vocabulary , a language that allows thoughtful people to cross over safely and share ideas about science , religion , spirituality and the natural world . " Science and religion were once more intimately connected . Mary Evelyn Tucker , the Bucknell University professor of religion who ( with her husband John Grim ) organized the " Religions of the World and Ecology " conference series at Harvard ( see sidebar ) , says , " All of the religious traditions , from those of the indigenous peoples to Taoism and Confucianism , have had a sense that we live within a larger cosmos . They saw a bigger frame of time and space , with us dwelling in what you might call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vastness of the universe but also the intimacy of natural processes . For example , the beauty and mystery of a sunset will stop us all , and science alone can not fully explain all the incredible complexity at work . For that , we developed liturgical celebrations of the solstice and equinox , but much of this fell into disuse as religions became more human-centered and neglected the connection to the Earth . " That may now be changing , in part because of the immensity of the environmental crisis we face . In a lecture delivered as part of the Harvard series in 1996 , religious historian Thomas Berry noted hopefully that " perhaps a new revelatory experience is taking place , an experience wherein human consciousness awakens to the grandeur and sacred quality of the Earth process . Humanity has not participated in such a vision since shamanic times , but in such a renewal lies our hope for the future for ourselves and for the entire planet . " Berry 's idea of renewal is reflected in a 1992 warning signed by 1,670 scientists , including 104 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our stewardship of the Earth . " George Fisher , a professor of geology at Johns Hopkins , asks , " How do those of us living in the western world share resources with the other 90 percent of the Earth 's population ? These are scientific questions in part , because we need to know how the Earth works , but science does n't tell us what we should do . Those are moral and ethical questions . " Photograph Bob Edgar of the National Council of Churches says its civil rights and environmental work earned it a " scarlet letter " from conservatives . Photograph Mary Evelyn Tucker of Bucknell University organized the " Religions of the World and Ecology " conference series at Harvard . // Writing in a special issue of Daedalus magazine edited by Tucker and Grim , Columbia University Professor George Rupp notes that humanity has developed the capacity to alter the Earth , its climate and its biodiversity in a profound way , and that " the critical question is whether we have the wisdom and ethical maturity to employ our scientific and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and take stock if we are to avoid serious mistakes . " John Cobb , Jr . of the Claremont School of Theology calls for an engaged Christian church that " finds it way between leaving all to God and celebrating the human ability to create . " In 1972 , he wrote a book called Is it Too Late ? , and he 's still asking that question . Religion offers a framework for that kind of analysis . And it is becoming increasingly clear to many religious denominations that environmental issues are intruding on what have traditionally been their concerns , such as alleviating the suffering of the poor . As Pennsylvania-based environmental attorney Donald Brown writes in Daedalus , climate change acquires a clear ethical dimension when , despite the disproportionate generation of global warming gases by wealthier nations , its biggest impact is on the health , food supplies and well-being of the world 's poorest people . NRPE 's Gorman points out that the Biblical story of Noah 's ark is a powerful prophetic argument for preserving biodiversity . " Noah 's covenant is with all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world 's most prominent scientists , entomologist E.O . Wilson of Harvard , has written eloquently about the extinction crisis , and he is heartened by the growing alliance between religious groups and scientists . " I like to think that the environmental values of secular and religious alike arise from the same innate attraction to nature , " he writes in The Future of Life . " They express the same compassion for animals , aesthetic response to free-living flowers and birds , and wonders at the mysteries of wild environments . " Marc Bekoff , the author of Minding Animals and a professor of animal behavior at the University of Colorado , also sees a growing concern among faith communities about the importance of preserving species . " It 's amazing to me the number of religious scholars who want to know about animal behavior and animal ecology , " he adds . Energy and Climate : Galvanizing Issues The religious community is joining a growing movement against global warming that is determined to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by building support for sustainable energy . Against a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building from the bottom up . Meeting in Oxford , England last July , a landmark gathering of environmental scientists , theologians and policymakers issued a declaration stating very firmly that global warming is real , and that it is the duty of committed Christians to do something about it . " By reducing the Earth 's biological diversity , " their statement said , " human-induced climate change diminishes God 's creation .... The call to " love the Lord Your God and love your neighbor ' ( Matthew 22:37-39 ) takes on new implications in the face of present and projected climate change . " " This was an important breakthrough , " says Climate Forum 2002 participant Reverend Jim Ball , the American Baptist minister who heads the Evangelical Environmental Network . " The meeting brought together senior climate scientists and Christian leaders , and it really helped us understand this crucial issue . " It helped that many of the participating scientists were themselves evangelical Christians , including co-convenor Sir John Houghton of the John Ray Initiative , a former science advisor to Margaret Thatcher who edited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Panel on Climate Change ( IPCC ) . Among the declaration 's signers was Reverend Richard Cizik , vice president of the National Association of Evangelicals , an influential body that represents between 25 and 40 million churchgoers . " Many evangelicals have been led to believe that the challenge of global warming is simply fiction , but I do n't see how they could take a look at the evidence of these scientists  --  many of whom are also Christians  --  and not be convinced . The church community is challenged to examine the evidence for global warming , and to respond to the fact of it , " Cizik says . For many environmentalists , the phrase " evangelical Christian " is likely to conjure an implacable enemy who supports Jerry Falwell , the Christian Coalition and the polluters ' lobby in Congress . But in fact there is a wide spectrum of opinion  --  and a growing activism for the environment . " Our purpose as an organization is to help evangelical Christians understand what the Bible says about caring for all creation , says Ball , another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the dark or an isolated incident . " The involvement of the religious community is growing quickly  --  and is essential , " says climate journalist Ross Gelbspan , author of The Heat is On . " When I talk about the climate crisis to policymakers , I cast it in terms of bottom line thinking because that 's their vocabulary . But , at root , climate change is a moral and ethical issue . " Photograph Sally Bingham of the Grace Cathedral in San Francisco organized California Interfaith Power and Light to promote energy-conscious thinking on the local level . Photograph The Gethsemane Lutheran Church in Carmichael , California is proud of its new solar panels . // Sally Bingham , the environmental minister at the Episcopal Grace Cathedral in San Francisco , cites the second chapter of Genesis as a motivation for her work . " God put Adam in the Garden to till it and to keep it . We have n't done a very good job of that . Christians are commanded to love their neighbors , and you ca n't do that by polluting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Power and Light to convince the state 's 50,000 religious congregations to become more energy-conscious . Bingham , who was briefly jailed for a nonviolent protest against proposed oil drilling in the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge , has recruited Jewish and Muslim congregations . Members are asked to sign " covenants " committing them to improving the energy efficiency of their buildings , to creating global warming education campaigns , and to using renewable energy when possible . There are now solar panels on the roofs of Gloria Dei Lutheran Church in Sacramento and Congregation Shir Hadash in Los Gatos , for instance . Volunteers like Oakland Mayor Jerry Brown have helped more than 150 member parishes install compact fluorescent lights and make other energy-saving changes . An action guide for this kind of hands-on reform , Responsible Purchasing for Faith Communities , is available from the Center for a New American Dream ( www.newdream.org ) . Photograph " What Would Jesus Drive ? " ask these anti-SUV protesters in Massachusetts . The Evangelical Environmental Network hopes to launch a nationwide campaign against the unwieldy gas-guzzlers. // In 2001 , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While some uncertainty remains , most experts agree that something significant is happening to the atmosphere . Human behavior and activity are , according to the most recent findings of international scientific bodies , contributing to a warming of the Earth 's climate .... Consequently , it seems prudent not only to continue to research and monitor this phenomenon , but to take steps now to mitigate possible negative effects . " That same year , Congregational minister Dan Smith took to his pulpit in Lexington , Massachusetts and asked , " What Would Jesus Drive ? " Such questions are rooted in evangelical tradition , where " What Would Jesus Do ? " is a common query . With help from environmental writer Bill McKibben , Smith crafted a campaign that included demonstrations at sport-utility vehicle ( SUV ) dealerships . " I wanted to encourage faithful people to consider how their daily decisions were either contributing to healing God 's creation or to the destruction of it , " Smith told his congregants . In an interview , he added , " I felt compelled to say something about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half full of SUVs . For me to be involved in an activist rally surprised some people , but the congregation has been supportive . " The Evangelical Environmental Network hopes to launch " What Would Jesus Drive ? " as a national campaign . The Jewish Council for Public Affairs ( representing 13 national and 122 local Jewish public affairs organizations ) adopted a resolution advocating that Congress move toward a clean and sustainable energy system that will diminish reliance on imported oil and reduce greenhouse gas emissions . COEJL director Mark Jacobs testified before Congress in support of increasing vehicle fuel economy standards . Interfaith global climate change campaigns have formed in 18 states , educating congregations and organizing visits with elected officials . The National Council of Churches ( NCC ) , working with COEJL , created the Interfaith Climate Change Network , which describes global warming as " a matter of justice ... for future generations who will inherit an unstable climate . " Bob Edgar , the Methodist minister and former Congressman who is NCC 's general secretary , says , " We 've led efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy efficiency . " Active for Islam specially in light of the terrorist attacks of September 11 , 2001 , it 's important to point out the deep ecological teachings inherent in Islam , and the very real onthe-ground projects that have developed from them . Although high-impact environmentalism is still not widespread in Islamic societies , some efforts have taken root . The Sultan of Oman , for instance , has worked with the World Wildlife Fund to successfully reintroduce the native oryx ( an antelope that had disappeared from the wild in the 1970s ) . And in Saudi Arabia , King Fahd established research centers to breed endangered species , coupled with a network of nature reserves and a public education campaign . " Allah entrusted man with the guardianship of the Earth , " says the Islamic Foundation for Ecology and Environmental Sciences , founded in the mid-1980s . " We have to fulfill that ancient trust now , before it becomes too late . " The foundation has set up an extensive training program in environmental teachings based on the Qur'an . It promotes self-sufficiency in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a demonstration center for solar technology , water wheels , waste recycling and wind power . The foundation distributes a teaching pack entitled Qur'an Creation and Conservation , and it is setting up the Muslim Alliance for Conservation as an international grassroots organization . Photograph A religiously inspired campaign in Muslim Oman has successfully reintroduced the native oryx into the wild . Photograph Iran-born Seyyed Hossein Nasr of George Washington University campaigns for a greener Islam . // Richard Foltz , an Islamicist who teaches in the religion department at the University of Florida , says the strongest environmental activism in the Muslim world occurs in Iran , which also has the most direct Islamic rule . Although the mullahs are not themselves sponsors of green initiatives , the revolutionary constitution adapted in 1979 asserts that protection of the natural environment is " a public obligation , " and that " all activities , economic or otherwise , which may cause irreversible damage to the environment are forbidden . " Despite the strong words , however , Teheran , Iran 's capital city , has some of the worst air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year from related illnesses . The country also faces water and population crises , and some 149 independent Iranian environmental groups have been launched in response . Among the most active is the Green Front , established by four medical students in 1989 . In 1999 , it organized hundreds of volunteers in a cleanup of the Caspian Sea coast . Although many Muslim countries campaign against women 's reproductive rights , Iran 's Islamic government has one of the world 's most extensive birth control programs . Family planning courses are mandatory for engaged couples , and birth control devices are free and widely available . According to the Population Reference Bureau , an annual growth rate of 3.9 percent in 1976 has been slashed to 1.2 percent today . " Iran shatters all the stereotypes about Islam and the environment , " says Foltz . This is due at least in part to pioneering work done by Seyyed Hossein Nasr of George Washington University , author of the influential Man and Nature . The environmental crisis , he says , " is in reality a spiritual and religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ model for much of the Islamic world , it has found few adherents on the environment . In most Islamic countries , population control is a taboo subject , and rigid centralized control stifles grassroots movements . Women 's rights and , by most measures , freedom , are the lowest in the world in Arab societies , according to the United Nations ' Arab Human Development Report 2002 . The Buddhist Way There is a strong tradition of respect for nature in Buddhism as well . As Nick Wallis of the Friends of the Western Buddhist Order explains , " All the most significant events of Buddha 's life occur in the countryside and are associated with trees . " Buddha was born as his mother grasped the branch of a sal tree , and he achieved Enlightenment beneath the Bodhi tree . " Studying Buddhism , I was taught the importance of a caring attitude toward the environment , " writes the Dalai Lama . " Our practice of nonviolence applies not just to human beings but to all sentient beings or any living thing . " In practice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are authoritarian and rapidly industrializing , but religious faith has manifested itself in courageous ways . Some 700 Thai monks and nuns are united in Sekiya Dhamma , a network that has fought logging and other environmental exploitation . One such monk is Pha Pachak , who in order to protect forests from loggers wrapped saffron monk 's cloth around imperiled trees and blessed them . The tactic worked , since killing an ordained being is a dangerous undertaking for people of Buddhist faith . But Pha Pachak was beaten and thrown in jail for his obstruction of the powerful lumber industry . Pachak 's work is carried on : in 1999 , an International Solidarity Walk through Thailand ended with an Interfaith Tree Ordination . The monk Buddhadasa Bhikkhu , who died in 1993 , was a kindred spirit ; he was very politically active and a strong environmentalist . " The greedy and selfish are destroying nature , " he declared . Also in Thailand , writer and activist Sulak Sivaraska has helped form a number of groups , including the International Network of Engaged Buddhists . Like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Not only our traditional culture , but our natural environment is in crisis " he says . A modern Buddhist philanthropic organization , Tzu Chi , has promoted recycling efforts in Taiwan and Malaysia . Americans , too , have promoted their own form of socially engaged Buddhism , through the work of pioneers like poet Gary Snyder , author Joanne Macy and Swarthmore Professor of Religion Donald Swearer . Hinduism 's Green Tradition Although Hinduism expresses a reverence for nature , imbuing rivers , forests and mountains with divine significance , India today is in its worst environmental crisis , facing 2.5 million premature deaths annually from air pollution alone . As Hinduism Today points out , " Most economic advancement during the last half century has come at severe environmental cost : falling water tables , soil loss , air and water pollution , forest degradation , overgrazing , loss of species and unmanageable municipal waste . " P.R . Trivedy , chairman of the Indian Institute of Ecology and Environment , says , " In the Vedas and other religious books there are detailed discussions and descriptions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an urgent need to have a competent cadre of Hindu leaders educated and trained in religion , culture and the environment . " Photograph The Dalai Lama , seen here with native South Americans , has been an outspoken voice for the environment . Photograph Buddha attained enlightenment under a Bodhi tree like this one . // Suman Sahai , who campaigns for farmers ' rights , points out that the 5,000-year-old Hindu tradition respects all forms of life . " Religious leaders can do wonders , but we are forgetting our traditions and have done nothing so far , " she says . Perhaps " nothing " is a little strong . Through the work of the Institute of Himalyan Environment and Development , Hindu pilgrims to mountain provinces ravaged by clear-cutting have been convinced to plant trees in God 's name-with dramatically successful results . One sadhu , or holy man , 80-year-old Swami Vankhandi , personally replanted 15 acres of deforested land and fought off loggers . India 's wealthiest Hindu temple , Tirumala Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh , has organized the planting of several million trees across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pilgrims to plant 2.5 million trees . One of India 's foremost environmentalists , Vandana Shiva , predicts that the country will be in a severe food and water crisis by 2020 . But she also points to some points of light in the form of faith-based activism . " Swami Chidanand of Hardiwar blessed the struggle against Tehri Dam in the hills of Uttar Pradesh , the dam will submerge 100 villages and damage the Ganga River and the Chipko movement Indian " tree huggers " who have blocked loggers , " Shiva says . Vasudha Narayanan , in an eloquent essay entitled " One Tree is Equal to 10 Sons : Hindu Responses to the Problems of Ecology , Population and Consumption , " summed up the reformists " message . " It is we who belong to the Earth , " she wrote , " and by wrongly usurping what is not ours and what should be shared with future generations of human beings , we are indulging in adharmic , or unrighteous behavior . " Jewish Reverence for Life Arizona State Professor Hava Tirosh-Samuelson cites the Jewish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , " as helping to promote a new Jewish concern for the environment . " The Talmudic sages express great concern about preserving the environment and preventing pollution , " writes Richard Schwartz in his book Judaism and Global Survival . " It is forbidden , " he quotes , " to live in a town which has not garden or greenery . " And he cites an ancient Jewish story , in which two men who are quarreling over ownership of a piece of land go to see their rabbi , who puts his ear to the ground and proclaims , " Let us ask the land . " As the rabbi straightens up , he announces , " Gentlemen , the land says it belongs to neither of you but that you belong to it . " Photograph " It is we who belong to the Earth , " says influential Indian thinker Vasudha Narayanan . Photograph Rabbi Arthur Waskow says that modern plagues involve corporate pollution of the Hudson River , not clouds of locusts. // In what has become something of a Jewish Earth Day , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the 15th day of the Hebrew month of Shevat . On that day , observant Jews believe , God decides how bountiful the fruit trees will be in the next year . Rabbi Arthur Waskow , who founded and runs the Philadelphia-based Shalom Center , writes of such traditions in books like Trees , Earth and Torah . " We are reviving ancient harvest festivals and integrating concern for the Earth into the fabric of Jewish life , " Waskow says . " Instead of simply asking God to protect us from famine and locusts , we 're asking to be saved from General Electric 's pollution of the Hudson River . " The Shalom Center is on the front lines . " Focusing on the Jewish heritage of protecting trees , " Waskow says , " we joined with such groups as the Redwood Rabbis and brought people to Maxaam shareholders ' meetings to protest against logging ancient redwoods . We held a plantin ' on company land and were nearly arrested . " The Redwood Rabbis also sponsored the " National Forest Protection and Restoration Act " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of legislation spearheaded by Christians Caring for Creation , and by the Religious Campaign for Forest Conservation . The Coalition on the Environment and Jewish Life has 26 member organizations . Formed in 1993 , the group states forcefully that " the ecological crisis hovers over all Jewish concerns , for the threat is global , advancing , and ultimately jeopardizes ecological balance and the quality of life . " Energy security , global warming and forest protection are primary COEJL concerns , and members conduct letterwriting campaigns and other actions . COEJL Chair Sharon Bloome blasts efforts to drill for oil in the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge ( ANWR ) . " We do not need to drill in ANWR to maintain our capacity to ensure Israel 's oil supply , " she says . " Israel 's oil use is less than two percent that of the United States . " Another Jewish activist , Rabbi Fred Scherlinder Dobb of the Adat Shalom Reconstructionist Congregation in Maryland , is a co-chair of the Massachusetts-based Religious Witness for the Earth ( RWE ) . RWE has called for religious witness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonviolent protest outside the U.S. Department of Energy resulting in 22 arrests . " The prophets were n't always popular , " says Dobb , " but their calls to justice became the enduring voices of their generations . " The increasing momentum on domestic environmental issues is unfortunately not mirrored in the Middle East . Tragically , one casualty of the intifada in Israel and the West Bank has been environmental partnerships between Jews and Muslims . For instance , a university-led project on air pollution receiving Palestinian cooperation collapsed after the recent conflicts . Nevertheless , there is a strong tradition of interfaith work on issues ranging from water distribution to pollution . Theological Dissent If religious campaigns for the environment were ineffective , they probably would n't generate much opposition . But , perhaps sensing a gathering consensus , some groups have been critical , particularly the Michigan-based Acton Institute for the Study of Religion and Liberty , headed and co-founded by Catholic priest Robert A. Sirico . Sirico denounces " this ongoing alliance between the radical environmental movement and the faith community " as " tragically unreflective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he invoked the pastoral division between God 's mission for humankind : stewardship or dominion . " In the first chapter of Genesis , " he argues , " man is given dominion over the Earth . This clearly specifies that man  --  not the birds or cows  --  is responsible for the world and enjoys a large degree of prudential discretion in how he uses his authority . " Sirico strikes out at what he calls " the New-Ageist neo-paganism in which people ascribe divine status to animals and plants , " though a huge amount of religious activism has been coming from mainstream denominations . The Acton Institute was inflamed by a television advertisement jointly sponsored by the Sierra Club and the National Council of Churches that attacked President Bush 's proposal to drill for oil in ANWR as incompatible with " caring for creation . " It was further incensed when the Wall Street Journal quoted Sierra Club Executive Director Carl Pope as saying " the relationship with the churches gives him new clout on Capitol Hill . " According to Sirico 's associate , Phillip DeVous , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sierra Club more than it does Christianity . The nuanced church message is lumped in with the green political agenda . " By being out front on a number of issues , NCC has become a lightning rod of criticism for conservative theologians . " The NCC is in the pocket of a lot of those environmental groups , " says Michael Cromartie , vice president of the Washington , D.C.-based Ethics and Public Policy Center . Because he signed the Oxford Declaration on global warming , Reverend Cizik of the National Association of Evangelicals ( NAE ) worries that " friends at the Heritage Foundation and on the political right " will now think him a candidate for NCC membership . But Cizik is n't going that far . " The NAE is the conservative alternative to the National Council of Churches , " he says . " We represent mainline Christianity today , which the NCC does not . " Photograph Father Robert Sirico is a critic of the new church-based activism , calling it " tragically unreflective . " Photograph Reverend Richard Cizik of the National Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that Christians should do something about it . // Bob Edgar of NCC says the group earned its scarlet letter from conservatives 50 years ago , when it translated the Bible from the original Hebrew and Greek and helped to foster the idea of stewardship , rather than dominion , over the Earth . " We were also part of the civil rights movement , working with Martin Luther King , so that was a factor in our liberal reputation , Edgar says . " We do n't agree with the Sierra Club on everything , but on some issues we have like-mindedness , " he says . Conservative theologians formed their own coalition , the Interfaith Council for Environmental Stewardship ( now dormant , it spoke out against " a romantic view of nature " ) . In 1999 , 25 of them got together in West Cornwall , Connecticut and drew up what 's known as the Cornwall Declaration . This document praises advances in human health , nutrition and life expectancy , and says that economic progress should n't be traded for environmental goals . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than producers and stewards , " the Declaration states . " Consequently , they ignore our potential , as bearers of God 's image , to add to the Earth 's abundance . " Paul Gorman of the National Religious Partnership says that , despite the rhetoric , it 's not accurate to see the current struggle as one between the concepts of stewardship and dominion . The evidence of humankind 's dominion is all around us , in our warming atmosphere , polluted seas and deforested plains . An increasing number of the faithful see that evidence , too , and that-rather than an excess of romanticism or mistaken neo-pagan beliefs-is what 's turning believers all over the world into activists for the Earth . <p>                     