@@412253

To me as a 16-year-old Life Scout , Maine 's Mount Katahdin might as well have been Mount Everest Good thing my dad was there to help . My father-and Scoutmaster-Kyle Johnson had planned this hike to help the Scouts of Troop 651 , Elkin , N.C. , get our 50-Miler Awards . I earned my 50-Miler , and got a lot more . Afoot and afloat we explored the Maine wilderness . We reached for every last reserve of energy to make it to the summit . When we made it , Dad and I were able to take part in a passion for the outdoors that we both shared . A few months later I received my Eagle Scout Award . The following year my family was involved in a fatal automobile accident In one moment I lost my father , my Scoutmaster and my best friend . Ten years later , I found myself finishing what I had started with my dad . In 1999 , I was about to face a 2,000-mile , six-month throughhike of the Appalachian Trail , beginning at that fateful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! I sat straight up in my sleeping bag , What was that noise ? Silence . I tried to listen , but the rapid beating of my heart was too loud . Suddenly , I heard a long cracking sound . CRASH ! THOOM ! Clumsily , I climbed out of my backwoods shelter , a large garbage bag lashed to my hiking poles hastily set up after a grueling , 30-mile day . Heavy snow and howling winds had snapped a huge tree , which landed a few feet from my campsite . It was just 3:30 a.m. but I decided to break camp . Daybreak would come soon enough . I packed up , my headlamp illuminating the winter landscape . After a few miles , my headlamp began to flicker , then nothing . Total darkness . My thoughts became clouded with confusion . What if the black bear I had seen the day before was nearby ? What if I got lost ? I had given my spare batteries to a fellow hiker a few days before . Being prepared , I had a backup-a candle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and my creativity , I was able to keep hiking until the sun came up . The adrenaline rush from the nightly encounter made me feel I could hike a hundred more miles . My tired feet decided otherwise . I was soon setting up camp again . Getting Ready My body was screaming what my mind was thinking-what are you doing to me ? The predetermined 18-mile days quickly dwindled to eight-mile days the first few weeks of the trip . Expectations were high , but so were the mountains . My body was not used to the daily workout . Aching legs and throbbing feet were accompanied by bruises and sores caused by the constant rubbing of the pack against my skin . Huffing and puffing , every breath of crisp mountain air made my lungs feel as if they were ready to explode . It was within those first agonizing weeks my body would become conditioned to life on the trail . // <p>                     