@@411180

" . . . Various rogue regimes around the world have been steadily advancing their efforts to obtain the technical know how and components to threaten their neighbors and , ultimately , the U.S. " // DESPITE THE END of the Cold War , America has not fully escaped the threat of attack by intercontinental ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) . On Jan. 23 , 1996 , a triumphant Pres. Clinton proclaimed , " For the first time since the dawn of the nuclear age , there are no Russian missiles pointed at America 's children . " Although the fall of the Soviet Union may have reduced the risk of a ballistic missile exchange between the superpowers , it did not eliminate the threat from smaller , rogue states . Several governments , in an attempt to expand their military capabilities and international influence , have embarked on programs to strengthen their arsenals . Increasingly , those attempts include research and development of NBC weapons ( nuclear , biological , and chemical ) of mass destruction and ballistic missiles . According to former Secretary of Defense Donald @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon have , ballistic missiles , and a comparable number possess or are developing weapons of mass destruction to complement these delivery systems . Iran , Iraq , Libya , Syria , and North Korea-all noted sponsors of international terrorism-pose the greatest threat to the U.S. The induction of those nations into the vaunted " ballistic missile club " could weaken America 's faith in its long-held policy of deterrence . Deterrence-the theory that nations will be prevented from taking certain actions when faced with the threat of retaliation-assumes the adversary is rational . However , that assumption is not guaranteed , especially in light of the unpredictable and often irrational past behavior of several leaders of rogue regimes , particularly Libya 's Muammar al-Qaddafi and North Korea 's Kim Jong Il . Given the reckless tendencies of these despots , American policymakers can no longer be completely assured that the threat of retaliation will preclude attack . In the face of these threats , America must deploy a limited national missile defense system to provide the homeland with added protection against ballistic missile attacks . North Korea and Iran pose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two nations possess the technology and research infrastructure to support missile development programs that have the greatest potential to threaten the U.S. homeland . Iran has extensive experience with ballistic missiles . During the IranIraq war , Iran fired nearly 120 Scuds at Iraq , including 77 missiles during a 52-day period known as the War of the Cities . The backbone of the Iranian ballistic missile force is the Scud B , obtained from Libya and North Korea . Israeli analysts estimate that Iran possesses 250-300 Scud Bs and 60 to 100 longer-range Scud Cs . With these missiles , Iran could strike targets in the other Gulf States , eastern Turkey , and several states of the former Soviet Union . hart is also attempting to acquire newer , more advanced missiles , such as the No Dong and the Taepo Dong 1 and 2-the latest missile prototypes under development in North Korea . Using North Korean technology as a foundation , Iran has initiated its own missile design and development program . , July 23 , 1998 , it tested the Shahab3 , a medium-range missile with an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This test-marking further progress toward Iran 's apparent goal of possessing an intercontinrental ballistic missile-has added to the Clinton Administration 's already deep concern about Iran 's strategic capabilities , especially its growing chemical and biological stockpiles . Experts claim Iran is seeking to develop a missile in the 3,500-mile range in the next few years , which would present a direct threat to Europe and American forces statinned there . If Iran develops an even longerrange missile , the U.S. could be in peril . North Korea-the most technologically advanced of the rogue states and the most notorious proliferator of missile-related technology-poses the gravest threat to the security of the American homeland . After acquiring missile technology from the Soviet Union in the early 1980s , North Korea developed a sizable indigenous production capability of at least 100 Scud missiles annually . Assessments by the South Korean Defense Ministry claim that North Korea has several hundred Scuds in its inventory . All of those missiles are capable of hitting targets throughout the Korean peninsulafrom the South 's capital city of Seoul to military staging areas that would be used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarms over North Korea 's potential NBC weapons capabilities . Analysts believe that North Korea may have produced enough plutonium to produce one or two nuclear devices before acceding to cease efforts to build a nuclear bomb under the 1994 Agreed Framework . Furthermore , the U.S. Department of Defense maintams that North Korea has a sizable stockpile of nerve , blister , choking , and blood agents , along with crude biological weapons-all of which could be delivered by ballistic missiles . Most observers were disturbed by North Korea 's decision to revive its missile test program . On Aug. 31 , 1998 , North Korea conducted its first missile test since 1993 by launching a multi-stage Taepo Dong 1 missile over Japan and into the Pacific Ocean . The missile launch , which the State Department later confirmed to be a failed attempt to orbit a satellite , represented a tremendous technological advance . Henry Sokolski , a former proliferation official with the Pentagon during the Bush Administration , observed , " This is a totally new threat . It looks like the North Koreans leapfrogged from a two-stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they are working on a three-stage missile at all . " Most worrisome for American security interests was the range of the missile . Intelligence agencies tracked debris from the launch nearly 4,000 miles into the Pacific Ocean . Rep. Curt Weldon ( R.Pa. ) , chairman of the Subcommittee on Military Research and Development of the House Committee on National Security , interpreted the test as an indication that North Korea may have the capability to hit Alaska and Hawaii . Lt. Gen. Lester Lyles , head of the Ballistic Missile De- fense Organization , told Congress that North Korea may be able to threaten the continental U.S. with ICBMs by early 2000 . The increased range of the Taepo Dong 1 certainly makes American troops stationed in Japan vulnerable to attack . In the near future , the U.S. could become vulnerable . While several rogue states are well on the road to acquiring NBC weapons and delivery technology , there is increasing concern that America 's intelligence services-the nation 's primary means of detecting emerging threats-may not be capable of providing early warning of new security dangers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the products of the intelligence-gathering process , passed on to intelligence consumers and policymakers in the form of National Intelligence Estimates ( NIEs ) , may be politicized to suit the Clinton Administration 's interests . Produced by the National Intelligence Council , NIEs are the chief way intelligence information is disseminated from intelligence services to the appropriate government officials . The Council reviews the reports of the intelligence communitywhich includes the Central Intelligence Agency , several government departments and agencies , and outside organizations such as universities-and drafts them into a formal estimate . The Foreign Intelligence Board , composed of the heads of the various intelligence agencies , meets and reviews the document before it is released to the president and other top policymakers . In theory , that process should produce unbiased and accurate intelligence reports . However , certain troubling developments indicate that NIEs may be vulnerable to political influence . In early 1995 , Lt. Gen. Malcolm O'Neill , then head of the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization , requested an assessment of the ballistic missile threat to the U.S. The CIA responded with NIE 95-19 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Years , a document that claimed to give an accurate picture of the threat facing the U.S. Among its key findings were the following : * No country will develop or otherwise acquire a ballistic missile in the next 15 years that could threaten the contiguous 48 states . * North Korea is unlikely to obtain the technological capability in order to be able to develop a longer-range operational ICBM. * American intelligence agencies are likely to detect an indigenous long-range ballistic missile program many years before deployment . Upon the NIE 's release , however , those finding were met with charges that politics had been injected into the intelligence process . The circumstances surrounding the document 's release would seem to lend at least some support to the charges . The completed NIE was not only delivered nearly seven months overdue , but was released to Senators Carl Levin ( D.-Mich. ) and Dale Bumpers ( D.-Ark. ) - not to O'Neill , the estimate 's original Customer . The estate was released to Congress by the CIA 's Congressional Affairs Office during debate on the National Defense Authorization bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The release of the document , clearly optimistic about the ballistic missile threat to the U.S. , had obvious political advantages for the Clinton Administration . The estimate helped it stand solidly by its " 3+3 " deployment plan for a national missile defense system , instead of supporting a more ambitious program sponsored by Congressional Republicans . Cautionary reports The charges of political manipulation and erroneous conclusions prompted Rep. Floyd Spence ( R.S.C. ) , chairman of the House Committee on National Security , to ask the General Accounting Office to conduct its own evaluation of the estimate . The GAO found several critical flaws in NIE 95-19 , among them a failure to state its fundamental assumptions explicitly . The GAO identified these beliefs as the following : A flight test program lasting about five years is essential to the development of an ICBM . No country with ICBMs will sell them to other countries . The Missile Technology Control Regime will continue to limit international transfers of missiles , components , and related technology significantly . Disregarding the question of the NIE 's political intentions , merely reviewing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious doubts about the NIE 's key conclusions . Among the NIE 's most glaring shortcomings is the assumption that it will take five years after an initial flight test for a nation to develop an ICBM . In the past , standard Soviet missile development programs did require five years of flight testing . However , this estimate assumes that every nation wants to develop a reasonably accurate and reliable missile . Since the end of the Cold War , nations that are likely to acquire ballistic missiles probably want them for use as weapons of terror , rather than to hit specific targets . As Gen. Howell M. Estes III , head of the North American Aerospace Defense Command , has said , " We 're finding that countries who are developing these ballistic missile systems today are not doing it the way the superpowers did . They 're not going for accuracy . They 're going for having the capabilitywhich , in fact , is an indication of military might and national power . " Because the reliability , payload , and accuracy requirements of the nations aspiring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past , a five-year estimate is excessively sanguine . Second , the assumption of a five-year warning time appears to have been made in ignorance of the timetables for other early ICBM development efforts . The first Soviet ICBM-with capabilities comparable to what rogue states seek today-became operational just 27 months after its first flight test . Later ICBMs generally required less than two years of flight testing before deployment-and that was more than 40 years ago . Since then , missile technologies have become increasingly available in the global marketplace . As former Reagan Administration science advisor William R. Graham told Congress in 1997 , most of the expertise needed to build a missile is taught in graduate schools , increasing the likelihood of proliferation . The estimate also errs in assuming that no nation with ICBMs will sell them , which runs counter to empirical evidence . China peddled intermediaterange ballistic missiles to Saudi Arabia in 1988 ( largely without the CIA 's knowledge ) and to Pakistan five years later . More alarming , North Korea has been implicated in missile transfer deals with other rogue states-most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the former Soviet Union may also contribute to the proliferation of missile technology . In September , 1995 , the Clinton Administration revised the 1991 START treaty to allow Russia and Ukraine to sell their most advanced ICBMs as space launch vehicles , which can be easily converted back to offensive ballistic missiles . Given the serious lack of safeguards governing the sale of those launch vehicles , there are few protections that would prevent North Korea , Iran , or Syria from purchasing stripped-down ICBMs . In the wake of the controversy over the 1995 NIE , Congress convened another independent review board to assess the ballistic missile threat facing the U.S. The Rumsfeld Commission provided the most comprehensive , accurate , and apolitical review of the current threats to the nation . The Commission 's report also largely corrected the faults of NIE 95-19 . In the unclassified version released by the Commission , the panel concluded that : * North Korea and Iran would be able to inflict major destruction on the U.S. within about five years of a decision to acquire such a capability . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been made until it was too late . * The threat to the U.S. posed by these emerging capabilities is broader , more mature , and evolving more rapidly than has been reported in the estimates and reports by the intelligence community . * The intelligence community 's ability to provide timely and accurate estimates of ballistic missile threats to the U.S. is eroding . * The warning times the U.S. can expect of new , threatening ballistic missile deployments are being reduced . Under some plausible scenarios-including re-basing or transfer of operational missiles , sea- and air- launched options , shortened developmental programs that might include testing in a third country , or some combination of these-the U.S , might well have little or no warning before operational deployment . What makes those findings dramatic is that they differ sharply from the conclusions of the Administration 's NIE . Despite the inclusion of committee members such as Richard Garwin , Barry Blechman , and Gen. Lee Butler-all appointees expected to oppose an incisive critique of the Administration 's earlier findings-the panel perceived a more severe near-term threat to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Rumsfeld Commission failed to alter the views of several key Administration officials , among them Gen. Henry H. Shelton , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff In response to the report , he stated that " The Joint Chiefs of Staff ) remain confident that the intelligence community can provide the necessary warning of the indigenous development and deployment by a rogue state of an ICBM missile threat to the United States . " According to Shelton , some analysts argue that " rogue nations could acquire an ICBM capability , and that the intelligence community may not detect it . We view this as an unlikely development . " However , Shelton 's faith in the U.S. 's intelligence apparatus seemed to be overstated , and events since the release of his statement further challenged his optimistic view of American intelligence capabilities . A week after the General 's comments , North Korea demonstrated a significant advance in its ballistic technology by testing a three-stage space launch vehicle . That development caught the American intelligence community largely off guard . According to Robert D. Walpole , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the launch of the Taepo Dong as a missile was expected for some time , its use as a space launch vehicle with a third stage was not The existence of the third stage concerns us . We had not anticipated it . " If the CIA and other intelligence agencieswhich repeatedly acknowledge that North Korea 's ballistic missile program is the primary missile threat facing the U.S - failed to track such a significant advance , how can the Joint Chiefs reasonably guarantee that other clandestine developments will be detected ? Only recently has the Administration grudgingly begun to acknowledge the severity of the threat and the limited ability of the intelligence community to detect changes in it . Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen called the Rumsfeld Commission 's report " a sobering analysis of the nature of the threat and the limitations of our ability to predict how rapidly it will change . " Nevertheless , he stopped short of endorsing the Rumsfeld report or its major conclusions . The Clinton Administration has not wholly come to grips with the threat facing the nation . Even its pledge in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense most likely stemmed from political , and not security , realizations . In light of the Chinese nuclear espionage scandal and the desire to avoid a scathing debate on national security in the 2000 election , the Administration found its position on missile defense untenable . Rather than acceding on political grounds , a more prudent course would be for the Administration to recognize the threat , recant its support for NIE 95-19 , and formally endorse the findings of the Rumsfeld Commission . Policy options Little has been done so far to protect American citizens from an attack by ballistic missiles . Far from standing still , various rogue regimes around the world have been steadily advancing their efforts to obtain the technical know-how and components to threaten their neighbors and , ultimately , the U.S. The threat of blackmail by a rogue state with ICBMs or an unauthorized or accidental launch by either Russia or China could be greatly ameliorated by the deployment of a limited missile defense system . A system capable of intercepting up to 20 warheads would be a sufficient defense against rogue regimes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A limited system could also defend against a small accidental or unauthorized launch by a major power . Deploying a limited system would have the advantage of maintaining the deterrent balance between the U.S. and Russia that has been in place since the early decades of the Cold War . Although a limited system could conceivably destroy a few incoming warheads ; it would not intercept enough to threaten either country 's strategic deterrent-that is , the ability to annihilate the other power Thus , a limited U.S. missile defense would probably not cause Russia to increase dramatically the number of its strategic warheads to overcome the defenses . Despite the need for a national missile defense system , the development and deployment of such a system should proceed at a measured pace . A " third way " of procuring a missile defense system is possible . Rather than throw money at the program , as some conservatives to whom missile defense is a religion would , or completely avoid the missile defense issue , as some liberals enamored with arms control for its own sake would , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of emerging threats and develop a national missile defense system at a pace that the technology can support and that test results will bear out . No matter what the threat is , rushing to develop a system that fails to work is not an attractive remedy . In the early 21st century , the almost certain prospect that nations such as Iraq , Iran , Syria , Libya , and North Korea will possess long-range ballistic missiles-most likely tipped with nuclear , chemical , or biological warheads-should be among America 's foremost security concerns . The deployment of a limited ballistic missile defense system is critical to maintaining the security of the U.S. homeland . Author Affiliation Timothy M. Beard is a former researcher at the Cato Institute , Washington , D. C. Ivan Eland is Cato 's director of defense policy studies . // <p>                     