@@377319

Kim Jong Il has long taken a personal interest in staging North Korea 's biggest celebration : his birthday . Typically , Feb. 16 is marked by fireworks displays , mass loyalty pledges , forced pilgrimages to Kim 's mountaintop birthplace and the sudden appearance of food  --  gift bags of candy and cookies for the children unlucky enough to be born in such an isolated , impoverished and tyrannical land . <P> But Kim has outdone himself this year . Days before his 63rd birthday this week , his government announced that , as has long been suspected by U.S. intelligence , North Korea has indeed built nuclear weapons " for self-defense . " Though the bulletin ended years of speculation about the general state of Kim 's nuclear-weapons program , the declaration was actually two blows in one : Pyongyang also announced it was pulling out of joint talks with the U.S. , China , Japan , Russia and South Korea to keep the Korean peninsula nuclear-free . Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice , hoping to play down the news , called the announcement " unfortunate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For more than a decade , the U.S. and its allies have insisted that they would not allow Kim to acquire nuclear weapons , out of fear that he would sell nukes to anyone willing to pay for them and set off an Asian arms race . Pyongyang 's declaration , while impossible to confirm , means Kim has probably realized his quest . A nuclear-armed North Korea means that President Bush 's multilateral strategy for preventing Pyongyang from acquiring nukes has failed just as dramatically as Clinton 's policy of direct engagement did a decade ago . It means that even when they are united , Beijing , Moscow , Tokyo , Seoul and Washington have n't found the right combination of levers to halt nuclear proliferation by a rogue state . And it probably means that even if the U.S. and its allies can coax Pyongyang back into negotiations  --  a big if  --  their hand is weakened by what the declaration described as Kim 's " arsenal . " At a time when the Bush Administration is trying to increase pressure on Iran over its purported ambitions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisis with a country that claims to have it already . <P> North Korea has been doing an elaborate fan dance about its nuclear assets for so long that many experts assumed it had gone nuclear months or even years ago . All that was lacking was an official confirmation , and so when that came , speculation centered on why Kim had decided to come clean . North Korea 's 1,100-word declaration argues that the country had little choice but to brandish its weapons after several weeks of warmongering by Washington . It cited comments by the President in his Inaugural Address and Secretary Rice in her confirmation hearings  --  Rice labeled Korea an " outpost of tyranny "  --  which to Kim 's ears sounded like calls for regime change .                     