@@363487

Thomas Thundat 's first job at Tennessee 's Oak Ridge National Laboratory was n't exactly a glamorous start . When Thundat arrived in 1991 , fresh from postdoctoral training , he was put to work in a dank bomb shelter that had been converted into a lab . His task was to use an atomic force microscope to get a " snapshot " of the DNA molecule . All he seemed to be getting , though , was a headache . The microscope , which detects the con-tours of molecules by dragging a flexible sliver of coated silicon over them , was malfunctioning . After puzzling through his problem for months , Thundat realized one rainy day during a rare midday foray outdoors that the microscope 's probe was warping as it sponged up moisture from the air . Intrigued , he ran a simple experiment and discovered that the probe was a marvelously precise hygrometer . If it could measure moisture , he wondered , why not all sorts of other stuff ? Thundat , 46 , has since built tiny sensors to detect trace amounts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winning scads of awards and 17 patents for his inventiveness . <P> Under a microscope , the sensors , called microcantilevers , resemble rows of diving boards or spatulas , each vibrating spontaneously . They can be made so thin that 100 would fit snugly inside a human hair . The cantilever is coated on one side with a chemical that specifically binds a target molecule  --  say , a cancer-related protein or a plastic explosive . When that molecule sticks to it , the cantilever bends and the frequency of its vibration changes , which can be measured by bouncing a laser beam off its surface . Thundat and his team are only months from completing an exquisitely sensitive handheld detector that will suck in air and search for a variety of explosives . Since the cantilever sensors are carved out with the same technology used to build computer chips , the detector should ultimately cost only tens of dollars . In airports today the only machine as sensitive  --  the mass spectrometer  --  is too large to carry around , costs $100,000 and ca n't " sniff out " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown that his sensor can detect proteins associated with prostate cancer . He and his team are now building arrays to detect markers for other cancers , heart disease and even mutant genes . In his spare time , Thundat is trying to figure out how to make his sensors more robust and discerning than they are , hoping to deploy them as cheap detectors of land mines , which cripple and kill thousands of people every year in war-ravaged nations like Angola . " We have a long way to go , " he acknowledges . " Right now my friends tell me they would n't walk behind me and my detector in a minefield . " If Thundat 's track record is any indication , his friends might be in for a field trip sooner than they think .  --  By Unmesh Kher/Oak Ridge                     