@@390689

There is a central contradiction in almost every defense of the surge that I have heard or read . More troops and a new counterinsurgency strategy were meant to improve security so that Iraqi politicians could then reconcile . But the most important evidence cited to prove the surge 's success shows that the process works the opposite way . Gen. David Petraeus said last week that the " most significant development of the past eight months " was the alliance with local tribes in Anbar province , a tactic that has now spread elsewhere . In Anbar , local Sunni groups and the American military working together have regained great swaths of territory from Qaeda forces . This is a big deal , moving the most dangerous and unstable part of the country toward relative calm . But political success is what led to military success , not the other way around . In their retelling of the battle for Anbar , administration officials say the Sunnis of the region-disgusted by Al Qaeda 's methods-gathered forces and saved their province from the perfidious jihadists . There 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case in Iraq , the whole story is a bit more complicated . The United States had largely alienated Iraq 's Sunnis by engaging not simply in regime change but also revolution . It disbanded all elements of the old order in which Sunnis were dominant-the Army , the bureaucracy , the state-owned enterprises-and watched passively as purges and ethnic cleansing mounted . By late 2004 some U.S. officials recognized that they needed to draw even radical Sunnis , who dominated the insurgency , into the new Iraq . The then Prime Minister Ayad Allawi , a secular Shiite , encouraged this shift . Many Sunnis were also beginning to recognize that they had made a mistake and made some overtures to the United States . But hard-line Shiite politicians in Baghdad and hard-line American officials argued vehemently against any contact with the enemy . Plus , the Sunnis who would step into the mainstream kept getting killed . Yet failure followed failure , Shiite militias ran rampant , and the Sunni areas of Iraq , particularly Anbar , seemed lost . So the United States began talking to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This was a tough move for everyone , " says one senior U.S. official , who was not allowed to speak on the record . " People had to start dealing with the enemy , or at least the people we had convinced ourselves were the enemy . " This political shift produced an alliance that then made military gains possible . The surge has proved that more troops can produce enhanced security-are you listening , Mr. Rumsfeld ? - but it is a holding operation . Eventually American troops will have to leave . What will cement the security in those places that we control now is a political deal among various factions in which they 're all invested in stability . Without such a power-sharing agreement , the order we build will degenerate when we leave-whether that 's six months from now or six years from now . Recall that we 've stabilized Fallujah and Ramadi several times before , only to have things fall apart because there was no political follow-up . What would more time produce ? A stronger Iraqi Army , greater administrative capacity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technocratic solutions to a political problem . All these institutions will ultimately respond to the realities of politics in Iraq . And every group in Iraq is keeping its options open , maintaining ties to militias , local gangs and patronage and crime syndicates . ( When the Hakim family allows the U.S. military to dismantle its militias that run large areas of southern Iraq-wearing various national uniforms-then we will have a new Iraq . ) And far from changing existing realities , the surge has mostly helped the Sunnis build their own power base . Iraq is going to have to find its political balance . The United States might propel Iraqi leaders to do so by relinquishing our dominant security role , scaring them into compromise , just as we and the Sunnis were pushed to make up . In any event , that 's something we will have to test , and there is little to be gained from waiting . One point the president made last week was fresh and important . We have strategic , political and moral reasons to remain involved-as long as the Iraqis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iraq is to be there for the long haul , assisting it economically and politically , but maintaining a much smaller , more enduring military presence . That is a far more strategic role for U.S. troops than policing the streets of Baghdad . Making clear that we are n't going to disappear entirely will change the calculus of all those groups in Iraq that are keeping their " post-American " options open . The president is wasting his limited political capital buying the surge a few more months . There is a much more important deal to be had here-go down in troop levels , but go long . If you listen to leading Democrats , most recognize the need for a smaller , longer American mission in Iraq . But to get there , President Bush has to recognize that the mission of 130,000 American troops in Iraq-for better or worse-is done . photo : NEW ALLY : Sunni with suspected jihadist DAVID FURST-AFP-GETTY IMAGES <p>                     