@@376746

Who knew that Howard Dean was such a sugar-tongued swain ? Al Gore 's televised " I do " last week ( not to be confused with Trista and Ryan 's more lavish and much higher-rated nuptials ) was the culmination of a secret but ardent yearlong courtship by Dean . Yes , it may be a marriage of convenience , but the hushed backroom cell-phone calls , the clandestine visits , the little apercus of agreement on global warming are all part of a modern political romance novel . Apparently the doctor has a bedside manner after all . But the relationship did not really get serious until Gore decided it was time for a blunt conversation in August . The country needed to learn more about Dean than the fact that he was against everything that George Bush says and does , Gore told him . Dean needed to tell the country his own ideas , to move from combative rhetoric about the U.S. role in the world to concrete proposals on terrorism , the Middle East , national defense and intelligence . From there , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As aides to Dean tell the story , it was on Dec. 5 , at the end of one of those late-night phone calls , that Gore surprised Dean with the news that he was ready to publicly declare his support for Dean and that he wanted to do it " sooner rather than later . " <P> Dean accepted Gore 's endorsement  --  but the question now is whether he will accept his advice . Even as Dean for the first time has begun to consistently lead the national polls  --  a measure both that he is getting closer to the nomination and that more people are paying attention to him  --  the former Vermont Governor confronts a new and substantial challenge : having got this far by telling Democrats what he is against , he must start telling them what he is for . Dean needs to step up and define himself , or the Bush campaign will spend millions of dollars doing it for him . For instance , Dean signed a bill establishing civil unions for homosexuals in Vermont , which is not the same as gay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ G.O.P. activist in the Midwest , who chortles , " He 'll be for gay marriage when we 're through with him . " <P> If Dean is the nominee , Republicans will inevitably portray him as a tax-raising , soft-on-terror liberal with a chip on his shoulder and no substantial alternatives to what Bush is doing . Dean intends to help remedy his where's-the-beef problem and sketch out his vision for the country with two major speeches this week . In a foreign-policy address on Monday in Los Angeles , he will call for " a new global alliance to defeat terror " and advocate a tenfold increase in funds spent on finding and eliminating unguarded nuclear , chemical and biological materials left over from the Soviet Union . And on Thursday in New Hampshire , Dean plans to flesh out his economic proposals .                     