@@388176

Headnote America was unabashedly Christian at its founding , to the point of requiring belief in God as a condition of office-holding and , on occasion , residence . Part II of a special three-part series , " The Christian History of the Constitution , " which examines the eradication of religious values from American life since our country 's founding . // BACK IN THE 1990s , then-Governor Kirk Fordice of Mississippi stirred up a national ruckus when he made the unthinkable statement that America was " a Christian nation . " So deposing , the late governor ( he passed away in 2004 ) defied two cherished precepts of the modern era : the rule of political correctness stipulating that no creed or value system has priority over any other ; and the legal-historical thesis that the American republic is a purely secular set-up in which an absolute division of church and state is mandated by the Constitution . The fury that greeted the Fordice statement was accordingly unconfined . At the strictly tactual level-as opposed to the fantasy realm of P.C. lucubrations-the governor might have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America of the 1990s , or today , could rightly be described us a Christian nation may be doubted . There are too many indications in terms of current law and social practice that tell us otherwise . However , what might have been said with perfect justice is that America was founded as a Christian nation-even if it has in recent times been mutating into something different . Of course , this variation is almost as outrageous as the original Fordice statement . There are , alter all , many people about these days who are n't Christians , others who deny the notion of our religious origins , and still others who think such matters should n't be discussed at all because they are dangerously divisive . In these circles , the idea of America 's having been founded as a Christian nation , whatever it may be today , is likewise offensive and vurhoten . As a moment 's reflection will suggest , these are less than rational responses to an important question . If someone were to say to you , " I just got back from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political institutions of the country are based on tenets of the Muslim religion , " it would make no sense to answer : " That 's outrageous . I am not a Muslim . Saudi Arabia ca n't possibly be a Muslim nation . " In such cases the issue is n't who might or might not be offended by the historical data , but what the data have to tell us . And in this respect , the facts about the United States are quite as clear as those concerning Saudi Arabia . Those facts , it 's worth noting , are of more than merely historical interest , though that is itself a weighty matter . They 're significant also because mistaken teachings about such questions have consequences for the present day-not only as in the rhetorical blitzing of Governor Fordice. but in court decrees and political measures profoundly hostile to religion . These practices , such as banning prayer from the public schools or display of the Ten Commandments , in numerous cases have been based on a supposed reading of our early history . Thus knowing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ currently plague us . As AN ABUNDANT RECORDS SHOWS , the first American colonies were founded by believing Christians from Great Britain ( plus some others from the Netherlands and elsewhere in Continental Europe ) , who came here in the vast majority of cases for religious reasons . Numerous settlers who came after them did so for religious causes also , seeking refuge from hostile rulers and a place to worship free of persecution , then all too prevalent in Europe . Even in settlements chiefly of commercial nature , advancement of the Christian religion was routinely stressed as a main object of the emigration . The political institutions and social regulations adopted at the time reflected these beginnings . This was most famously true in New England , where the Puritan colonies of Massachusetts and Connecticut had governing systems explicitly based on Biblical teaching as they construed it . and innumerable laws witIi a religious purpose . Hut it was true as well in. for example , colonial Virginia , where the House of Burgesses , first assembled in 1619. forthwith adopted measures requiring church attendance and Sabbath keeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of things no doubt abated , but were revived and then some by the so-called Great Awakening of the mid-18th century , as waves of religious enthusiasm swept the colonies from one end to the other . The effect of this vast movement , leading up to the era of the American Revolution , was not only to increase religious fervor , but also to expand the religious diversity of the country . To Congregationalists . Anglicans . Quakers , and a few ( albeit influential ) Roman Catholics were added Scotch-Irish Presbyterians . Baptists , and Methodist followers of John Wesley . Both the fervor and the resulting Christian pluralism were keys to much that happened later . The intensity of religious feeling among members of the founding generation has been noted by an earlier essay in these pages ( " Faith of Our Fathers . " February " 2007 ) . That survey briefly recounted the views of George Washington . John Adams , Roger Sherman , John Dickinson , et al . as to the crucial importance of religious faith to the well-being of the country , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems unlikely people holding such opinions would have turned around at the era of the revolution and Constitution and created a purely secular anything , rest assured they did n't . The religious views expressed so often by the Founders were widely reflected in the political customs of the age . MOST NOTABLY , all the original colonies/states as of the 1770s had laws mandating officiai support for religious belief and practice in one fashion or another . In 1775 , no fewer than nine colonies had established churches-meaning churches officially favored by the government , supported by tax money , or granted privileges denied to others . These ranged from Congregational church establishments in New Hampshire , Connecticut , and Massachusetts to Episcopal churches in the Southern states from Maryland on down . These establishments were subjected to mounting pressures as religious diversity increased and clamorous groups of Baptists . Presbyterians , and others argued for more equal treatment and , where their numbers were sufficient , by degrees succeeded . Even so , at the era of the Constitution , the New England states retained their Congregational establishments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ network of religious requirements for public office , reflecting the pervasive , taken-for-granted Christian nature of the people being represented . These requirements usually mandated that a candidate for office had to be a Christian , in some instances quite specifically a Trinitarian , and in numerous cases a Protestant in the bargain . Thus the New Jersey constitution of 1776 , fairly typical for the era , asserted that " no Protestant inhabitant of this colony shall be denied the enjoyment of any civil right , merely on account of his religious principles . " In nearby Delaware , the constitution was more latitudinarian , requiring only that officeholders be Trinitarians , thus granting leeway to Catholics . Here officials were required to swear , " I ... confess faith in God the father , and in Jesus Christ His only son , and in the Holy Ghost , one God , blessed for evermore ; and I do acknowledge the holy scriptures of the Old and NewTestaments to be given by Divine inspiration . " A similar oath was required by the Pennsylvania constitution of 1776 , but this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least by implication , to observant Jews , as the new proviso stated that " no person who acknowledges the being of a God and a future state of rewards and punishments shall , on account of his religious sentiments , be disqualified to hold an office or place of trust or profit in this commonwealth . " This was , for the time , a sharp departure from prevailing standards . To take one further such example , Vermont was admitted to the Union in 1791. contemporaneous with the ratification of the Bill of Rights . Though the state was often viewed both then and later as something of a liheral hastion , this was the oath officeholders were required to take there : " I do believe in one God , the Creator and Governor of the Universe , the rewarder of the good and punisher of the wicked . And 1 do acknowledge the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments to be given by divine inspiration and own and profess the Protestant religion . " Not much evidence in all of this of secularism , unbelief , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Delaware suggest , what mostly leavened the establishmentarian church-state system was n't skepticism or indifference , but the increasing religious pluralism of the country . The elasticization of standards may he traced rather clearly in Carolina , whose original constitution ( 1669 ) was drafted hy none other than John Locke . This stated , among other things , that " no man shall he permitted to be a freeman of Carolina , or to have an estate or habitation within it , that doth not acknowledge a God , and that God is publicly and solemnly to be worshipped . " So if you did n't believe in God , you could n't even live in Locke " s Carolina , much less ascend to public office . By the time of the American Revolution , this Loekean standard had been relaxed a bit , but only slightly . The 1778 constitution of South Carolina declared that " all persons and religious societies who acknowledge that there is one God , and a future state of rewards and punishments , and that God is publicly to be worshipped , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be deemed , and is hereby constituted and declared to be , the established religion of the state . " ( This constitution contained other lengthy clauses providing for Anglican orthodoxy in religion . ) In North Carolina we see the further broadening of standards through the years , in keeping with the growth of religious sects and denominations and resulting pressure for more equal treatment . The North Carolina constitution of 1776 specified that " no person who shall deny the being of God or the truth of the Protestant religion , or the divine authority of either of the Old or New Testaments ... shall he capable of holding any office or place of trust . " This lasted until 1835 , when the word " Christian " was substituted for " Protestant . " In 1868. this was amended again , to read that " all persons who shall deny the being of Almighty God " would he " disqualified for office . " This was in general the way things were handled in other states as well . ALL THIS IS SO DIFFERENT from the image of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polity neglectful of religion that many histories pass over it with a feathery touch , if not ignoring it entirely . In such treatments our historians ( and courts ) prefer to focus on the supposedly more congenial instance of Virginia . Here Thomas Jefferson drafted and James Madison introduced in the state legislature the famous Statute of Religious Freedom , adopted in 1786 , guaranteeing the rights of conscience to all Virginians . To our modern theorists , this hill , together with Madison 's argument against religious Laxes , explains the religion clauses of the First Amendment , later proposed by Madison in the federal Congress . The problems with this convoluted view are many , beginning with the fact that neither Jefferson nor Madison as Virginia lawmakers took archly separationist positions . A point seldom noted by the historians and jurists is that the Statute of Religious Freedom was only one of the religion bills that Jefferson drafted and Madison brought forward in the legislature in the 1780s . Among Jefferson 's other proposals , for instance , were a hill to punish violations of the Sabbath , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet another-a choice example of Enlightenment-secularist thinking-to punish attempted witchcraft . Like John Locke 's provisos for Carolina , these Jeffersonian notions somehow get omitted from the usual histories . Add the fact that the Statute of Religious Freedom itself is very much a religious tract , beginning with the words . " Whereas Almighty God hath created the mind free , " and containing no fewer than four references to God in the opening sentence . ( If the doctrines of the- Supreme Court about such matters are correct , this statute could n't he read in unvarnished form in the public schools of Virginia today . ) The same is true of Madison 's " Memorial and Remonstrance " against ecclesiastical taxes , which is also in many respects a religious essay-arguing , for instance- , that " the policy of the bill is adverse to the diffusion of the light of Christianity , " and " earnestly praying , as we are in duty bound , that the Supreme Lawgiver of the Universe " would guide Virginia 's councils . THE MANY RELIGIOUS CUSTOMS and provisos common in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From its beginning in 1774 , the Continental Congress was attentive to the interests of religion-especially in the matter of prayer . As earlier noted in these pages , when sessions opened , fear was voiced that the religious diversity of the country and the mixed presence of Congregationalists . Presbyterians , Anglicans , and Quakers would make it hard to choose a form of worship . Sam Adams of Massachusetts dismissed these fears with the ecumenical comment that prayers from a patriotic man of God would he acceptable to him and . presumably , other Christians . Congress had official chaplains from that day forward . In June 1775 , Congress called for a " day of fasting , humiliation , and prayer , " to " offer up our joint supplications to the all-wise , omnipotent and merciful disposer of events . " In observance of this fast day . Congress attended an Anglican sen-ice in the morning and a Presbyterian service in the afternoon . The resolution urging this day of supplication further stated that " it is recommended to Christians of all denominations to assemble for public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on said day . " As John Adams wrote to his wife , " millions will he on their knees at once before their great Creator , imploring his forgiveness and blessing . " Thereafter Congress would likewise adopt a resolution of Thanksgiving , noteworthy not only for its explicitly Christian character hut also tor its Trinitarian nature . This prayed , among other things , that " it may please God through the merits of Jesus Christ , " to forgive the nation for its sins , and " to prosper the means of religion for the promotion and enlargement of that Kingdom which consisteth in righteousness , peace , and joy in the Holy Ghost . " Countless other such statements were issued by the colonial Congress in the 15 years of its existence . CONGRESS ALSO DID many other things to promote religious causes . It appropriated money for the Christian education of the Indians , and adopted the Northwest Ordinance governing the territories beyond the Ohio River , saving it did so , among other reasons , to advance " religion and morality . " One of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the printing of an American Bible , as the supply from England had been cut off by the revolutionary fighting . In October 1780 , Congress adopted a resolution recommending that " such of the states that may find it convenient ... take proper measures to procure one or more new and correct versions of the Old and New Testaments to be printed . " In response to this concern , Philadelphia printer Robert Aitken undertook to bring out such a Bible , which Congress referred to its chaplains for vetting . The work being approved as complete and accurate , Congress thanked Aitken for his labors and recommended his Bible to the country . Thus the first English language Bible printed in America was presented to the public with the support and approval of the Continental Congress . Finally , Congress also approved , as a matter of course , chaplains and religious services for the soldiers of the Continental Army . As earlier noted , George Washington diligently followed up on these provisos , urging religious services for the military forces , asking his officers and men to behave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevent the troops from swearing . ( A difficult task in any event , undoubtedly made the more so when the soldiers were n't being paid , clothed , or fed . ) Under the new government of the Constitution , beginning in 1789 , all the peacetime measures of the Continental Congress were re-enacted : chaplains , prayers , memorials of Thanksgiving to God , the Northwest Ordinance with its " religion and morality , " funding for the Christian education of the Indians . The Federal Congress in this respect would be no different from its predecessor-a not very surprising outcome , as numerous members of the new legislature had been delegates to the old one . The same attitudes on many questions would prevailalbeit under changed conditions-and nowhere were the continuities more apparent than in matters of religion . ( As to the repeated efforts to subsidize and promote the religious education of the Indians , John Quincy Adams would explain the project this way : " They were considered as savages , whom it was our policy and duty to use our influence1 in converting them to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arts of civilization and the doctrines of Christianity ... " ) ARGUABLY THE MOST STRIKING FEATURE of this religious continuity was the act of Congress in September 1789 , after the new government had been set up under the Constitution , calling citizens of the country to yet another day of prayer and Thanksgiving . In the resolution passed by the House of Representatives , the members expressed themselves as follows : " We acknowledge with grateful hearts the many signal favors of Almighty God . especially by affording them an opportunity peacefully to establish a constitutional government for their safety and happiness . " In response to this resolution . President Washington duly issued a proclamation of prayer and Thanksgiving , a practice that-like the congressional chaplains and official prayers in Congress-is with us to this day . The states , meantime , would continue also with their former laws and customs , including the established churches in New England , religious requirements for public office in other venues , and divers measures throughout the country to advance the precepts of religion . The American nation at the era @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where God was worshipped , the Bible honored , and the tenets of Christian faith supported as a routine affair by governments at every level . None of which , as shall be seen , would he altered in the slightest by adoption of the First Amendment . Sidebar The religious views expressed so often by the Founders were widely reflected in the political customs of the age . Sidebar The many religious customs and provisos common in the states were conspicuous also at the national level . Author Affiliation M. Stanton Evans in author of The Theme Is Freedom : Religion , Politics , and the American Tradition ( Regnery , 1994 ) . " The True Wall of Separation " part III of his series " The Christian History of the Constitution , " will appear in our April issue . // <p>                     