@@386165

Left : Mohammed Ahmed-Ibn-el-Sayed established an Islamic fundamentalist state in the Sudan that survived for five years . Right : Charles " Chinese " Gordon was killed during the Mahdi 's revolution . // PERSPECTIVES Long before there was Osama in Laden there was the Mahdi . The Western world scarcely remembers this radical Islamic leader , but when it does it is usually for causing the illustrious death of Victorian hero Charles " Chinese " Gordon at Khartoum in 1885 . To the British , whom he so outraged with his many vile crimes against infidels between 1881 and 1885 , during his successful drive to create a " pure " Islamic state , he was the " Mad Mahdi . " But 117 years later , among Islamic fundamentalists of Sudan , Morocco , Somalia and other places , the Mahdi is remembered as " The Purifier of Islam " and " The Father of Independence " - the former being rather ironic , given that the Mahdi died bloated and indolent amid his harem . The Mahdi became the West 's " most wanted " man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way , the Mahdi founded a pure Islamic state far more severe than its later Taliban reincarnation , a historical fact likely not wasted upon bin Laden during his four self-described " productive years " in the Sudan . Mohammed Ahmed-Ibn-el-Sayed was born in 1844 on the Nile island of Dongola , Sudan , the third child of a carpenter and boat builder who claimed to be a direct descendant of the Prophet Mohammed . In his early 20s he moved to the island of Abba , Sudan , about 150 miles upstream from Khartoum . There he would follow a regime of extreme fasting to the point of hallucination and then " talk " to the prophet , which made him a local sensation , attracting many followers and disciples . His version of Islam promised paradise for the humble and destitute Sudanese , which constituted the majority of the population . Mohammed Ahmed 's proclamation of himself as the Mahdi , the " Expected One , " fell on eager ears in the oppressed Sudan . Since 1819 , Sudan had been under the grinding heel of Egypt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremely brutal second-rate soldiers . Then Britain , through its domination of Egypt , added to Sudanese dissatisfaction by banning the slave trade . Many tribes that profited from slavery saw their meager livelihoods vanish . Egypt well understood that the selfproclaimed Mahdi posed a potential threat to its power over Sudan , and sent a delegation of soldiers and religious leaders to meet with the Mahdi . His reply was curt . He demanded that the Egyptian leaders in Khartoum convert to his form of Islam . Failure to comply , he said , would result in the declaration of jihad-holy war . Egypt 's reply to the Mahdi was equally blunt : Two steamers packed with Egyptian troops were sent up the Nile to drag him back to Khartoum in chains . The force arrived near Abba , where , on the night of August 12 , 1881 , it was promptly massacred by a mere 300 sword  --  wielding Ansar-the Mahdi 's " helpers , " known as dervishes to the British . Round two , as it were , occurred nearly a year later in June 1882 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ send only 6,000 third-rate troops to crush approximately 15,000 dervishes . The Mahdists crept up to the Egyptian encampment at night , and soon 6,000 Egyptian corpses lay scattered over the desert sand . The Expected One , now in control of about 50,000 fanatics , decided to march on El Obeid , the capital of the Kordofan province . This time the Mahdi faced 6,000 quality Egyptian troops and a confident commander , Yusef Pasha el Shellali . The Mahdi ordered an immediate frontal assault , which ran into a hail of lead and fizzled out . He then settled down to take the town through starvation and attrition . The plan worked . On January 17 , 1883 , another large-scale assault was made , and the town quickly fell . The women and children of El Obeid were hacked to death . All Egyptian officers were executed , and surviving Egyptian soldiers were press-ganged . A 3,000-strong relief force , arriving too late to save the garrison and hopelessly outnumbered , was soon overwhelmed and likewise slaughtered at the wells of Bara . Southern Sudan now burned in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expedition against the raging fundamentalist , this time led by an experienced former British army colonel , William Hicks . But Hicks ' expedition was doomed from the outset . On September 9 , his force left Omdurman , entered the unforgiving and landscape and slogged into Kordofan province 's thorny Shaykan Forest , where they fell into a deadly trap . Hicks died sword in hand . The new year , 1884 , saw a force of Egyptian gendarmerie commanded by another Englishman , General Valentine Baker , arrive on the Red Sea coast at the port of Suakin . The results were predictably disastrous . On February 4 , Baker 's force was surprised and massacred . Many Egyptians simply lay down on the ground and waited for a swift death . for a swift death . The Sudanese people now flocked to the Mahdi cause , and Kordofan became his personal fiefdom-the Mahidiyya . Even by the standards of the time , the Mahdi 's rules were strict . Those who swore or drank alcohol faced the death penalty . All Ansar were now expected to wear a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately resumed . Britain was dismayed , to say the least , by the instability of the region . British Prime Minister William Gladstone , wary of involvement in the Sudan , suggested that the Egyptian government leave the country to its own devices . Egypt was forced to accept , but it demanded that Britain safely evacuate its own nationals , leaving Britain with an immensely difficult task . The press and the public immediately demanded the appointment of Charles George " Chinese " Gordon , already a hero of earlier actions in Egypt . But Gordon was known to be a bit of a maverick , and the huge evacuation was a delicate task . When the public clamor grew too great to ignore , Gordon was sent out to the Sudan , arriving in Khartoum on February 18,1884 . Gordon immediately sent the Mahdi words of greeting , a red ceremonial robe and a pasha 's fez . He offered to make the Mahdi sultan of Kordofan if the uprising came to an immediate halt . The gifts were returned along with a jibbah and the Mahdi 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to have no real choice except to remain in Khartoum with his 7,500 well-supplied troops and face the inevitable siege . With British honor at stake , and in the hope that Gladstone would be forced to send relief , Gordon frantically began to strengthen the city 's defenses . The Mahdi slowly closed in on Khartoum , severing the telegraph lines and surrounding the city with 30,000 troops . By autumn , Gordon would be spending hours on top of the governor 's palace , peering through a telescope , scanning the horizon for the relief that failed to materialize . Parliament 's ratification of Gordon 's relief force dragged at painfully slow speed as Gladstone 's government dallied into the summer of 1884 , until public patience was near the breaking point . Gladstone , on the verge of political ruin , finally acted at the beginning of August . Funds , forces and equipment were quickly raised . General Sir Garnet Wolseley was chosen to lead the relief force . British forces left Cairo on September 27 for the 1,630-mile journey to Khartoum across tough terrain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wolseley divided his army into two columns-a " Desert Column " and a " River Column . " After they had taken the wells at Abu Klea and Gakdul , the Desert Column , under the veteran Maj. Gen. Sir Herbert Stewart , was to move on to the town of Metemmeh with his 2,500 troops . The River Column , under Maj. Gen. William Earle , was to head upstream and secure the major towns en route until they too arrived at Metemmeh . The forces would combine and then advance on Khartoum , in the hope that it was not too late . The Desert Column 's vanguard left Korti on December 30 . Stewart 's force had reached Gakdul by January 12 , 1885 . They began to march toward the wells of Abu Klea . Waiting between the column and the water was a large army of dervishes . At 10 a.m. on January 17 , the British formed a large , slow-moving square . The going was pure hell . Suddenly , along the crest of a hill directly in front of the British , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the roaring dervish host surged forward . The British soldiers began firing soft lead slugs into the whirling mass , causing gruesome wounds . But the dervishes kept coming and finally managed to break into the square . Once inside , they ran up against a barrier of camels herded together by the British , which blunted the force and gave the British time to re-form and return a concentrated fire . The dervishes retreated , leaving about 1,100 dead . The entire affair had lasted a breathtaking 15 minutes . But the Ansar were not crushed . The British re-formed their square and moved slowly on toward the Nile . On January 19 , at Abu Kru , Ansar skirmishers mortally wounded Stewart . Colonel Sir Charles Wilson , an inexperienced but level-headed engineer , took over . The British crept on , finally reaching the riverbank at Gumbat . Meanwhile , Gordon had spent his time under siege steeling the resolve of Khartoum 's citizens . The closing months of 1884 saw the city under constant bombardment . By January 5 , 1885 , its granaries were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soldiers collapsed from exhaustion . Gordon knew the end was near . On January 14 , he sent the steamer Bordein and three smaller vessels downstream with his journals on board , along with letters pleading for a speedy relief Fifty thousand of the Mahdi 's dervishes swarmed over Khartoum in the early hours of January 26 . Citizens and soldiers were butchered or enslaved , girls and women were sent to harems . Gordon 's head was cut off and paraded through the streets . Khartoum had held out for a staggering 317 days . The sight of Gordon 's head sent the Mahdi into a rage . Alive , Gordon would have made an excellent bargaining chip . Now only the Mahdi 's capture and execution would gratify the British public 's appetite for revenge . But the British public would never have that satisfaction , and the hard-to-swallow truth was that the Mahdi had been victorious . Colonel Wilson 's Desert Column was still at Gumbat , near Metemmeh , when it was met by Gordon 's small flotilla on January 22 . Wilson had no choice but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were crammed on board two of his ships and sailed for Khartoum on January 24 . Four days later , on January 28 , when they saw the rooftops of Khartoum , it was sadly obvious the city had fallen . On March 22 , all British forces struck their tents and withdrew from Sudan . The Mahdi 's reign proved to be short , but for him , sweet . After he had divided up all the women of Khartoum between himself and his kalifa ( lieutenants ) , he moved into a palace at Omdurman . He left the running of the country to his henchmen while he dedicated himself to carnal pleasures . Historian Robin Neillands wrote , " He gave himself over to a life of indolence and luxury , surrounded by sycophants and a great quantity of concubines . " He became colossally fat and lay on a couch stuffing food into his mouth between massages . Even when he was sleeping , it was deemed " deep contemplation . " The water in which he washed and the soil on which he stood were sold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the " divine " Mahdi died from what is thought to have been typhus . He was buried in an impressive tomb , a memorial that was to become a place of Islamic pilgrimage . After the Mahdi 's passing , the Sudan deteriorated because of incessant warfare . On September 2 , 1898 , British forces led by General Horatio Herbert Kitchener smashed the Sudanese forces at Omdurman . Even a dead Mahdi could not escape British revenge . Kitchener immediately ordered the Mahdi 's body hauled out and his tomb destroyed . The body of the Expected One was tossed into the Nile , minus its skull . Kitchener wanted to make it into an inkwell but was persuaded that it would be considered tasteless . So the general ordered the relic reburied . To this day the last remains of the Mahdi lie in an unmarked plot somewhere near Wadi Halfa . A certain amount of luck was involved in the Mahdi 's success . Yet the Mahdi 's victories showed a natural gift for leadership and battle . His soldiers , though always poorly equipped , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Majesty 's army . And his Mahidiyya was , to an extent , a genuine fight for freedom against colonialism . Consequently , Sudanese regard him as the founder of their nation 's first genuine nationalist government . But even in the raw light of historical revisionism , the Mahdi 's reign is seen as a relatively ugly religious phenomenon by modem Muslims as well as Westerners . After all , the Mahdist slaughter of El Obied 's women and children is justifiable only by the most extreme contortions of religious logic . But nevertheless there remain neo-Mahdists who find great appeal in this defiant , near  --  mythical man 's success against one of the world 's greatest empires during his time . <p>                     