@@379246

What single factor may explain why Whirlpool Corp . no longer donates to Planned Parenthood , why the Walt Disney Co. has a Roman Catholic priest on its board of directors and why Best Buy is cracking down on minors who try to buy shoot-'em-up video and computer games ? Answer : a bunch of Catholic investors and their allies want it that way . <P> Investors with a holy vision are building a pulpit in the boardroom . According to an analysis based on data from investment tracker Morningstar , 58 faith-based mutual funds have formed since 2001 , bringing the running total to 142 . And faith-based investors ' tactics have become much more aggressive : they no longer just shun certain industries , such as tobacco , gambling or weapons manufacturing . Mirroring a greater trend in socially responsible investing , they are now buying stocks and leveraging pressure from the inside to promote their agendas . For instance , Mennonite Mutual Aid funds , which wants companies to be proactive in curbing HIV and AIDS , helped persuade Ford Motor Co. to report how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most aggressive of the faith-based investors is Aquinas Funds , a small family of funds , with headquarters in Dallas , formed in 1994 and committed to advancing Catholic values . Aquinas has thrown its relatively modest financial weight  --  it manages some $170 million  --  behind the pro-life cause , arguing in its promotional literature that " investing in companies that are involved in abortions would be material cooperation with evil at a minimum . " In addition to lobbying Whirlpool and other firms that once donated to Planned Parenthood , Aquinas leans on drugmakers , hospitals and insurance companies whose stock the funds own to quit offering contraceptives or abortion services . Aquinas joined other investors in petitioning executives at Disney and Best Buy until both companies took steps to closely monitor products that could allegedly provoke faithlessness ( such as films critical of religion ) or harmful behavior in consumers ( like those violent video games ) , according to former Aquinas Funds president Frank Rauscher , who launched its advocacy program in July 1994 and led it until July 2005 . <P> All along , arguments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people are going to buy appliances because you give to Planned Parenthood ... Probably zero , right ? " Rauscher asks . " But how many people who are pro-life would not buy one ? You may get a certain percentage of the public who says , ' I 'm just not going to buy their appliances because of that . ' " Whirlpool says its changed donation policy was a response to customer pressure , including boycott threats , not Aquinas ' efforts . Walt Disney and Best Buy declined to comment . <P> But Rauscher , now a consultant on shareholder-advocacy issues , is convinced that the approach works  --  even though companies seldom admit it . " There are a lot of good companies out there , " he says . " They just have some things we call ' warts ' that need to be removed . " Aquinas is prepared to remove them , one by one .  --  By G. Jeffrey MacDonald                     