@@410957

Lance 's Bike Won the Tour-But Is It For You ? 5 Tour victories , more than a decade of carbon know-how and one tough climb are all stuffed into the Madone , a 1,100-gram package . Here 's how it rides . Lance Armstrong had a lot on the line at last April 's Liege-Bastogne-Liege race . He was favored to win , and the 160-mile race , one of the oldest and most esteemed events on the professional calendar , would be his first clash with Tour nemesis Jan Ullrich in some 18 months . Known for his " Princess and the Pea " - like sensitivity to equipment , Armstrong surprised the pack by rolling up on an angular new Trek frame named the Madone , after the mountain in Southern France that Armstrong rides to test his fitness . He had taken delivery of his new ride , one outfitted with a prototype Shimano Dura-Ace 10-speed group and prototype Bontrager XXX carbon wheels , a week before at the Amstel Gold Race and anointed it worthy . As L-B-L entered its final kilometers , Armstrong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by punching the Madone off the front with a well-timed attack on the brutishly steep Cote de Sart-Tilman with just over 10 miles to go . A win eluded Armstrong that afternoon , but the Madone was a huge success . " I was nervous during die race and watching Lance attack was amazing , " said Michael Sagan , Trek 's team leader on the project . " I was definitely relieved when the race was over . " Getting an Armstrong-approved Madone to the start in Liege was a job that began in late August 2002 , at Armstrong 's annual Tour strategy session in Austin . US Postal Service directeur sportif Johan Bruyneel and a quartet of Trek representatives sat down to discuss equipment for Armstrong 's assault on the 2003 season . Fueled by claims from his aerodynamics guru , John Cobb , that a wind-cheating chassis would trim as many as 1,000 calories per day from his energy output ( more than 80 PowerBars during the 21-day Tour ) , Armstrong challenged Trek to create a slippery new carbon frame . His new weapon would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weight of his 2002 OCLV rig . To build the Madone , Trek engineers created new tubes from their stiffest , lightest carbon-including a massive single-piece head lug/top tube/seat cluster , wind-cheating down tube and shark-fin seat tube-and combined them with tried-and-true carbon pieces such as the chainstays , bottom bracket shell and dropouts from the current 5900 . The resulting frame , at just 1,105 grams or 2.4 pounds ( for a Lance Armstrong-sized 58cm ) , weighs less than the 2003 model 5900 , but was shown in wind-tunnel testing to save one minute over 200km , or a consistent 10 watts of power . THE RIDE Hop aboard a Madone , sprint down the street , arc through the bumpy corner at the end of your block , and you 'll realize that Trek 's latest OCLV creation is a lot like Armstrong himself : demanding , deliberate and extraordinarily fast . Credit the slaphappy speed to a combination of increased rigidity , improved aerodynamics and a reduced bike weight . Trek claims that the bike has the same torsional stiffness as a 2003 5900 , but also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This decreased deflection shows itself most on pockmarked tarmac , where you 're likely to find your backside bouncing out of the saddle as if perched on a less pedigreed aluminum rig . Early production versions of the Madone are significantly less rigid than the prototypes used by Armstrong ; it 's likely that Trek could de-tune the ride of the Madone in the future to make it more consumer-friendly . That same rigidity means that the Madone refuses to wobble , shimmy or act inappropriately on descents or high-speed corners . Whether it 's an out-of-the-saddle snap up a short roller or a concerted effort on a mountain pass , climbing on the ultra-efficient Madone is as pleasurable as it gets . Based on the goal that Trek set for it-helping Armstrong win his fifth consecutive Tour-it 's impossible to argue with the success of the Madone . But is it your next bike ? If you crave pure speed at the expense of overall comfort , then you 'd find the Madone a willing partner on your next fast century . If you prefer a kinder , gentler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vibration as high , then you should stick with the more well-rounded 5000-series OCLV frame , one of the most comfortable mounts on the market . ( And , while the Madone has one Tour to its credit , the 5000 series has four . ) Even Armstrong himself seems undecided : He used the Madone in the early stages of the Tour , but finished the race on his trusted 5900 . Gim me a Brake If you ride fast and take chances on dirt , consider these 5 disc brakes . Disc brakes used to belong solely to the freeride crowd , but decreased mass , increased dependability and an array of models designed for every type of riding have rendered rim brakes practically obsolete . Sidebar <p>                     