@@390030

Headnote In northeastern Romania , 450-year-old paintings on the exterior of monasteries and churches-now open again for worship - tell vivid tales of saints and prophets , heaven and hell FROM THE TIME Romania 's Stephen the Great took power in 1457 until his death in 1704 , he fought 36 battles against the mighty Ottoman Empire , winning all but two . And the warrior king was as religious as he was ferocious . He built churches after many victories , filling the tiny enclave of Bukovina-part of the ancient principality of Moldavia-with Orthodox sanctuaries and monasteries . I Ie was made a saint in 1992 , and last year , a Romanian national television survey named him the greatest Romanian in history . But it was Stephen 's illegitimate son Petru Rares who turned his father 's church building into something extraordinary . Beginning around 1530 , Petru Rares , who ruled from 1527-1538 and again from 1541-1546 , promoted a new vision for Bukovina 's churches . He commissioned artists to cover the interiors and exteriors of a number of structures with elaborate frescoes ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Jesus , images of angels and demons , heaven and hell ) and encouraged his nobles to decorate their local churches in the same manner . The spectacular results are still in evidence today , nestled in the wooded valleys of northeastern Romania . The best preserved are part of rural monasteries in the towns of Sucevita , Moldovita , Voronet , Humor , Suceava , Patrauti and Probota . Another , a small church , is in the village of Arbore . Seven of the churches were placed on Unesco 's World I Ieritage list in 1993 , and the Romanian government is pressing to have the eighth , Sucevita , one of the last to be built , added soon . Petru Rares and his spiritual advisers hoped to bring the lessons of the Bible to priests and illiterate peasants alike . " This was a way to communicate without words , " says Moldovita nun SisterTatiana . Peasants flocking to Sunday services from their mountain villages would have seen only high stone walls , built to defend against invading armies . The real treasures were hidden behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from bottom to steeple-top with Byzantine iconography in vivid , intense colors . Voronet , built by Stephen the Great in 1488 , is a deep blue ; Sucevita , erected nearly a century later , is a grassy green ; Moldovita 's frescoes are filled with yellow accents , and Humor , built by Petru Rares in 1530 and covered in frescoes five years later at his direction , is primarily red . Creating the frescoes took a sure , quick hand . Teams of four or five painters would first even out the church 's rough stone walls with a thick layer of mortar , then smooth on a thin , fine-grained layer of lime plaster mixed with natural fibers such as finely chopped straw . Once the last layer was applied , the artists had only a few hours to work before the plaster dried . " They had to be very organized , like an assembly line today , " says Oliviu Boldura , an art conservation professor at the National University of Arts in Bucharest . Apprentice painters would apply background color and decorations , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to be chemists as well , mixing pigments from rare clays , semiprecious stones and common minerals . Azurite and malachite created vivid blues and greens . Ochre from clay was heated to produce reds , yellows and browns . As the plaster dried , it reacted with the mineral pigments , fixing the colors . The technique , which involved no organic materials , unlike frescoes that use egg whites as a binder , made the colors unusually durable . " Do n't forget , even today exterior paints do n't stay one year outside before changing color , " Boldura says . " These have lasted for 450 . " The Bukovina painters , most of whose names have been lost , also added local touches . In Voronet 's magnificently preserved " Last Judgment , " souls on their way to heaven wear locally embroidered cloth ; angels announcing the last judgment blow shepherd 's horns ; and King David plays a Romanian cobza , or lute . " The painters were n't famous . They were folk painters , " says artist and historian Eugen Mircea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could relate to the Bible stories in the pictures . " For sheer gore , some of the depictions of saints and martyrs rival Hollywood horror movies . Calm , beatific figures are shown being burned alive , dragged behind horses , thrown over castle walls , strangled , boiled and beheaded . Their tormentors are usually dressed as Turks . Stephen the Great 's victories against Turkey 's Ottomans were , in fact , short-lived : Moldavia eventually became an Ottoman vassal in the mid-inth century , paying tribute in exchange for local autonomy and religious freedom . By the early 1600s , the principality was in decline - perhaps , Mircea suggests , because of too much spending on churches and frescoes . In 1775 , the area became part of the Austrian Empire , and to suppress local impulses toward independence , the Austrians closed most of the monasteries . The rest fell into decline . The Communist era after World War II ended a century and a half of neglect . The brutal dictator Nicoiae Ceausescu , who took power in 1965 and ruled until he was overthrown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his wife , executed ) , made the churches into national museums open to tourists , but not to religious orders . By then , time had taken a toll ; only a handful of the churches had significant frescoes left intact . Weather remains the main culprit . Mountain temperatures can range from 90 degrees Fahrenheit to -5 degrees in a single year , expanding and contracting the frescoes and creating tiny cracks that let in water . North-facing frescoes , exposed to the harshest winds and rain , are badly faded at best . Conservation work , which began in earnest 30 years ago , is ongoing . Although Bukovina is one of the poorest corners of one of Europe 's poorest countries , things are changing . Romania joined the European Union this past January , and Western-style resort hotels are springing up to serve the growing tourist trade . Since the fall of Communism , the churches have undergone a renaissance of sorts . Today most are thriving abbeys , home to large communities of Orthodox nuns who make a living farming and producing handicrafts . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , drawing inspiration from the ancient visions on the walls . Adjusting her black shawl against the morning chill , Sister Tatiana regards her Moldovita sanctuary with special pride . " Each church has its own personality , its own history , its own meaning , " she says . " But this church is my heart . There are so many symbols - the paintings have theology , philosophy , history . Every year I find something new . " Sidebar The Sucevita Monastery ( left ) was built in the last decades of the 16th century in the Moldavian style , a blend of Byzantine and Gothic art and architecture . The exterior walls ' striking frescoes ( right , " The Ladder of Virtues , " contrasting the order of heaven with the chaos of hell ) still retain their brilliant hues . The Moldovita Monastery ( above ) was built by Petru Rares in 1532 . The predominantly yellow-and-blue frescoed paintings on its exterior ( right , the apses ' " Prayer of All Saints , " a recurring theme in Christian Orthodox art ) were done in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Humor Monastery , which dates from 1530 , is embellished with frescoed , Byzantine-style traditional Orthodox images from the Synaxarion , or liturgical calendar . Petru Rares and his wife are buried in the church . Author Affiliation Berlin-based ANDREW CURRY is a former editor at SMITHSONIAN . <p>                     