@@371190

When we remember President Franklin D. Roosevelt 's leadership after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor , we tend to think of the famous response that he carefully dictated to his secretary , punctuation included : " Yesterday comma December 7th comma 1941 dash a date which will live in infamy ... " Yet the President 's leadership was most sorely tested not on the Sunday of the surprise attack or the Monday he delivered his address but in the long , difficult days that followed . Then as now , America 's sense of territorial invulnerability had been shattered . Rumors swirled : the Japanese were planning to bomb Los Angeles , were already bombing San Francisco . There was real fear , not just among the public but also within the government , that Japan might invade the American mainland , whose defenses were weakened by the crippling of the Navy . <P> The differences between Pearl Harbor and last Tuesday 's attack are abundant . At Pearl Harbor the Japanese targeted a military base ; last week the terrorists targeted ordinary civilians traveling in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streets . Then , unlike today , we faced discrete , known enemies . But Pearl Harbor , and America 's larger history , teaches us that at these crucial junctures , resolve and unity are powerful weapons against despair and hysteria . <P> After Pearl Harbor , symbolic acts were as significant as physical preparation for war . Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt worked together to demonstrate that the war overseas would be won only by preserving American liberty at home . The week after the raid , the Secret Service suggested a list of security measures at the White House : camouflaging the building , placing machine guns on the roof , covering the skylights with sand and tin . Roosevelt rejected most of the suggestions , to show that the capital stood unbowed  --  much as , a century earlier , Abraham Lincoln insisted that the construction of the Capitol dome be completed in the midst of the Civil War . Similarly , on Tuesday President Bush decided to end the day in Washington rather than in a NORAD bunker . On Friday he presided over a national day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ races and creeds , including a Muslim religious leader . <P> Eleanor , visiting the West Coast after Pearl Harbor , bore witness to the hysteria directed against Japanese Americans . Government officials swooped down upon Japanese banks , stores and houses . Swimming against the tide of prejudice , Eleanor antagonized many Californians when she called for tolerance and posed for a picture with U.S.-born Japanese Americans ; the editorial board of the Los Angeles Times reacted angrily and called for her forcible retirement from public life . The First Lady responded that more than fairness was at stake : " Almost the biggest obligation we have today is to prove that in a time of stress we can still live up to our beliefs . " Though the U.S. later let that principle down with the internment camps , it remains a valuable point to remember , particularly if images of Palestinians celebrating the attacks inflame anger at Arab Americans here .                     