@@416701

chimera 1 a cap : a fire-breathing she-monster in Greek mythology having a lion 's head , a goat 's body , and a serpent 's tail b : an imaginary monster compounded of incongruous parts 2 : an illusion or fabrication of the mind . . . &lt;a fancy , a chimera in my brain , troubles me in my prayer-John Donne&gt; 3 : an individual , organ , or part consisting of tissues of diverse genetic constitution . -Merriam-Webster 's Collegiate Dictionary ( Eleventh Edition ) Smallpox was the deadliest of all contagious human diseases , an exquisitely calibrated killer . No other human disease combined such virulence , or deadliness , with such transmissibility , the case with which a germ can move from host to host . Before smallpox was eradicated from the natural environment , its " hottest " strains killed as many as 50 percent of the people they infected . Why , then , would anyone seek to create a smallpox chimera-a genetically hybrid virus deliberately engineered to increase smallpox 's killing power ? The virus known as variola would seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyone , even a bioterrorist , want to " improve " it ? The moment the question is asked , the answer seems , unfortunately , self-evident . There is a " logic of developing weapons , " according to Ken Alibek , former deputy director of Biopreparat , the " civilian " arm of the biological weapons , or bioweapons , program of the former Soviet Union . Weaponsmaking logic ensures that wherever a weakness exists in a potential weapon-the natural smallpox virus , for instance-weapons makers will do all they can to " correct " it . From the point of view of a bioweapons maker , natural smallpox has two major shortcomings . First , an outbreak can be stopped through vaccination , the very tool that enabled the disease to be driven out of nature in the first place . Second , other diseases exist that are even more lethal than smallpox : inhalation anthrax and pneumonic plague , for instance , can kill close to 100 percent of the people they infect . If a vaccine-resistant , deadlier smallpox can be engineered by inserting foreign DNA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural disease , the resulting chimera would make a truly terrible weapon-a weapon against which , as of now , there is no certain means of defense . Unfortunately , the means to engineer such a chimera may be closer at hand than most people think . Modern molecular biology and genetic engineering have opened up diabolical possibilities that make smallpox a more dangerous threat than it ever was in the days before it was driven off the earth . The current smallpox vaccine , once used to eradicate the disease , may offer little protection to anyone against a smallpox chimera . I hasten to add that there is no evidence that anyone , anywhere , has actually produced a genetically modified smallpox capable of overcoming immunity . But the technology , and the knowledge , for doing so exists . Genetically engineered smallpox has become , as the poet John Donne might have said , a chimera in the brain . The threat of such a chimera is forcing scientists to join new battles on new terrain . In his memoir , Biowarrior , Igor V. Domaradskij , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former Soviet Union , puts the matter bluntly : " In order to defend oneself one has to be in possession of what one must defend against . Otherwise there is nothing to be done . " So , fearing pox chimeras in the hands of rogue scientists or rogue states , Western investigators have gone a fair way towards creating such chimeras themselves . And no one knows whether such purely defensive research is part of the solution or part of the problem . The genetic engineering of infectious agents for use in bioweapons is nothing new . The Soviet bioweapons program worked for many years with smallpox and other lethal agents , including plague and anthrax . Genetic engineering of such agents began as long ago as 1973 , in the shadow of the 1972 Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention , signed by the Soviet Union and by more than a hundred other countries , including the United States . In recent years it has come to light that the Soviets used the treaty as a screen for giving deep cover to what was already an ongoing , secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the smallpox virus by the ton , learn to dry it , harden it , and prepare it to be packed into refrigerated ballistic missiles designed to preserve the virus during reentry into the atmosphere . As early as 1971 , they tested their initial smallpox weapon by spraying a virulent strain of the virus into the air off Vozrozhdeniye Island , in the Aral Sea . The invisible plume drifted across the water . Nine miles away , Bayan Bisenova , a twenty-fouryear-old icthyologist , was working on the deck of a research boat as it sailed through the plume . Bisenova had been vaccinated , but she came down with smallpox anyway , then passed it along to several other people . Eventually nine other people contracted the disease , three of whom had never been vaccinated . All three died of hemorrhagic smallpox , the rarest and deadliest form of the disease . In November 2001 , recalling that outbreak in an interview in Moscow News , the old Soviet bioweaponeer General Pyotr Burgasov remarked , " Smallpox ! Now that 's a real biological weapon ! " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union . In the 1970s and 1980s the tools of what was then known as recombinant DNA technology were developed , offering the Soviet bioweapons program a way to build a " better " version of smallpox . As I noted earlier , even the hottest strains , the ones from India or Bangladesh , did not kill more than half of those infected . If you wanted a " real biological weapon , " you ought to be able to do better than 50 percent lethality . In the late 1980s Soviet molecular biologists at Vector Laboratories in Koltsovo , Siberia , applied recombinant DNA technology to add strands of mammalian DNA to vaccinia , the relatively harmless relative of variola virus that is used for vaccination against smallpox . In those days the laboratory had to synthesize the strands of mammalian DNA " by hand " -a long and tedious process . But the goal was deemed well worth the effort : a host infected with the genetically altered vaccinia might be induced to pump out quantities of mammalian proteins , specifically toxins or chemicals that play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would subvert the host 's normal immune response and make the disease more lethal . Sergei Popov , the former head of a department at the Vector Laboratories , says his group 's intent was to march through the genes that coded for a large number of known immune-system peptides , or short proteins . By inserting those genes one by one into the vaccinia genome , then infecting the host with the genetically altered virus , the virologists could determine which protein was the most potent in suppressing the host 's immune system . Popov left Vector in 1987 . By that time , he says , Vector had already synthesized DNA that codes for interferon-alpha , a peptide that has antiviral functions , including the activation of immune-system killer cells . Popov notes that the work at Vector continued after he left . He also makes it clear that vaccinia was just a convenient experimental stand-in-a proof of principle-for the real target : smallpox . In the West , recombinant work with vaccinia A virus has gone on for years-mostly as a vehicle for delivering recombinant vaccines . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other viruses in the genus Orthopoxvirus . Perhaps because of their size , orthopox viruses are more hospitable than other viruses are to the insertion of " foreign " genes , and thus to the formation of a recombinant vaccine strain-in effect , a chimera . The gene-splicing technique has been effective in creating a vaccine against rabies in foxes , and it is central to some efforts to develop vaccines against respiratory syncytial virus , AIDS , and certain cancers . In 1996 Australian virologists spliced the gene that codes for an immune-system protein known as interleukin-4 , which promotes the release of antibodies by white blood cells , into vaccinia virus . To their surprise , the virologists found that the recombinant virus " profoundly suppresses " cellular immunity in the infected host-the ability of the host 's body to fight off viral infections . In 2001 another team , including some of the investigators from the 1996 study , reported that they had added the gene for interleukin-4 ( the gene itself is known as IL4 ) to ectromelia , or mousepox virus . Given the immune @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had good reason to expect a calamitous result with their IL4-mousepox chimera . But they were not really trying to create a lethal agent . Their goal was to create a kind of birth control for mice , which overrun granaries in Australia . The effect they observed , however , was overwhelming : the chimera overcame immunity not only in mice that had previously been vaccinated , but also in strains of mice known to be naturally resistant to mousepox . Sixty percent of the immunized or resistant mice died of the genetically modified mousepox . The implications were clear : if such a deadly strain of mousepox could be built , what would prevent performing the same kinds of genetic manipulations , with the same chilling effects , with the virus that causes smallpox ? Disturbed by the Australian results , an American poxvirus expert , R. Mark Buller of Saint Louis University in Missouri , set out to create a lethal mousepox chimera of his own . Unlike the Australian team , though , Buller chose an insertion point that would promote the production of interleukin-4 protein without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not to duplicate the Australian chimera , but to develop an effective treatment against it . His first experiments , in 2003 , suggested that simply vaccinating mice with fresh vaccinia protected them against a recombinant mousepox similar to ( but less potent than ) the one the Australian team had created . That finding was encouraging . It suggested that immunizing humans against smallpox might protect them against genetically engineered variola as well . Then Buller raised the ante . Could the virulence , or deadliness , of the virus depend on more than just where the IL4 gene was inserted in the viral genome ? He introduced various kinds of " promoter " DNA-short sequences of spliced DNA that influence how much interleukin-4 protein is produced by the chimeric virus . In the end , Buller made six chimeras , one of which maintained the full virulence of the mousepox virus , yet also yielded large quantities of interleukin-4.When he infected mice with the new , fully virulent chimera , the results were startling . It made no difference whether the mice were naturally resistant to ordinary mousepox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mousepox with vaccinia virus . All of them died . Buller even treated one group of naturally resistant mice with cidofovir , an antiviral agent best known as an anti-AIDS drug , which interferes with poxvirus replication . Yet those mice , too , all succumbed to the new chimera . Buller had to devise sonic way to defeat his new and alarmingly successful chimera . He injected chimera-infected mice with a monoclonal antibody , a molecule specifically engineered to bind directly to the interleukin-4 molecule . The antibody acted like a molecular sponge , soaking up the excess interleukin-4 produced by Bullers lethal chimera . And combining all the treatments worked : if the mice were naturally resistant to normal mousepox , and were treated with cidofovir and the monoclonal antibody , they all survived the lethal chimera . As I noted earlier , the virulence of a germ is not the same thing as its transmissibility . When Buller tested the transmissibility of his IL4-mousepox chimera , he found that it did not seem to spread as well as natural mousepox . One problem was simply that the infected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during which the infected animals could pass the virus along to other hosts . Even during the contagious period , the natural virus seemed to spread more quickly than the chimera did . Duller describes his chimera as a double-edged sword : " increased lethality for the host , . . . lessened ability to transmit for the virus . " But mousepox transmission is not a perfect model for the transmission of smallpox . Mousepox spreads by direct , skin-to-skin contact . Smallpox spreads when a new victim inhales particles shed from an infected person 's throat or skin . No one knows how an IL4-smallpox chimera would behave , though presumably , like the mousepox chimera , it would subvert the appropriate mammalian immune response to a poxvirus . Mousepox is not smallpox , either ; it kills mice , not men . But Buller 's work with mousepox shows how , by experimenting with various combinations , virologists could create an IL4-smallpox chimera . Would such a chimera really act like smallpox ? The natural virus is , in effect , both front- and back-end-loaded . At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infected person lodge in the throat or upper respiratory tract of the new victim . Then , before the victim becomes too sick to move , sores form on the mucus membranes of the throat , from which live virus can be coughed or otherwise propelled into the air and circulate among new victims . At the " back end , " smallpox is a systemic disease , eventually settling in the skin and forming pocks , or pus-filled blisters , which eventually scab over . The pocks teem with virus particles . Scabs shed by the victim can last a long time in the external environment . Indeed , smallpox virus is one of the most stable and durable of all viruses , a perfect exemplar of what Paul W Ewald , an evolutionary biologist at the University of Louisville , in Kentucky , calls " a sit-and-wait pathogen . " Virus particles could simply lie in wait for the next host to happen by . Would an IL4-smallpox chimera cause early lesions in the throat ? Would it be as durable as natural smallpox ? No one knows . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and evolve , or would it drop out under pressure from natural selection ? No one knows . " All one can infer from Buller 's experiments is that its victims would probably die quickly , reducing the window of transmissibility . Would that prevent an epidemic ? No one can say . Nor can anyone say , just yet , whether any treatment , even one as elaborately put together as Buller s , would work against bioengineered smallpox . The whole point of Buller 's research is to answer that question , to see whether protective therapies can be devised against a potential vulnerability . Huiler himself is not satisfied with his current solution : administering both cidofbvir and monoclonal antibodies , he admits , would be difficult . Furthermore , in the event of a chimeric smallpox attack , he notes , " you would have to know what the target gene , or the toxin , or the cytokine immune system protein used is . You would n't know in advance what somebody is going to use in a construct of this kind . " And the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for instance , Popov placed conotoxin , a deadly poison derived from marine snails , in vaccinia and tested it at the Vector Laboratories . Smallpox combined with other toxins is easy to imagine , once the technology has developed . Duller argues that what is needed is a treatment regime designed to confront a large number of possible chimeras . The goal , he says , should be to find an antiviral drug that interrupts viral replication at a different stage than cidofovir does . Administered together , the two antivirals might be effective in clearing even a bioengineered virus from the body . No such second drug yet exists , and Peter B. Jhrling , also at USAMRIID and the army 's leading virologist as well as a poxvirus expert , is not optimistic that two antivirals will work better than one . " If cidofovir does n't work , why would it work any better if you combine it with another antiviral ? " he asks . " The moment this construct IL4-mousepox chimera was made , the vulnerability was opened , " says Richard H. Ebright @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jersey . " That vulnerability will close only when the requisite two antivirals are stockpiled and ready . " The window of vulnerability is now open-and a lot of difficult questions emerge . How many new chimeras must be created and tested , if people are to be safe ? Should research laboratories take even one more step in that direction ? Does the very research seeking to protect against chimeras make them more likely , not less likely , to emerge from the mind and into reality ? Is the National Institutes of Health , which sponsors Buller 's work , really " turning into the research wing of al-Qaeda , " as Ebright puts it ? But there clearly is another horn to the dilemma . What was reportedly done in the research laboratories of the former Soviet Union-after the Soviets signed the bioweapons convention-is sobering . And - what happened at that time took place in the days before gene synthesizers , when novel genetic material had to be assembled by hand . Are we deluding ourselves if we do not try to protect against novel genetic threats ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with two antivirals might work against all smallpox chimeras , even ones no one has yet imagined . Buller 's research-an effective proof of principle for smallpox bioengineering-continues . Not everyone accepts that the Soviet bioweaponeers did what they say they did-some people have brushed off their accounts of genetic engineering as , well , chimerical . But Buller has demonstrated the truth of the matter : Genetically engineered diseases can kill , even if they ca n't spread . The window of vulnerability will remain open whether chimeric research ceases or continues . We had better figure out , and quickly , how to close it . Sidebar Worker Ludmilla Dorofeyava , who ran the scientific library and translated secret documents at a former Soviet Union bioweapons production facility at Stepnogorsk , Kazakhstan , displays the breathing mask she would have used in case of an accidental release of deadly pathogens . The valves in the foreground are pan of the ventilationisolation system . Sidebar Refrigerated vials containing live disease cultures are displayed by a worker at the Scientific Center for Quarantine and Zoonotic Diseases in Almaty , Kazakhstan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an experiment at the Center . Although the institution 's mandate has always been to develop drugs , during the Soviet era the facility 's resources were secretly diverted to research on bioweapons incorporating any number of pathogens . A bio-weapon loaded with a smallpox chimera-part virus , part human DNAhas become a nightmarish vision for virologists . But anticipating genetically " enhanced " diseases by building defenses against them poses troubling risks of its own . Sidebar ' ' ' Smallpox ! " General Burgasov remarked . " Now that 's a real biological weapon ! " Sidebar Strains of pathogens from infected animals are cultured by Lena Yakusheva , a worker at the Scientific Research Agricultural Institute in Otar , Kazakhstan . The facility receives U.S. funding from the Defense Threat Reduction Agency ( DTRA ) ; the support is intended to reduce the likelihood that staff and material will be dispersed . Camp 12 , formerly a recreation hall at the Nevada Test Site , was converted to a mock bioweapons laboratory as part of a secret research effort by DTRA to see how hard it would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the open market-necessary for producing a bioweapon . Ebola virus is studied by an investigator at the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases in Fort Detrick , Maryland . Though highly virulent , the pathogen is not as infectious as smallpox . Sidebar Makeshift isolation barrier was built by the Camp 12 project out of readily available materials . Harmless organisms were grown at the facility , to see if signs of fermentation could be detected by satellite . // <p>                     