@@416639

THE TRIUMPH OF CHINESE Communist forces over Chiang Kai-shek 's Kuomintang in 1949 and the latters retreat to the island of Taiwan was regarded in the United States as a cataclysmic setback in the Cold War . Subsequently , however , as Mao Tse-tung s People 's Republic of China threatened Chiang 's Nationalist government on Taiwan , the mounting tensions in the Taiwan Strait provided President Dwight D. Eisenhower with an opportunity to implement a bold strategy of using nuclear pressure to divide a powerful Communist alliance . In 1953 Eisenhower developed what his State Department 's director of policy planning , Robert Bowie , described as a plan to " drive a wedge between the Soviet Union and the Chinese over time , " adding , " This was based on the idea that there were deep potential differences of interest between the two , even though they were cooperating at the time . " Photograph United States Secretary of State John Foster Dulles and President Dwight D. Eisenhower confer at Geneva , Switzerland , in July 1955 . Four months earlier , they had threatened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ healthy Sino-Soviet entente , Eisenhowers wedge strategy became official in October 1953 , with the formulation of National Security Council Policy 162/2 , intended to apply " pressure on China , partly for the purpose of forcing it to depend on the Soviet Union . " Eisenhowers first opportunity to implement his strategy was the First Taiwan Strait Crisis . In August 1954 , Mao issued threats as Chiang reinforced his Nationalist strongholds in the Quemoy and Matsu island groups , only miles away from the Chinese mainland . On September 3 , Mao commenced a massive artillery bombardment of Quemoy . With characteristic skill , Eisenhower balanced his response , using the threat of tactical nuclear weapons to maximize pressure without becoming inextricably engaged in a Chinese war . In December 1954 , secretary of State John Foster Dulles stated that the current policy " will gradually include the use of atomic weapons as conventional weapons for tactical purposes . " Chinese Foreign Minister Chou En-lai decried that as " brandishing atomic weapons " in the Taiwan Strait , but took the threat seriously enough to order the evaluation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As Chinese shelling continued , Dulles warned on March 8 , 1955 , that U.S. forces were " equipped with new and powerful weapons of precision , which can utterly destroy military targets . " Such thinly veiled references to tactical nuclear weapons communicated a reduction of restraint over using those smaller warheads . Elsenhower was more overt at a March 16 press conference . When asked about using tactical nuclear weapons if the Communists invaded the offshore islands , he responded : " In any combat where these things can be used on strictly military targets and for strictly military purposes , I can see no reason why they should n't be used just exactly as you would use a bullet or anything else .... Yes , of course they would be used . " A week after that declaration , Chou En-lai announced : " The Chinese people are friendly to the American people . The Chinese people do not want to have war with the U.S.A. The Chinese government is willing to sit down and enter into negotiations with the U.S. government . " On May 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While Eisenhower 's immediate objectives to deter Chinese designs against Taiwan were obvious , his nuclear pressure simultaneously supported his wedge strategy . During the crisis , on February 10 , 1955 , Eisenhower wrote British Prime Minister Winston Churchill : " I do not believe that Russia wants war at this time-in fact , I do not believe that even if we became engaged in a serious fight along the coast of China , Russia would want to intervene with her own forces .... I am convinced that Russia docs not want , at this moment , to experiment with means of defense against the bombing that we could conduct against her mainland . At the same time , I assume that Russia 's treaty with Red China comprehends a true military alliance , which she probably would either have to repudiate or take the plunge . She would probably be in a considerable dilemma if we got into war with China . It would not be an easy decision for the men in the Kremlin , in my opinion . " That view was reinforced by national intelligence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet interests and China 's survival were not threatened . Just as Eisenhower strained Communist relations , he was keenly aware that Mao also intended to strain the British-American alliance . Despite disagreements over the Taiwan Strait situation , Eisenhower and Churchill worked tirelessly to guard Anglo-American entente . In a February 10 , 1955 , letter , Eisenhower thanked his octogenarian friend : " I have heard how earnestly you supported ... the proposition that nothing must create a serious rift in British-American relationships . Not only do I applaud that sentiment but I am most deeply grateful to you for your successful efforts .... There is no question in my mind that one of the principal reasons for China 's constant pressing on the Asian frontier is the hope of dividing our two countries . " He expressed to Churchill his firm conviction that " nothing is ever going to separate us or destroy our unity .... We must show no lack of firmness in a world where our political enemies exploit every sign of weakness , and are constantly attempting to disrupt the solidarity of the free world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeply desire to do our utmost to help you and our strongest resolve is to keep our two countries bound together in their sacred brotherhood . " FOLLOWING THE FIRST CRISIS , in May 1957 , Eisenhower deployed nuclear-capable Matador cruise missiles in Taiwan . Continued introduction of smaller tactical nuclear warheads further concerned Chinese leaders , as did an April 1958 announcement that the Defense Department was considering deploying intermediate-range ballistic missiles to Taiwan . Discussing the matter before the Chinese Eighth Party Congress in May 1958 , Mao said : " We have no experience in atomic war , so how many will be killed can not be known . The best outcome may be that only half of the population is left .... We are afraid of atomic weapons and at the same time we are not afraid of them .... We do not fear them because they can not fundamentally decide the outcome of a war ; we fear them because they really are mass-destruction weapons . " Eisenhower 's pressure during the first crisis convinced Mao that China needed its own nuclear weapons . On January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Communist Party secretariat . He sought technical aid from Moscow and on October 15 , 1957 , the USSR secretly agreed to assist China 's nascent nuclear program . By 1958 , however , Moscow had become exceedingly wary of Chinese ambitions in the Taiwan Strait . While Nikita Khrushchev was advocating his peaceful coexistence policy to avoid nuclear war , Mao was provoking the United States and eliciting nuclear threats from Eisenhower . During a meeting in Beijing on August 1 , Khrushchev became exasperated with Mao 's seeming indifference to Elsenhower 's pressure . He was especially infuriated when Mao referred to America as a " paper tiger . " He later recalled , " I tried to explain to him that one or two missiles could turn all the divisions in China to dust , but he would n't even listen to my arguments and obviously regarded me as a coward . " As a show of insolence , Mao gave Khrushchev no indication of his plans to provoke another crisis in the strait , later stating , " the islands are two batons that keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1958 , Mao ordered another massive bombardment of Quemoy and openly threatened invasion . Eisenhower immediately ordered two additional aircraft carriers to the Taiwan Strait and subsequently authorized U.S. pilots to pursue hostile aircraft over China if fired upon . Dulles warned Beijing that any " naked use of force ... would pose an issue far transcending the offshore islands and even the security of Taiwan .... It would forecast a widespread use of force in the Far East which would endanger vital free world positions and the security of the United States . " Shocked at Mao 's recklessness , Khrushchev sent Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko to Beijing . Arriving on September 6 , Gromyko expressed deep concern that the situation might escalate into total war . Robert Bowie recalled that " the 1954 crisis was merely a source of tension and controversy with them , but by the second crisis in 1958 , I think the Chinese probably drew the conclusion that these so-called allies , the Soviets , were really not very helpful . " THE SECOND CRISIS convinced Khrushchev that he could not trust Mao with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the crisis ended , Moscow abrogated its 1957 nuclear aid agreement and recalled its experts . Later that summer , Khrushchev and Mao met for the last time in Beijing , where their talks frequently degenerated into shouting matches . Furious that Mao had not warned him before shelling Quemoy , Khrushchev declared that " in our day only madmen and maniacs " advocate war , " co-existence is the only ... path to take ; any other way means death and destruction for all of us . " He later warned Mao that those who brand the United States a paper tiger should remember that " the paper tiger has nuclear teeth . " Meanwhile , Chinas position was that nuclear war with the United States would result in a Communist civilization " thousands of times higher than the capitalist system . " From such an apocalyptic war , Mao stated , " China ... is sure to emerge the victor .... The sooner they make war the sooner they will be wiped from the face of the earth . " Following the explosive 1959 meeting , Mao concluded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy is to resist pressure ... from two directions , Khrushchev and Eisenhower . " In 1964 Chinas People 's Daily stated that " the Soviet Communist Party leaders have completely reversed enemies and comrades ... and are bent on seeking a Soviet-United States cooperation for the domination of the world . " In the 1960s , Eisenhower 's wedge strategy was vindicated as China and the USSR drifted apart . In spite of the withdrawal of Soviet aid , China detonated an atomic bomb in 1964 and a hydrogen bomb in 1967 . Soon after that , Moscow began sounding out the United States and Europe for support in the event of a Sino-Soviet war . On March 3 , 1969 , Chinese and Soviet forces clashed along the Amur River while the Soviets began moving 40 divisions to the border . As hostilities escalated , worldwide media reported Chinese preparations for a nuclear exchange that included extensive digging of shelters in Beijing and other cities . Meanwhile , Moscow planned a preemptive strike on the main Chinese nuclear facility at Lop Nor . According to the U.S. ambassador to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimated that the chances of an iron conventional bomb attack by the Soviet Union on China was one in three .... Chinas reaction , of course , was that they looked to the United States . That was the beginning of the rapprochement . " In July 1970 , Moscow proposed a " joint retaliatory action " agreement between the United States and the Soviet Union in response to any provocative acts or direct attacks by China . American policy at that time , however , was to oppose Soviet hegemony in Asia . Ambassador Green recalled the thinking at the time was that " if the Soviet Union gained an upper hand in a war against China , it was in our interests to support China so that it prevented China from being overtaken by the Soviet Union . " When Eisenhower established his wedge strategy in 1953 , he had no evidence that conditions would favor it so thoroughly or that his pressure in the Taiwan Strait would so effectively exacerbate Sino-Soviet differences . With Mao providing favorable circumstances , Eisenhower performed a strategic balancing act using nuclear pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with China . Certainly Eisenhower must have agonized over his decisions during the crisis , but his strategy provided a framework for effective action . The final result was a grand strategic victory that ultimately led to rapprochement with China . <p>                     