@@406452

I FIRST ENCOUNTERED HER IN A COLD STONE church in Prigueux , France . She stood in a corner , a young shepherdess with a plaster lamb looking up at her trustingly . Something about her- maybe the dark apricot color of her dress , or the surprising plainness of her face - captivated me . Whatever the reason , I snapped a picture and noted her name : St. Germaine Cousin . Years later , in a book of saints , I stumbled upon her story . Just like the statue , Germaines tragic life speaks to me on an almost visceral level . It 's a story that leads me to ponder the hidden lives of the most vulnerable members of our society : the children . St. Germaine was born in Pibrac , France in 1579 . Her mother died when she was a baby , and her father remarried a woman named Hortense , the archetypal evil stepmother . Hortense made no secret of her dislike for Germaine , who was born with a deformed right hand and had the disease of scrofula , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the form of neglect and abuse ; Hortense deprived Germaine of food and made her sleep in the stable or in the space under the stairs . As a girl Germaine was sent to tend the sheep , another way to keep the ugly child out of her stepmother 's sight . Germaine , though , turned this banishment into a closer relationship with the divine . Although she knew only the most basic elements of her faith , she developed a rich prayer life and personal friendship with God . She went to daily Mass and shared spiritual stories with the local children ; she often gave her meager food scraps to beggars . Her loving generosity- and her astonishing lack of resentment toward her stepmother - gradually earned her the villagers ' respect . As her reputation for holiness grew , her family had a change of heart and invited her back into the house , but Germaine preferred the humble bed she 'd always known . One morning , when she was 22 , her father went to wake her . He found her dead in her bed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it 's the Little Match Girl or Cinderella without the prince . On the face of it , it 's odd that this girl has such an impact on me . Germaine seems overly meek and humble , not the strong female figures I usually find compelling . But this saint grabs me and wo n't let me go . Perhaps it 's because I 've always had a soft spot in my heart for the underdog . As a kid , I 'd buy the shabby , shopworn stuffed animal rather than the brand new one . Now , as a high school teacher , my heart aches any time I see a teen sitting alone at lunch while his peers chat in comfort- able groups . It 's hard not to feel pity for Germaine , ostracized merely because of a lack of beauty . In recent years , this sympathy has grown deeper . As the mother of a toddler , I see more clearly than ever the vulnerability of the children whom God puts in our midst . They all need love and clean beds and security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my son , to be his safe harbor in a scary world , but the reality is that many children do n't have such a refuge . Thousands of young people are abused ; whether they are constantly told they are stupid or are beaten or even sold into slavery , such horrors happen in every neighborhood of the world . Such abuse has always pained me . Now , as a mom , it 's almost too much to bear . Maybe that 's why Germaines story is ultimately so moving . Somehow she found a way to survive and to let her own spirit thrive in the midst of horrific treatment . IT WOULD BE A MISTAKE TO READ HER story as a pass to let abuse happen unchallenged ; the sex-abuse scandals of our own church are proof of the evil of that kind of inaction . It 's equally wrong to conclude that children rescued from abuse do n't need extra support . But what Germaines short life shows me is the astonishing resilience of children to whom the world is cruel . Courage is not just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in every victimized child who somehow manages to get through the day . Germaines story makes me realize that these kids have inner resources that I ca n't imagine , that absolutely awe me . Her story pulls me more deeply into their needs , their struggles , their strength . We owe them our love and our advocacy , these modern St. Germaines . At the very least , we can pray that they feel the divine love that this shepherdess knew , the presence of God that comforted her during unimaginable times . She may have died quietly in her bed , but centuries later her resilience continues . It lives on in thousands of small wounded hearts , closer to us than we know .                     