@@418144

Did you know that as many as 80 percent of Canadian parents are n't using their car seat correctly ? If your child is n't buckled in properly , she is at greater risk of serious injury , even in a fender-bender . We asked Valerie Lee , executive director of the Infant and Toddler Safety Association , to show us how to get it right . Parker Hopewell , who is four months old , is our obliging baby . // 1 This is a typical infant restraint , with a five-point harness system , which has straps at Parker 's shoulders , hips and under his crotch . Parker 's hips are well back in his seat , which is free of any blankets , head huggers or toys that could hamper proper harness adjustment . Parker 's sleeper is perfect car seat attire ; it is light enough to allow for a good harness fit and has legs so that the crotch strap will be snug . 2 The shoulder straps are adjusted so that they feed through the back of the seat below Parker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at shoulder level , not above , " says Lee . Note that the clip that brings the shoulder straps together is positioned at armpit level . The harness straps lie flat and are not twisted . Straps that are twisted can actually cause more injury in a crash . 3 When Parker 's mom , Penelope Hopewell , fastens the car seat harness , she checks to make sure the shoulder straps are snug enough to allow just one finger underneath . The straps should be checked regularly and adjusted as needed . 4 Once Parker is buckled in , his mom tucks a blanket over him . In winter , Parker could have a sweater over his sleeper for extra warmth . Bulky snowsuits or bunting bags make it impossible to fasten the harness snugly and should not be worn by babies in car seats . 5 Here Penelope is installing the base of the car seat . She has threaded the lap and shoulder strap through the car seat base and makes sure they are really snug . Alternatively , she could fasten the universal anchorage . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ please note that one OR the other should be used according to the manufacturer 's instructions . This seat also comes with a levelling function ( vehicle seat back ) so that the car seat will sit at a 45 angle . If your seat does n't have a built-in leveller , you may need to use a rolled-up towel to level it . 6 Parker is ready to go ! The rear-facing car seat snaps onto the base and the handle is down . The safest location for the car seat is the centre of the back seat . The vehicle shown here has only two seat belts , however , so Parker 's car seat is installed on the right back seat . If your car is equipped with front-passenger-side airbags , the car seat must go in the back ; a suddenly inflating airbag can injure and even kill a baby or young child . <p>                     