@@405438

Social-networking sites are great for when you want to connect . But what about when you split ? . ? Not long after Patrick told his wife Tammie he wanted a divorce , she posted an angry , hurt note on " the wall , " or public-comments section , of his Facebook page . Embarrassed that his colleagues , clients , church friends and family could see evidence of his marital woes , he deleted it and blocked his wife from seeing his page . A couple of days later , the IT worker in Florida -- who asked that his last name not be used in this story -- found alarmed messages from two Facebook friends in his inbox . Tammie had used a mutual friend 's account to view Patrick 's wall and e-mailed several women he had had exchanges with . He says her e-mails were borderline defamatory . She says they merely noted that he was married with children , a fact he had left off his Facebook profile . Either way : Ouch . For those who want to connect or reconnect with others , social-networking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who are disconnecting , they can make things quite sticky . And as the age of online-social-network users creeps up , it overlaps more with the age of divorce-lawyer users , resulting in the kind of semipublic laundry-airing that can turn aggrieved spouses into enraged ones and friends into embarrassed spectators . Lawyers , however , love these sites , which can be evidentiary gold mines . Did your husband 's new girlfriend Twitter about getting a piece of jewelry ? The court might regard that as marital assets being disbursed to a third party . Did your wife tell the court she 's incapable of getting a job ? Then your lawyer should ask why she 's pursuing job interviews through LinkedIn . Battles over finances and custody remain the Iwo Jima and Stalingrad of divorce cases . Opposing lawyers will press any advantage they have , and personal information on sites like Facebook , MySpace and LinkedIn is like decoded bulletins from enemy territory . " It 's now just routine for us to go over with clients whether they have an active presence on the Web and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says Joseph Cordell of Cordell &; Cordell , a domestic-relations law firm with offices in 10 states . He advises his mostly male clients to scour their page -- and their girlfriend's -- for anything that could be used by their ex 's legal team . Then Cordell studies the page of the soon-to-be ex-wife . " We had a custody case where a mom assured the court that she had n't been drinking , " recalls the Missouri-based attorney . " But her MySpace page had actual dated photos of her drinking -- and smoking , which is also of interest . " In another case , a mom had listed herself on a dating site as single with no kids , which Cordell 's firm used to cast doubt on her truthfulness . And that 's just the courtroom stuff . Half the fun of social-networking sites is the posting of personal news . The other half is the posting of personal opinion , something spurned spouses typically have in spades . MySpace and its ilk offer the giddying cocktail of being able to say something in the privacy of your home that will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All this at a time when people are often less than their best selves . On the walls of two Facebook groups -- I Hate My Ex-Husband and I Hate My Ex-Wife , which together had been joined by 236 Facebook users as of early June -- posts include all manner of ( often misspelled ) vitriol , including some colorful British slang : " my husband is ... a dirty smelly chavvy theivin alcoholic drug addict selfish scum bag " and " my ex wife is a no good lieing slag , " each of which was posted alongside a smiling photograph of the commenter . There 's little the besmirched can do legally , unless there are children involved . Family-law courts routinely issue restraining orders to prevent one parent from disparaging another to a child . " The question is , If it 's on the Internet , can that speech be blocked ? " says Stephen Mindel , a managing partner at Feinberg , Mindel , Brandt &; Klein in Los Angeles . " The First Amendment is going to come into conflict with the family-law courts . " Issuing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointless , says Chicago-based lawyer Jennifer Smetters . " The kids just go on a fishing expedition to find out what 's so secret . And no child needs to see their parent being publicly humiliated . " Smetters has seen cases where messages on a social-networking site were part of a harassment campaign that led to the court 's issuing a civil order of protection . It seems everybody -- except perhaps some lawyers -- would be better off if divorcing spouses gave each other some space on MySpace . But when confused , anguished people look for ways to work through their feelings , a social-networking site can be an almost irresistible venue . Patrick and Tammie are still active on Facebook . So are decoupled East Coast residents Andrea and Adrian , even after " he told me he did n't have any money and then posted pictures of his new BMW bike , " Andrea says . He says Facebook helped her stalk him . " It 's had a very negative impact on our communication , " he adds . But there can be some positives . Tammie 's friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says he understands online social networks better now . " It 's like putting everybody you know in the same room . I 'm using it , but I 'm much more careful . " PULLQUOTE Lawyers love these sites , which can be evidentiary gold mines BOX Do n't assume that never carrying a balance means you 're immune from credit-card crackdowns PERSONAL FINANCE , PAGE 95 BOX Antisocial Networking . It 's called MySpace , but it 's not private . Five no-nos for divorcing couples This article consists of 3 illustrations . Please see hardcopy of magazine or PDF . EXHIBIT A EVIDENCE Posted on May 12 , 2009 EXHIBIT B EVIDENCE Posted on June 8 , 2009 EXHIBIT C EVIDENCE Posted on April 4 , 2009 A. Showing Off Pictures or discussions of new purchases or vacations are fun , but they might color the court 's view of your finances and affect your settlement . B. Letting It All Hang Out If you 're in a custody battle , your ex 's lawyers would love to present you as the nonnurturing type . Delete all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just your page you have to worry about . Make sure your friends ' photos of you ca n't be used against you either . D. Venting Do n't talk smack about the lawyers , the judge and especially your spouse -- on your page or anybody else 's . ( You think your kids never use a computer ? ) E. Cutting Off Everyone at Once Do n't " defriend " in-laws or your ex 's friends right away . People need time to adjust . Unless it 's really high-conflict . Then go for it .                     