@@397694

The " expression " of a genome is best understood as a dialogue with an organism 's environment . That dialogue , not the genes alone , determines which ant becomes a queen , which fish becomes a male . // We sometimes think of the environment as " out there , " a place separate from us , a place we can enter and leave at will . But the environment is , quite simply , the context for all of life ; it is what makes us what we are . Plants in dry soil grow deeper roots than those in wet soil . Turtle eggs become male or female depending on temperature . A fish may become female in one social environment , male in another . Genes not only direct , they also take orders . In a sense , our genes are the means by which the environment regulates our development . Everything about us-from the shape of a toe to the shape of a protein , from the year we enter puberty to the amount of stress hormone we release when another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversation between genome and environment . This conversation started billions of years ago , when life began , and goes on every minute of our lives . Yet , strangely , it 's a conversation to which most biologists turned a deaf ear for decades , starting in the 1940s , when the focus of biological research became overwhelmingly genetic . We 've all read or been told repeatedly that genes provide a " blueprint " for the body , that genes " program " development , that we are " products of our genes . " A 1996 introductory biology text used by more than half of all college biology majors in the United States asserts : " An organism 's development is largely determined by the genome of the fertilized egg and the organization of the cytoplasm of the egg cell . " No mention is made of any influences outside the egg . How did biologists come to snub so thoroughly one partner in the developmental conversation ? The answers lie deep in the political and scientific history of biology . Decades before the advent of genetics in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the process by which organisms take shape from seemingly formless fertilized eggs . Indeed , for the first experimental embryologists , the most obvious place to look for answers to the mysteries of heredity was not deep in the genome-an entity whose existence they barely suspected-but within the environment of the embryo . During the latter half of the nineteenth century , biologists showed , for example , how different color morphs of the same butterfly species resulted from changes in temperature . Others examined the effects of ion or nutrient levels on development or looked at how environmental factors such as temperature could determine sex . Then , in the early twentieth century , a confluence of discoveries and new technologies turned the attention of most biologists to genetics and physiology . Increasingly , in the West , biologists saw every individual as a self-contained unit whose study could answer virtually every biological question . Developmental biologists focused their attention on laboratory experiments in which the role of the environment was deliberately eliminated . In the Soviet Union , however , biologist Trofim Lysenko believed that environment determined phenotype-that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both structural and functional . As a student , Lysenko had been laughed at by geneticists ; once he rose to power , he denounced old acquaintances and even mentors . Under Stalin and Lysenko , an entire generation of Soviet geneticists was exiled or murdered . Those who survived fled to Europe or to North or South America . Biologists in the West recoiled violently from Lysenkoism . Many had lost personal friends in the purge or were themselves expatriate Soviets who had fled . The very idea that the environment influences phenotype became associated with the worst aspects of Stalin 's bloodthirsty reign , with Communism , and with left-wing politics in general-but not with science . In the 1940s and 1950s , a handful of Europeans and Americans attempted to reintroduce environmental considerations into developmental biology but met with little success . The molecular genetics revolution of the 1960s swept up many of the brightest young minds . Throughout the 1960s and 1970s , biologists interested in the effects of environment on development , survival , and reproduction worked primarily in ecology , agriculture , conservation biology , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how genes " determine " phenotype , they turned to just a handful of " model " organisms that would reproduce rapidly and easily , primarily in the laboratory . Studies of the development of six animals  --  nematode worms , Drosophila fruit flies , zebra fish , African clawed frogs , domestic chickens , and house mice-formed the basis for nearly all we know about the genetics of development in animals . All six share certain traits , such as rapid development and early sexual maturation , that tend to minimize the effects of environment . Jessica Bolker , an evolutionary developmental biologist at the University of New Hampshire , has argued that biologists , in choosing organisms little affected by the environment , have unwittingly reinforced assumptions about the primacy of genes . All six of these lab organisms give molecular genetics the answer it expects , namely , that genes rigidly program development , independent of the environment of the embryo . As Bolker says , " Most of our models are small and fast and hardwired .... And so we think of development as being hardwired . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realize that development is far from hardwired ; instead , organisms show enormous developmental plasticity . Very recently , a new field of study-called ecological developmental biology , or eco-devo  --  has emerged . Eco-devo examines how developing individuals integrate environmental and genetic information , as well as how this process of integration influences the direction of evolution . A basic tenet of eco-devo is that individuals with the same genes can turn out differently , depending on the environment in which the embryos find themselves . This plasticity , however , is not a general trait covering everything an organism does and is . Instead , plasticity itself varies across traits and species . Sonia Sultan , of Wesleyan University in Middletown , Connecticut , has studied plasticity in four closely related species of buckwheat in the genus Polygonum . One of the four produced different-size leaves in response to changes in light intensity , whereas another species did not adapt to light at all . Sultan has also shown that a species that is plastic with respect to one trait , such as leaf size , may show little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buckwheat differed in the magnitude , direction , and timing of plasticity in traits as varied as leaf size , root length and form , and rate of photosynthesis . These differences corresponded roughly to the ecological distribution of the plants . For instance , the generalist species Polygonum persicaria was quite plastic . It reproduced well in poor conditions ( doubling its leaf tissue in low light , for instance ) but did better than the other three species in environments rich in light , water , or nutrients . By contrast , P hydropiper , a more specialized species , showed far less plasticity . In poor , shady conditions it increased leaf tissue very little , and it only slightly increased its reproductive output-as measured by the number and size of its fruits-even in the most resource-rich environments . The species apparently could not take advantage of a bonanza . Clearly , the environment somehow influences the genetic pathways that guide the development of the phenotype . British biologist C. H. Waddington considered how that might happen . He found that two distinct triggers-one environmental and one genetic-can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1940s he was struck by the fact that ostriches hatch with calluses on their chests and abdomens , in just those places where contact with the ground later abrades the skin . Skin that is rubbed regularly becomes thicker and tougher as skin cells proliferate , as a glance at our heels and toes will confirm . But our own calluses are triggered by the abrasion itself . Waddington suggested that in ostriches , the trigger for making calluses had been transformed from an environmental switch to a genetic one-a process he called " genetic assimilation . " Such developmental switches can be found anywhere in the network of genes involved in the formation of a trait . Ehab Abouheif , now at the University of Chicago , has demonstrated this idea beautifully in wingless ants . Most ant species have several castes . Pheidole morrisi has four : two with wings ( queens and males ) and two wingless ( soldiers and workers ) . The network of six genes that regulates wing formation in these ants does the same thing in fruit flies ( Drosophila melanogaster ) . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formation in almost exactly the same way as fruit flies express them . These genes constitute a sort of gene " cascade , " with one gene coding for a protein that in turn regulates the next gene . In soldiers , the first five genes are expressed normally , just as in the winged queens , but the most downstream gene in the cascade is not . So at the last moment , genetically speaking , the soldier ants shut off wing formation . In the workers , wing formation is interrupted farther upstream in the gene cascade . Sisters in an anthill are 75 percent genetically identical . But whether they become soldiers , workers , or queens depends not on any differences in their genes , but on a set of environmental switches . At the first switch , the right light and temperature cause the ant embryos to release a burst of juvenile hormone , setting them on the path to becoming queens . Otherwise they become soldiers or workers . Another Silent Spring ? That frogs are disappearing all over the world is hardly news . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frogs was front-page news for days last spring , thanks to the work of developmental biologist Tyrone Hayes , of the University of California , Berkeley . Atrazine , considered harmless because it breaks down in a few days , is the most commonly used herbicide in the world . Farmers make up for its rapid breakdown by applying it in huge quantities . In the United States alone , farmers spray more than 60 million pounds of it each year , on corn , soybeans , and other crops . Rivers and streams in agricultural areas may contain 100 to 2,300 parts per billion ( ppb ) . The ubiquitous herbicide even falls in rainwater-1 ppb in non-agricultural areas and up to 40 ppb in agricultural areas . Early laboratory studies showed gross malformations in amphibians exposed to atrazine , but this effect occurred only at concentrations that animals in the wild would rarely encounter . Investigators did not look for subtler effects , so atrazine was declared safe for the environment , and the safe level for drinking water was set at 3 ppb . But Hayes 's lab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ male Xenopus laevis tadpoles into hermaphrodites , with three ovaries and three testes ; doses of 1 ppb reduced the size of muscles of the larynx , which frogs depend on to call and attract their mates . Hayes and his coworkers backed up their lab study with a dramatic field study of leopard frogs ( Rana pipiens ) . Starting in California , the biologists drove east across the United States , collecting tadpoles and water samples from Utah to Illinois . The wild frogs were being hit even harder than their lab cousins : nearly fully formed eggs containing large amounts of yolk were found in the testes of male tadpoles . ( Normally , eggs do not develop in tadpoles of either sex . ) And the more atrazine in the water , says Hayes , the worse the malformation . How can a chemical manufactured to kill plants by interfering with photosynthesis have such profound effects on animals ? Atrazine is a potent endocrine disrupter because it boosts levels of an enzyme that normally transforms testosterone into estrogen . The result in male tadpoles is dramatically reduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his colleagues measured in both R. pipiens and X. laevis . Biologists have known for years that amphibian numbers are dropping precipitously , with populations winking out one by one . Yet no single cause seemed to explain more than a few regional declines . Hayes 's work suggests a major contributing factor in the eighty countries that use atrazine . Beyond that , his work suggests the importance , when evaluating potentially harmful molecules , of looking at the internal morphology of developing embryos . Endocrine disrupters may be capable of destroying entire populations and species , but such compounds will not necessarily reveal their effects through extra legs or other malformations obvious to a layperson . At a second switch , a protein-rich diet can trigger another pulse of juvenile hormone , turning the embryos into soldiers ; on a poorer diet , they become workers . Both switches operate by means of a hormone , but the triggers that throw the switch-food , temperature , and light-are purely environmental . In three other ant species , Abouheif found , wing formation was interrupted at a different point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of genes for wing formation is evolutionarily stable-conserved in various insects over some 300 million years-ants can turn off wing formation anywhere in the network . Making wings is a conservative process , but not making them is a flexible one . Abouheif hypothesizes that such evolutionary flexibility may be a general characteristic of organisms that have more than one form . The idea that traits can be controlled by multiple triggers , both endogenous ( originating within the organism ) and exogenous ( originating outside it ) , is generalizable and useful . The more medical investigators understand the triggers that instruct juvenile brain cells to multiply and form healthy new brain tissue , for example , the more success they may have turning on this activity in adults whose brains have been damaged ( ultimately , with a drug that mimics the endogenous trigger ) . And understanding exogenous triggers in development can help identify which synthetic compounds are likely to wreak havoc on humans and other organisms when released into the environment . The mechanisms for these triggers will almost certainly lie among the signaling molecules ( hormones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talk among themselves . Signaling molecules appear to be the means by which an organism converses with its environment , both during early development and throughout life . Other molecules called " heat-shock proteins " also seem to act as switches that can decrease or increase plasticity , especially when an organism is under stress . As we have seen , signals from the environment can be physical : temperature , light , pressure , abrasion . They can also be molecular ( when , for example , a compound that mimics a hormone alters gene expression ) or social . Social milieus can induce many fish to change from male to female and back again . Take the Japanese goby Trimma okinawae . If the resident male in a group leaves or dies , one of the group 's females can become a male . But if a larger male then shows up , the recently remodeled " he " reverts to a " she . " Such transformations can take place in as little as four days . The development of some animals is influenced by predators . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rana sylvetica ) tadpoles to grow smaller than usual and to develop a deeper tail musculature ( which seems to enable faster swimming and sharper turns ) . To effect these changes , the dragonfly larvae need only be in the water ; they need n't actually be attacking the tadpoles . Similarly , the tiny water flea ( Daphnia cucullata ) develops a large protective " helmet " when predaceous larvae of the Chaoborus fly are present in the water nearby . And Daphnia is a predator in its own right , capable of inducing changes in its prey : green algae . Chemicals released by grazing water fleas cause the algae to give up the single-celled life and form colonies . Relations between symbiotic bacteria and their hosts are another major strand of the eco-devo tapestry . The most detailed work in this area comes from the laboratory of Margaret McFall-Ngai at the University of Hawaii , where biologists study codevelopment in the squid Euprymna scolopes and the luminescent bacterium Vibrio fischeri . The bacterium guides normal development of the squid 's light organs , which illuminate the squid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a conspicuous dark silhouette against the brightly lit surface of the ocean . The immature light organs of a young squid develop a field of ciliated cells , which help draw Vibrio in from ocean water , as well as a series of deep pockets , or crypts , in which these bacteria will live . Within just a few hours , the new arrivals induce the cells of the light organs to swell and to grow tiny , hairlike microvilli . These changes help the bacteria flourish within the light organs . Young squid raised experimentally in water without Vibrio do n't receive the right molecular signals and thus fail to go through normal development . Invertebrates are n't the only organisms to have coevolved with bacteria . Mammals and other vertebrates are walking ecosystems . We humans normally carry hundreds of kinds of bacteria in our mouths alone . And these symbiotic organisms are not merely the inevitable result of living in a microbe-ridden world . Colonizing the body soon after birth , they are in fact essential for normal development , as has been shown in laboratory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly all the major organ systems is aberrant in these " germ-free " mice , says McFall-Ngai . The lining of the intestines , for instance , appears to have evolved to interact with bacteria . A few days before mice are weaned , when bacteria normally first appear in the gut , the intestinal cells cover themselves with a sugar called fucose , on which some symbiotic bacteria can live . If none of the right bacteria show up , the fucose disappears . But if the right ones do show up , they induce the gut cells to make more fucose . " The host tissues , " writes McFall-Ngai , " are poised for interaction with the symbiont . " Germ-free mice , which never encounter their coevolved symbionts , need 30 percent more calories to live than do mice with a full complement of gut bacteria , because vertebrates generally depend on such bacteria to help digest food and even to synthesize vitamins . One of the best-known examples of how environment can influence development comes from research on endocrine disrupters-molecules in the environment that bind to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some of these molecules are natural substances , such as the plant estrogens in soy-based baby formula and other soy products . Many others are human made , including the plastic stabilizers in baby bottles , pacifiers , dental sealants , plumbing pipes , and gallon milk jugs , not to mention dispersants used to spread pesticides or to keep the spots off dishes in dishwashers . Some of the most disturbing news on endocrine disrupters recently emerged from the laboratory of Tyrone Hayes , a developmental endocrinologist at the University of California , Berkeley . Hayes 's lab showed that minute amounts of atrazine , a nearly ubiquitous herbicide , can derail reproduction in natural populations of leopard frogs by causing males to make eggs ( see " Another Silent Spring ? , " page 56 ) . Why is the study of eco-devo blossoming now ? One reason is concern over the increasingly obvious effects of endocrine disrupters . Another , say several investigators , is the infectious zeal of developmental biologist Scott Gilbert , who in the past two years added a chapter on eco-devo to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ review article in the journal Developmental Biology describing and naming the new field , and organized , with Jessica Bolker , a symposium on the subject . Converts to eco-devo , who come from every area of biology , are extraordinarily enthusiastic . All the enthusiasm in the world would n't have sufficed , however , without the major advances in genetics of the past decade . Abouheif 's research on developmental switches in wingless ants is a good example of how developmental genetics ( including the many studies already done on fruit flies ) provided the basis and tools to do eco-devo . The new tools  --  which include polymerase chain reaction , a technique for multiplying traces of DNA , and microarray analysis , a method for simultaneously studying the expression of tens of thousands of genes-are enabling scientists to ask and answer whole new sets of questions . Many bacteria that live in animals , for instance , can not be cultured in the lab , and they occur in numbers too low to detect by conventional methods . Only recently , with the advent of microarray analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communities of microorganisms , whether in the mouth , the gut , or the soil . Just as important as the new technologies is an increasing emphasis on cross-disciplinary work . Hayes recalls that when he was in graduate school , biologists knew everything about the genetics of Xenopus laevis , the African clawed frog , but little about the animal itself . " Everything was so specialized , " he says . Now he sees entire fields as tools to ask larger questions : " I used to think of endocrinology as a field , and now I think of it as a tool to understand something else , to understand biology . " Ecological developmental biology may lead to fundamental changes in the way biologists think . For example , an assumption of standard evolutionary theory has been that genetic differences rigidly determine the relative success or failure of organisms . But phenotypic plasticity implies a degree of play , or looseness , in selection processes . Biologist Philip Yund , of the University of Maine , says that when biologists better understand how environmental information is incorporated into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding of how selective pressures form the phenotype over evolutionary time . Hayes points out that leopard frog populations have now been exposed to atrazine for some forty years , long enough for selective forces to have changed their biology . " Effectively , we 've done a pretty awful experiment , " says Hayes , who speculates that a population of frogs living in a pond with high levels of the herbicide might evolve toward early metamorphosis and delayed sexual maturity . If they can get out of the pond soon enough , he reasons , their gonads could complete development away from the influence of the atrazine . In the future , Hayes will be looking for signs that leopard frogs are evolving in response to this herbicide . Just as our environment is the context for how we become who we are , we are also the context for the development of other organisms-a conversation of which we are only now becoming fully aware . <p>                     