@@411179

" Ultimately , if the Air Force can not or will not embrace the space mission , Congress will have to establish an entirely new service . " // WITH ITS HARDWARE and brainpower , the U.S. has unchallenged mastery of air , sea , and land . Except for the government 's failure to defend citizens from ballistic missiles-a glaring , reprehensible exception-no one can seriously threaten America . Experts on such things say that this is a period of " strategic pause , " a rare opportunity for the U.S. to catch its breath and rethink strategies and force structures . While the Cold War required Washington to follow a course of incremental advances in doctrine and procurement just to keep pace with the Kremlin , nothing of the scope and scale of that technological competition exists today . As they say at the War Colleges , the U.S. has no " peer competitor . " While I vigorously oppose those who use this circumstance to justify reckless cuts in defense spending or to rationalize their refusal to support an effective ballistic missile defense , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superiority on Earth to shift substantial resources to space . I believe we can and must do this to buy generations of security that all the ships , tanks , and airplanes in the world will not provide . This would be a real " peace dividend " ; it would actually help keep the peace . Space offers the prospect of seeing and communicating throughout the world ; of defending the U.S. , its deployed forces , and its allies ; and , if necessary , of inflicting violence-all with great precision , nearly instantaneously , and often less expensively . With credible offensive and defensive space control , it will be possible to deter and dissuade America 's adversaries , reassure its allies , and guard the nation 's growing reliance on global commerce . Without it , the U.S. will become vulnerable beyond its worst fears . In their rhetoric , the Department of Defense and the Air Force have acknowledged the importance and promise of spacepower . In his 1998 report to Congress , Secretary of Defense William Cohen stated that " spacepower has become as important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power . " In 1995 , the Air Force made clear in Global Engagement . A Vision for the 21st Century Air Force that " The medium of space is one which can not be ceded to our nation 's adversaries . The Air Force must plan to prevail in the use of space . " Expanding and refining the ability to gather and transmit information has been the Defense Department 's principal focus in space . The Air Force 's space budget is dedicated almost entirely to the maintenance and improvement of information systems , as a means of increasing the effectiveness of existing forces here on Earth . Yet , as important as early warning , intelligence , navigation , weather , and communications systems may be , today they are basically dedicated to supporting non-space forms of power projection . Even the Air Force 's Space Warfare Center and Space Battle Lab are focused primarily on figuring out how to use space systems to put information into the cockpit in order to more accurately drop bombs from aircraft . This is not space warfare . It is using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ space component of " information superiority . " Given the degree of importance that Joint Vision 2010 and other recent statements of policy and doctrine assign to information superiority , it is understandable that the Air Force and the Department of Defense have tried so hard to exploit the information revolution fully . if the U.S. limits its approach to space just to information superiority , though , it will not have fully utilized spacepower . In 1994 , the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff challenged the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board to " search the world for the most advanced aerospace ideas and project them into the future . " Among the many valuable findings in the resulting New World Vistas : Air and Space Power for the 21st Century report was the conclusion : " For the U.S. to sustain its superpower status it will become necessary not only to show global awareness through space based information , but also to be able to project power from space directly to the Earth 's surface or to airborne targets with kinetic or directed energy weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized , trained , and equipped , the Air Force is not building the material , cultural , and organizational foundations of a service dedicated to spacepower . Indeed , in some respects , it is moving backward . Global Engagement spoke of a transition " from an air force to an air and space force on an evolutionary path to a space and air force . " This language , heavily influenced by the revolutionary vision in the New World Vistas report , was consistent with the kind of leap into spacepower that I believe is necessary . The Air Force uniformed leadership , though , has replaced the vision laid out in Global Engagement with the concept of an " aerospace force : " Although this approach is not necessarily inconsistent with the development of spacepower , it would appear to reflect the view that space is fundamentally an information medium to be integrated into existing air , land , and sea forces . Fully integrating space-based information capabilities into existing concepts and organizations is an important near-term goal . The Air Force and the National Reconnaissance Office have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if this is all there is to aerospace , it is a woefully deficient concept . It is n't spacepower . Where are the science and technology investments and the technology demonstrations that the Air Force is currently pursuing in order to build for a future spacepower projection capability ? Where is its space-based missile defense development program ? ( A spacebased laser program that does not envision a technology demonstration for 15 years or an operational capability for 35 years is not serious . ) Where is the Air Force 's military spaceplane program ? Does it really want to stand idle while NASA develops a follow-on to the Space Shuttle that may contribute just marginally to meeting the requirements of military spacepower ? Compared to the magnitude of the technical challenges involved-and these programs ' potential military value-the investments being made by the Air Force in these areas are paltry . Personnel investments are also inadequate . Many of the institutions of space power have been established within the Department of Defense , including joint and service space commands and the 14th Air Force , but I still do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Air Force that in any way rivals the air and missile organizations . Having one or two space generals rise to the senior levels of Air Force leadership is not enough . Similarly , a service that promotes only one space officer at a time to brigadier general is not showing much commitment to spacepower . Right now there are 11 general officers in Air Force Space Command . None are career space officers , although two have had three space assignments and three have had two space assignments ( including their current jobs ) . The other generals are serving for the first time in space jobs . A further breakout shows that five of the 11 are command pilots , five are command missileers , and one has a command-and-control background . To put this in context , ask yourself how many general officers at Air Combat Command are not command pilots ? // U.S. Air Force artist 's rendition of anti-satellite missile system . // Moreover , the Air Force has not taken the steps to build a dedicated space warfare cadre of younger officers . The attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assign non-space officers to lead space organizations actually may undermine the development of a true spacepower culture . Although I strongly support flexibility in the career paths among different war-fighting communities throughout our military services , it has gone too far when most of the Air Force 's space institutions and commands are led by officers who are not space specialists . To ask if the Air Force is serious about space is to ask the wrong question . It has played the dominant role in military space matters for decades . A significant portion of its budget has gone toward developing and operating the nation 's military space systems . So , no one should question the Air Force 's proud space legacy . An honored past , however , does not automatically mean that the Air Force is correctly poised for the future . What do the Department of Defense and the Air Force need to do in order to create the conditions necessary for the emergence of spacepower ? Let me offer the following recommendations as intellectual fodder , if not as an actual roadmap forward . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while others are directed more generally toward the Department of Defense . First , the U.S. must foster a spacepower culture . An environment must be created in which revolutionary thinking about spacepower is not only accepted , but rewarded . America should strive to re-create for spacepower the type of intellectual environment that was created for airpower in the wake of World War II by Gen. Hap Arnold . Washington simply can not allow a blanket of political correctness and bureaucratic inertia to smother those who would offer the nation the most innovative and revolutionary visions for exploiting space . The emergence of a real spacepower force will require the creation of a highly skilled , dedicated cadre of space warriors clearly focused on spacepower applications-not merely on helping air , sea , and ground units to do their jobs better . Second , it is necessary to be more creative in maximizing the cooperation among military , civil , and commercial space practitioners , as well as to work aggressively with the commercial sector to find a new equilibrium in which private profit and government cost reduction meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Defense must cooperate more with other users of space , such as NASA and the commercial sector . Partnering on a range of technology demonstrations is one way to leverage investments . The potential for privatization and commercial partnering in certain elements of the Department of Defense 's space infrastructure-for example , in the creation and maintenance of multipurpose spaceports-must be considered carefully . The DOD 's existing willingness to enter into public-private partnerships in the area of depot maintenance , for instance , might be applied to the space launch arena . In this regard , however , great caution must be exercised to ensure that government control of war-fighting capabilities is not jeopardized . Above all , the nation 's space warriors must be given the tools they need . Let me be clear-if the potential savings described here are not sufficient , the Department of Defense must begin to dedicate a larger portion of its budget to the development and fielding of spacepower systems . The U.S. can not simply walk away from core missions or legacy systems , but it also can not continue an investment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially when spacepower may provide faster , better , and cheaper offense and defense . Changes are needed America will need more than a better spacepower culture , and more than money , to dominate space . It must be willing to restructure the institutional approach to this ultimate strategic theater dramatically . As New York Yankee baseball great Yogi Berra once said , " When you get to a fork in the road , take it . " Today , the Air Force is at a fork in the road . It must truly step up to the spacepower mission or cede that role to another organization . In plain English , the Air Force is going to have to change . The national command authority has established the policy foundations for such a transition . According to Pres. Clinton 's October 1998 National Security Strategy : " Our policy is to promote development of the full range of space-based capabilities in a manner that protects our vital national security interests . " With its Global Engagement strategy , the Air Force itself established the vision of a space and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must decide whether it is willing to make the internal choice to embrace spacepower fully . This will mean shedding big chunks of today 's Air Force to pay for tomorrow 's , and it will be very painful . Congress could help by allowing the Air Force to keep any savings from this divestiture and allocate them directly to space programs . If such a change proves impossible , then Congress will have no choice but to consider another alternative . The notion that the Air Force should have primary responsibility for space is not sacred . For the most part , space is well outside the " Wild Blue Yonder . " Just because space hardware and signals move about over our heads , must space be the exclusive domain of the Air Force ? This is not a new question . In 1995 , the Commander-in-Chief of U.S. Space Command found " no compelling arguments " to make the Air Force solely responsible for the design , launch , and operation of space systems . In 1997 , retired Air Force Gen. Charles Homer told Space News : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ space , then tradeoffs will be made between air and space , when in fact the tradeoff should be made elsewhere . " In 1998 , the Commandant of the Marine Corps , Gen. Charles C. Krulak , stated that , " between 2015 and 2025 , we have an opportunity to put a fleet on another sea . And that sea is space . Now the Air Force is saying , Hey that 's mine ! ' And I 'm saying , You 're not taking it . ' " These officers express legitimate frustrations , but I see a risk that their concerns could lead to a balkanization of spacepower . This would be a setback . A better approach to explore might be to vest U.S. Space Command with authority similar to that held by U.S. Special Operations Command-the Major Force Program ( MFP ) structure . MFP-11 gives CINCSOC ( Commander-in-Chief for Special Operations Command ) substantial control over development , acquisition , promotions , and assignments in this unique mission area . U.S. Space Command is perhaps the only institution within the Department of Defense that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it needs the teeth and claws to compete for , and dispense , DOD resources . Spacepower is every bit as important as special operations . Perhaps , like special ops , spacepower should have its own Major Force Program , and even its own Assistant Secretary of Defense . A separate service ? Photograph Artist 's concept of laser firing aircraft in flight . Photograph Artist 's concept of laser firing aircraft in flight . // Ultimately , if the Air Force can not or will not embrace spacepower , Congress will have to establish an entirely new service . This may sound dramatic , but it is an increasingly real option . Creating a new military service to exploit a new medium is not without precedent . At the close of World War I , the Army General Staff viewed military aviation as a servant of ground forces and opposed the development of a service that would conduct a new set of roles and missions . Senior officers with little or no operational experience were chosen to guide the development of the new aviation technologies , roles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers . The General Staff refused to fund acquisition at levels needed by aviators . The vast majority of Army officers were ignorant ofand indifferent to-disparities between U.S. and foreign development of air power . The Army exiled or forced into retirement its internal critics . By any measure , aviation had an inferior status within the Army . As a result , advocates of new roles and missions for aviation , such as Billy Mitchell , sought organizational independence to implement their ideas . The result was the creation by Congress of the Army Air Corps ( 1926 ) and , later , the United States Air Force ( 1947 ) . A " space force " would put the same bureaucratic and political muscle behind space missions that the Army , Navy , and Air Force currently flex in theirs . A separate service would allow spacepower to compete for funding within the entire defense budget , lessening the somewhat unfair pressure on the Air Force to make most of the trade-offs , and protecting spacepower initiatives from being raided by more popular and well-established programs . A separate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new skills to operate in space and a promotion pathway to retain those people . Such a creation would rationalize the division of labor among the services-and consolidate those tasks that require specialized knowledge , such as missilery and space-so that this specialized knowledge could be applied more effectively . Often , an organized advocate equals political power , and political power gets the resources . In a Department of Defense comprised of four service departments , a space force would get a fair share . This is a crude method , but it is one way to ensure that spacepower gets resources . As with any other major change , there are risks . A separate service would not be immune to bureaucratic stagnation and the suppression of new ideas as leaders seek to achieve a single " vision " and unanimity behind it . There is an unfortunate reality that unity of bureaucratic effort often seeks to avoid competition of ideas , the very competition needed to learn how to make and do new things . There is no guarantee that the initial vision-whichever one wins in a bureaucratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide range of adversaries . A separate service will face coordination problems with the existing services as it seeks to integrate space concerns into their operational concepts . A separate service surely would add a level of bureaucracy and associated costs , although this would be offset somewhat by the consolidation of existing functions and commands within the new service . Of course , there would be decisions to make about which commands and functions to place under a new space service-for example , the question of which ballistic missile defense programs to include . This would be a dramatic step . Perhaps a " space corps " ( like the Marine Corps , a separate service , but without a secretariat ) would be a step toward a " space force . " Maybe the Air Force will preempt these dramatic changes by truly becoming the " Space and Air Force . " Nevertheless , space dominance is too important to allow any bureaucracy , military department , service rivalry , or parochial concern to stand in the way . America has always been a nation of discoverers and explorers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanent frontier " of space . Like Christopher Columbus , we must dare to move away from the " old world " - old vision , old strategy , old institutions-if we are to enter the " new world " of space . We have come to the end of mankind 's bloodiest century . Through enormous sacrifice , the U.S. has preserved its freedom and freed millions around the world . Its leaders must seek an Apollo mission-like commitment from the American people and ask them to reach into space again with gusto-for its science , its mystery , and the security it can of fer . Control of space is more than a new mission area-it is the U.S. 's moral legacy , the next Manifest Destiny , and a chance to create security for centuries to come . Author Affiliation Bob Smith ( Ind. - N.H. ) is chairman of the Senate Committee on Armed Forces ' Subcommittee on Strategic Forces . // <p>                     