@@366116

New Year 's addresses , dull ceremonial affairs for most heads of state , have a habit of taking a dramatic turn in Russia . On Christmas Day in 1991 , Mikhail Gorbachev announced the end of his presidency and , simultaneously , the end of the Soviet Union . Three years later , Boris Yeltsin raised his glass to the Russian army , which was at that moment storming the Chechen capital of Grozny . As the President 's New Year 's greetings were being broadcast , a 1,000-man unit of the Russian army was annihilated in the streets of Grozny . This year , with Russian troops again trying to fight their way into the Chechen capital , Yeltsin dropped a bombshell of his own . " Today , on the last day of the outgoing century , I am resigning , " he said grimly and slowly . <P> His resignation took force immediately . Within a few minutes of the address being aired , he had handed over the powers of office  --  including control of Russia 's strategic nuclear forces  --  to 47-year-old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already wearing his overcoat , holding the door of his ornate Kremlin study open for his successor . " Your office , " he told Putin , with a stiff sweep of the arm . Soon afterward , the traffic in central Moscow was stopped , perhaps for the last time for Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin , as his convoy sped to his country residence . And a couple of hours later , Putin issued one of his first presidential decrees : " On Guarantees for the President of the Russian Federation ... and Members of his Family . " The decree provided bodyguards , pension  --  and total immunity from prosecution  --  for Yeltsin . Putin , a veteran of the KGB and its successor , the Federal Security Service ( FSB ) , will be Acting President until new elections are held , on March 26 . By then , the people who organized Putin 's lightning thrust into the Kremlin expect to ensure that he becomes Russia 's next elected President . <P> The rapid change surprised Russians and astonished the rest of the world . U.S. officials had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the idea seemed improbable . Yeltsin , they felt , was determined to stay . This was partly why the top officials  --  even as they bade Yeltsin goodbye  --  were struggling for a consensus on Putin , who has risen from deputy mayor of St. Petersburg to President in less than four years . Some administration officials thumbnail him as a " smooth cop "  --  a man tough enough to clean up Russia but charming enough to keep ties to the West . Other analysts , however , particularly at the Pentagon , are worried about Putin 's disregard for democratic practices and his reliance on a war in Chechnya to boost his popularity ratings . " All we know is that he rode to power on the back of brutalizing Chechnya again , " an Army colonel said . " I do n't know if that 's the kind of guy we want to get too close to . "                     