@@385491

The ingenious heart of Benjamin Franklin 's concept for the Library Company of Philadelphia was that its members collectively would have the use of a library far larger and richer than any of them could afford individually . In its early days , the members were workingmen with limited means who wanted value for their money . They tended to order books that were not only useful but also inexpensive ; or if they were expensive , they had to be useful in proportion . The most expensive books of all at that time were colorplate books , that is books with many full-page etchings or engravings each individually hand-colored . Not surprisingly , there were no such books in the Library Company 's first book order sent from London in 1732 . The total cost , including shipping , for the 141 volumes with which the library began was fortyfive pounds , an average of just over six shillings a volume . The first order included a few folios with uncolored engravings , but getting them hand-colored was evidently not deemed worth the cost.1 The Library Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ edition of Mark Catesby 's Natural History of Carolina , Florida , and the Bahama Islands , which was just about to be published . If the city 's public library was to have one outrageously expensive book , this was the one . Ever since the first volume of the first edition ( 1731-1743 ) had appeared in 1731 , it had become an essential work on American natural history . Philadelphia 's own John Bartram ( 1699-1777 ) had sent specimens to Catesby and was one of the original subscribers . The Library Company 's order , however , was not filled . Their London agent did not send it because , he wrote , " it is a very dear Book ( no less than 18 ) . " 2 Then in 1772 , hearing that a third edition had appeared , the directors wrote to Benjamin Franklin in London asking if he could secure them a copy . This time their order was filled ( see Fig. 3 ) .3 In the meantime the library 's directors had persisted in their desire for books with colored pictures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peter Collinson ( 1694-1768 ) two much smaller and cheaper colorplate books , George Edwards 's Gleanings of Natural History of 1758 ( see Fig. 4 ) and Moses Harris 's Aurelian ; or , Natural History of English Insects ( London , 1766 ) .4 Collinson was a subscriber for both books , and Bartram was a contributor and subscriber to Edwards 's . These were the first colorplate books in the Library Company , and they show all the signs of heavy use . In the same 1772 shipment with the Catesby volumes came a seminal work on neodassicism , the monumental catalogue of the collection of William Hamilton ( 1730-1803 ) - Antiquits trusques , Grecques , et Romaines ( Naples , 1766-1767 ) . It is not exactly a colorplate book , but it includes many engravings of Grecian urns printed in black on a sepia ground . As soon as the Catesby and Hamilton volumes arrived in Philadelphia , the directors placed them on the library 's first list of noncirculating materials , along with a hand from an Egyptian mummy ( a gift from Benjamin West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their lesson too late ) the now battered copies of Edwards and Harris.5 After the 1772 splurge , the Library Company appears not to have bought another colorplate book for more than thirty years . First the American Revolution halted importations of all kinds , and after the war the Library Company refashioned itself as the de facto national library in an era of republican virtue and suspicion of luxury , at least in a public institution . Thus when William Russell Birch ( 1755-1834 ) published his series of stunning views , The City of Philadelphia , in 1800 , the Library Company was not among the initial 150-odd subscribers , even though fifty of its members and five of its directors were . Birch 's twenty-eight folio prints , in many copies beautifully finished with watercolor , displayed to advantage every aspect of the city 's architecture , commerce , and street life . Birch placed special emphasis on its civic institutions , and one plate was devoted to the Library Company 's recently completed building , across the street from the State House ( see p. 59 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not acquire Birch 's views until the 1850s , when librarian John Jay Smith ( 1798-1881 ) gave a set of restrikes from the original copperplates , commissioned by the antiquary John McAllister Jr . ( 1786-1877 ) .7 These men were then busy commissioning photographs of old buildings about to be demolished and watercolors of the city as they remembered it . Birch 's views finally became useful as documents of local history fifty years after they were published.8 Just as Birch 's views were coming off the press , the federal government moved to Washington , D. C. , and the Library Company ceased to serve as the national library . Perhaps as a result , the institution began to turn inward and attend more to the tastes of its shareholders . Meanwhile the library 's membership had been changing . Some artisan families still bought shares in the spirit of Franklinian sell-improvement , but many of the old shareholding families had risen on the social scale . This more elite membership was still attracted by the idea of collective ownership of books they could not afford individually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their tastes now ran to books that were beautiful as well as useful , and sometimes to books that were merely beautiful . This trend can be seen as early as 1804 , when the spring order included one of the most elaborate and influential colorplate books of the age , Humphry Repton 's Observaations on the Theoty and Practice of Landscape Gardening of 1803 , invoiced at 5.15.6 ( see Figs. 5a and 5b ) .9 Repton charmed his English clients with watercolors equipped with moveable flaps showing before-and-after views of his proposed improvements . When published as a book , these drawings , including the flaps , were rendered in delicately colored aquatint . Philadelphians were charmed too , and they put the book to good use in planning their increasingly modish gardens . In 1803 the Reverend Samuel Preston , rector of Chevening in Kent , England , died , and left his libraiy of twenty-five hundred volumes to the Library Company . Preston had heard of the library in 1774 from Franklin when he visited Chevening , the seat of the whiggish Earls Stanhope , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portrait painted by the expatriate artist Benjamin West in 1797 ( see p. 82 , Fig. 4 ) . Even by English standards it was a magnificent private library , rich in expensive illustrated books on histoiy , geography , and the fine arts.10 Among them was Imitations of Original Drawings bu Hans Holbein , in the Collection of His Majesty ( see Fig. 1 ) . The striking plates by Francesco Bartolozzi ( 1727-1815 ) are hand-colored only in spots ; for the most part the colors are printed directly from the copperplates , some on pink paper . Philadelphia had never seen books like this . In 1806 a new librarian was appointed , George Campbell Jr . ( d. 1855 ) , a cultivated bibliophile who was well-suited to the job of caring for such books . He soon began to import colorplate books from London and the Continent quite regularly , as many as half a dozen per year . Most of them were in a new genre , large-format travel books heavily illustrated with views delicately rendered in aquatint and finished by hand with watercolor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Picturesque Vovage to India ; bv the wav of China ( London , 1810 ) , with fifty plates , which cost a hefty twelve pounds . Given that trade with India and China was a source of new wealth for many Library Company shareholder 's , this was an appropriate choice , but it still marked a new conception of what was a useful book . Campbell had not been long on the job when Alexander Wilson called to solicit a subscription for his American Ornithology , the first American scientific work illustrated with colorplates ( see Fig. 8 ) . Campbell signed up for not one but three copies . This was a more useful book by any definition than Birch 's views , but ordering three copies suggests that utility was not the main concern . This extravagance was recently justified when side-by-side comparison of different states of the plates revealed that Wilson and his engravers occasionally used color printing to supplement hand-coloring in small areas of some copies of some plates . He mentioned his experiments in color printing in a letter of 1810 to William Bartram @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the actual color printing has not been noticed before . It now appears that Wilson 's masterwork may be the first American book with plates printed in more than one color.12 The passion for collecting fine books spread over the city , and by the time Campbell retired in 1829 , the Library Company had begun to curtail the importation of luxury editions and concentrate instead on harvesting local private collections . In 1828 it acquired , by bequest and purchase , the seven-thousand-volume library of William Mackenzie ( 1758-1828 ) , one of the first Americans to collect books just for the sake of their rarity , age , or beauty . After the death of Library Company board member and naturalist Zaccheus Collins ( 1764-1831 ) , his executors offered his library , which was rich in European and American natural history books , for the inexplicably low price of twelve hundred dollars . In 1832 librarian John Jay Smith arranged to purchase a library of about six thousand volumes from the artist James Cox ( 1751-1834 ) for an annuity of four hundred dollars ; Cox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even greater bargain.13 Among the jewels of the Cox collection is a superbly hand-colored copy of Picturesque Views of American Scenery , with eighteen aquatints by John Hill after paintings by Joshua Shaw and a text comparing America 's natural beauties favorably with those of Europe ( see Fig. 2 ) . The first American landscape view book , it was in a sense a landscape counterpart to William Birch 's views of Philadelphia . New York 's answer to Picturesque Views was William Guy Wall 's Hudson River Port Folio , published in five parts of four plates each between 1821 and 1825 ( see Fig. 6 ) . The engraver of most of the plates was once again John Hill ; Wall was an accomplished painter who had ircently immigrated from Dublin . The Library Company 's copy came in 1869 with the bequest of another private collection , that of James Rush ( see p. 83 , Fig. 11 ) , son of the famous physician Benjamin Rush ( 1746-1813 ) . His set of plates included the only known copy of the prospectus for the project , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slanders and sneers of the old world , be a vigorous , united , and enduring effort , to originate works of sterling excellence . " ' 4 A whole school of landscape painters took up this challenge in the next generation . In the 1830s a new and distinctively American genre of colorplate book emerged that rivaled natural history and view books for popularity-the Indian portrait gallery . The new genre made use of a new medium , hand-colored lithography . The most artistically appealing example is Thomas Loraine McKenney and James Hall 's History of the Indian Tribes of North America ( see Fig. 10 ) . It took fifteen years to complete , by which time it had depleted the fortunes of five publishers and exhausted the talents of three lithographic firms . A month after the last part appeared , William P. Caldwell , a local bookseller gave the Library Company a set in exchange for three shares , equivalent to the full retail price of $120.15 Meanwhile a similar work , Catlins North American Indian Portfolio by George Catlin , was published in London and New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tinted ; the Library Company acquired the tinted version , apparently to save money and to satisfy the immediate public curiosity until some member donated his colored copy . That hoped-for donation never materialized . As the city grew into an industrial metropolis and as the number of books published increased every year , all the library 's funds were needed for current circulating books , and the chance to acquire many of the great American colorplate books of the mid-nineteenth century was lost . The library rejected Audubon 's elephant folio Birds of America and Viviparous Quadrupeds of North America and bought the octavo editions instead . It purchased Travels in the Interior of North America by Maximilian , Prince of Wied ( London , 1843 ) but without the imperial folio volume of eighty-one colorplates by Karl Bodmer ( 1809-1893 ) . Sometimes this policy worked , however . In 1844 Frederick Catherwood 's Views of Ancient Monuments in Central America , Chiapas and Yucatan documented expeditions made by the British artist Catherwood and the American explorer John Lloyd Stephens ( 1805-1852 ) , and revealed the astonishing Mayan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The library bought the New York edition , with the plates tinted , rather than the London edition with brilliantly colored prints . Happily , James Rush owned the London edition , with plates mounted on boards , and it came to the library with his bequest in 1869 , along with a score of other fine plate books.16 The death of James Rush coincided with the publication of the last of the great American colorplate books , Daniel Giraud Elliot 's New and Heretofore Unfigured Species of the Birds of North America ( New York , 1869 ) . In atlas folio with seventy-two magnificent hand-colored lithographic plates , it was a continuation of Wilson and Audubon , featuring " life-size representations of the various species that have been discovered since the labors of those great men were finished . " 17 After it was completed , the lithographers ( Bowen of Philadelphia ) closed down and Elliot moved to Europe . Chromolithography , " the democratic art , " was making color so cheap that hand-coloring simply could not compete . With James Rush gone and no new patrons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his 1865 monograph on the grouse for $135 , possibly the most it had paid for colorplate books since it had subscribed for the three copies of Wilsons American Ornithology sixty years before . These were the last colorplate books acquired by the library until modern times . Rush 's death also marked the beginning of the Library Company 's long decline , which was only reversed in the 1950s when it was refounded as a research library . Since then a great many gaps in the collection have been filled , both by individual purchase and by the acquisition of whole collections . In the case of colorplate books , most of the important acquisitions came in two remarkable collections . In 1976 Louise Elkins Sinkler ( 1890-1977 ) gave the Library Company her superb collection of ornithological colorplate books . Book collecting ran in her family : her brother was William Elkins ( 1882-1947 ) , whose collection of western Americana is at the Free Library of Philadelphia , and Harvard College 's main library is named after her cousin Harry Elkins Widener ( 1885-1912 ) . Sinkler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company 's unpredictable gaps . For example , her Catesby Natural History of Carolina was the second edition of 1754 , the one unsuccessfully ordered by the Library Company in 1752 . Today , with the Historical Society of Pennsylvania 's first edition on deposit , the Library Company has all three editions on its shelves . The Sinkler collection also included a copy of Franois Le Vaillants Histoire Naturelle d'une Partie d'Oiseaux Nouveaux et Rares de l'Amrique et des Indes of 1801-1802 ( see Fig. 7 ) with two sets of plates , one printed in black only and the other printed in colors , so that the reader can see how artfully the color was applied to the copperplate , leaving almost nothing to be colored by hand . This was the so-called French method of color printing , which Wilson was trying to imitate when he experimented with color printing in American Ornithology . Another book printed by the same technique is Oiseaux Dors ou Reflets Mtalliques , by Jean Baptiste Audebert and Louis Pierre Vieillot ( Paris , 1802 ) , which concentrated on birds with iridescent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some of the feathers are actually printed in gold.18 By court order in 1992 the Library Company was appointed trustee of the Francis R. Cope Jr . ( 1877-1962 ) collection of ornithological colorplate books after its original custodian , the Susquehanna County ( Pennsylvania ) Historical Society and Free Library Association , became unable to take proper care of it . Among the seventy titles is a copy of Audubon 's elephant folio The Viviparous Quadrupeds of North America , one of the great colorplate books the Library Company missed when it first came out ( see Fig. 9 ) . The elephant folio Birds of America is still lacking , but the Cope collection certainly proves that there is always reason to hope for a second chance . That collection also includes a complete set in forty folio volumes of the twelve major works of John Gould ( 1804-1881 ) , often referred to as " the British Audubon . " The most successful ornithological publisher of the nineteenth century , Gould commissioned work from all the best bird artists of the day , including his wife Elizabeth Gould @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose owl in The Birds of Europe ( London , 1832-1837 ) reappears in " The Owl and the Pussycat " in his Book of Nonsense ( London , 1846 ) . Gould 's successor was Richard Bowdler Sharpe , whose Monograph of the Paradiseidae , or Birds of Paradise ( see Fig. 11 ) solved the problem of representing iridescent plumage in the medium of hand-colored lithography , by laying a layer of gold leaf under transparent oil colors heightened with gum arabic . It was the last of the great handcolored bird books , and for the sheer brilliance of its color , it is perhaps the most astonishing book in the Cope collection.19 The Library Company 's collection of colorplate books reflects the cosmopolitan curiosity about the larger world that was characteristic of Philadelphia in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries . In Franklin 's youth , pictures of any kind in any medium were scarce , and pictures that rendered the world in its true colors were many times scarcer . Every picture had a huge impact on the mind as well as the eye . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insatiable . Today our eyes are jaded , and yet the impact of the best of these colorplate books remains as strong as ever . No reproduction can convey it ; they must be seen in the original . Reference <p>                     