@@387227

Headnote Why Darius ' superior Persian army and navy lost to the Athenians at Marathon // ON THE MORNING OF September 17 , 490 BC , some 10,000 Greeks stood assembled on the plain of Marathon , preparing to fight to the last man . Behind them lay everything they held dear : their city , their homes , their families . In front of the outnumbered Greeks stood the assembled forces of the Persian empire , a seemingly invincible army with revenge , pillage and plunder on its mind . The Athenians ' feelings are best expressed by Aeschylus , who fought in the Persian wars , in his tragic play The Persians : " On , sons of the Hellenes ! Fight for the freedom of your country ! Fight for the freedom of your children and of your wives , for the gods of your fathers and for the sepulchers of your ancestors ! All are now staked upon the strife ! " The two sides faced each another directly , waiting for the fight to start . The Athenians stalled for days , anticipating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not wait for long . The Persians , expecting as easy a victory as they had won against enemies so many times before , were in no hurry . The Greeks , knowing the time for battle had come , began to move forward . Ostensibly , they advanced with focus and purpose , but beneath this firm veneer , as they looked on a vastly larger enemy-at least twice their number-many must have been fearful of what was to come . The Persian archers sat with their bows drawn , ready to loose a barrage of arrows that would send fear and confusion through the Greek ranks . " The Athenians advanced at a run towards the enemy , not less than a mile away , " recounted the historian Herodotus . " The Persians , seeing the attack developed at the double , prepared to meet it , thinking it suicidal madness for the Athenians to risk an assault with so small a force-rushing in with no support from either cavalry or archers . " Had the Persian archers been allowed to loose their bows , the battle might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubts and fears , the Athenians seized the initiative and rushed the Persians . Confronted by such a bold move and realizing their infantry would be pressed into action sooner than expected must have shaken Persian confidence . The two Athenian commanders , Callimachus and Miltiades ( the latter having fought in the Persian army himself ) , used their knowledge of Persian battle tactics to turn the tide further in their favor . As the clatter of spears , swords and shields echoed through the valley , the Greeks had ensured that their best hoplites ( heavily armed infantry ) were on the flanks and that their ranks were thinned in the center . Persian battle doctrine dictated that their best troops , true Persians , fought in the center , while conscripts , pressed into service from tribute states , fought on the flanks . The Persian elite forces surged into the center of the fray , easily gaining the ascendancy . But this time it was a fatal mistake . The Persian conscripts whom the Hellenic hoplites faced on the flanks quickly broke into flight . The Greeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fleeing foes , they turned inward to aid their countrymen fighting in the center of the battle . By then , the Persians were in a state of utter confusion . Their tactics had failed , their cavalry was absent and their archers were useless . Their more heavily armed and armored opponents , who could sense that victory was close , were attacking them from three sides and pushing them into the sea . The Persians fled back to their ships . Many of the Athenians , buoyed by their success , dragged several of the Persian vessels to shore , slaughtering those on board . When the day was over , the Greeks had won one of history 's most famous victories , claiming to have killed about 6,400 Persians for the loss of only 192 Athenians . The Spartans eventually arrived , but only after the battle was long over . To assuage their disbelief in the Athenians ' victory , they toured the battlefield . To their amazement , they found the claim of victory was indeed true . The Athenians had defeated the most powerful empire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Persians under Cyrus the Great had rapidly expanded their domain . By the time of Darius I , the Persian empire covered most of southwest Asia and Asia Minor , reaching as far as the easternmost boundaries of Europe . The Persians demanded tribute and respect from all they dominated . The Greek cities in Asia Minor eventually decided to throw off the Persian yoke . Through those revolts , the assistance of the Athenians and the ensuing Battle of Marathon , the wheels had been set in motion to end Persian domination . How did this sequence of events come to pass ? From the time he ascended the throne , Darius , like all the kings before him , needed to conquer and add to the empire that his forebears had passed to him , to establish his worth as a ruler and maintain control . Establishing and retaining authority over such a vast dominion required thousands upon thousands of troops . To pay for the soldiery and to maintain the grandeur of the Persian capital , Persepolis ( which Darius built to demonstrate his greatness ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He needed to conquer more cities and territory to expand his treasury . To the east of ancient Persia ( modern-day Iran and Iraq ) lay India and the Orient ; expansion there held unknown dangers . To take this route , Darius would risk overextending his empire . To the west lay the inhospitable Libyan desert . To the north were the barbarian lands of the Scythians . Expansion into Europe seemed the most promising option , but the scattered city-states of Greece constituted a major roadblock to Darius ' ambitions . Before he could move on Greece , Darius had to achieve complete submission within his existing territories , and an empire of Persia 's size was impossible to control centrally . Therefore , the Persians had established local governors or satraps , whose main role was to oversee the day-to-day functioning of their provinces and to ensure that all tribute was collected and sent to the capital . Many of these satraps ruled as tyrants . Understandably , the Greek cities east of the Aegean Sea would become restless and desire change when they cast a glance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dissent first began to appear on the island of Naxos , which revolted in 502 BC . The Naxians appealed to the despot of the Ionian city of Miletos , Aristagoras , for assistance . He agreed , meaning to take control of the island once the revolt had been crushed . For his plan to succeed , he enlisted the aid of Artaphernes , Darius ' brother and the satrap of Lydia ( modern-day Turkey ) . Aristagoras ' tangled web fell apart when the plot against the Naxians failed . Owing the Persian emperor and his brother money and promised conquests , Aristagoras had no option but to incite his own people to revolt . The revolt of Miletos led other cities to follow suit . The Ionian Greeks had also maintained strong trade and cultural ties with their kin on mainland Greece . Forced to pay tribute to a distant king , feeling the tyrannical push of the Persian governors and encouraged by the Athenians , many of these city-states decided to revolt . Athens sent 20 triremes ( oar-propelled warships ) to Ephesus . Their hoplites @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Sardis and sacked it . On hearing of this in Persepolis , Darius was infuriated ; according to legend , he instructed one of his servants to remind him three times daily of this Athenian outrage so he would never forget it . The revolts in Ionia and an excuse to wreak vengeance on Athens gave Darius the perfect pretext to implement his plans of expansion in Europe . When he looked toward mainland Greece , he must have seen a disjointed conglomeration of city-states that bickered and fought among themselves . It must have seemed unlikely that such cities would form any lasting alliances and be capable of repelling a powerful foe . As the ruler with the largest army in the world , and with the success of his predecessors on which to build , Darius must have thought that one way or another victory would be assured . In 492 BC , Darius gave Mardonius , his satrap in Thrace ( northern Greece ) , command of 600 ships that sailed across the Hellespont ( the Dardanelles ) and along the coast . As it rounded Mount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freak storm , an event that would prove to have great significance . The Greeks took it as an encouraging omen that the gods must surely be on their side . Herodotus claims-with questionable accuracy-that the storm destroyed 300 ships and killed 20,000 men . Two years later , Darius sent another 600 ships in a second attempt . Expecting little resistance , he sent emissaries to the cities of Greece asking for their submission and demanding offerings of earth and water . Most cities in the north and in Macedonia submitted to his demands . But war became inevitable when the Athenians refused , and the Spartans went even further and killed the Persian envoy . A second Persian expedition was launched under the command of Datis and Darius ' nephew , Artaphernes . As they moved across the Aegean , they subdued many of the island cities such as Naxos and Delos . Eventually they reached Eritrea , a large island off the Attic coast , and made their way to Marathon . Herodotus explains why the Persians chose to land at Marathon : " The part of Attic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maneuver in-was at Marathon . To Marathon , therefore , Hippias directed the invading army , and the Athenians , as soon as the news arrived , hurried to meet it . " Marathon was also chosen to draw the Athenians away from Athens . While the hoplites were engaged on the field , the Persians planned to send their ships around the coast and easily capture the undefended city . The Persian plan was twofold : They knew that if the Athenian army was defeated outside of Athens , the city 's civilian inhabitants would have no choice but to submit . Almost immediately after hearing the news of the Persian landing , the Athenians sent a runner named Pheidippides to Sparta to ask for their assistance . The Spartans promised to send aid , but with a major qualification : No help would be forthcoming until the Carneia ( a religious festival ) was over . The Spartan refusal to commit troops before then left the Athenians with three choices : march out and meet the Persians at Marathon ; defend the pass at Pallini ; or stay in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marathon . There were several reasons for this . The food supplies they would need to survive a protracted siege came from the surrounding countryside of Attica , which could easily be cut off by the encamped Persian army . The soon-to-be-vaunted Athenian navy was at that time little more than a flotilla and had no chance of defeating the Persian licet . If the Persians were able to blockade both the land and sea , Athens could not withstand a sustained siege . The pass at Pallini was high in the mountains , but the Persians had sufficient forces to continue to attack pass defenders until Pallini fell . Confronting the Persians at Marathon offered the Greeks several tactical possibilities . As stated by Herodotus , the geography of the plain of Marathon was significant in the Persian decision-making . Measuring approximately 10 miles long and three miles wide , it was flanked by boggy marshlands . A large , flat plain , it was perfect for the use of the Persians ' main strike weapon : cavalry . When the Athenians reached Marathon , they found the Persians camped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the high ground . Both sides sat encamped for nine days , each waiting for the other to make the first move . The Persians believed that the longer they stayed , the greater the fear that would rattle their opponents . The outnumbered Athenians and their Plataean allies played for time in hopes that the Spartan hoplites would join them-not only to strengthen their numbers but because Spartan military renown stretched all the way to Persepolis , and a Spartan presence would surely dent Persian confidence . On the other hand , the longer the Persians stayed , the more cities would submit to them , lowering the confidence of the Athenian troops . A meeting was held in the Greek camp to resolve the issue . The 10 Athenian generals ( each of the original tribes that had first formed Athens had an elected general ) voted , with five in favor of immediate battle and five voting to wait for the Spartans ' arrival . According to Herodotus , it was the influence of Miltiades that swayed the decision . " With you it rests , Callimachus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Athens to slavery or , by securing her freedom , to leave behind to all future generations a memory far beyond even those who made Athens a democracy . For never since the time the Athenians became a people were they in so great a danger than now . " Whether Miltiades was as influential as Herodotus made him out to be is uncertain ; however , Callimachus voted in favor of starting the battle . Herodotus also stated that while each general normally took a daily turn in overall command , many of the lesser generals handed their turn over to Miltiades . With approximately 1,000 Plataeans bolstering the Athenian ranks , the Hellenic forces mustered some 10,000 hoplites . The Persians may have numbered as high as 48,000 . Familiar with the tactics and strengths of their enemy , the Greeks knew the Persian cavalry had to be taken out of the calculations . The Persians could not use the cavalry on one side because of the marshland . Nor could they use it on the opposite flank , as the Athenians had buried large stakes in the ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the use of either flank , would have used their premier weapon , but for whatever reason , the Persian cavalry was away from the battlefield . Miltiades may well have learned of the Persian cavalry 's absence and then decided it was time to attack . The absence of Persian cavalry is one of the reasons for the Greek victory . The second is that the Persians were completely unprepared for and unable to adapt to the Greeks ' tactics . Persian battle tactics that previously had served them well entailed stationing their archers at the front to fire volley after volley of arrows into the enemy ranks , vreaking havoc and instilling fear . Once that objective was achieved , Persian infantry would move in to slaughter the confused opposition , with cavalry used only to complete the task when the enemy was routed . The Greeks held an advantage at Marathon in the equipment of their infantry . An Athenian hoplite carried a heavy , 9-foot spear , wore a solid breastplate and carried an almost bodylength shield . The Persian infantryman , in contrast , wore little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wicker or cane shield . Therefore , close-quarter combat favored the Athenians . The Persian disadvantage was exacerbated by the Greek use of the phalanx formation-an eight-hoplite by eight-hoplite square . The hoplites at the front would interlock their shields , as would the men to the side , forming an almost impenetrable barrier . Because of their lesser numbers , the Greeks had to thin their formation out , but even that would eventually further serve their purpose . Although they had won a great victory the Athenians knew the Persian threat had not passed , and they quickly marched back to prepare the defense of Athens from the attack they were certain would come . In an amazing feat of strength and endurance , they marched at double time directly from the battlefield and managed to reach the city before the Persian ships arrived . With time of the essence , the Athenians dispatched Pheidippides to inform Athens ' populace of their victory before the troops arrived . The tale goes that after running the 26 miles from Marathon to Athens , Pheidippides exclaimed : " Rejoice ! We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or not , that is the source of the modern-day marathon race ; the distance of the modem race reflects the distance Pheidippides ran . Even though the future battles of Salamis and Plataea were fought against a greater Persian threat , had Marathon ended in defeat , those later battles would never have occurred . Themistoclcs , who fought at Marathon , saw that Athens had been lucky the first time , and had the Persians conducted their campaign differently , the outcome might well have been different . Hence , soon after Marathon he successfully petitioned to have Athens build a stronger navy , which led to its success at Salamis . Marathon smashed the myth of Persian invincibility , an achievement that lent a critical measure of confidence to the Greeks who fought the Persians again at Salamis and Plataea . It meant that many of the same commanders who served at Marathon were at the later battles and had knowledge of the Persian mind , and in the longer term , it would lead Alexander the Great on his conquest of Asia and the eventual decline and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second installment of the Persian wars with the birth of the Athenian renaissance , one could argue that Marathon was the catalyst for , and much of the reason behind , the Athenians ' belief that they were on par with the Spartans-which allowed them to flourish . Had Marathon been a defeat and Athens annihilated , the Western democracy , culture , art and philosophy that developed from this period in history might have been lost , and the Western world today could be very different . Sidebar A Greek hoplite , or heavy infantryman , with his shield emblazoned with Pegasus , battles a bearded Persian soldier on this Attic kylix dating to 460 BC . Sidebar Instead of pursuing their foes , the Greeks aided their allies Sidebar Miltiades , the general in command of Athenian forces , depicted in a marble bust in 489 BC . Sidebar The Athenians chose the plain of Marathon to confront the seaborne invasion force of Darius I. With their own flanks protected by swamps and the Persians ' backs to the water , Athenian hoplites first surprised the Persians with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their center . Sidebar Marathon smashed the myth of Persian invincibility Sidebar Honoring Aristion , a victorious warrior who fought at Marathon , this Attic stela was carved in 500 BC . Sidebar Today this tumulus , rising from the Marathon battle site , marks the burial of the 192 Athenians who died in that engagement . Author Affiliation Jason K. Foster is a London-based teacher and historian specializing in ancient Rome , Greece and Egypt . For further reading , he recommends : The Histories , by Herodotus ; and Plutarch 's Rise and Fall of Athens . // <p>                     