@@399760

Most research with insects involves getting rid of them or fighting the diseases they spread . Now , a team of researchers in Australia is focusing on enlisting insects - or chemicals derived from them - to fight diseases . Photograph BLUE TRIANGLE BUTTERFLY BY BOB JESSOP/ ( c ) CSIRO SCIENCE IMAGE ONLINE // There are about 16 times as many insect species as there are plant species , yet plant chemistry has been studied 7,000 times more intensively than insect chemistry on a research-per-species basis . No one has seriously gone after insects for medicines before now . Insects have large arsenals of biologically active compounds , such as molecules that kill cancer cells , proteins that prevent blood from clotting , enzymes that degrade pesticides , proteins that glow in the dark , and antimicrobial peptides and toxins . To tap this potentially enormous chemical resource , a new Australian company was established in July 2002 as a spin-off of the Entomology Division of CSIRO , Australia 's Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization . The company , Entocosm Pty . Ltd. , will develop a unique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eastern Australian states and territories . Entocosm will collaborate with other institutions and companies in screening the samples for potential pharmaceuticals . The goal is to make insect-derived pharmaceuticals as well-known and commercially successful as are plant-derived pharmaceuticals . Seeking Medically Useful Insects We have cast our net broadly . Our collection team assembled over a thousand species of insects and other terrestrial invertebrates from eastern Australia for this purpose . Eighty percent of the species are insects , and the other 20% comprise spiders , scorpions and mites , nematode , oligochaete and annelid worms , millipedes and centipedes , slugs , snails , freshwater bivalves , and crustaceans . Among the insects , we have a broad representation of 17 out of the 32 insect orders generally recognized by taxonomists ( some of the minor , less-well-known orders are not represented in Australia ) . Our collection includes beetles , butterflies , moths , ants , wasps , bees , crickets , grasshoppers , stick and leaf insects , flies , dragonflies , cockroaches , termites , earwigs , aphids and cicadas . Photograph Nasutitermes triodiae soldiers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cathedral termite for the elaborate mounds it builds . The soldiers squirt chemicals believed to have antibiotic properties . Entocosm team ( left to right ) : Ph.D . candidate Chunjiu Zhao ; author Stephen Trowell , Entocosm chief scientific officer ; Rod Rickards , a natural products chemist and emeritus professor at Australian National University ; and Chunyan Liao , an experimental scientist with CSIRO Entomology . The team also includes clinical associate professor Peter Collignon of the Canberra Hospital , an expert in infectious diseases . CSIRO Entomology researcher Melissa Piper programs the Biomek 2000 . The Biomek is a flexible medium-throughput robot , which allows Entocosm each day to test many hundreds of extracts or sub-fractions from insects for their antimicrobial or cancer-fighting properties . Petri dish containing insect extracts that cause varying amounts of antibacterial action ( light zones around the black circles ) . // The way we are approaching this is to screen broadly across the available genetic diversity without any preconceptions about where the best sources of activity might be . This means we hope to pick up both biological activity one might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , as well as the unpredictable , such as analgesics from beetle pheromones or immune-modulators from the eye pigments of flies . As we go , we are finding that some taxonomic groups are giving us a larger proportion of antibacterial hits than others . While our research on specific insects is proprietary , the group I am most prepared to talk about is termites : We have found a number of new variants of the trinervitane scaffold and shown that they have selective antimicrobial activity . We have even found that previously discovered trinervitanes also have antimicrobial activity that had been unknown . For example , we have lodged a patent claiming some new antibacterial compounds isolated from Nasutitermes triodiae , a species of termite known as the cathedral termite , because it builds mounds more than seven meters high in the and regions of Australia . The soldiers have a nozzle in the middle of the head through which they squirt a cocktail of defensive chemicals , including , we believe , the molecules with antibiotic properties . Analysis shows that only the soldiers have the ability to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broader scientific literature you will see that some beetles produce cytotoxic compounds that have been used in traditional Chinese medicine to treat cancer or tested in Western laboratories for cancerfighting properties . Most insects have a range of antimicrobial peptides ( insect-immune peptides ) , and we are seeing a number of nonpeptide antibiotics . To my amazement , I have read that the blood of a beetle was used in South Africa as an arrow poison , and of course leeches produce the most-potent anticoagulants known . The Next Steps in Development So far we have no drugs in the clinic . We are at a much earlier stage than that , and truthfully just at the stage of taking the research out of a purely academic and into a commercial environment . We do have our existing library , we do have many selective antimicrobial activities , and we do have some molecules that have been purified , which we know are new to science and which in some cases we have lodged patents for . As drug-resistant pathogens increasingly threaten human health , the demand for new agents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopes insects-and our increasing knowledge about them  --  will help win that battle . FEEDBACK : Send your comments about this article to letters@wfs.org . Photograph SPIDER WASP PHOTO : ( C ) CSIRO / SCIENCE IMAGE ONLINE Photograph Sidebar Prospecting in Nature 's Pharmacy Sidebar There are about 4 to 6 million species of insects on Earth , compared with 250,000 plant species ; yet far more research has been done on the medically useful properties of plants than on those of insects . Ethnobotany , the study of native peoples ' use of plants for medicines and other applications , Sidebar has already yielded a wealth of treatments . For example , the rosy periwinkle ( Catharon Sidebar thus roseus ) is the source of alkaloids used to treat childhood leukemia and Hodgkin 's disease . Pharmaceutical com Sidebar panies such as Pfizer have turned their attention to " nature 's medicine cabinet , " forming partnerships with botanical research institutions . In his most recent books Medicine Quest ( Viking , 2000 ) and The Killers Within ( Little , Brown and Co. , 2002 ) , ethnobotanist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study of reptiles , amphibians , fungi , and assorted sea creatures , and even in the study of ape behavior . Sidebar Insects have played a part in heating for centuries ; maggots , for instance , can clean wounds , and honey from bees has been used on burns . But most modern research on insects has focused on either exterminating them or curing the diseases they spread . Now , entomologists are increasingly looking at the good side of insects . The Transvaal Museum in South Africa , for instance , is developing a project to identify medically important insects . One reason ethnoentomology has not caught up to ethnobotany is the lack of accurate documentation of native uses of insects . According to biologists Robert Dunn and Monica Sanchez of the Sidebar University of Connecticut , interview subjects are seldom even asked if they used insects as treatments . " When uses of insects were reported , the insect species were typically described as the black ant ' or the red ant ' and not collected , " Dunn and Sanchez said at the 2002 conference of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reanalysis of historical literature suggests that insects , particularly social insects , were and continue to be commonly used as medicine . " Sidebar Two converging trends may accelerate research in medical entomology . The first is the emergence of more drug-resistant strains of bacteria , which creates an urgent need for new medicines . One promising development is the recent report of an antimicrobial peptide derived from European fire bugs by scientists at the University of Pennsylvania 's Wistar Institute . The researchers believe the peptide pyrrhocoricin not only kills bacteria directly but can also be adapted to use as a drug-delivery system . The second trend that makes new research more urgent is the disappearance of species-rich ecosystems such as rain forests and coral reefs . As Mark Plotkin points out , rain forests contain more than half the world 's species , most of which are as yet unknown to scientists . As forests disappear , so does humanity 's hope for future medicines . Sidebar Sources : " The Healing Forest " by Mark J. Plotkin , THE FUTURIST January-February 1990 ) . Sidebar Transvaal Museum Ethno-Ecology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Queen Healthy : The Use of Social Insects as Medicine , " presented by Robert R. Dunn and Monica C. Sanchez , 2002 Conference of the Society of Ethnobiology ( March 6-9 , 2002 , University of Connecticut ) . The Wistar Institute , Web site www.wistar.upenn.edu . Author Affiliation About the Author Stephen Trowell is the chief scientific officer for Entocosm Pty . Ltd. and principal research scientist , CSIRO Entomology , GPO Box 1700 , Canberra , ACT 2601 , Australia . Telephone 61-2  --  Author Affiliation 6246-4126 ; fax 61-2-6246-4173 ; e-mail **29;2077;TOOLONG // <p>                     