@@408729

Spioenkop was the battle that changed the British army . The defeat of 24,600 British troops by some 8,000 Boers in Natal provoked a minute examination of every facet of the army of the empire upon which the sun never set . The offensive had begun on January 19 , 1900 , when General Sir Henry Redvers Buller launched a second attempt to relieve Ladysmith , crossing the Tugela River and pressing on to Spioenkop ( " Lookout Hill " in Dutch ) , a key height 24 miles from the besieged town . On January 22 , Maj. Gen. Sir Charles Warren arrived at Spioenkop with his 5th Division and learned that he had been suddenly put in charge of the battle by Buller . In the wake of Buller 's disastrous defeat at Colenso on December 15,1899 , he had been replaced as commander in chief of British forces in South Africa by Field Marshal Lord Frederick Sleigh Roberts , who , after arriving at Spioenkop , ordered Buller to put Warren in charge . At 11 p.m. on January 23 British troops began climbing up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they had occupied what they thought was the summit and began digging trenches . Two miles away , Boer general Louis Botha learned of the loss of Spioenkop and promptly sent some 400 men of the Carolina and Pretoria commandos up to take it back . In spite of their tosses to British gunfire , the Boers managed to take up positions on the northern edge of the summit and on Conical Hilt , Green Hill and Aloe Knoll . Occupying higher ground than the British , they enfiladed the trench and wrought carnage on the British troops . At 8:30 a.m. on the 24th , Maj. Gem E.R.P. Woodgate , commander of the 11 th ( Lancastrian ) Brigade , fell mortally wounded . At 9 , Colonel Malby Crofton sent a panicky message to Warren by signal flag : " Reinforce at once or all is lost . General Dead .. I am sending two battalions , and the Imperial Light Infantry are on the way up , " Warren replied . " You must hold on to the last . No surrender . " Even though Buller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Warren 's plans , intercepting communications between headquarters and the troops on the summit and keeping the entire 2nd Division , balloon reconnaissance and long-range artillery uncommitted throughout the battle . At one stage , through Buller 's interference , there were three commanding officers on the summit . Colonel Alex Thorneycroft 's colonial troops , at the top of Spioenkop , were cut off from support . After fighting for nearly 12 hours , Thomeycroft abandoned the summit in what was called an " unauthorized " retreat . Ironically , at the very same time , the meager Boer forces , alarmed at their own casualties and worried that the British would be reinforced , abandoned their portion of the hill . Warren 's plans to reinforce the troops on Spioenkop at night were aborted by Thorneycroft 's withdrawal , but if those plans had been carried out , the summit could have been held . While not the greatest defeat of the Boer War , Spioenkop was nevertheless of sufficient consequence to cause concern . The British initially reported 322 killed , 583 wounded and 300 taken prisoner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , wounded and missing-a figure that is still in dispute 100 years later Boer casualties were initially estimated at 58 dead and 140 wounded , later raised to 150 dead . Three years and one month after the battle , on Thursday , February 19 , 1903 , rain lashed London 's Embankment as General Warren pushed through the doors of St. Stephen 's House . Facing the Thames River just a horseshoe throw from the Houses of Parliament , St. Stephen 's House was an imposing building around the comer from Cannon Row and Scotland Yard . The Royal Commission into the War in South Africa had been sitting at St. Stephen 's since late 1902 . The commission was composed of Victor Alexander , Earl of Elgin and Kincardine ; Reginald Balliol , Viscount Esher ; Sir George Dashwood TaubmanGoldie ; Field Marshal Sir Henry Wylie Norman ; retired Admiral Sir John Ommanney Hopkins ; Sir John Edge and Sir John Jackson . They were aided by Donald Alexander , Baron of Strathcona and Mount Royal and British high commissioner in London for the Dominion of Canada ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Supreme Court of the State of New South Wales , Australia . The commission 's task was to question the heroes of the British empire on what they had-or had notdone during the war and what could be done to improve the might of His Majesty 's army for any future wars . Photograph On February 19 , 1903 , Maj. Gen. Sir Charles Warren prepared to defend his conduct at the disastrous Battle of Spioenkop before the Royal Commission into the War in South Africa , // It was not the task of the commissioners to apportion blame , although there were few who stood before them who did not endure lengthy cross-questioning . ( The testimony of Lord Horatio Herbert Kitchener , however , who was set to sail for India the day after the commission was constituted , lasted just an hour . ) The war had cost an appalling 3.23 billion pounds sterling and thousands of lives , and King Edward VII wanted to know why . Lord Roberts , Buller , Warren , Sir George White , John Denton Pinkstone-French , Lord Garnet Wolseley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir Arthur Conan Doyle , William Gatacre , Paul Sanford ( third Baron Methuen ) and Henry Charles Keith ( fifth Marquess of Lansdowne ) were among a host of British military men and politicians who attended the inquiry . When it was over , the inquiry had lasted 55 days and heard 114 witnesses . What they had to say is recorded in two volumes of minutes , containing answers to 22,200 questions . On February 19 , 1903 , it was Warren 's turn . He clutched a large leather dispatch case containing a thick sheaf of papers tight to his chest as he pushed through the doors . A day earlier , Warren had sat listening to his one-time commanding officer , Buller , give damning evidence on Warren 's military conduct . It had come as a shock to this dapper Victorian gentleman , who was a devout exponent of the truth and a deeply religious man . As Buller 's sonorous voice echoed through the hall , Warren found it hard to believe what he was hearing from someone whom he had regarded as a personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , near Centane , during the Transkei War in South Africa in 1878 . Warren , who had just been severely wounded , was then in charge of the Diamond Fields Horse , a regiment put together in the city of Kimberley . A year later , during the Zulu War , Buller had earned the Victoria Cross at Hlobane by rescuing a trooper from certain death by hoisting him onto his horse and galloping away . But now there was Buller-condemning him . Just three months after the battle , on April 17 , 1900-during the Parliamentary Easter recess-some dispatches from Spioenkop had been published in the London Gazette and provoked a fury of debate in the Houses of Commons and Lords . As a result of their publication , which was rumored to have been the result of a mistake by a War Office clerk , Warren had been censured , Buller had been castigated and Thorneycroft had been lashed . But only five out of 45 printed pages were released for public consumption at that time . What was not published then was Buller 's report of January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Also not published by directive of the government were other secret dispatches and confidential telegrams that Buller had sent to Roberts , condemning Warren and stating that I can never employ him again on an independent command . " Warren , who had no idea those dispatches existed , was not the only one shocked by their disclosure in 1903 . The fiercely patriotic British public suddenly found out that their trusted generalsBuller and Warren-did not get along . Yet they were still serving in the field . What was worse , when the full dispatches were published in 1903 , including the secret report that Buller had marked " not necessarily for publication , " they revealed that Buller had broken with army tradition by not showing Warren what he had sent to Roberts . Regulations of the time stipulated that if a subordinate was to be criticized , he would be given a chance to repudiate whatever accusations had been made against him . Warren had been deliberately denied that opportunity . As he waited in the hall of St. Stephen 's House , Warren again recalled how floored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scrutiny he was subjected to-after all , he knew very well that three-quarters of the facts that had come from Buller about the battle were incorrect-but by the publication of those vitriolic dispatches . He was also despondent because of the response he had received from four letters he had sent to Roberts , asking for his support against the blame that the ignorant British public-including Queen Victoria , who was still alive at that time-had heaped upon him . Roberts wrote that he was not prepared to do so and ordered Warren never , ever , to speak out in his own defense . The war , Roberts wrote , was over , and rehashing everything would serve no purpose . It was a moral dilemma for Warren . As an officer , he should never question what his superior ordered . But he asked friends what he should do . The unanimous answer was : Nothing . Warren was given only 24 hours to prepare a detailed statement for the commission , and on February 19 he found himself facing a hostile audience who had previously heard an emotional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warren 's opening sentence set the tone : " The misstatements concerning the engagement on Spioenkop have been so numerous that it would require a volume to refute them all . " Referring to Buller 's testimony , Warren added forcefully , " These are statements of a man in a dream . " Warren expertly took Buller 's criticism point by point , including complaints of his slowness in fording the Tugela River ( it was , in fact , a record crossing , observed by Buller , who was right alongside him ) and the " lost " element of surprise ( an impossibility with 23 miles of wagons being watched by Boers on the heights ) . Warren also pointed out that Buller himself had frustrated Warren 's efforts to command the Spioenkop attack . The commissioners took notice as Warren went on : " When I was in command , Sir R. Butler speaks of the Boer force in front of me as being insignificant , only 600 . But when he took command , it amounted to 15,000 . He makes no suggestion as to where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warren reminded the commission that Buller had made no use of the thousands of men who lay in reserve , and told them how Buller had kept the balloon detachment idle . Buller had not used the long-range guns either , in spite of Warren 's pleas that they be brought into action against the Boers . Nor was the attack on Spioenkop a spur-of-the-moment decision , as Buffer had claimed . I pointed out that unless Spioenkop was taken .. we could not march our wagons over the road , Warren said . " He ( Buller ) replied : " Of course you must take Spioenkop . " ' When the full dispatches were published , they exposed a multitude of Buller 's accusations against Warren as false . The commission was satisfied , but the damage already done to Warren 's public image proved harder to undo . If Warren 's conduct at Spioenkop had been as inept as Buller implied , it is significant to note that Warren was not demoted , nor sacked out of hand-Buller was . After Spioenkop , Warren was tasked with relieving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never use him in an independent command again . " And instead of being sent home in disgrace , Warren was appointed military governor of Griqualand West , a region he knew quite well . He had , in fact , fought for the country in expeditions against hostile tribesmen before the Boer War began . In the end , Warren 's was a masterful defense , but it came too late . When he closed his dispatch case , bade the commissioners " good day " and walked out into the rain , Charles Warren went down in history  --  or , more correctly , myth-as the buffoon general who " lost " Spioenkop . <p>                     