@@390460

Headnote From their hospital beds in South Africa , activists tell of violence in Zimbabwe Reporting on ZIMBABWE On March 11 , 2007 , Zimbabwe opposition leaders , who attempted to hold a prayer meeting in the capital of Harare to express disapproval of Presiden t Robert Mugabe and his ZANU-PF ( Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front ) party , were severely beaten while in police custody . The incident drew worldwide criticism and underscored unrest in a country where inflation has surged and the government has violently clamped down on its opponents . Our new Africa Bureau ChiefCharlayne Hunter-Gault , who will be reporting on the continent for ESSENCE , was the first in South Africa to speak to two of the wounded activists about the uprising and their fight far change . JOHANNESBURG , South Africa-When I first laid eyes on Grace Kwinjeh and Sekai Holland , they were lying on stretchers , wrapped in bandages , bones broken , their skin black-and-blue from beatings by the Zimbabwean police and military . The women are activists opposed to the administration of President Robert Mugabe . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonialism , has been widely criticized for corruption and suppression of the opposition he has described as puppets of the United States and Britain . The president has not denied the March 11 beatings of the protesters but has publicly accused activists of provoking the violence by ignoring the ban on political meetings . Mugabe , who is up for rlection next year , even went so far as to say protesters deserved to be " bashed . " As I watched the two women on my television screen , I had a dj vu moment . Although I now live in South Africa , I recalled images of women of the American civil rights struggle , such as Fannie Lou Hamer and Ruby Doris Smith Robinson , who put their bodies on the line fighting for what they believed in : freedom and human rights in the segregated South of the sixties . The moment I learned these women activists would be transported by airplane from Zimbabwe to South Africa to receive urgent medical care they could n't get in their own country , I knew I had to meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve on the executive body of Zimbabwe 's eight-year-old opposition party Movement for Democratic Change ( MDC ) . They had arrived late on March 11 to a Save Zimbabwe prayer meeting . The event had been organized by churches , political groups and civic organizations to address the worsening crisis in the country , including the scarcity of such basic needs as bread , medicine and fuel , the result of a soaring annual inflation rate that exceeded 4,530 percent this summer . With unemployment above 80 percent , people were struggling to buy groceries and gas-even when they were available . The monthly salary for the average worker is not enough to buy a bottle of cooking oil , according to news reports . Office workers find themselves supplementing their salary by hawking fruit or whatever they can get their hands on . Life expectancy has dipped to the world 's lowest , with women living on average to age 34 and men to age 37 . There has also been an ongoing crackdown on dissent and freedom of the press : Not only has the government shut down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practically been banned in Zimbabwe . At a press conference in Johannesburg , I came across some Zimbabwean activists who were condemning violence the Mugabe government allegedly unleashed on his opposition . The activists agreed to take me to the hospital to see the women , but made no promises they would talk . I soon found myself face-to-face with 33-year-old journalist turned activist Grace Kwinjeh . She was making the effort to go one floor down to see her 65-year-old colleague Sekai Holland , who could n't walk at all . Tethered to an IV , Kwinjeh was barely able to put one foot before the other . After a slow climb into her hospital bed , she poured out the details of her torture . By the time Kwinjeh and Holland had arrived at the meeting , dozens of activists had already been arrested . When the two women went to the police station , they were told the detainees were inside a fence on the grounds . It was n't until after they located several colleagues that they realized they , too , were prisoners . Shortly after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herself . " I said , Tm Grace Kwinjeh and I am in the MDC National Executive , ' " she says . " That 's when this guy with a long iron bar came up and started to beat me . He was concentrating on my head until I fainted. 1 did n't realize that actually a piece of my ear had come off . " Hours later , Kwinjeh and other detainees were loaded onto a truck , taken to the Harare Central police station , and dumped onto the prison yard . " I could n't stand on my own because I was dizzy , " she recalls . " When I came to , I said , Officer , I need some water . " He said , " Go and get water . It 's there . " Next to me was Sekai Holland . I did n't know if she was dead or alive . " The Blows Kept Coming Holland was alive , but she had been beaten senseless . While at the hospital , I met her husband , Jim Holland , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lying in bed , barely able to move . I was surprised when she interrupted me as I started to introduce myself . " I know who you are , " she says , her voice amiable . " We used to see you on television in Australia back in the seventies , you and two White men , " a reference to what was later the MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour . " We were so proud of you . " But her cheerful demeanor masked the pain she had to have been feeling from her wounds . " I was called last and I stood up , " she tells me . " Five men met me , each one with an instrument , and began hitting me , " she says , adding they were swinging so wildly she was surprised they did n't hit each other . As Holland made her way to give police her details , another group of men beat her . When she thought it was over , she was hit on the knees , arm , ankles and ribs by another man . " And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she says . " And that 's when I think I went out . " No stranger to the government 's might , Holland has been a thorn in the side of the party in power since becoming a leader in the women 's movement in the seventies and eighties , agitating for women 's rights . " That 's the one thing I do n't have-fear . I do n't know what fear is , " Holland says . As her husband pulled back the white sheet to reveal her wounds , I stood there stunned at the sight of wanton brutality , the aftermath of beatings with clubs , whips , iron bars and batons . Her broken left leg was black and so swollen it looked as if it would explode if touched . Her left arm was broken and still swelling ; her right leg below the calf was marked by open wounds from a whip . Making it even more difficult to move were three broken ribs she sustained when a woman jumped on her , singing in the native tongue that Holland was " Blair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tony Blair , whom Mugabe accuses of plotting to overthrow his government . According to Holland , she sustained more than 80 bruises . Doctors in Harare operated on her left arm , but were unable to repair it because Zimbabwe 's economic straits leave little for medical supplies . It took a court order for the women to be allowed to travel to neighboring South Africa for more medical treatment . Fighting for Change Holland and Kwinjeh believe their attackers were from the ruling ZANU-PF party . Having been in power since the country 's independence in 1980 , Mugabe ruled virtually unchallenged until 2000 , when the fledgling party called Movement for Democratic Change led a successful campaign against constitutional amendments that would have allowed the government to seize White-owned farmland and redistribute it to Black farmers . The current crisis is partly an outgrowth of the government 's land reform approach that Mugabe defiantly instituted in July 2000 , which allowed , if not encouraged , often-violent seizures of White-owned farms . The policy resulted in the exodus of the White farmers and left an estimated 200,000 Black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It turned a country once known as the breadbasket of Africa into a place where millions have been reduced to getting handouts from aid agencies . Both Holland and Kwinjeh emphasize that they are hardly the only women in Zimbabwe putting their lives on the line . " We are getting a lot of attention because we are in the leadership , " Kwinjeh says . " But there are tens of thousands of women back in Zimbabwe who are standing up and being beaten and tortured and terrorized , and no one is hearing their cries . " Kwinjeh , a single mother of three , and Holland , a grandmother , told me they are committed to continuing their fight to get rid of a government they insist has betrayed the moral authority it once had as the liberator from colonialism . What they want to do now , they say , is fight against political and patriarchal oppression of women . Both women believe there is hope for Zimbabwe and promise they will continue the fight after their wounds have healed . Says Kwinjeh : " I feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not give up . " Sidebar Residents clash with police during a crackdown on illegal structures . Sidebar Sekai Holland rest in her hospital bed . Grace Kwinjeh shows her scars . " There are thousands of women in Zimbabwe who are standing up and being beaten and terrorized and no one is hearing their cries . " - Grace Kwinjeh Sidebar A farmer holds dried-out com . Sidebar Residents of Marondece carry donated food . " Not only has the government shut down nearly all the independent media but also political rallies have practically been banned in Zimbabwe . " ! Author Affiliation Charlayne Hunter-Gault , the ESSENCE Africa bureau chief , will be reporting on stories throughout the continent . <p>                     