@@406376

In grade four , my daughter , Tara , became close to another girl in her class . Toward the end of the year , however , Tara sensed a chill from her best friend . Then , at the beginning of grade five , the girl declined an invitation to our house . Later that day , her mother called me to suggest that the two girls needed a " break . " Tara was very hurt - heck , I was very hurt because the shift seemed to come from nowhere . One minute the friendship was solid ; the next , it was history . Tara 's experience finds echoes in schoolyards everywhere . Friendships start and , with seeming caprice , break up , often leaving one kid holding a bucket of hurt . While a post-mortem analysis may yield more questions than answers , there are several ways you can help your child recover . " Kids are not born with relationship skills any more than they 're born with math skills , " says Kimberly Schonert-Reichl , a developmental psychologist and associate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " They need some scaffolding from adults . " THE BREAKUP When describing the reasons for friendship breakdown , the experts I talked to kept coming back to the same broad categories : distance , dissimilarity , displacement and distrust . Distance is arguably the easiest on the ego : A friend moves away - no rejection in that . Or is there ? Brenda Millar , who lives in Hamilton with her husband and five-year-old daughter , Amy , says her daughter struggled mightily when her closest friend moved to England . " She did n't really understand the concept of moving , " says Millar . " All she knew was that her friend would n't be calling her anymore . By her language and her actions , I could see it was a big deal for her . " It 's hard to fight against a force as powerful as dissimilarity . While Tara 's erstwhile friend revels in the bertween world of shopping , MTV and gossip , Tara , now 12 , is quirky and opinionated - a budding activist . The fact is " common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says Edmonton family therapist Steve Carter . Without something in common , " playdates become awkward because at least one of the friends is not doing what she enjoys . " Displacement can be especially painful , as it compounds the injury of rejection with the insult of being replaced with a newer , shinier model . Deirdre MacIntosh* of Toronto was thrilled when her 10-year-old son , Greg , became friends with another boy early in grade three . " Sleepovers , birthday parties - everything was great , " Macintosh recalls . But then , she says , " Greg 's buddy found a new friend , and the two boys started avoiding Greg . " The best way Macintosh can explain it is that " Greg is just a bit different . He 's athletic and well coordinated , but he 's not your typical guy 's guy . " Kids sometimes ditch an old friend for someone they perceive as " cooler , " says Toronto psychologist Ester Cole , noting that " image becomes very important in the upper elementary grades . " This dynamic came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his best friend after qualifying for our school 's gifted program . Never mind that he played on the volleyball team and dyed his hair crazy colours ; classmates began taunting him about his " gifted germs , " and his friend eventually sided with the mob . Gifted was not cool . Finally , there 's distrust . " If a friend spreads a piece of information told in confidence , it can spell the end of the friendship , " says Schonert-Reichl . The spurned friend can apologize , but " there 's no guarantee the friendship will recover . " THE FALLOUT Friendships matter . " The end of a friendship is a real loss for a child , and parents should n't minimize it , " says Schonert-Reichl . Macintosh knows this all too well . " Greg clams up when I try to talk to him about it , but I can tell he 's feeling lonely , " she says . For my part , I did n't need a sixth sense to notice Jackson 's distress when his friend 's name came up , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort not to cry . Research shows that students who enjoy reciprocal friendships feel more connected to their school and get better grades . But parents should know that " having just one close friend can offset rejection by many others , " says Schonert-Reichl . " As long as the child has this , parents need not worry if he 's not in the popular group . " And in the absence of even one close friend - Greg 's current situation family can make all the difference . " We 'll be his social life for now , " says Macintosh . Vancouver psychologist Gordon Neufeld makes an excellent case for the value of strong family ties over peer ties . And , as Schonert-Reichl points out , family support can empower kids to make new friends later on . BACKBENCH STRATEGIES Eventually , all parents learn that we can not control our children 's friendships . While some of us take this realization in stride , others ( I 'm raising my hand here ) suffer along with their kids . " I sometimes think it 's been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I know he can sense my anxiety because he tells me what he thinks I want to hear . When I ask him what he did at recess , he 'll tell me he played soccer . Then it comes out that he spent all recess reading . " Sharing your own experiences " can ease your child 's sense of isolation , " says Carter . If he falls into the " different " category , point out that " people with unique , unusual or specialized interests may gain respect in grades 11 and 12 , when kids start valuing uniqueness and achievement over conformity . " Even before high school , the maturation process can mend broken friendships . Tara and the girl who ditched her two years ago are now buddies again , if not close friends . They 're at a point where they can laugh about one other 's differences , rather than fight about them . If you 're thinking of talking to the other child 's parent , Carter suggests you tread carefully . You may get some useful information , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That 's what happened when Macintosh called the mom of Greg 's former friend . " She told me there were ' real problems ' in the world and she did n't want to talk about it . " Formerly friendly , the two moms have n't spoken since . If you want to analyze the demise of the friendship , it 's best to do it with your own child . " You can point out that she and her friend may have had very little in common , " says Cole . Or you can ask your child if she noticed a pattern in the interactions ; perhaps she was clingy , or copied her friend to excess . These observations may not salvage the friendship , but " the problem-solving skills that come out of such discussions may help your child the next time around - and throughout her life . "                     