@@397981

FEATURE Headnote When depression turns DEADLY Headnote Postpartum mood disorders are more common than we realize : Up to 80 percent of new mothers experience mild depression within a year of giving birth . If the " baby blues " persist , depression can escalate to dangerous levels , influencing some women to experience psychosis and  --  in rare and tragic cases-to kill their offspring . // during the first six weeks after giving birth , Jennifer Moyer was grateful for her beautiful new son and supportive husband . Yet she was n't herself . She felt somewhat irritable and was having difficulty sleeping . And just after her first postpartum physical checkup , things began to unravel  --  and fast . The feeling that some unnamed harm was coming to her son overwhelmed her ; she became hyperprotective , not allowing anyone-even her husband-to hold the baby . One month later , after three sleepless nights , anxiety and fear consumed her to a point where her son had to be physically removed from her , and she was forcibly taken to the hospital . Moyer was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lot of media attention recently , this illness gained a voice largely due to the story of Andrea Yates , the woman found guilty of drowning her five children in a bathtub in Texas last year . Yates , who has a long history of mental illness , confessed to jurors that Satan had ordered her to kill her children . Though diagnosed with postpartum psychosis , she was judged capable of discerning right from wrong and sentenced to life in prison . Despite considerable research into the nature of postpartum mood disorders , there is still no clear medical consensus on what causes it and how it should be treated . " Having grown up expecting motherhood to be one of the best times of life , many women suffer alone , feeling miserable but unaware that postpartum mood disorders have a name , " explains Karen Kleiman , M.S.W , founder and director of the Postpartum Stress Center in Philadelphia . DISCERNING SYMPTOMS As many as 50 to 80 percent of all women experience some degree of emotional " letdown " following childbirth-the so  --  called " baby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , postpartum psychosis , is rare , affecting only about one in 1,000 new mothers . The baby blues , though , are com Photograph // mon for numerous reasons . The baby 's crying and the mother 's interrupted sleep and soreness from breast-feeding are enough to make any woman feel irritable , if not overwhelmed and tearful . These feelings typically begin three to four days after the baby is born , according to Kleiman , but normally dissipate on their own within a few weeks . If the blues last for more than two weeks , however , the new mother may be suffering from a condition of intermediate severity , postpartum depression ( PPD ) , a mood disorder on par with clinical depression . Twelve to 16 percent of women experience PPD , which results in feelings of despondency , inadequacy as a mother , impaired concentration or memory and/or loss of interest or pleasure in activities . Some women , like Moyer , also become paralyzed with fear and concern for the baby 's safety . If such symptoms appear , it is important to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as obsessive-compulsive disorder . Symptoms of anxiety are frequently an aspect of clinical depression , but true obsessive-compulsive symptoms signify a different disorder that needs proper diagnosis and treatment . Shoshana Bennett , Ph.D. , a special  --  education teacher , began suffering from these types of anxious feelings almost immediately after giving birth . " I felt helpless and hopeless , " Bennett says now . " I was so afraid someone was going to hurt my baby that every day after my husband went to work , I would place all movable furniture behind the front door . " Though debilitating , the emotional reactions to being a new mom that signify depression are not as severe as those associated with postpartum psychosis , of which the predominant symptom is a " break " with reality-a loss of the ability to discern what is real from what is not . For instance , a woman with PPD may experience violent thoughts about her baby but recognizes that those thoughts are wrong and potentially dangerous . In that case , she will not act on them . A woman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgment needed to make this assessment . Very often , a woman with psychosis experiences a frightening sense of merging-she ca n't differentiate between where she ends and where her baby begins . Psychotic merger is so terrifying that she may try to avoid losing her sense of self by either committing suicide or infanticide , also known as suicide by proxy . This was the case with Andrea Yates , whose suicide attempts ended with the deliberate drowning of her children . Perhaps , in her mind , to prevent the " loss of self , " she was compelled to kill her children or herself , or both . Infanticide is a very rare phenomenon ; only about 4 percent of women who become psychotic kill their babies . Perhaps even fewer tragedies would occur if proper education and treatment were more readily available . Researchers who study infanticide distinguish several different groups of parents who murder their offspring . Some kill as a result of psychotic delusions-the dread of parent-child merger or the belief that the child is trying to harm or kill them . Others murder their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry strong religious ideas that killing their child will enable them both to enter an afterlife more peaceful than their current life . Susan Smith , the South Carolina mother who.attempted to drown herself and her children by driving her automobile into a lake , may be an example of someone in this group ; although Smith ended up killing her children but not herself . Tragically , there are also parents who kill their children out of vengeance and rage against the other parent . They want to hurt the other parent by depriving them of their most cherished relationship . This type of infanticide is committed far more frequently by fathers . ASSESSING THE SOURCE As with most mental illnesses , what causes the onset of postpartum mood disorders is still a matter of research and debate . Much of the medical community believes these syndromes may be caused by chemical imbalances in the brain-specifically shifts in hormone levels . According to Postpartum Support International ( PSI ) , a network of mental health professionals and others concerned with promoting postpartum mental health and social support , the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estrogen and progesterone following delivery is the culprit . Research currently under way at the National Institute of Mental Health is examining these hormone-mediated mood shifts . And Victor Pop , Ph.D. , of the University of Tilburg in the Netherlands , recently presented his own findings at the annual meeting of London 's Royal College of Psychiatrists , suggesting that women who produce certain thyroid antibodies during pregnancy were nearly three times more likely to experience depression after childbirth . " I think there will be a role for hormones in treating postpartum illnesses in the future , " says Valerie Raskin , M.D. , clinical associate professor at the University of Chicago . " Hormones will probably be used as a treatment first , then later as a preventive measure . The reproductive process may be the kindling , and the drop in hormones after childbirth may be the ember that starts the fire . " Various nonhormonal factors may also contribute to postpartum disorders of mood . Some studies suggest a relationship between a traumatic obstetric experience and PPD . Women who had caesarean deliveries , for instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in one study appearing in the Australian and New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry . Thyroid disease may also be a physiological trigger , suggests research by Stephen Pariser , M.D. , a psychiatrist and mood-disorders specialist at Ohio State University Medical Center . Women 's thyroid levels drop significantly after giving birth , and low thyroid levels have long been associated with depressionlike symptoms . Having a personal or family history of mood disorders also increases the odds of developing PPD , pointing to a possible genetic factor . Women who develop PPD or postpartum psychosis following delivery have a significantly greater risk of developing these conditions after subsequent childbirth . These women should be counseled about future pregnancies . If they do conceive additional children , careful psychiatric monitoring is mandatory . Certainly , social elements also play an integral role in postpartum well  --  being . One important factor is a lack of social support , which includes poor relationships with others and insufficient childcare during the pre- and postnatal period . Strong support systems can help nurture and maintain self  --  esteem at stressful times , Kleiman asserts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ esteem are linked with adaptive coping behaviors-feeling entitled to ask for help , for example . " As a society , we tend to romanticize motherhood , creating a disparity between a woman 's expectations and the reality that she will experience . " Society reinforces the myth of the perfect baby in the arms of the perfect mother , with all her maternal instincts intact , " says Kleiman . " When there is a significant discrepancy between what a woman anticipates and what she actually experiences , guilt , confusion and great unhappiness can result . " In addition to societal pressures , personal adversities such as loss of a loved one , marital conflict or lack of financial security , can put some women at greater risk , according to PSI . Lifestyle and role changes also create internal conflict and stress : A new mother may lose the independence , spontaneity , personal time , sleep and physical shape that she once had , along with her role as an attention  --  drawing pregnant woman or as a career woman . Finally , she may simply miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find adapting to these losses especially difficult , " Kleiman notes , " because of their increased vulnerability . " MENDING MOTHERS Most experts agree that combining talk therapy with medication seems the most successful approach to treating PPD . " Medication is warranted , " Raskin explains , " because the situation is urgent and the quickest treatment makes sense . " Depending upon the patient , psychotherapy may be combined with both group support and medication , which is prescribed according to the patient 's individual symptoms while monitoring the various drugs ' side effects . The most commonly prescribed are the newer antidepressants including Prozac , Zoloft , Paxil , Celexa , Wellbutrin , Serzone and Effexor , as well as anti  --  anxiety drugs such as Ativan , Lorazepam and Klonopin . When the underlying cause of PPD is bipolar affective disorder , mood stabilizers-Lithium or Depakote , for instance-are also appropriate . For women experiencing postpartum psychosis , more aggressive treatment is required . These mothers may be a threat to both themselves and their babies . Psychiatric hospitalization , as well as anti-psychotic and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group or cognitive behavioral psychotherapy . And because at least half of women with PPD experience a recurrence of the illness after having another child , responsible parenting necessitates careful thought and medical planning before deciding to get pregnant again . Once PPD is present , " all resources must go toward treating the mother , " advises Raskin . " Stress of any sort , including the stress of caring for children , will prevent the mother from healing . " PREVENTING PPD Effective prevention would help render treatment less necessary , avert emotional damage to children and potentially save lives . Shoshana Bennett is one mother who might have benefited from preventive measures . Instead , her childbirth classes concentrated on breathing techniques and what to pack for the hospital . And during her first postpartum checkup , Bennett 's obstetrician glossed over her weight gain of 40 pounds and uncontrollable weepiness . When Bennett mentioned to her family that she was having a difficult time , her mother-in-law-a postpartum nurse for 20 years-told Bennett 's husband , " Shoshana is a mother now . She needs to stop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mother was supportive but , despite her background in therapy , failed to recognize the signs of serious emotional illness . Bennett also began seeing a psychologist , who only probed for issues in her past . Eventually , about two years after the birth of each of her two children , Bennett 's obsessive concerns finally faded on their own . Several years later , Bennett happened to see a television program on postpartum depression . " I cried for an hour , looked at my husband and said , " That 's me ! ' ' " she says . Afterward , she earned her Ph.D . in clinical psychology and founded a self-help group for postpartum disorder sufferers . Then in 1992 , she was named president of the Postpartum Health Alliance , a California state organization . Today , the discussion of postpartum mood disorders is often inadequate in reference manuals . General physicians can find the terms postnatal depression , postpartum depression and puerperal psychosis in the International Classification of Diseases manual , says Cheryl Meyer , Ph.D. , J.D. , an associate psychology professor at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they may only use these diagnoses for patients whose symptoms do not meet criteria for other disorders , such as depression , " she explains . Jennifer Moyer , now a coordinator for PSI and a postpartum support consultant , understands firsthand why medical professionals need to pay more attention to postpartum mood disorders . For her , recovery came after two years of medication , therapy and family support , and she believes that talking to someone who has experienced a severe postpartum mood disorder firsthand is essential for recovery . She now combines her own experience with her background in health care marketing to advocate for education and prenatal and postnatal screening . Until the health insurance industry and government agencies are willing to allocate sufficient resources to guarantee the presence of skilled psychiatrists and psychologists on pre- and postnatal-care teams , assessing and treating postpartum mood disorders will continue to fall through the cracks . Both Moyer and Bennett join other health care professionals in the hope that efforts to focus on women 's emotional needs before and after pregnancy will gain momentum . This effort will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illnesses or , tragically , from having to endure another preventable murder of an innocent infant . LEARN MORE ABOUT IT : **28;999;TOOLONG www.lawandpsychiatry.com Mothers Who Kill Their Children : Understanding the Acts of Moms From Susan Smith to the " Prom Mom . " Cheryl Meyer , Ph.D. , J.D. ( New York University Press , 2001 ) When Words Are Not Enough : The Women 's Prescription for Depression and Anxiety . Valerie Raskin , M.D. ( Broadway Books , 1997 . ) This Is n't What I Expected : Overcoming Postpartum Depression . Karen Kleiman , M.S.W ( Bantam Books , 1994 . ) Author Affiliation Mark Levy , M.D. , FAPA is an assistant clinical professor of psychiatry at the University of California at San Francisco . Attorney Deborah Sanders , Esq. , practices law in San Francisco . Stacy Sabraw is a freelance journalist based in NewYork City . // <p>                     