@@406425

Taurus April 21-May 21 What 's wonderful about your character is your ability to hold steady in the face of confusion and turmoil . And by the time May draws to a close , you 're going to be very glad you waited out professional frustrations and delays so patiently . In the meantime , with Mercury turning retrograde in the sign of Gemini on the 7th , everyone seems to have a different opinion about what you should do , and you wo n't find it easy to nail down your options . Venus squaring Pluto this month means that romantically it 's home-truth time . You 're going to not only be relieved that everything is now out in the open , but in a way you 'll also feel reborn . Photograph : Illustration by pierre le-tan Gemini May 22-June 21 Because Mercury , your ruler , is moving backward , you really ca n't afford to pin your hopes on the rather uncertain prospects currently in the wind . The most promising planetary aspects this month are happening in the part of your chart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's direct motion on the 17th also indicates that you 're finally going to come to grips with a distressing personal or domestic problem . The stability and security you 've been longing for will not be as elusive as you 'd feared , and the New Moon in your sign on the 24th ushers in an especially hopeful and exciting new cycle . Cancer June 22-July 22 Even if you 're feeling timid and uncertain , reshuffling the cards and cultivating new alliances is what you should be thinking about . May is a particularly favorable period for just about everything , and with Venus and Mars at the top of your chart , you 're going to be golden in everyone 's eyes . The one exception will be when Venus squares Pluto on the 2nd and a partner seems intent on casting you in the villain 's role . Financially this month , you stand to gain a great deal by agreeing to whatever terms are offered , but until Mercury turns direct on the 31st , it will prove impossible to finalize even ironclad deals . Leo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out your credulous side , but you wo n't be misreading the signals if you believe that others are willing to go out on a limb for you this month . Saturn is exerting an increasingly stabilizing influence on your financial affairs , and if you 've been careful , you should also be working your way back into the black . Pay close attention to developments near the 16th and the 27th , because any offer that presents itself holds genuine promise . And although details will remain hazy until the 31st , May is going to be a month you look back on as the time when your fortunes finally shifted for the better . Virgo August 24-September 23 May will be a decisive month when you stop worrying and wondering and get a firmer grip on all your affairs . Saturn 's long-term presence in your sign may have shaken your confidence , but it has sharpened your ability to face facts . Even though you 're feeling serious and determined , do n't hesitate to take a break and get away . With the Sun in Taurus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of escaping but of regaining your perspective . A contentious situation involving joint finances appears to be lightening up as May winds down , and whatever 's going on at work seems designed to pump up your status and your spirits . Libra September 24-October 23 Crossed signals seem to be sending you into a dither , but with Mercury moving backward in the sign of Gemini , you 'll have to wait until next month to get a clearer reading of what is really happening . And anyway , with Venus and Mars in Aries this May , you 'll have your hands full dealing with the mood swings and demands of partners . At least , for once , everyone seems to appreciate all the efforts you 're making . Creative and entrepreneurial projects are where you should be focusing your attention right now . Keep nurturing along new contracts and agreements , because they are going to work out very much to your advantage . Scorpio October 24-November 22 If you can refrain from getting testy and defensive when Venus collides with Pluto on the 2nd , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only is there a jaunty Full Moon in your sign , but with the Sun in Taurus aspected by Jupiter , partners seem to be falling all over themselves to please and appease you . Pay close attention to any developments that concern long-term plans on the 17th , and do n't jump to conclusions before you have all the facts . With Mercury turning direct on the 31st , legal wrinkles will smooth out by June , and whatever 's going on around home and property affairs should allay all your doubts . Sagittarius November 23-December 21 Difficult situations at work will begin to improve this month , and you 'll sense that you 're finally rounding the corner . In fact , Saturn 's direct motion on the 17th signals the end of a long period of testing and resistance and the start of a more rewarding chapter . Jupiter in Aquarius is a real eye-opener for you , but do be ready to subject your ideas to a reality test . Once Mercury turns direct on the 31st , you 'll be able to finalize your plans and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mars in the most romantic and passionate angle of your chart , it wo n't just be spring fever that has you walking on air this May . Capricorn December 22-January 20 Stop brooding about what is n't going right in a close personal relationship and be ready to let bygones be bygones when Venus makes its last square to Pluto on the 2nd . The Sun in Taurus makes you want to be more outgoing , loving and giving , and it urges you to throw yourself into creative projects . With Mercury moving backward until the 31st , you 're better off focusing on your own ideas and plans and not fretting about the mixed signals you 're receiving at work . Finances are looking glowingly promising with Jupiter conjoining Neptune in your money angle on the 27th , but do n't bank on anything until you receive tangible proof . Aquarius January 21-February 19 This May you seem to have given yourself permission to start enjoying life more . And with Jupiter aspecting the Sun in Taurus , you 're right to lighten up and focus more of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct motion on the 17th indicates that partners are ready to take your financial concerns more seriously and make adjustments . Speculative ventures and private plans are likely to remain hazy with Mercury traveling backward in the airy sign of Gemini until the 31st , but when Jupiter conjoins Neptune in your birth sign near the 27th , whatever develops will renew your faith that miracles really do happen . Pisces February 20-March 20 You are reaching some kind of turning point in both your private and professional affairs this month , and you 'll sense that you 're finally starting to gain ground . Indeed , Saturn 's direct motion on the 17th will not only turn the tide in your favor but remove any doubts you 've been harboring about recently made decisions . Mercury 's backward motion in your domestic angle until the 31st makes it nearly impossible to be specific , but with the Sun in Taurus and Jupiter aspecting Neptune in the idealistic sign of Aquarius , others will realize that they 'd better start taking you seriously , because you can not be stopped or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into power struggles when Pluto squares Venus in your sign on the 2nd , because no matter how much opposition is being mounted against you , your prospects are shaping up quite wonderfully . With the Sun in the most pragmatic angle of your chart , what you should be concentrating on is organizing new projects and ensuring that you do n't go over budget . Mercury 's backward motion indicates that conclusive details wo n't fall into place before month 's end . You have nothing to worry about , though , because the phenomenal aspects occurring near the 27th show that you 're not going to be let down or disappointed . WANT TO HEAR MORE ? If it 's in your stars , T &C's; star astrologer , Katharine Merlin , can tell you all about it . Call 900-446-7446 to hear daily and weekly predictions for your sign . The cost of a call is $1.95 a minute .                     