@@415919

All Wrapped Up I 'm the proud owner of a few Nalgene water bottles and was wondering why every time I see one in your magazine , it 's wrapped in duct tape . Stephanie Graham via e-mail For us duct-tape connoisseurs , who use it to fix everything from broken tent poles to delaminating hoot soles , a water bottle is a convenient place to keep a supply of the sticky stuff . We also use it to fasten a carrying strap to the bottle . See " The Silver Wonder , " October 2000 , for more duct tape uses . - The Editors 300 MILES OF HIKING Those of us with the Cumberland Trail Conference ( CTC ) were excited to see a section of this Tennessee workin-progress featured in Weekend Wilderness ( April 2001 ) . The 14  --  mile Obed Wild and Scenic River segment , located in the Catoosa Wildlife Management Area between the towns of Crossville and Wartburg , is also ready to hike . When complete , the Cumberland Trail will offer more than 300 miles of hiking . For more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; www. cumberlandtrail.org . John Bilbrey Cumberland Trail Steward Kingston , TN HOT LUNCH Here 's another new trick you can teach old dogs ( February 2001 ) : Eat your hot meal at midday . Cooking our lunch means any dribbles and spills are far from where my husband and I are camping , so bears and other animals are n't attracted to our site . This also gives us a good rest in the hottest part of the day , and makes finding a campsite close to a water source less important at day 's end . Elaine Buege via e-mail RASH RELIEF During WWII , those of us in the Pacific 's tropics put up with a lot of prickly heat ( Body Language , February 2001 ) . The cheapest and best solution to the problem was plain old cornstarch . Just dust it onto the rash for relief . Wallace Music via e-mail TRAILHEAD CARPOOLING I would love to visit more wildlands in the West and Southwest , but there 's one problem : money . Once I fly there , I have to rent a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sits unused for a week while I hike . Is there any way to eliminate the rental car cost ? Darren Souter Chicago , IL Getting to and from the trailhead is a challenge for most outof-town hikers . Contact land managers to see if public transportation is available ; some buses stop at trailheads . Local trail clubs often offer rides to and from the trail for free or for a small fee ( contact American Hiking Society , 301-565  --  6704 ; www.americanhiking. org , for clubs near your destination ) . Some hikers , especially in Alaska , hitchhike to the trailhead . Another option is to visit the community section of our Web site ( www. backpacker. com/community ) and search for a hiking partner willing to split the cost with you . - The Editors Sidebar <p>                     