@@388934

Headnote OPTIMISM AS YOU KNOW IT IS N'T ALWAYS THE BEST MEDICINE . IN THE NEW VIEW , BEHAVIOR TRUMPS POSITIVE OUTLOOK . WHY A HEALTHY MENTALITY PAINTS THE WORLD IN LIGHT AND SHADOW . BY JILL NEIMARK PHOTOGRAPHS BY FREDRIK BRODEN THE PAIN WAS BLINDING , " RECALLS Larry Dossey of the afternoon last August when he was thrown by two different horses-within a mere two hours . Dossey , his wife , and another married couple had just spent two weeks camping and fly-fishing in the Wind River Mountains of Wyoming-a place so beautiful , he says , that it makes him feel like he 's " in touch with the gods . " Dossey , a doctor as well as an early champion of mind-body medicine , cracked his ribs when the first horse spooked ; but he allowed the wranglers to mount him on a second horse-their most experienced one-with the hopes of reaching civilization soon . The second horse bolted up the mountain , lunged over an embankment , and sent Dossey flying . He fractured his spine , though he did n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to wiggle his toes and turn his head , Dossey concluded his best chance for survival was to walk out of the wilderness . " I realized that this was an extraordinarily serious situation with no good solution that I nonetheless had to overcome , " he recalls . " And somehow I knew I could overcome it with sufficient courage and resolve . " So he suggested that the women , wranglers , and pack horses ride ahead , and that his friend accompany him by foot . Night fell . For 10 hours he walked , in pain " with every step , one flashlight between us , across some of the most rugged territory I 've ever seen , " says Dossey . " How do you eat an elephant ? One bite at a time . I focused on the act of putting one foot in front of the other . I put my consciousness down in my feet . I stopped every 15 minutes to get on top of the pain . " At about 4 in the morning , they reached the wranglers ' base @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the small town of Lander , Wyoming , an hour away . But his back pain only worsened , so that he could hardly stand . Two days later they located a spinal specialist in Bozeman , Montana , who diagnosed the fractured vertebra and hospitalized Dossey , putting him on intravenous morphine . For months he wore a body brace , encased in plastic from chin to hips . He now wears a lighter brace and suffers from daily back pain . His conclusion : " I 'm absolutely grateful I did n't land on my head or neck . I came within just a whisper of being a quadriplegic . I reflect on this every day . " That 's an optimistic appraisal if there ever was one , but Dossey 's background as an experienced physician-he 's knowledgeable about both trauma and the impact of attitude on health-helped prepare him for what he calls " grounded optimism . " So did his experience as a seasoned outdoorsman who 'd made annual treks into wild country for three decades , and the fact that he 'd served as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the limits of human endurance . As he puts it : " Characterizing optimists as smiley-faced romantics is unfair . Optimists are actually realists who take steps to solve problems " - for instance , the literal steps Dossey took for 10 hours . According to this definition , Dossey and other true optimists are flexible , and anchored in reality . And most important , they get things done . OPTIMISM : THE NEW VIEW OPTIMISM HAS LONG BEEN considered a straightforward asset when battling illness or adversity . And , broadly speaking , it is . Harvard graduates who were optimists at age 25 had better health outcomes for the next three decades . As Dossey explains , " Optimists have more stable cardiovascular systems , more responsive immune systems , and less of a hormonal response to stress compared to pessimists . They have a stronger sense of self-efficacy , so they 're more likely to invoke healthier behaviors because they think it can make a difference . " Of course , to be considered optimistic you have to have a positive long-term outlook and some degree of hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holds that to have a real impact on health , outlook is less important than behavior . By this definition , it is the act of engaging with the world , of taking concrete steps toward goals , that improves health . But there 's a wrinkle : Under tryingcircumstances , optimism can actually lead to fatigue and temporary immune suppression . That finding has helped researchers rethink optimism and how it really works . It turns out that our standard view of optimism is simplistic , and it is only by observing the nuanced impact of " optimistic " behaviors on the immune system that we can get a more complete picture of this coping style . Grounded optimism gives the brain a built-in action potential : It replaces emotion with motion . In the end , the hidden key to optimists ' better health outcomes may be their propensity to engage with the world and to persist in the face of difficulty , whether it 's a night of agonized walking through the wilderness or the willingness to seek out second and third opinions for a medical condition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " says Suzanne Segerstrom , a University of Kentucky psychologist and author of Breaking Murphy 's Law : How Optimists Get What They **26;2285;TOOLONG Can Too . " If you 're an optimist and working harder at a task , your stress hormones may go up . Your immune function may dip a bit . But it 's like doing crunches at the gym . Short-term , more crunches hurt . Long-term , you get a big payback intermsofhealthand fitness . Optimism leads to increased well-being because it leads you to engage actively in life , notbecauseof a miracle happy juice that optimists have and pessimists do n't . " Segerstrom herself embodies this principle : She recently suffered an injury ( also involving a horse ) that led to unexpected complications , includingbursitis and sciatica . " My attitude was , well , somebody has to fix this . So when one doctor could n't help me , I found another . And I made progress . " Her conclusion ? " The more I work on optimism , pessimism , and health , the more I believe optimism 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do with persistence . The kind of optimism I study is based on a very simple concept : Do you think the future will be mostly good or mostly bad ? " If you believe it will be mostly good , says Segerstrom , you 'll be motivated to persist through tough times , whether you are naturally cheerful , a worrier , a grump , easygoing , or a bit neurotic . Optimists'persistence is evidentinastudy conducted by Lise Solberg Nes , one ofSegerstrom 's graduate students . Subjects were givenaseriesofanagrams to unscramble One was impossible and the other 10 were difficult Pessimists worked on the difficult anagrams an average of 9 minutes , while optimists worked for an average of 11 minutes . For the impossible anagram , pessimists worked an average of one minute , while optimists worked twice as long-two minutes . Faced with a health challenge instead of an anagram , the active , problem-solving approach stands people in good stead . Carol Farran , a professor of nursing at Rush University Medical Center and author of Hope and Hopelessness , was diagnosed with breast cancer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were in junior high school . Farran had already been conscientious in dealing with two other chronic health problems : endometriosis and fibromyalgia . " For fibromyalgia , I use low doses of antidepressants , massage , and yoga , and I say to myself each day , 1WeIl , Carol , you can choose to sit around and mope or you can live an active life anyway . ' To me , that decision is the axis around which optimism truly turns . " Farran 's proactive outlook may have saved her life-it was she who discovered a lentil-size node in her breast . When it turned out to be breast cancer , Farran first suffered crying jags and panic attacks . Shortly after surgery , " I was out with my kids and panicking . We went to a music store , and I got a metronome . Symbolically it was very important . I could set the metronome to whatever speed I wanted , and it reminded me that I could set my life to my own time , fast or slow . " Whenever she listened to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reframe and reappraise her life . " It gave a certain meaning to my struggle , " she concludes , and it is meaning that helps us regain a sense of control and mastery over our own lives . " You make new choices in life , " says Farran . When one goal becomes impossible , the dispositional optimist will find another goal to work toward and bring satisfaction instead . That ability to reframe life , to find new meaning , is part of an optimistic strategy . " When a crisis strikes , " says University of Virginia psychologist Jonathan Haidt , author of The Happiness Hypothesis , " optimists tend to alternate between active coping and reappraisal . If active copingfails to fix the problem , they reappraise the situation , looking for hidden benefits , and , invested with flexibility , write a new chapter for their life . " For instance , optimistic patients who received bone-marrow transplants for cancer were able to sustain relationships and re-enter the world more readilythan their pessimistic counterparts , largely because they used emotional coping and tried to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also predicts whether people will remain actively engaged with life after falling ill . In a study of 250 adults with chronic illnesses such as arthritis and cancer , Farran found that 85 percent had to give up meaningful activities ( exercise , gardening , traveling ) . But the hopeful among them replaced lost activities with new and meaningful ones ( playingmusic , writing , socializing ) to remain fulfilled . THE LIMITS OF OPTIMISM IT IS N'T THAT OPTImism stirs up some neurochemical elixir that enhances health . Rather , it mobilizes personal power : Exercising , staying compliant with treatment , getting regular checkups , regrouping to overcome roadblocks-these are the pragmatic things that help keep us well . Optimism is not a panacea . It ca n't overcome overwhelming odds-it can not cure end-stage cancer , or brain diseases like Akheimert , or autoimmune diseases like lupus . One tellingstudy looked at lung cancer , which has a high mortality rate because it is often discovered late . More optimists were alive after one year ( 75 percent of very optimistic folks , compared to only 60 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grim reaper had completely evened out the score , and only 20 to 25 percent of all sufferers were still alive . Sinularly , HIV studies are mixed : In one study , optimism did not slow down the decline of special immune cells , while in another , it did and lowered viral load . " The places where we see mixed or no effect in optimism tend to be in populations like those with cancer , HIV , or the elderly , " says Segerstrom . Not only is optimism inadequate to change the course of a lethal illness , but it may , in some situations , be a source of stress . For instance , Segerstrom found that when optimists were exposed to loud noises they could n't control or were asked to perform tasks that became increasingly difficult , their immune systems became temporarily suppressed in ways that would impair their ability to fight infection . This is due to the conscientious nature of optimists , who try to meet multiple goals , she says . Why might optimism fail in these challenging circumstances ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argue that although optimists are typically less distressed than pessimists , they might get especially anxious and demoralized when their expectations are dashed and their efforts fail . By this rationale their disappointment leads to negative affect that subsequently decreases immunity . Segerstrom sees it differently . She suggests that , regardless of their expectations , optimists do n't give up because they 're conscientious . In the face of difficulty , they redouble their efforts . Increased effort is beneficial overall , because as you persist in workingtoward long-term goals ( marriage , career advancement , financial and social capital ) you create a resource-rich life , one that increases well-being across the board . If you get sick , you invest energy in the effort to get well . But in the short-term , there is a fatigue factor . Does immune suppression measured in the lab play out in the real world ? Segerstrom is studying law students to see if the immune system shows signs of stress when the optimists among them are overtaxed . She has collected more than 7,000 saliva samples from 150 law students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the immune system is temporarily suppressed by energetic goal pursuits , it should be reflected in stress hormones , " she says . But even if pursuing goals stresses the immune system , Segerstrom is n't convinced there will be any long-term health consequences . She would , she adds , prefer to go through a temporary decrease in immunity if it meant she could accomplish her important life goals . THE POWER OF PROXY THERE ARE LIMITS TO THE ATTITUDE AND STAMINA OF EVEN the staunchest optimists-not surprising when you consider that we 've evolved to conserve physical and mental energy in most situations . Psychologists Patrick Carroll of Ohio State University and Kate Sweeny and James Shepperd of the University of Florida found that even optimists will temporarily revise their forecasts " downward " as a moment of truth approaches . " Shifts from optimism occur in response to the possibility that things may not turn out as hoped , " explains Sweeny . " It makes sense to be optimistic when a goal is far away , and more realistic when it 's close at hand . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Farran points out that when faced with certain health problems , the best thing some patients can do is lie low while the immune system regains its footing without optimism 's suppressive effect . Simple rest is sometimes good medicine . Many times such patients do best when they have a health proxy , she adds , someone to " carry the hope for them " by getting them to doctor appointments and giving them the medication they might be too depressed to take themselves . Besides , even as a person rests , he or she can quietly persist . That 's what Sarah Elizabeth Olson , a mother of two in Aptos , California , did while bedridden with a terrible case oflong-term Lyme disease . Both she and her toddler came down with the infection when she was 29 . A course of antibiotics did not treat the disease completely , and her health declined over the next year . " By the end I could no longer walk , began to choke when eating , and could not write . I had to be helped to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she recalls . Olson took out a second mortgage to pay for long-term intravenous antibiotics , yet for the first six months she did n't improve at all . " I was in chronic pain . I would go into the laundry room and lay my head against the cool metal of the washing machine and tears would stream down my face , " she says . Despite her lack of response , she still went through the exhausting act of infusing the antibiotic each day because her doctor encouraged her and because she wanted to get well . Then , in the seventh month , improvement came . " I got better and better , " she says . Today a stay-at-home mom with two healthy daughters , she runs a support group for Lyme patients and , like a true optimist , has found meaning in her experience . " When I had terrible arthritis I told myself , " IfI ever get my hands back I am going to learn to crochet ! ' I have crocheted hundreds of hats . I can close my hand , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when sick , makes me happy instantly . " Sidebar If you believe the future will be good , you 'll persist through tough times whether you 're naturally cheerful or not . Sidebar Optimists are often healthier because they actively engage in life , not because of a miracle happy juice that pessimists lack . Sidebar Grounded optimism gives the brain a built-in action potential : it replaces emotion with motion . Sidebar ARE YOUR EXPECTATIONS REALISTIC ? Even the most positive outlook may do little good without realism , flexibility , and the action-oriented approach required to effect change . Where do you fall on the spectrum of expectant emotions ? WISHING . You can wish on a star or someone can wish you luck , but just longing for something is n't likely to put it within reach . Some older women interviewed by Farran , for instance , wished to get married but did not discuss the huge adjustment a marriage would entail , nor did they have prospective spouses . This kind of outlook , lacking in reality or an action plan , wo n't benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and dismissing it with the statement , " This result is just plain wrong . " BLIND OPTIMISM , or what Dossey calls " smiley-faced optimism . " For some , this Pollyanna-ish sentiment holds that no matter how black things seem , everything will be just fine . The blind optimist expects the best possible outcome and sees only the positive aspects of a situation . In his unwavering belief that good triumphs over evil , he may be inflexible in altering his goals when things do n't work out . The blind optimist accepts a positive biopsy as accurate , but assumes a cure without researching the best treatments or doing anything extra at all . REALISTIC OPTIMISM or HOPE has the ability to be fluid and flexible while continuing to reinvent its end goal . This person hopes for a good outcome but also works hard to accomplish it . Through sheer persistence and attention to detail , the realistic optimist is more likely to overcome illness and positively impact his or her health . Sidebar The more I understand optimism , pessimism and health , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mood . Author Affiliation JILL NEIMARK is a New York City-based science writer . Science writer JILL NEIMARK has always thought of herself as a moody and anxious pessimist . So she was surprised while researching " The Optimism Revolution " to discover that she 's an extreme optimist and always has been . " Optimism is a strategy more than a state of mind , " she says , " and is based on the assumption that you can affect your world . " Neimark , co-author of Why Good Things Happen to Good People and author of Bloodsong , is also a poet , children 's book author , and novelist . <p>                     