@@387140

Confident and determined , the American doughboys , led by iron general ' John J. Pershing , marched into the Argonne and , at great cost , proved their mettle . // 1917-1918 By the time America 's doughboys debarked in Europe in 1917 , full of idealism and brimming with optimistic can-do spirit , the fields of Belgium and France were slashed by trenches , pocked with shell holes , littered with bones and laced by unexploded shells . German U-boat attacks on American merchant ships had ended three years of debate about whether the United States should enter the war . American soldiers thought they could help halt the slaughter , but they were walking into utter tumult . France was sickened by years of bloodshed and catastrophic losses . After an all-out drive to oust Germans from their trenches had failed , the French army was verging on mutiny . Meanwhile to the east , revolution was roiling the Russian army . Soon Bolsheviks would make peace , more or less , with Germany , freeing hundreds of thousands of German troops to reinforce the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Germans made their lastditch efforts to overwhelm the Allies . They smashed Italy 's Alpine defenses to the south and pressed British and French lines in the west . In March 1918 , Germans struck along a 50-mile-wide line just 40 miles from Paris . Americans assumed their first combat roles in May , repelling a German attack at Montdidier . After this solid beginning , in late May the 1 st Infantry Division won the first U.S. victory of World War I , taking Cantigny , an important town north of Paris . On June 3 and 4 , doughboys stalled the German advance at ChateauThierry . On June 6 , U.S. Marines embarked on a counterattack in Belleau Wood . On June 25 they captured a stout series of German fortifications , artillery positions and machine-gun nests , but they did so at a heavy cost-more than half of the 27,500 U.S. attackers were killed or wounded . The Germans were not quite done yet either . In June , they assaulted the Allies along a 30-mile front above Paris . Then in July , they began a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But by then , nearly 300,000 Americans were not only successfully resisting German advances , but were leading counterattacks , too . U.S. troops were in the vanguard that transformed the last great German offensive into a general German retreat . General " Black Jack " Pershing 's men led the attack at the St. Mihiel Salient in the Argonne Forest in mid-September ( where Sergeant York performed his heroics ) . However , Allied commander Marshal Ferdinand Foch ignored Pershing 's request to keep driving east to Metz . Instead , Foch sent the Americans northwest . Despite their reservations about Foch 's strategy , they engaged with surprising esprit de corps and consistent competence in the worst battle American forces had ever fought . More than one million U.S. troops participated in the Meuse-Argonne Offensive . Some 120,000 of them were casualties between September 26 and the war 's end on November 11 , 1918 . American troops had a significant , perhaps even crucial , impact on the war . Although U.S. forces had not suffered as badly as their European brothers-in-arms , who lost tens of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100,000 Americans fell to combat or disease . The war had introduced terrible weapons , including airplanes , poison gas , tanks and submarines , and had ended with a punitive treaty that left German veterans such as Adolf Hitler muttering ominously about being stabbed in the back . They would exact a horrendous vengeance 20 years later , again dragging Europe and much of the rest of the globe into a second devastating world war . THE COLOSSAL BATTLE OF the Argonne started with a shouting match between General John J. Pershing and his immediate commander , French Field Marshal Ferdinand Foch . Foch had appeared at the headquar Photograph American doughboys , finding themselves in the midst of a surreal , war-wracked landscape , advance against entrenched German positions in the Argonne. // ters of the brand-new American First Army in Ligny-en-Barrois , 25 miles southeast of St. Mihiel , on August 30 , 1918 . Pershing and his staff were putting the finishing touches on an offensive Foch had ordered in hopes of wiping out the German salient that bulged into the Allied lines north and south of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changed his mind . Field Marshal Douglas Haig , the British commander , had convinced him that it was time to launch a massive assault to roll back the entire German position in France by attacking from the left , front and right . Foch wanted Pershing to reduce the American offensive to little more than a demonstration against the St. Mihiel salient 's southern flank and give him two-thirds of the First Army 's troops , which he was going to distribute to Haig and several French generals . Pershing absolutely refused to comply . " Do you wish to take part in the battle ? " Foch shrilled , his mustaches vibrating . " As an American army and in no other way ! " Pershing roared . Foch backed down and agreed to let Pershing go ahead with the St. Mihiel attack , but he insisted on American support for the grand offensive he and Haig envisioned . Poking his finger at a map , Pershing vowed to finish St. Mihiel by mid-September-and then to commit his army to an assault in the valley of the Argonne before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , neither general was thinking coherently . Pershing had committed the American First Army  --  with its totally untried staff-to fighting two major battles 60 miles apart within 10 days . He had also accepted responsibility for attacking up the huge , tunnel-like Argonne Valley , bounded on the west by a dense forest and on the east by the unfordable Meuse River-but he left the territory on either side in French hands . Things started so well at St. Mihiel that the potential for disaster was temporarily forgotten . When the First Army attacked on September 12 , it found an enemy in retreat-the Germans had decided to abandon the salient . The Americans captured 16,000 largely second-rate troops at a cost of only 7,000 casualties . Then , thanks to a staff colonel named George C. Marshall , the Americans managed to shift more than 400,000 troops from St. Mihiel to the Argonne and attack at dawn on September 26 , after an allnight barrage from 3,928 guns . The objectives Pershing and his staff assigned the assaulting divisions for the first day revealed the Americans ' overconfidence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fog were expected to advance 10 miles up the valley , clearing the enemy from the Argonne Forest and bursting through two of the three German defense lines ( Stellungen ) , which bore the Wagnerian names of Giselher , Kreimhilde and Freya . Pershing hoped to accomplish this miracle with a combination of mass and movement . Against his nine double-strength American divisions , the Germans mustered only five understrength divisions-perhaps 50,000 men . Photograph On the day before the Argonne push began , Captain Eddie Rickenbacker earned his Medal of Honor . During the campaign , he gained 16 of his 26 victories . // But the Argonne was not the invitingly flat terrain of St. Mihiel , nor were these Germans even slightly interested in retreating . Behind them lay the fourtrack railroad that sustained the Kaiser 's armies in the north . Moreover , of the nine divisions that surged into that ominous fog on September 26 , only four , the 4th , 28th , 33rd and 77th , had seen combat that summer . Two divisions , the 79th and the 91st , had never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Air Service ( USAS ) was also in action . The 94th Aero Squadron , led by former race-car driver and future ace Eddie Rickenbacker  --  arrived over the Argonne in time to catch the last of the artillery barrage . In the next few hours , Rickenbacker shot down a Fokker and two of his squadron mates flamed German Drachen ( barrage balloons ) , an important contribution to blinding the opposition 's artillery . The 20th Aero Squadron was airborne to attack German supply depots at Dun-Sur-Meuse . The seven bombers were barely over the Argonne when 20 Fokkers whirled through their formation , killing the lead plane 's observer and sending one bomber down to fiery death . Four more went down before the leader and the squadron 's tail-end Charlie fled for home without dropping a bomb . By the time Rickenbacker and the 94th headed for their home airfield , the fog had lifted and they could see the doughboys swarming forward over the shell-pocked earth . Watching their ranks being gouged by German artillery and machine guns , Rickenbacker wondered why they " did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TERROR would come later . For the first half-day , the infantry made encouraging progress , as the surprised Germans fell back to stronger elements of the Giselher defense line . The American foot soldiers were encouraged by the presence of Colonel George Patton 's tank brigade . But the horrendous terrain and the Germans ' aggressive anti-tank tactics took a heavy toll on Patton 's men and machines . The enemy had learned to move its Austrian 77mm fieldpieces forward to blast them at point-blank range . By midday , two-thirds of the brigade 's 169 tanks were either broken down or knocked out . Patton , virtually berserk over his losses , led a pickup squad of infantry in a frontal assault on a machine-gun nest . Every man but one was gunned down ; the survivor dragged Patton , bleeding from a severe leg wound , into a ditch . The infantrymen , too , were discovering that Pershing had sent them into terrain that was only a few removes from hell . The primeval glacier that had originally gouged out the valley had left behind a hogback @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slanting off at odd angles , effectively dividing the Argonne into two tunnel-like defiles . General Hunter Liggett , who commanded the I Corps on the American left , soon realized the place was " a natural fortress , beside which the Wildnerness in which Grant and Lee fought was a park . " Inside the Argonne Forest itself , ravines , hillocks and meandering little streams added to the obstacles created by the trees and dense underbrush that reduced visibility to 20 feet . Here and throughout the valley , the Germans had added every imaginable man-made defense , from parallel and flanking trenches to concrete dugouts and fortified strongpoints , supported everywhere by barbed wire and machine guns . From the high ground east of the Meuse , their heavy guns rained death on the Americans . Artillery on the slopes of the 1,600-foot-high ridge topped by the Argonne Forest wreaked similar destruction from the opposite flank . On the first day , the crucial action took place in the center , where the V Corps was given the task of taking Montfaucon , a steep-sided , 500-foot height @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortress had to be seized quickly by the 79th Division if the V Corps had any hope of taking Romagne and other strongpoints in the Kreimilde Stellung , the second defense line . But the green draftees from Pennsylvania and Maryland became badly confused as the fighting intensified . German machine-gunners who looked dead suddenly came to life and started shooting up the American rear areas . Men kept charging machine guns in bunches , enabling a single gun to scythe down an entire platoon . Frontline elements lost all contact with their artillery . Not until dusk did one battalion of the 79th Division 's 313th Regiment get close enough to Montfaucon to make an attack , supported by two French Schneiders . But the French tankers , after getting a better look at the Maxims and 77s spouting death , decided to call it a day . On the 79th 's right , the 4th Division , part of the III Corps , had reached its assigned objectives by 12:30 . Montfaucon was in clear view . But rigid orders from headquarters required the doughboys to sit there for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that time the prize was beyond anyone 's reach-and so was a quick victory in the Argonne . General Max von Gallwitz , commander of the army group opposing the doughboys , poured in a half-dozen reserve divisions in the next few days . " On the 27th and 28th , " Gallwitz later wrote , " we had no more worries . " An overstatement , to be sure , but there is no doubt that on those days , Pershing was a much more worried general . He ordered his nine divisions to attack again . The 79th Division , with some help from the 37th Division , captured Montfaucon at noon . Then serious problems , verging on disaster , developed in the I Corps . In the forest of the Argonne , the New Yorkers of the 77th Division were floundering in incredible confusion . In the valley , the Kansas and Missouri National Guardsmen of the 35th Division were suffering severe internal command problems . On the eve of the battle , Pershing had relieved the two brigade commanders , the chief of staff and three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They barely had time to introduce themselves before they started fighting the elite 1st Prussian Guards Division . ON SEPTEMBER 27 AND 28 , the 35th Division literally fell apart . The two brigades became chaotically entangled ; communications between front and rear virtually ceased . The 35th 's commander roved the battlefield in a sleepless daze , out of touch with his own headquarters . At one point he was nearly captured by the Germans . On the 29th , the Prussian Guards launched a counterattack that caused a near rout . The oncoming German infantry were stopped by counterfire from the 35th 's field artillery , among which Battery D of the 129th Regiment , headed by Captain Harry S. Truman , performed with distinction . But on the following day , the shattered division was withdrawn . By the afternoon of the 29th , gloom and confusion had spread across the entire American battle line . West of the Argonne Forest , the French Fourth Army had barely gained a foot , a mistake that made life even more difficult for the Americans in the woods . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frank Luke , the 27th Aero Squadron 's wild Arizona balloonbuster , who had destroyed 11 German balloons and downed four enemy planes in the past 17 days . That evening , Luke sent three more gasbags up in flames , but he was brought down by groundfire near Murvaux and died fighting German troops with his pistol . Luke was later awarded the Medal of Honor . Pershing personally visited every division to deliver exhortations and threats of dismissal . Alas , willpower was not what the First Army needed . It was stalled not only by ferocious German resistance but also by massive traffic jams in the rear areas . On Octoher 1 , the entire offensive ground to a muddled halt . For the next four days , the green center divisions were relieved by three veteran divisions , the 1st , the 32nd and the 3rd , which had all performed with distinction during the summer . But the traffic problem was worsened by days of bone-chilling rain that turned the roads into gumbo-and started influenza raging among the front-line troops . The Air Service was also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stenay-based jagdgeschwader II with jagdgeschwader I-the famed " Flying Circus . " No longer commanded by the Red Baron , Manfred von Richthofen , who had been killed on April 21 , it was still an elite outfit , commanded since July by an ace , Oberleutnant Hermann Gd ring . The long , narrow shape of the Argonne enabled the Germans to fly into it from three sides . They roared along the defiles and popped over ridges to gun down American rear-area troops as they clustered around mess kitchens . ON OCTOBER 4 , THE First Army attacked again along the entire front . This time the Americans did it without artillery preparation , trying to surprise the Germans , but machine guns and the murderous artillery fire from the flanks forced everyone to measure gains in yards . Only the 1st Division , lashed by its ruthless commander , Charles P.Summerall , made any progress , blasting and battering a narrow seven-kilometer-long salient up the Aire River valley . The cost was horrendous : In six days , the division lost 9,387 men and had to be withdrawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 77th Division were cut off and surrounded in the Ravin de Chaulevaux . The Air Service tried to drop food and ammunition to the surrounded men , but all the goods landed in German hands and stomachs . The casualties were close to 70 percent when the survivors were rescued on October 7 by the tactical genius of Hunter Liggett . Relieving the exhausted 28th Division with the " All-American " 82nd Division , he ordered a brigade to make a sideways attack into the forest from the edge of the 1st Division salient . The daring maneuver worked , forcing the Germans to withdraw from the entire forest by October 10 . On the second day of that operation , a Tennessee mountaineer in the 82nd became a legend . Corporal ( later Sergeant ) Alvin York had grown up with a gun in his hands . He could knock the head off a turkey at 100 yards . When his company encountered German machine guns on a hill ahead of them , York worked his way through the woods into the German rear with 16 other men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but fire from the hill killed half of York 's men and pinned down the rest . With rifle and pistol York proceeded to kill 28 men on the hill without missing a shot . The German major blew his whistle and ordered the survivors to surrender . York marched them back to the American lines , scooping up more prisoners along the way , to bring his total bag to 132-plus a Medal of Honor . York 's and the 82nd 's deeds were among the few bright spots in the renewed American assault . Flying overhead , General William " Billy " Mitchell , the commander of the USAS , groaned aloud as he watched the uncoordinated attacks . He said it was like watching a man butt his head against a brick wall . On October 10 , Mitchell dispatched three squadrons over the Argonne to flame a particularly annoying Drachen . The Germans summoned Jastas from all directions , and the result was an aerial battle royal-one in which the Americans claimed four victories and the Germans claimed three American Spads . At the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On October 8 , Pershing had finally decided to do something about those murderous guns east of the Meuse . He ordered the 29th Division to attack , supported by the French 18th Division and part of the III Corps ' 33rd Division . The attack made some early gains , but the Germans moved in two fresh divisions and soon had the Allies pinned on the banks of the Meuse . On October 12 , New Jersey National Guardsmen of the 29th 's 113th and 114th regiments took the Bois d'Ormont , at a cost of 118 killed and 812 wounded . Over the next 34 hours , the Germans bombarded the Bois d'Ormont with high-explosive and mustard-gas shells . Wisely , the 113th withdrew . The 114th held its ground  --  which only resulted in 706 more gas casualties in an area permeated with persistent mustard agent that the Germans had no intention of entering . Meanwhile , despite an unwillingness by their French allies to keep up the pace , Maryland 's 115th Regiment overran Richene Hill , while the Virginian 116th took the heights of Malbrouck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective was defended by Austrian troops . Then , on October 18 , the two units found their right flank exposed ( due to the breakdown of the 113th and 114th 's assault ) and under German attack from the directions of Ormont and Haumont . On October 16 , the 79th Division arrived to relieve the 29th , and five days later the last of the " Blue and Grays " were pulled out of the line , after having suffered 5,552 casualties in three weeks . Although pushed back as far as seven kilometers , the German Meuse batteries remained a menace until the last week of the war . Elsewhere , the First Army was showing signs of severe strain . The traffic jams had become monumental again . The terrific casualties forced Pershing to cannibalize seven divisions as they arrived in France , sending green men into the lines to serve with strangers  --  never a good situation . More than 100,000 stragglers were wandering in the rear area , and Pershing finally issued a desperate order to shoot any man who ran away . Pershing himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French premier Georges Clemenceau were hurling insults at him and demanding results . Driving to the front , he buried his head in his hands and spoke to his wife , who had died tragically in a fire in 1915 . " Frankie , Frankie .. my God , sometimes I do n't know how I can go on . " But the iron general summoned great reserves of mettle from somewhere within his warrior soul . Visiting the 90th Division , he told General Henry T. Allen : " Things are going badly .. but by God ! Allen , I was never so much in earnest in my life . We are going to get through . " Even so , Pershing by now recognized that willpower was not enough . He decided to try brain power . On October 10 , he handed over command of the First Army to the I Corps ' Hunter Liggett . The former president of the Army War College , Liggett was a thinking general . He was also 40 pounds overweight , but he parried criticism of his condition by declaring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is n't above the collar . " To focus Liggett 's task , Pershing created the Second Army east of the Meuse and put Robert Lee Bullard , the III Corps ' commander , in charge of it . He also replaced George H. Cameron , the V Corps ' leader , with the 1st Division 's ferocious commander , Charles P. Summerall . Liggett waited until October 16 to take charge , meanwhile allowing fresh outfits , notably the 42nd " Rainbow " Division , to make another try at cracking the Kreimhilde Stellung . The Rainbow , which included New York 's famous " Fighting 69th " ( redesignated the 165th U.S. Infantry ) , was assigned the forbidding Cote de Chatillon . On the night of October 13-14 , Summerall visited brigade commander Douglas MacArthur 's headquarters and said : " Give me Chatillon or a list of 5,000 casualties . " MacArthur replied that if they failed , the entire 84th Brigade would be on the casualty list , with his name at the top . IN THE NEXT TWO murderous days , MacArthur and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brigade commander ignoring shrapnel and bullets to set an example for his men . By dusk on the 16th , they reached the crest of Chatillon and held it against a ferocious German counterattack . On their right flank , the weary men of the 32nd Division surprised themselves and everyone else by capturing another key height , the Cote Dame Marie , effectively piercing the Kreimhilde Stellung . It had taken the First Army three weeks and 100,000 casualties to reach the objective Pershing had assigned to it for the first day . Liggett immediately announced it Photograph High-spirited American troops were eager to prove themselves " over there . " But the confidence gained at St. Mihiel was severely strained in the Argonne Forest 's gloom and confusion . // was time to rest and regroup . While rounding up the 100,000 stragglers , returning them to their units and restoring order in the rear , he replaced the exhausted 77th Division with the fresh 78th " Lightning " Division and ordered that New Jersey-New York outfit to exert pressure on the enemy 's right flank around the town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Aire River . For 10 days and 10 nights , the 78th attacked , and attacked again , taking heavy casualties in the town and the nearby Bois de Loges . As Liggett had hoped , the Germans , convinced that the Americans ' next offensive would come from the left , shifted reserves from the center to meet the threat . Meanwhile , Liggett tried to reform the First Army 's primitive tactics . He issued orders to stop charging machine guns and strongpoints that were holding up an advance . Regiments and divisions were no longer to consider boundary lines as no-trespass signs . They should assist their neighbors with flank attacks if they made better progress . Liggett also significantly added to his staff 's brain power by making Colonel George C. Marshall his operations officer . On November 1 , a rested , replenished First Army renewed the offensive with a thunderous predawn barrage . The I and III Corps attacked vigorously on the left and right flanks-but the main effort was a three-division smash up through the center by Summerall 's V Corps , led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Air Service roared in to strafe and bomb , in an early example of ground  --  air coordination . The German center virtually evaporated , and the 2nd Division gained an astonishing five miles . On its right , the 89th Division did almost as well . The appalled Germans found their right and left outflanked and had no choice but disengagement and headlong retreat . Several times in the next few days , when the Germans attempted to set up a defense line , the Americans overran it before the enemy could issue orders to man it . On November 3 , the 2nd Division marched an entire regiment through a wood by night , while the frantic enemy was trying to fortify it . In the morning the Germans found themselves in a trap . A despairing General Gallwitz was told : " All the front-line commanders report the German troops are fighting courageously but just can not do anything . " The Meuse River became the one hope of containing the American surge , but that , too , vanished when the 5th Division raced across open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ November 5 . The crucial railroad was soon within range of American artillery . Elsewhere , Foch 's grand offensive was making equally spectacular gains . On November 8 , the Germans met with the generalissimo to discuss an armistice and peace talks . Pershing had already told President Woodrow Wilson he thought that was a poor idea . He favored fighting until the Germans surrendered unconditionally . Wilson had furiously informed him that politics were none of his business . Pershing responded by ordering Liggett and Bullard , whose Second Army had also gone into action , to attack without respite . The offensive 's main goal soon became the city of Sedan , where France had ingloriously surrendered to the Germans in 1871 , signaling an unhappy end to the Franco-Prussian war . Pershing , still seething at Foch , decided he wanted Americans to capture it  --  Liggett ordered the I Corps to make the city its target . The 42nd Division , which had replaced the 78th , led the advance . But V Corps commander Summerall had brought his beloved 1st Division back into action and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Summerall ordered the 1st to lunge across the fronts of the 77th and 42nd divisions in a dash to Sedan . The result was massive confusion that would have resulted in a military disaster if the German army had retained any fighting power . Doughboys shot at each other in the darkness , and a 1st Division patrol arrested a strolling Brig . Gen. Douglas MacArthur as a German spy . Liggett called the fiasco a " military atrocity " and seriously considered court-martialing Summerall . But Pershing dismissed the episode as not worth fussing about . The 1st Division was his favorite , too . BY THE TIME THE mess was unraveled , Pershing had yielded to French complaints and allowed his hosts to capture Sedan . But at 11 a.m. on November 11 , when the armistice went into effect , most divisions of the American First and Second armies were still attacking . To the end of his life , Pershing insisted that if the battle of the Argonne ( and the other Allied offensives ) had lasted another 10 days , " we would have rounded up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Not a few military historians have differed strongly with Pershing 's view . Both the French and British armies were close to exhaustion , and the combination of 117,000 Argonne casualties , influenza and a total lack of replacements rendered the ability of the First and Second American armies to fight a battle of annihilation against a determined enemy a dubious proposition . On the key to victory in the Argonne , however , there was no disagreement . The iron general confessed it on Armistice night in Paris . " The men were willing to pay the price . " * Author Affiliation Thomas Fleming , a Fellow of the Society of American Historians , is an MHQ contributing editor and most recently wrote The New Dealers ' War : FDR and the War Within World War II . // <p>                     