@@385686

. Invisibility is a staple of science fiction , from H.G. Wells to Romulans . Now scientists see a way to make objects disappear . WHAT : A way to make objects invisible . The trick is to use metamaterial , a complex hybrid structure of metal and insulator that makes light move around an object like air flowing over an airplane wing . In a process called refraction , these materials interact with light in such a way that it travels faster through the metamaterial than it does through a vacuum , the famed c in Einstein 's special theory of relativity . Properly tuned , the light emerges from the shield as if there were no object present . But unfortunately for would-be spies , it 's very difficult to make cloaking devices that work on more than one wavelength of light at a time . WHY : Military stealth . A B-2 bomber is n't truly invisible to radar . It just absorbs and redirects the radar waves , making the plane much harder to spot ( its radar signature is the size of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tank or building covered in a radar-sensitive metamaterial shield would literally disappear from radar screens . WHEN : For certain applications , commercial deployment could be within a decade . The best-studied metamaterials work only on microwaves . Duke University physicist David R. Smith hopes to shield a toaster-size object from microwave frequencies within the next six months . Metamaterials that work on visible light  --  which is n't a single frequency but a spectrum of frequencies  --  are at a more primitive state . A specific metamaterial design would be required to redirect each frequency in the visible range , and integrating that many components into a device might take 10 years for the initial lab demonstration alone . WHO : The mathematical models were developed independently by two groups , the first led by Ulf Leonhardt at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland and the second by Smith with John Pendry of Imperial College London . Smith could soon prove the concept experimentally . A HISTORY OF INVISIBILITY 1897 In The Invisible Man , H.G. Wells introduces the idea , then fictional , of a scientific route to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make himself invisible . 1968 Ukrainian theorist Victor Veselago predicts the possibility of building metamaterials that act as light accelerators . It will be 30 years before anyone can craft them in the lab. 1987 The movie Predator features invisibility in the camouflage of an alien hunter . Guess what ? It was a fairly realistic fictional presentation of the phenomenon , says physicist David R. Smith . 2000 Smith and his colleagues at Duke University construct the first metamaterial , a thicket of metal wires capable of refracting microwaves. 2003 Engineer Susumu Tachi of Tokyo University demonstrates an " invisibility " cloak . Instead of bending light , it projects an image of a background onto the wearer 's front . 2005 British and Russian researchers deposit rodshaped gold pieces onto a surface , creating a metamaterial that interacts with near-visible light . FAQs For those who wish to hide in plain sight HAS ANYONE MADE A METAMATERIAL ? Yes . Scientists in the U.S. and the U.K. have made metamaterials with what 's called a negative index of refraction . Generally , these metamaterials are coiled metal wires surrounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . CAN THE CLOAKING BE PERFECT ? Almost . Any metamaterial absorbs a little bit of light and therefore casts a slight shadow . COULD AN ACTUAL CLOAK EVER HIDE A PERSON ? Yes , but current designs would work only if you painted yourself all one color . A cloak , which for comfort 's sake needs to be pretty thin , could bend radiation of just a single frequency , so it could only hide an object of one color . There 's a possibility , though , that a thick shell could include a wider variety of metamaterials and broaden the invisibility to multiple frequencies . WHAT WOULD THE INSIDE OF THE CLOAK LOOK LIKE ? If a cloak worked over the entire spectrum , the lack of light would make the inside black , and you would n't be able to see outside . No one knows exactly what would happen if you turned on a flashlight inside the cloak . HOW IT WORKS 1 . Surround an object with a shell of metamaterial  --  a conductor and insulator hybrid that acts as an accelerator for incoming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shell . Instead of reflecting off the shell , the light is piped through the shell , curving around the cloaked object . 3 . Light emerges from the shell on the same path it would have been traveling had nothing happened to it , making the cloaked object appear transparent . Reference <p>                     