@@385066

Studying gravitational waves from our universe 's birth , every cosmologist 's dream , may be close to reality . // BY ADAM FRANK // Forty-two years ago , astronomers first heard the Big Bang 's echo . The cosmic microwave background , or CMB , is relic radiation from the universe 's birth , a fossil formed 380,000 years after the Big Bang . Recognition of the CMB marked the beginning of modern cosmology , and it s still telling astronomers much about the early universe . In March , scientists using NASA 's Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe ( WMAP ) released the most detailed portrait of the CMB yet . By looking at the preferred directions of CMB signals , astronomers showed the early universe 's initial growth spurt , a period called inflation that occurred less than a trillionth of a second after the Big Bang , does n't match up with some complex inflation scenarios . By eliminating some versions of inflation , a cornerstone of modern cosmology , scientists have begun to pull hack the curtain on the universe 's first second . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the universe expanded at a furious , never-to-be-repeated pace , cosmologists need something new . Now the search is on for gravitational waves , relic ripples in the structure of space and time from the inflation era . Ballooning cosmos Astronomers know how fast the universe is expanding , and they think they have a good idea of how that expansion progressed after the first few seconds following the Big Bang . One of the puzzles facing astronomers studying the CMB was understanding how widely separated regions of space could have the same temperature . Yet , in standard Big Bang models , the finite speed of light makes it impossible for radiation from one side of the expanding universe to reach the opposite side in the 380,000 years before the CMB formed . This causal conundrum was the monster problem for astronomers and physicists in the 1970s . Their solution was as radical as it was successful . In 1980 , physicist Alan Ciutli at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ( MIT ) suggested a novel addition to the Big Bang 's standard story . He supposed that , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the universe was in causal contact . Signals from one region could reach all others . Information was shared , causes led to effects , thermal variations smoothed out . Conditions became uniform and constant . Then , argued Guth , came a remarkable instant when the universe " inflated . " In a moment , the cosmos ballooned in size by a tactor of 10(43) - that 's 1 followed by 43 zeros . To say that many astrophysicists were skeptical about Guth 's proposal would be putting it politely . In time , however , his idea took hold . Inflation solved too many problems for cosmologists to ignore it . " Without inflation , " explains University of Chicago cosmologist Sean Carroll , " different parts of the universe could not have points in common in the past . " Inflation cures this dilemma . In the years following Guth 's paper , interest in inflation theory went through its own hyper-expansion . Using ideas gleaned from particle physics , cosmologists explored different ways to turn inflation on and off . There are now many variations on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between high-flying theoretical speculation and the grounding specifics of real-world data . Because inflation theory concerns itself with impossibly small sizes and impossibly short time spans , there seemed to he little hope for ever testing its ideas in a laboratory . A scientific theory that can not make contact with observational data is problematic . In time , though , researchers began to realize that , like the CMB photons rattling around the universe , inflation too would leave detectable relics . Einstein 's waves Inflation 's fossil signals - gravitational waves - are almost as exotic as inflation itself . Gravitational waves are ripples in the structure of space and time . They are a key legacy of Einstein 's general theory of relativity . Kinstein recognized that gravity could he understood as the warping ol a 4-dimensional continuum of space and time ( space-time ) rather than as a force between masses . For Einstein , space was not the empty stage on which the drama of physics plays out . Instead , it is a principal actor . Space-time for Einstein is a stretchable fabric that underpins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ location , the more space-time warps , and the more other bodies respond to that bending . Einstein 's grand theory also predicts waves of gravity that propagate across space-time like ripples on a pond . Any gravitational disturbance , meaning any movement of mass , will produce gravity waves , and the more mass involved , the stronger the waves . If two black holes collide , for example , powerful waves ripple outward , stretching and bending space wherever they pass . The waves ' intensities diminish as they travel . Inflation must have been a pretty violent and dramatic rearrangement of matter , energy , and space-time itself . So , it makes sense inflation would have produced a riot of gravity waves . Detecting them - well , that 's another matter . A feel for the cosmos The Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory ( LIGO ) - one detector in Louisiana , one in Washington - represents the cutting edge of scientists ' attempts to " feel " gravity waves . LIGOs task is n't easy . While it may be news to many of us bound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is a weak force . Detecting gravity waves from even relatively nearby ( astronomically speaking ) cataclysms like merging black holes requires an instrument that can detect the most minute distortions of space . Each LIGO observatory uses two lasers set at a right angle in an " I. " shape . Each beam traverses a 2.5-mile-long ( 4 kilometers ) tube . The beams continuously travel back and forth along the tube . By combining light from the two beams , scientists can sense minute changes in the tube lengths encoded in the way the beams overlap . These small changes in tube length signal that a gravity wave has passed . The expected changes in length are as small as one part in 10 billion trillion ( 10(22) ) - equivalent to seeing Saturn move closer to the Sun by the diameter of a single hydrogen atom . LIGO began operation a few years ago and , while no gravity waves have been found yet , scientists are n't disappointed . They are gradually increasing the detectors ' sensitivity by reducing various sources of noise that could mask @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Italy , and Japan have emerged , and cooperative efforts with these facilities are under way . Astronomers have modeled supernovae , inspiraling neutron stars , black holes , and other phenomena to understand how LIGO 's arms will stretch and shrink when a gravity wave passes by . These events produce a discrete pulse of gravitational waves . But there also should he a background of gravitational waves from inflation . Whenever and wherever LIGO looks , it should pick up the ringing of space-time due to gravity waves left over from the inflationary epoch . " Inflation is kind of noisy , " says Rainer Weiss , an MIT physics professor who has helped develop LIGO . Different versions of inflation produce different amounts of gravity waves , he says , but these theories have one thing in common : They produce random signals . If scientists can detect gravity waves from inflation , the waves could be observed long enough for astronomers to build up a statistical portrait of their character . This information would finally test inflation and let scientists choose among its many flavors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however . A careful calculation of the strength of inflationary gravity waves dims many astronomers ' enthusiasm . " Unfortunately , LIGO will just not be sensitive enough to detect gravity waves from inflation , " says Weiss . Many astronomers pin their hopes for gravity-wave detection on the Laser Interferometer Space Antenna ( LISA ) . This joint NASA-Huropean Space Agency mission is the most ambitious gravitational-wave observatory yet . Scheduled for a 2013 launch , LISA 's three laser-ranging satellites will fly 3.1 million miles ( 5 million kilometers ) apart in a tightly controlled triangular formation . They 'll continually bounce lasers back and torth to detect minute distance changes from one another . But while LISA will give astronomers a powerful new tool lor exploring gravitational waves , it too misses the mark lor testing inflation . " The predictions for the strength of gravity waves from Vanilla inflation models put them just out of reach of LISA , " says Weiss . But he leaves room for a chance of detection with LISA because some inflation models predict stronger gravity waves . To really pin down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like LIGO , astronomers will have to dream big . " With three LISAs Hying in formation , " explains Weiss , " the signal from inflation would be 10 times stronger than the detection limit . " LISA 's $500 million price tag puts a more ambitious version many years away . Back to the background Our best chance to detect gravity waves from inflation comes not from a direct search for ripples in space-time , but by looking for an indirect signal in , of all things , the CMB . The new WMAP results show clearly that CMB photons hold a key property called polarization , which provides clues to what happened during inflation . Oscillating electric and magnetic fields make up all light waves . Usually , the way these fields are oriented in space is arbitrary , but certain physical conditions can cause these fields to align . The glare of sunlight reflected troni ground objects is polarized , which is why polarizing sunglasses help drivers see better . As CMB photons interacted with density fluctuations in the early universe , they developed what cosmologies call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the CMB from groundbased observatories in 2002 and later confirmed by WMAP . But the probe 's second and third year of data extend E-mode polarization measurements across the entire sky and improve their sensitivity . In tact , in sensing these subtle changes , WMAP measured the weakest signals ever detected in the CMB - about 100 times fainter than the temperature signal . Inflationary gravitational waves also interacted with CMB photons , and cosmologists think the waves also imprinted a so-called B-mode polarization pattern . " This signal is not yet seen , but it 's not really a surprise , " says Sean Carroll . " The B-mode polarization is expected to he very small , and a lot of effort is going into designing clever new experiments that may someday detect it . " Nevertheless , the recent WMAP work has given us our first glimpse into inflation . How ? Because it sets limits on how big those unseen B-mode fluctuations can be . This allows cosmologists to discard inflationary scenarios that violate those limits . " It amazes me that we can say anything about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the universe , but we can , " says Johns Hopkins University 's Charles Bennett , WMAP principal investigator . Whether by directly sensing space-time ripples or detecting their imprint in the CMB , the push toward finding inflation 's gravity waves is on . As mind-boggling as the search is , humanity seems poised to explore the first slivers of cosmic time . We are pushing the boundaries of physics and astronomy beyond the realm of imagination to a time when the known universe was the size of an atom . By searching for these relics of inflation , we have begun to explore a frontier that defies our most basic notions of time and space . Sidebar RIPPLING THROUGH the early universe , gravitational waves carry information from less than a trillionth of a second after the Big Bang . Although no one has yet detected these entities directly , Einstein 's general relativity predicts their existence . DON DIXON FOR ASTRONOMY Sensing gravity waves Laser Interferometer Space Antenna ( LISA ) LISA WILL be the first dedicated gravitational-wave observatory in space . This NASA-European Space Agency mission , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form a triangular interferometer spanning 3.1 million miles ( 5 million kilometers ) . Changes in the distance between the spacecraft will signal a passing gravitational wave . ASTRONOMY : TERRI FIELD Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory ( LIGO ) EACH OF the LIGO detectors sends laser pulses down two 2.5-mile-long ( 4 km ) arms and combines their light . This diagram shows the layout of the Hanford , Washington , observatory . By making laser light travel up and down the arms and interfere with itself , scientists will be able to deduce minute changes in the light 's path from a gravity-wave encounter . ASTRONOMY : ROEN KELLY Sidebar How gravitational waves distort space IN GENERAL RELATIVITY , gravitational waves distort the distances between nearby free particles , a property observatories like LIGO and LISA attempt to exploit . A passing wave can be either " plus " polarized ( top ) or " cross " polarized ( bottom ) . Each type distorts space-time , represented in this illustration by a circle of free particles , in a particular way . The distortions shown here are about 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect LIGO seeks . ASTRONOMY ROEN KELLY Sidebar " WITHOUT INFLATION different parts of the universe could not have points in common in the past . " - Sean Carroll Sidebar Black-hole death spiral rumples space-time THIS SEQUENCE from a simulation of merging black holes ( seen here as spikes ) shows how the sudden change of shape and mass creates a pulse of gravitational radiation that propagates outward across space-time . Recent advances in computational techniques , sought for 30 years , enable rigorous calculation of these extreme events . Today 's gravity-wave observatories are designed to detect signals like this , but scientists think the equipment is far too insensitive to pick up gravity waves from inflation . CARLOS LOUSTO , UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS , BROWNSVILLE Polarized CMB AFTER 3 YEARS of studying the cosmic microwave background ( CMB ) , NASA 's WMAP observed how microwaves are polarized across the sky . Colors indicate warmer ( red ) and cooler ( blue ) spots . The white bars show the preferred orientations , or polarization , of CMB radiation . This information provides new clues about events that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . NASA/WMAP SCIENCE TEAM Sidebar " IT AMAZES me that we can say nything about what transpired within the first trillionth of a second of the universe , but we can . " - Charles Bennett Author Affiliation Adam Frank is an astrophysicist at the University of Rochester in New York and a member of Astronomy 's editorial board . He wrote " The first billion years " in the June 2006 issue . // <p>                     