@@406412

The Right Fit The recent opening of the San Francisco boutique Philanthropist may represent the city 's first confluence of sophisticated shopping and old-fashioned altruism . An anomaly in the world of designer boutiques , the elegant establishment , in Presidio Heights , donates 100 percent of its profits  --  that is , all proceeds beyond the operating costs  --  to a different charity every three months . The stunning assortment of goods is chosen by cofounders Jessica Moment and Sally Fowler and includes dresses from Marchesa , Derek Lam and Richard Chai , with everyday essentials by Jill Stuart and Catherine Malandrino . Amid chandeliers and pale-lavender walls , the collections are punctuated with jeweled baubles and Rebecca Minkoff handbags ; a lounge serves Champagne and cupcakes . In the boutique 's opening quarter , Fowler and Moment gave more than $15,000 to Raphael House , a San Francisco shelter for at-risk families . Theirs is the kind of fashion that never goes out of style . 3571 Sacramento Street ; 415-441-1750 ; phi lanthropistboutique.com . KIMBERLY MILLER Photograph : Sally Fowler ( left ) and Jessica @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Tribeca and True Trained as a pastry chef , Rachel Thebault opened New York 's Tribeca Treats  --  a neighborhood ( and citywide ) destination for truffles , bonbons and customized birthday and wedding cakes  --  in 2007 . Her clients can feel good indulging their sweet-tooth cravings , knowing that at year 's end a percentage of the shop 's proceeds are donated to several charities that serve the community and especially children ( last June , Tribeca Treats was honored with an award from ACE Programs for the Homeless , which helps provide jobs in Tribeca and SoHo for its clients ) . Thebault 's endeavors include an ongoing relationship with the city 's public-school system , through which teachers regularly bring students to the bakery for on-site cooking and baking classes . Later this year , she 'll take part in two weeklong philanthropic efforts : Cupcakes for a Cause , which benefits CancerCare for Kids , and Shop for Public Schools , which is spearheaded by Caroline Kennedy and provides needed literacy-related supplies for city schools . " As a mother of two , I tend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it 's particularly important for me to give back to the community that supports my business , " says Thebault. 94 Reade Street ; 212-571-0500 ; tribecatreats.com . GILLIAN HEARST SIMONDS Photograph : To sweet effect , sales of Rachel Thebault 's cupcakes help local charities . THE CHARITABLE CHEF A chef and cookbook author , Dana Slatkin is no stranger to kitchens  --  or to community activism . As the Angelino explains , " I 've always been involved in charities benefiting underprivileged kids in our city , such as Para Los Nios , a haven for low-income children and families , and Inner City Arts , for students from schools with no arts programs . " Ten years ago she began teaching cooking classes and donating the profits to favorite causes . Mostly , the hands-on classes for kids and adults are held in the kitchen of the Los Angeles home where Slatkin lives with her husband ( with whom she co-owns Santa Monica 's Shutters on the Beach and Casa del Mar hotels ) and their three children . Focusing on recipes culled from Slatkin 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covers a full meal . Classes from $125. danaslatkin.com . ANNE MARIE CLOUTIER Photograph : Dana Slatkin shops at a Santa Monica farmers ' market . Pennsylvania ( Avenue ) Farmers Rustic meets elegant at Founding Farmers , a self-described " true food and drink " eatery located three blocks from the White House , in Washington , D.C. Developed in 2007 by a collective of family farmers  --  some 42,000  --  Founding Farmers is proving to be fertile ground for locals and tourists . " We 're very conscientious about everything we do , " says chef Graham Duncan . " We work to enhance the dining experience and to positively enhance and protect the environment . " Founding Farmers has received LEED Gold certification and is also endorsed by the Green Restaurant Association . The classic American dishes are prepared with sustainable , locally sourced , seasonal ingredients . Specialty cocktails of organic vodkas and family-distillery bourbons , and red-velvet cake round out a comfort-packed menu . 1924 Pennsylvania Avenue NW ; 202-822-8783 ; wearefoundingfarmers.com . MONICA BHIDE Photograph : Fresh from American farmers : Halibut in a wine-and-tomato @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rings in the Santa Monica , California , office of Chrysalis , everyone runs to cheer : the sound means someone 's found work . Even in this economy , the tolling is a regular event . During its twenty-five-year history , the remarkably successful Los Angeles nonprofit has allowed more than 30,000 of the city 's most destitute to escape poverty and homelessness by helping them find and keep jobs . Most Chrysalis clients have struggled with mental illness , substance abuse , incarceration  --  or all three  --  so the rehabilitative work is labor-intensive and hands-on . Case management by a personal " employment specialist " and multiple seminars with volunteers not only build skills like rsum preparation , interview techniques and money management but offer ongoing emotional support and assurance as well . In addition , the organization , which also has centers in the San Fernando Valley and on downtown Los Angeles 's South Main Street ( in the heart of skid row ) , provides access to computers and phones with voice mail , a work wardrobe , bus tokens , sometimes even a sack lunch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't held a job in years , a chance to gain experience  --  and letters of recommendation  --  via employment in one of its three in-house businesses . Much of the agency 's operating budget is raised by supporters in a variety of L.A. 's top fields , such as finance , law , real estate ( the Santa Monica building is the result of a $1.6 million gift from Alan Long , president of Sotheby 's International Realty for Southern California ) and , of course , entertainment : the Butterfly Ball , held annually at a private estate , draws hundreds of celebrities . changelives.org . CAROL MITHERS Childproof " We 're in the midst of a perfect storm " is how Bill Baccaglini , executive director of the New York Foundling , describes the current climate that his organization is weathering . " The public sector has pulled back on financing . Private money has pulled back . And , predictably , the demand for our services goes up in bad times  --  the abuse and neglect of children increases . That makes our business particularly important . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York Foundling as an orphanage in 1869 , its " business " has never waned . The main building , on Manhattan 's Sixth Avenue , houses several facilities , including a crisis nursery . " This is a program for parents at their wit 's end , " Baccaglini says . " If a mother thinks she might hurt her child , she can bring that child to us and we 'll get her the services she needs and work on getting the family together . " Another new project is the Foundling 's $30 million Mott Haven community center , under construction in the Bronx , though its Mott Haven Academy Charter School already exists . " This school is in the nation 's poorest congressional district , " says Baccaglini . " The kids , many in the child-welfare or foster-care system , lead such chaotic lives at home that it undermines their educational achievement . If we can intervene in just one generation , the likelihood of their returning to poverty is greatly reduced . " nyfoundling.org . D.M. Photograph : A class of future musicians at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the month of July , Chicago 's most acclaimed vegetarian restaurant , Green Zebra , reintroduces its $44 prix fixe , four-course tasting menu . While this alone might have Windy City foodies lining up on West Chicago Avenue , the restaurant will also donate four dollars from each prix fixe order to World Bicycle Relief ( worldbicyclerelief.org ) , a nonprofit dedicated to providing independence to people in developing nations through bicycles . In 2008 the restaurant donated fifteen bikes . Each diner can choose four courses from the menu and help provide sustainable transportation for those in need . 1460 West Chicago Avenue ; 312-243-7100 ; greenzebrachicago.com . LIZZIE GARRETT Photograph : Chicago 's Green Zebra , whose menu is set by chef Molly Harrison .                     