@@365045

As coalition deaths in Iraq reached 1,000 last week , the Senate Intelligence Committee issued its much anticipated report on the intelligence that led the U.S. into war . The report offers a blistering critique of the CIA for exaggerating the threat of Saddam Hussein 's illegal weapons . Among its conclusions : in 2002 , two months after Vice President Dick Cheney claimed Saddam was pursuing nuclear and smallpox weapons , the CIA pumped up its assessment of both threats based on unsupported or nonexistent intelligence and on analysis that was " at minimum , misleading . " The report quotes the CIA 's highest-ranking analyst as saying she instructed her underlings to write a " speculative piece " that would " lean far forward " and " stretch to the maximum the evidence " in response to senior policymakers ' interest in links between al-Qaeda and Saddam . <P> Will the report lead to any changes ? President Bush called the report " useful " and has said he is " open for suggestions " on intelligence reform . But the President already shelved an overhaul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief Donald Rumsfeld objected to it . And the report put off until after the November election any examination of whether the faulty intelligence came about because of White House pressure . " It 's designed to protect the Administration and put all the blame on the intelligence community , " said a senior Republican . Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry has said he wants to give the next CIA director " true control over intelligence personnel and budgets all across the government . " A top Democratic campaign official told TIME that , if elected , Kerry would name a Defense Secretary who would agree to give up the military 's current control of 90% of the intelligence budget . In the belief that such broad changes need bipartisan support , Kerry wants that Pentagon chief to be a Republican . Of course , in Washington , such talk is easy . Reform is hard . <P>  --  By Massimo Calabresi                     