@@391906

On foot , bicycle , even horseback , they make their way individually or in groups along routes dotted with Romanesque churches and monasteries and through villages that have existed since the Middle Ages . They come in growing numbers , modern-day pilgrims in this secular age in a search for their spiritual selves . Their destination : the shrine of the apostle James in Santiago de Compostela . With its overpowering 11th-century cathedral in which the Romanesque , Gothic , Baroque , and Neoclassical styles converge , Santiago de Compostela in northwest Spain has been one of three major Christian pilgrimage sites , along with Jerusalem and Rome , since the ninth century . According to legend , the relics of St. James , who is believed to have preached in Spain before returning to Jerusalem and martyrdom at the hands of the Romans around A.D. 41 , were found by the hermit Pelayo eight centuries later after a vision . Historians doubt the account , but the mystery and the spiritual power of the pilgrimage itself , the Camino , draw the faithful and the curious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the really important aspects of life have been revealed to them through their experience of the route is a constant in the pilgrims ' narratives , " says Nieves Herrero Prez , an anthropologist at the University of Santiago de Compostela . Requirements . The vast majority of pilgrims today do not have the time or the energy to walk the more than 600-mile traditional routes from France , a journey that can take two months or more . Most arrive by tourist bus . Still , each year some 100,000 people are awarded La Compostela , the Latin certificate bestowed upon pilgrims by the Roman Catholic Church . To receive the document , pilgrims must walk or ride horseback at least the final 62 miles ( 125 miles on bicycle ) to the cathedral , where they present an authorized passport stamped to show where the traveler stayed en route . " The bodily effort of walking a long distance is related to the penitential character of pilgrimage , and the shelters reflect the pilgrims ' renunciation of their normal comforts and the idea of earthly life as passage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who want to receive La Compostela must also declare " religious " or " spiritual " motives for their journey . In 1989 , when Pope John Paul II visited Santiago , only 5,760 received La Compostela , but by the 2004 Holy Year nearly 180,000 people had gone home with the prized certificate . ( A Holy Year is a year in which the Feast of St. James , July 25 , falls on a Sunday . ) " A lot of people set out not being really sure what they are looking for , " says Laurie Dennett , a former chairman of the London-based Confraternity of Saint James , which promotes knowledge of the Camino . Dennett says that , like many others , she did n't embark on her first pilgrimage 21 years ago as a religious undertaking . ( She went , in part , to raise money for a multiple sclerosis charity because her mother suffered from the disease . ) But in what she describes as a typical case , the journey became a spiritual experience . " It taught me , " she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fraternity , that it is a living reality because one is called to make it one . " For centuries , the pilgrimage to Santiago de Compostela faded into near oblivion , a victim of historical forces including the Reformation , Francis Drake 's 16th-century invasion of the northwestern Spanish provinces of Galicia and Asturias , the anticlericalism of the French Revolution , and the Spanish government 's takeover of church property in 1834 , which prevented pilgrims from resting and praying in monasteries on their journey . Even the rediscovery in the 1870s of St. James 's relics , hidden in a cathedral wall to protect them from Drake , and their subsequent authentication by the Vatican did not increase the number of pilgrims journeying to Santiago . That would not happen until a century later when a Galician priest , Elias Valia Sampredo , produced a series of guidebooks and led a campaign to improve and clearly mark the pilgrimage routes . In 1987 , the Council of Europe , an organization that represents all countries on the Continent , designated the Camino as the first cultural itinerary site @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , that thousands of people renewed the tradition established in the Middle Ages by taking to the roads again . Now , with several hundred thousand pilgrims visiting the cathedral every year , there is concern that its very success could diminish the spiritual experience many seek . Indeed , some 10 million visitors are expected in Santiago for the 2010 Holy Year . l Illustration Picture omitted : Pilgrims at the Cathedral of Santiago de Compostela - MIGUEL VIDAL  --  REUTERS <p>                     