@@371598

In his Sept. 20 speech before a joint session of Congress , President Bush described America 's new enemy with uncharacteristically careful locution . Not wanting to grant al-Qaeda members the holy-warrior status they so fervently asserted for themselves , Bush painted them as thugs  --  criminals who had hijacked Islam as well as American planes . " Al-Qaeda is to terror , " said the President , " what the Mafia is to crime . " When Bush dropped the language of precision to indulge in a rhetorical flourish  --  " Whether we bring our enemies to justice or bring justice to our enemies , justice will be done "  --  it was understood to be merely that : a flourish , not policy . <P> Suddenly , surprisingly , the hour of justice is approaching . Since Sept. 20 , the sharpest legal minds in the White House and Department of Justice have been working to turn the President 's poetic abstraction into specific judicial doctrine . What they have cooked up for al-Qaeda and other terrorists is undeniably shrewd and , to civil libertarians , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legal labor  --  a military order allowing foreign nationals suspected of terrorism to be judged , at the discretion of the President , by special military tribunals . The proceedings , whose exact rules will be set on a case-by-case basis by Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld , can be secret . They may take place in the U.S. or abroad . Hearsay can be used as evidence . The defendant has neither the absolute right to challenge the evidence against him nor the right to hear it . He may not have access to the lawyer of his choice . Guilt need not be proved beyond a reasonable doubt . The verdict need not be unanimous . Executions are allowed . There may not be provision for appeal . Legally , at least , the terrorists have their wish . They are soldiers after all . <P> Do the ends  --  speedy , secure trials that protect classified intelligence  --  really justify the authoritarian means ? Bush Administration lawyers answered yes , without a lot of debate . American terror trials are slow and potentially dangerous for juries and judges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convictions of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman and Ramzi Ahmed Yousef ( who bombed the World Trade Center in 1993 ) and Timothy McVeigh , terror cases are hard to win . Trials can be closed to present classified information , but intelligence officers , not their secret sources , take the stand , and their testimony can be challenged as hearsay . In criminal court , say Administration officials , the U.S. would be forced to choose between exposing extremely sensitive sources and tactics used to get the evidence necessary for a conviction , and dropping the case . " For the benefit of the public , " said an official , " those are situations we did n't want to be confronted with . "                     