@@374291

The American President stood for those things that had come to define his nation . Its armed forces were the best equipped and most disciplined in the world ; their fighting spirit had just been the decisive factor in ending a war . The American economy was the largest and most technologically advanced on the planet , brimming with broad-shouldered vitality . Perhaps above all , the President thought big ; he had grand , expansive ideas of how the world might be ordered to increase human security and happiness , and he cast these thoughts not in terms of some narrow set of American interests but as universal truths applicable to all nations and all problems . In international affairs , he lived by a clear identification of what was good and what was evil , and he believed in inclining American policy so that it supported the former ; he was a great believer in moral clarity . <P> All of which , to many of those who had to deal with him , made him a royal pain . The British Prime Minister thought the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The French Prime Minister , exasperated by the President 's airs , said that talking to him was like talking to Jesus Christ . Europeans found the President ignorant ; he was , said the leading public intellectual of the time , not just " ill-informed " but " slow and unadaptable . " The central problem , this observer believed , was that the President 's " thought and his temperament were essentially theological not intellectual , with all the strength and the weakness of that manner of thought , feeling and expression . " <P> It was not George W. Bush he was describing but Woodrow Wilson . When Wilson set off for the peace conference in Paris at the end of World War I , he was , said John Maynard Keynes ( the source of the waspish comments above ) endowed with a " prestige and a moral influence throughout the world unequaled in history . " Conventional wisdom holds that he wasted these assets . As Margaret MacMillan documents in her new history , Paris 1919 , Wilson 's commitments to self-determination , democracy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vogue ) were frequently frustrated at the peace conference by Europeans interested mainly in land grabs . After he returned from Paris , writes Michael Mandelbaum in his recent book , The Ideas That Conquered the World , Wilson 's negotiations with those Senators who thought that membership in the League of Nations would endanger American independence were " a masterpiece of political incompetence . " Among the more hard-nosed realist practitioners of American statecraft  --  the sort of folk who have found a natural home in the Bush Administration  --  it has long been fashionable to deride Wilson as a fuzzy dreamer . In a January 2000 article in Foreign Affairs , Condoleezza Rice , who would become Bush 's National Security Adviser , sniffed , with obvious disapproval , that there were " strong echoes " of " Wilsonian thought " in the Clinton Administration .                     