@@385065

Dark energy powers the expanding universe and pervades all of space , but no one yet knows what it is. // Many astronomers now subscribe to a starting proposition : Nearly three-quarters of the universe comprises a strange entity that 's spread evenly throughout space - it may even be a part of space itself . This mysterious entity , called " dark energy , " causes our universe 's expansion to speed up . If dark energy remains as persistent as it appears , it disperse everything in the cosmos into a cold , ever-expanding void . This strange scenario has gained credence since 1998 , when studies of distant type Ia supernovae suggested these stellar explosions , which are known tor unitorm energy output , were dimmer - and thus farther away - than expected lor their redshilts . Astronomers proposed that an unseen force was causing the universe to expand at an accelerated clip . Cosmic microwave background ( CMB ) measurements from the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe ( WMAP ) and other experiments supported this notion . " There was a moment of disbelief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Laboratory , who leads one of the supernova-study teams . But as data filtered in from multiple fronts , astronomers moved from denial to grudging acceptance . Dark energy , which many consider to be the deepest , most important mystery in all of science , was here to stay . " Dark energy is not predicted by the physics we understand , " says Adam Riess of the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore . " So , learning about it will almost certainly lead us to something new and exotic . " Groping in the dark Astronomers have three leading explanations for dark energy , and deciding among them will be a major focus of cosmologists for years . The first is the cosmological constant , proposed ( and later recanted ) by Albert Einstein . In this view , dark energy is an intrinsic , uniform property of space . The second idea , called quintessence , involves an unidentified energy field of varying strength that tills space like a fog . Scientists envision this unidentified energy as similar to that which drove inflation , the rapid burst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The third alternative ? Dark energy is an illusion . Instead , the effects we see result from a breakdown in Einstein 's theory of gravity over the largest distance scales . Most scientists have focused on the existence of dark energy . But this " modified gravity " alternative deserves serious consideration as well , says Princeton University 's David Spergel . The right explanation may turn out to he " none of the above . " While these competing ideas differ dramatically , says Daniel Eisenstein of the University of Ari/ona , " From an observational standpoint , the differences could be extremely subtle . You can construct all kinds of models that give you answers that are close to the cosmological constant . The only way to tell the difference is by doing the measurements extremely accurately . " It wo n't be easy , Perlmutter admits . " It took us 10 years to realize the universe is accelerating , and it will take at least as long to figure out what 's behind it , " he says . " The good news is that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need to throw everything we can at this problem , " insists Robert Nichol of the University of Portsmouth , England . " We need to throw the kitchen sink at it . " All told , astronomers are pursuing roughly a dozen different approaches . So far , the big payoff has come from supernovae , which provide the only direct measure of cosmic expansion . Standard candles To chart the universe 's expansion history , astronomers measure a supernova 's luminosity and redshilt . Because each type la supernova releases about the same energy , each blast 's luminosity reflects its distance from Karth . The redshitt tells us how much the light has stretched ( how much the universe has expanded ) during its travel . By looking at supernovae over a broad redshift range , astronomers discovered the universe 's expansion rate has varied . The focus now , says Riess , is to push back to higher redshifts in order to measure the acceleration 's onset . The Hubble Space Telescope is the best tool for finding distant supernovae . But a dedicated space instrument , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would hasten the process . As now envisioned , SNAP would best Hubble with both a larger field of view ( 0.7 ) and a billion-pixel imager . When did dark energy 's push overtake gravity 's pull ? Based on Hubble observations , Riess believes the balance tipped about 5 billion years ago , but he 'd like to know exactly when the changeover occurred because predictions differ among theories . The transition occurs earlier in quintessence models , for instance , than in cosmological-constant models . New surveys now in progress will amass bigger and more homogenous data sets . The ESSENCE program at the Cerro Tololo International Observatory in Chile is midway through a 5-year project to measure 200 supernovae at intermediate redshifts . Another 5-year effort , the Supernova Legacy Survey at the Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope on Mauna Kea in Hawaii , is designed to detect and monitor 1,000 high-redshift supernovae . " It 's hard to say how big a sample we need , " notes Riess . " It depends on what nature has in store for us . " Meanwhile , astronomers need to understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probes . " There were n't as many heavy metals in the early universe , which could lead to a difference in explosion physics - and , hence , brightness - that might fool us , " explains Harvard University physicist Christopher Stubbs . Astronomers are trying to address this concern through close scrutiny of supernova spectra . Wiggling baryons One method for exploring dark energy potentially has the highest precision , according to University of Oklahoma cosmologist Yun Wang . It involves " baryonic acoustic oscillations " - fluctuations in the distribution of photons and particles of ordinary matter ( baryons ) caused by sound waves sloshing around in the early universe . Think of these fluctuations as the ripples made by tossing a pebble in a glass-smooth pond . The waves left a faint imprint in the distribution of galaxies . The galaxies , in other words , tend to space themselves on a distinct physical scale . They constitute a " standard ruler , " just as type Ia supernovae serve as standard candles . The basic approach is to find a large number of galaxies with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with redshift , observers then determine the scale of peak dumpiness . By measuring the angle this " preferred length " subtends , scientists say they can determine the distance to the galaxy . The distance-redshift relation , as with supernovae , tells researchers how dark energy has influenced the universe 's expansion . Daniel Eisenstein and colleagues first measured these baryon wiggles last year in Sloan Digital Sky Survey data . The result validates the supernova findings through different means , but it will take a more precise redshift survey , drawing on more galaxies in a larger volume of space , to probe dark energy further . " With Sloan , we detected the effect with 4-percent precision , but we 'd like to get to 1 - percent precision , " Eisenstein says . Two experiments are planned to achieve this goal . The Hobby-Eberly Telescope Dark Energy Experiment will survey a million galaxies out to redshift 3 , starting in 2008 . For comparison , this is almost double the 1.7 redshift of SN 19971'f , the most distant supernova known , Eisenstein is working with a competing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wl-MOS ) on Hawaii 's Subaru or Gemini North telescope . First light for the new instrument is scheduled for 2013 . Clusters count Galaxy clusters offer insights to the problem , too . One method exploits the fact that the CMB spectrum is distorted in characteristic ways when its microwave photons interact with the hot gas inside clusters . The phenomenon , which cools long-wavelength photons and energizes short-wavelength photons , is called the Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect ( SZE ) . The South Pole telescope ( SPT ) , a millimeter- and submillimeter-wavelength instrument being built in Antarctica to search for this effect , is expected to begin observations in 2007 . SPT designers expect to discover up to 30,000 new clusters with masses greater than 100 trillion Suns . Once the survey identifies targets , optical observers will measure the clusters ' redshitts so astronomers can determine how the number of clusters changes as a function of redshift . This , in turn , will show how dark energy evolved as the universe aged : The number of clusters is sensitive to whether gravity or dark energy is the dominant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facilities like NASA 's Chandra X-ray Observatory . " We see the cluster gas directly with X rays , whereas the SZE approach sees how the gas affects the CMB , " explains Stanford University 's Steven Alien . Through a lens weakly Any concentration of mass bends the light of galaxies behind it . Sometimes this occurs in spectacular fashion , producing rings or double images in the sky . So-called weak gravitational lensing is more common , causing subtle effects that can be observed only statistically . In regions where matter is clustered , galaxy shapes become stretched a tiny bit , say 1 percent . This modest shearing ot galaxy images is detectable because it generally occurs in a single direction . But you have to look at millions or , preferably , billions of galaxies to see a pattern . Because dark energy affects the universe 's expansion rate , it affects the distances between the source , lensing galaxy , and us . By changing these distances , dark energy alters the distortion pattern 's strength , which is something scientists can measure . Astronomers first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the technique is still new . The best effort , according to University of Pennsylvania physicist Gary Bernstein , involved a survey of about 2 million galaxies over 75 square degrees . " We 're just starting to measure dark energy , but the more galaxies we get , the better we 'll do , " he says . " The goal is to see as much sky as possible . " The next step is the Legacy Survey at Mauna Kea - a 5-year effort begun in 2003 . It aims to measure 20 million galaxies over 200 square degrees of sky . The 8.4-meter Large Synoptic Survey Telescope ( LSST ) , scheduled to begin operation in 2012 at a site yet to be named , is even more ambitious . This scope will survey a billion or so galaxies covering 30,000 square degrees . With this unparalleled combination of aperture and field of view , weak lensing - despite its name - could become powerful indeed . Grand synthesis A proposal called the Dark Energy Survey would gather data on 300 million galaxies and merge all of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each other well , " says Joshua Frieman of the University of Chicago . " They suiter from different sources of error , so , if they agree , that gives you confidence in the result . " The survey could begin in 2009 with observations from Cerro Tololo 's 4-meter Blanco Telescope . Harvard 's Christopher Stubbs agrees . " Supernovae misbehaving at high redshift wo n't aftect the density ? I " clusters , nor will observations of large-scale-structure formation affect supernova luminosities . " Owing to the difficulty in making these observations , no one will believe an answer unless it 's obtained using more than one investigative method . Data so far show dark energy to be a much weaker form of Einstein 's cosmological constant , but the precision is n't high enough to rule out other interpretations . As University of Chicago cosmologist Sean Carroll puts it , " All we can do is keep improving the precision until we lose interest . " Astronomers are far from that point now . " We are incredibly lucky to be working just at the moment when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place , " he says . And dark energy constitutes the biggest puzzle piece of all . ONLINE EXTRA Is dark energy just a quirk of gravity ? See www.astronomy.com/toc Sidebar AS COMMANDING as massive spiral galaxy MIDI appears , it and everything else we see in the universe amount to only 4 percent of the cosmos ' total content . Dark matter , the as-yet-unidentified material surrounding galaxies , makes up 22 percent . Dark energy , the strange force that 's pushing the universe apart , makes up 74 percent of the cosmos . NASA/ESA Sidebar SOMETIME in the last few billion years , cosmic expansion began accelerating . The nature of this change is one of science 's biggest mysteries . ASTRONOMY : ROEN KELLY UNTIL 1998 , cosmologists thought the universe was slowly decelerating as the gravity of all matter within it slowed expansion . Since then , astronomers have accumulated evidence that the expansion began accelerating as dark energy counters gravity 's tug . The most recent data indicate cosmic acceleration will continue forever . ASTRONOMY : ROEN KELLY Sidebar " IT TOOK US 10 YEARS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take at least as long to figure out what 's behind it . " - Saul Perlmutter Sidebar DESPERATELY SEEKING SUPERNOVAE The most far-flung supernovae are extremely faint and detectable only in wavelengths blocked by Earth 's atmosphere . NASA and the U.S. Department of Energy are sponsoring the Joint Dark Energy Mission ( JDEM ) , a space-borne observatory dedicated to unlocking dark energy 's secrets . JDEM. to be launched at least a decade from now , will employ one of the following designs : * Dark Energy Space Telescope ( DESTINY ) . This project , headed by Jon Morse at NASA 's Goddard Space Flight Center , is a 1.8-meter near-infrared space telescope dedicated to surveying highredshift supernovae. * Joint Efficient Dark-energy Investigation ( JEDI ) . This 2m space telescope would monitor 14,000 type la supernovae , capture redshifts for more than 100 million galaxies , and conduct a weak-lensing survey . Yun Wang of the University of Oklahoma heads up JEDI . * Supernova/Acceleration Probe ( SNAP ) . This 2m optical and near infrared scope would discover and measure the spectra of 6,000 distant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a weak-lensing survey . Saul Perlmutter , Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory , is the principal investigator. - S. N. THE SOUTH Pole Telescope , now under construction , will observe the sky at millimeter and longer wavelengths , a region between radio and the infrared . Its first key project , a wide-area survey of galaxy clusters using the Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect , will complement supernova studies . UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO Sidebar Four ways to target dark energy High-redshift supernovae FAR-FLUNG SUPERNOVAE appear redder because cosmic expansion stretches the light we see . ASTRONOMY : ROEN KELLY THE MOST DISTANT type Ia supernovae look dimmer than they should , which indicates they 're located farther from us than expected from the standard energy of these blasts . SN 1997ff , which lies at redshift 1.7 , is the farthest such supernova known , but most type Ia types have redshifts less than 1 . In a single year , a space telescope dedicated to finding supernovae could identify thousands at redshift 1.5 and beyond . This would reveal much about dark energy 's properties . ASTHONOMY : ROEN KELLY Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect HOT GAS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CMB ) . The gas'fast-moving electrons can give a CMB photon an energy boost . This distortion of the CMB is called the Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect ( SZE ) . ASTSONOMY : ROEN KELLY Baryonic acoustic oscillations SOUND WAVES in the early universe left their imprint in the CMB . Last year , Daniel Eisenstein and colleagues announced the discovery of corresponding ripples in the distribution of galaxies mapped as part of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey ( SDSS ) . Because the ripples appear both in relatively nearby galaxy groups and the high-redshift CMB , they offer a geometric measure of the relative distance between these widely separated redshifts - and more clues to cosmic acceleration . SDSS Weak lensing LIGHT FROM the distant universe wends its way through gravitational distortions caused by regions of dark matter . This creates a slight shear in individual galaxy images - so slight , it 's apparent only when astronomers compare large numbers of galaxies . LSST CORPORATION Sidebar " WE 'RE JUST STARTING to measure dark energy , but the more galaxies we get , the better we 'll do . " - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground-based , wide-field , 8.4-meter instrument designed to image the entire available sky every 3 nights . Its superb images will help astronomers trace the shapes of remote galaxies - and see distortions produced by dark matter . This will provide an important and independent measure of dark energy . LSST CORPORATION Author Affiliation Steve Nadis is a frequent contributor to Astronomy . His previous article was " What happens when black holes collide ? " in the May issue . // <p>                     