@@413046

If robotic-controlled telescopes are the future of astronomical observing , then Tenagra Observatories are leading this technological revolution . // BY TOM POLAKIS // Fifty million years ago , one star out of billions in an ordinary spiral galaxy ended its life in a spectacular blaze of glory . During several weeks , it grew to millions of times its usual brightness , briefly rivaling the combined light output of every star , nebula , and cluster in the galaxy . In 2003 , that same star 's light hit the mirror of a telescope in southern Arizona , was detected by the sensor of a CCD camera , and recorded on a computer while the owner of this equipment lay fast asleep . In the mid-1990s , supernova hunting was the province of night owls who possessed the stamina to endure long , cold nights in the field . Now the tools of the trade are changing . Robotic telescopes enable astronomers to survey the sky more efficiently and reduce the data during the day . The result of this advancing technology has been an explosion in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than half of the 2,433 supernovae in recorded history had been discovered in the previous six years . The future of astronomical discovery lies in the use of robotic equipment , and amateur astronomers like Michael Schwartz are leading the revolution in robotic-observation techniques . During an April evening in 2003 , Schwartz 's camera searches the star fields around 521 different galaxies for supernovae ; this is a rather slow night , considering the camera often observes about 1,000 . Just three of the 521 galaxies have made the cut , showing interlopers that have not been ruled out yet as minor planets or foreground stars . The previous night 's image of one of these galaxies , NGC 4517 , looks particularly promising , exhibiting an 18th-magnitude star near the core that does n't appear in the archives . Schwartz suspects this one could be a supernova . He has discovered more than 40 of them since 1997 , so when he says it looks promising , you believe him . Photograph THE 32-INCH SCITECH TELESCOPE ( above and right ) withstands Schwartz 's rigorous nightly demands . Modified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tenagra telescope . Observing time on the 32-inch scope is available to professional astronomers ; it is currently 30 percent subscribed . TOM POLAKIS Photograph THE 32-INCH SCITECH TELESCOPE ( above and right ) withstands Schwartz 's rigorous nightly demands . Modified Ash domes work with the carefully orchestrated movements of each Tenagra telescope . Observing time on the 32-inch scope is available to professional astronomers ; it is currently 30 percent subscribed . TOM POLAKIS // From dream to reality In 1997 , Michael Schwartz left Prime Factors , Inc. , the software company he founded in 1980 , with enough capital to pursue his life 's dream of hunting for supernovae . From a site in western Oregon , armed with a Celestron 14-inch Schmidt-Cassegrain scope and an Apogee A CCD camera , he visually compared potential supernovae to star fields on the 102-CD set of the Digitized Sky Survey . In the first month of operation , he discovered three supernovae , and five more the next summer . These discoveries mark the beginning of Tenagra Observatories . In 1999 , Schwartz developed his superior Arizona site , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summer monsoon months , between July 1 and September 15 . The Arizona site is located in an ideal observing location in the Sonoran Desert , 4,300 feet above sea level . By no means as transparent as other world-class sites on other Arizona mountaintops , the seeing from Schwartz 's Arizona site averages 2 ' ' ' ' . Darker sites and steadier air exist , but logistics came into play during the planning stages of this project : How accessible was the site for installing equipment ? Was Internet service available ? Were power and water available ? Would anyone want to live there ? Photograph SUPERNOVA DISCOVERIES have increased significantly in just the last few years . This drastic increase of discovery relates directly to the growing practice of robotic observing . ASTRONOMY : ROEN KELLY // Two fully robotic telescopes stand on the Arizona property : a tenacious 32-inch Ritchey-Chretien manufactured by SciTech Astronomical Research and a SciTech 24-inch Ritchey-Chretien . A Celestron 14-inch telescope , a workhorse , sits on a Software Bisque Paramount . Robotic observing challenges Maintaining telescopic focus is no trivial matter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scope points to different altitudes . A pre-established model of these variables capable of corrupting data , in cooperation with an ongoing process of active focusing , ensures that precise focus is maintained throughout the night . Pointing and tracking , or " getting there and staying there , " are equally important as focus . SciTech discarded the original gears of their mounts in favor of friction bearings with diameters measured in feet , which have an incredible pointing accuracy of 10 ' ' ' ' . Exposures lasting up to five minutes require no guiding . Schwartz uses off-the-shelf software that communicates with the Tenagra telescopes in a common language . This method differs from the approach of universities that often use incompatible " student-ware " unique to a particular telescope . Tenagra 's software is used for telescope , dome , and camera control , image processing , and data reduction . Such familiar software names as TheSky , MaxIm DL , and Astronomer 's Control Panel are installed on his machines . Regardless of the money you 're willing to spend , making a functional robotic survey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each night taxes all the equipment , from the computer software to the dome . During my stay , a dome resting on the ground rather than the walls of its observatory testified to the intense demands this type of survey work puts on hardware . Like other equipment that has occupied these grounds , this particular dome failed Schwartz 's rigorous tests . This latest casualty pales in comparison to a 20-inch telescope that did not meet his specifications . Other equipment at the site purchased from reputable manufacturers has been coaxed into service only after extensive modifications . Sharing the sky But such trials and tribulations are worth it . The flawless functioning of the Tenagra telescopes has resulted in a successful collaboration with Lick Observatory to form the Lick Observatory Tenagra Observatory Supernova Search ( LOTOSS ) . Lick defines observing lists , and the two parties double their productivity by sharing the sky rather than overlapping their searching areas . Many of Tenagra 's discoveries are scientifically significant . For example , bright galaxy NGC 2403 hosts a 19th-magnitude object that is not luminous enough to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called a " luminous blue variable star " until astronomers invent a better name for it . In the same discovery frame as supernova 2003dt in NGC 6962 is the fading light of supernova 2002ha - two Supernovae appearing simultaneously in one galaxy ! While Schwartz 's passion is supernovae , his partner Paulo Holvorcem remotely controls the Arizona and Oregon scopes from his home in Brazil to monitor everything inside the radius of the Oort Cloud . His results - based on an average of one hour of observing per night - are staggering . In a recent eight-month period , the Tenagra telescopes recorded more than 7,000 asteroid observations , including 2,700 near-Earth objects ( NEOs ) , and made 141 minor-planet discoveries . Besides his many impressive observing contributions , Holvorcem also has authored various pieces of useful astronomy software that streamline the observing process at Tenagra . His Tools for Automated Observing performs the critical task of optimally scheduling robotic observations . The software determines the best path between targets to minimize idle time . " Any wasted time in robotic observing is a mortal sin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's observing time , Tenagra provides telescope time for professionals on a unique price structure . Typically , observatories charge per " observing run " - a block of time spent on the mountain - which usually lasts about a week . During that time , equipment and weather problems can limit the data acquired . Tenagra offers a fixed rate per hour of exposure , which allows for lengthy projects such as the nightly monitoring of a variable star for months at a time , or the determination of a rotation light-curve for an asteroid . Photograph MICHAEL SCHWARTZ sits at " mission control " at the Arizona Tenagra site and reviews the past night 's observations . Inset : Paulo Holvorcem ( sitting ) concentrates his and Tenagra 's efforts on objects inside the Oort Cloud . A complement to Tenagra 's advanced , user-friendly technology , Holvorcem conducts his observations remotely from his home in Brazil . TOM POLAKIS SUPERNOVA 2003DR in NGC 4517 was captured by Michael Schwartz . MICHAEL SCHWARTZ // Thrill of discovery Schwartz does not consider supernova-hunting to be a competition . Instead , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do it right . Other observers have excelled throughout the past decade due to similar enthusiastic persistence . Perhaps the best known is Tim Puckett , who conducts his searches from northern Georgia using homemade equipment . He has netted more than 60 discoveries since 1998 . In Australia , Robert Evans , Schwartz 's hero , has proven to be the greatest visual discoverer of supernovae . Every night , Evans visually surveys the star fields of hundreds of galaxies - whose star fields he has memorized . He made 37 discoveries between 1981 and 2002 . Yet the sky of the Southern Hemisphere remains largely untapped by robotic instruments . Schwartz is in the early stages of setting up a robotic observatory at a site in Australia . Schwartz intends to have four supernova survey telescopes and two wide-field instruments at his site in Australia - the first robotic setup in the Southern Hemisphere working to his exacting specifications . The discovery of supernovae in large numbers is n't an aggrandizing game ; rather , it has scientific merit . Most interesting are Type Ia supernovae , which result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This class of supernova is an excellent standard candle - an object with predictable intrinsic brightness . If astronomers know how luminous an object is and how bright it appears , they can deduce its distance . Recently , distances from Earth were computed for galaxies hosting Type Ia supernovae , and these results were compared to the traditional method of using redshift to determine distance . A systematic discrepancy in their distances indicates the universe has somehow accelerated from a " free coasting " state since the Big Bang . Increasing the sample size of supernovae enables astronomers to better characterize this phenomenon of the acceleration of the universe . It is of great importance to capture supernovae during their early stages of development . Years ago , supernovae often were discovered only after they reached maximum brightness . This resulted in a well-characterized decay of the light curve , but little was known about the increase , which takes about three weeks from explosion to maximum light . Recently , more supernovae are captured during their rise thanks to galaxy surveys like LOTOSS . The rise-time reveals for astronomers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The cloudy Arizona night in April passes without confirmation of Schwartz 's prediction that the extra star in NGC 4517 actually is a supernova . However , from his site in northern Georgia , Tim Puckett discovers the same star and confirms it is a supernova . The newly discovered supernova is designated SN 2003dr on IAU Circular Number 8117 . In the following weeks , the star does not brighten beyond magnitude 18 . Only a handful of people observe the supernova , but this does not diminish its magnificence . Schwartz reminisces about the last five years and muses over where his project will be in the next five . The upswing for robotic observing has just begun . Competition will lead to more reliable equipment to the point that a robotic telescope of modest aperture will be turnkey . Visual and manual discoveries still will be made , but non-human methods will dominate out of necessity . It is not only impractical for a person to do the observing , but it is also impossible to keep up with the rate of discovery that robotic scopes achieve . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ romance out of astronomy , but the thrill of discovery remains . Increasing knowledge is what all sciences are about , and it will take place by leaps and bounds in astronomy in coming years thanks to an unprecedented volume of data . The future of astronomical discovery has never held such promise . Discuss robotic observing in an on-line forum at www.astronomy.com/toc Sidebar Any wasted time in robotic observing is a mortal sin . - MICHAEL SCHWARTZ Author Affiliation Tom Polakis lives in Arizona , where he is an aerospace engineer by day and a deep-sky observer and astrophotographer by night . // <p>                     