@@388356

Headnote In a candid interview , the veteran broadcast journalist shares her personal struggle with bipolar disorder and newfound role in the campaign for mental health . an Interview with Jane Pauley For more than three decades , Jane Pauley graced our homes , a friendly face covering the events that shaped our lives . Her wholesome beauty , subtle wit , and Midwestern charm captured the hearts and admiration of millions of Americans and earned the broadcaster fame , family , and fortune beyond her wildest dreams . While front and center on the world stage Interviewing celebrities , royalty , and politicians , Pauley preferred the private life , bypassing the glare of celebrity to embrace her family , Including husband , cartoonist Carry Trudeau , and their three children . In an Industry that thrives on image , Pauley remained resilient , demonstrating humility and self-effacing humor rare in the primetime world of American media . Then at age 50 , Pauley was diagnosed with bipolar disorder , surprising herself , family , and colleagues alike . With courage and depth , the Emmy Award-winning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with bipolar disorder in a moving memoir , Skywriting : A Life Out of the Blue . " Truth arrives in microscopic increments , and when enough has accumulated , in a moment of recognition , you just know , " writes Pauley in her New York Times bestseller . " You know because the truth fits . " With characteristic candor and warmth , Jane Pauley spoke with the Post about her journey of self-discovery , mental-health advocacy , and future plans . Post : How common is a first diagnosis of bipolar disorder at the age of 50 ? Jane Pauley : Not common at all , but becoming more so . I try not to confuse my experience having a mood disorder with expertise , and this is an area of disagreement among doctors , so I will tread cautiously . Bipolar disorder is known to have a strong genetic component-so It 's likely that my genes predisposed me to have a mood disorder-but until I was treated with steroids for hives , it was n't " activated " or not at a level that would have appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low-grade depression before , but never hypomania . For the purposes of diagnosis , the fact that my first episode of hypomania was triggered by a drug prescribed for the treatment of some other illness is significant , but the practical effect was that a doctor who knew me as one of his " worried well " patients suddenly recognized symptoms of a very serious illness . Post : Some people with bipolar suffer wild and even dangerous flights of mania and even psychoses . Were you ever manic ? Jane Pauley : Doctors have specific criteria regarding mania and hypomania . I was never at the level of mania , though I do n't know how close I was . I never suffered psychosis , nor was I ever suicidal , but I was talking about a Dateline story I 'd done in January of ' ' 01-just five months before I was hospitalized-involving a teenage girl who tried to kill herself . My doctor explained that suicide can be an impulsive gesture-and the mere fact of talking about it was a danger sign . That 's why he asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hospital . I was there for three weeks . Bipolar is considered a potentially fatal disease because the risk of suicide is so high . Friends and loved ones should know that anyone who talks about suicide-overtly or even obliquely-is in great danger . Post : Have you had more episodes of hypomania , such as the one you wrote about in our excerpt of Skywriting ? Do you expect more ? Jane Pauley : It 's been five years and there 's been no recurrence of hypomania , though I sometimes struggle with mild depression . Despite many wonderful antidepressants available today , doctors ca n't treat bipolar depression as aggressively as they would the very much more common unipolar depression because there 's always the risk of triggering that rebound effect . I may never have another episode of hypomanla , but I could have one and I live accordingly . Post : What do you mean " live accordingly " ? Jane Pauley : I take care of myself . I take medicine the doctor prescribes ; I keep him informed of changes in my moods , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also learning what factors seem to affect my mood-call it " stress " - and I 'm trying to learn how to modify those stressors . I 've only recently learned that cognitive behavior therapy can be beneficial for people with bipolar disorder . Knowing it was a biologically based disease , I did n't think psychotherapy had much to offer , but learning how to navigate life 's difficulties more productively can make life less stressful . That makes sense to me . What does n't make sense is why compliance is so low . I meet a lot of people who say , " I have what you have " or who have a loved one who suffers with bipolar disorder , and I always ask if they 're taking care of themselves . " Not really " is the most common answer . Post : Why do you think that is ? Jane Pauley . Bipolar disorder is a baffling disease . While science is learning more about the brain every day-with technology that scientists would not have believed possible until recently-not enough is known about the causes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , finding the right one or the right combinations is sometimes a trial-and-error process . It may take time to get it right . And there may be side effects that undermine compliance . Post : Have you suffered side effects ? Jane Pauley : Lithium is associated with weight gain-so yes to that . And sometimes tremors : shaky hands and wobbly knees were unnerving at first . I remember struggling to get a spoonful of soup in my mouth at first , and the time I was offered tongs to grasp a sugar cube and flipped it six feet across the room ! But one big advantage of being able to talk publicly about having a mood disorder is that I can explain why and laugh about it ! Post : Have you experienced the stigma against mental illness ? Jane Pauley : Not that I have been aware of , but I do n't expect it , so I 'm not on the lookout . If I was terribly sensitive to stigma , I 'm sure it would be easy to spot every day . Sidebar An Indianapolis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when inducted into the Indiana Broadcasters Association Hall of Fame , where she visited with Post editor Patrick Perry . In a 2005 cover story for bp Magazine-a quarterly publication for those with bipolar disorder-Pauley shared her experience with the illness , writing , " I had already decided that if only one good thing came out of this mess , it would be the opportunity to talk about the disease . 