@@406448

I LOVE TO MAKE STUFF , WHICH DOES N'T MAKE ME MUCH DIFferent from many women I know . Lots of us like to knit , quilt , crochet , or do needlepoint for a whole variety of reasons : because it relaxes us , it empowers us and brings us joy to find we can make something , or because we wind up creating something beautiful that we can give to someone special . These are all wonderful reasons to develop crafting as a hobby , but I firmly believe that handcrafts are more than that . They can be a spiritual practice and even a spiritual path to deeper union with God , with the world , and with others , particularly the poor and disenfranchised . Historically , there have always been handcrafts at the heart of the church , such as the tapestries , vestments , and altar linens so often made by religious women for liturgical purposes . Certainly the production of such handwork provided income for the women , but it also provided " holy work " that engaged their hearts as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ focus , and the creative expression of their love for God and others . HANDCRAFTS-KNITTING , POTTERY , BASKET MAKING , literally anything made by hand- require a certain degree of concentration while at the same time freeing our minds from lots of chatter . Anyone who 's a proficient crafter knows that learning and practicing a handcraft has the ability to bring you to an inner place of calm , peace , and quiet where time flows and the mind is able to relax and open up to a different level of consciousness . For those who have a hard time with contemplative prayer and meditation because they find their mind wandering , taking up handcrafts can provide a gentle path to learn how to simply " be " at a different level , where words are of less importance . It 's a place where the body develops a rhythm , through repetitive action , that helps quiet the mind and open the heart to new ways of listening and being still . Sometimes the rhythm of pulling a needle in and out of fabric over and over brings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or not , has its source in the divine . In this manner , making a quilt or felting a brooch can become a way of praying . In creating a thing of beauty , I can appreciate the wordless revelation of the divine in creativity , beauty , pattern , color , design , and the raw materials of the earth . I become one with the Creator in spirit , appreciating that so much of what God has been about since the beginning of time is creating and sustaining beauty- and inviting us to share in the unfolding of beauty and goodness in the world . Creating works of art and beauty also sensitizes my soul to beauty in all aspects of life , and cultivating creativity makes me a more creative thinker , problem-solver , and even prayer . IN MY NEARLY 20 YEARS AS A PROFESsional lay minister I have come to deeply appreciate handcrafts as a spiritual path and as a " tool " for building the kingdom of God . Even in the poorest of slums I 've met impoverished women who claim making beautiful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman who told me that when she was weaving , she was most truly herself . And a group of Bolivian women once told me that knitting things of beauty is not simply a path to union with God , it is union with the Creator . These women have no doubt about the importance and power of arts and crafts to celebrate and sustain life , even in the face of crushing poverty . Often they form cooperatives where they not only gather to create crafts to sell but also to sustain and celebrate their artistic , spiritual , and ethnic heritage , to support each other as women , and to struggle together for economic justice and empowerment . Likewise , meeting with women here in the United States for crafting has been an important part of my own spiritual life . I meet with six to eight women monthly , making cards and scrapbooks for battered women , beading bracelets for teenage girls in group homes , and crocheting blankets for the poor and homeless . Last summer we coordinated a weekend crafting retreat where 30 women came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization Dollies Without Borders . As we continue to gather and make things , we grow in loving support of our different journeys , and our circle of good works continues to grow as more and more women are joining us or creating their own crafting groups or crafts retreats . HANDCRAFTS HAVE INTRODUCED me to new ways of knowing and loving God . Through " making stuff " I can listen to the divine and pray with my hands and hearts . I can be in solidarity with the poor and with other women on the spiritual path , and put beauty , goodness , and love into the lives of others and our world .                     