@@390690

Few things motivate Arab spokesmen more than the chance to condemn Israel . Yet they were subdued when Israeli warplanes flew deep into Syrian airspace earlier this month . The Arab League called the incursion " unacceptable , " but most Mideast governments kept quiet . Their lack of support for Damascus has much to do with Syria 's close relationship to Iran , whose rising power they fear . But some Israeli officials and analysts are reading it optimistically , perhaps dangerously so . " You can learn something from it as to how the Arab world might react to an Israeli or American attack against strategic targets in Iran , " says Yossi Alpher , a former Israeli intelligence official . Whatever the Israeli planes were doing in Syria , Iran 's nuclear program-which Tehran says is peaceful-could n't help but loom over their mission . " It 's a tacit reminder to Europe and to Washington that if they do n't take a tougher action against Iran , Israel may have to do it alone , " says Avner Cohen , a nuclear expert and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Details of the Israeli operation remain hazy . Syria 's ambassador to the United States told NEWSWEEK the Israeli warplanes dropped munitions in the open desert near Dayr az Zawr before fleeing ; he promised his country would retaliate in a manner and at a time of its choosing . " Israel will not be permitted to do whatever it does without paying a price , " says Imad Moustapha . But the unparalleled censorship Israel clamped on the operation has fueled speculation that the target could have been a missile factory or nuclear technology from North Korea . ( Some U.S. intelligence sources say the latter claim is shaky . ) The story of the Israeli operation appears to have begun with aerial photographs shot from a spy plane or satellite . A former U.S. official , who asked for anonymity to discuss sensitive matters , told NEWSWEEK that Israel showed the images of a site in northern Syria to a very small group of officials in Washington last month , suggesting it was part of a nuclear project underway with North Korean involvement . Bush administration neocons have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that Pyongyang , alleged to have been selling missiles to Syria and Iran since the 1990s , could be a potential supplier . When North Korea issued an unusually loud condemnation of Israel last week , hard-liners like former U.N . ambassador John Bolton read it as possible evidence of Pyongyang 's involvement in the matter . But current and former U.S. intelligence officials , willing to speak only if they were not named , say they 've seen no credible evidence yet of nuclear ties between North Korea and Syria , whether before or since the Israeli operation . David Albright , a former weapons inspector in Iraq , says allegations raised by Bolton prompted the International Atomic Energy Agency to inspect Syria 's small nuclear research reactor and other sites in 2003 . He says the agency found the claims to be " unsubstantiated . " Even Bolton , who served as the State Department 's under secretary for arms control and international security , acknowledged to NEWSWEEK THAT while in government , he never saw proof North Korea was sharing nuclear technology with Syria . For Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to warrant the operation . Officially in a state of war with Syria-and Iran-Israel has vowed to let neither country obtain nukes ( though Israel itself is believed to have built at least 200 nuclear bombs in its secret Dimona plant ) . Earlier this year , according to a well-placed Israeli source , Prime Minister Ehud Olmert asked President Bush for assurances that if economic and political sanctions failed to get Iran to shut down its nuclear facilities , Bush would order the U.S. military to destroy them before he leaves office . Bush has yet to provide the assurances , according to the source , who refused to be quoted because he is not authorized to speak for the government . The source says the Israeli government believes the Iranians will reach the point of no return in their nuclear-enrichment program sometime next year . U.S. intelligence agencies , by contrast , believe Iran is still two to eight years away from mastering the technology to build a bomb . Some officials warn that attacking Iran would mire U.S. forces in another messy war and might prove ineffective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the country and buried deep underground . Still , from Israel 's perspective , there might never be a more supportive White House . " It makes sense that if Israel has to do it alone , it would want to do it on Bush 's watch and not wait to see what the political attitude of the next administration will be , " says Alpher . That Arab states , and the world , will look away next time might be too much to assume . With Jeffrey Bartholet In Washington Credit : With Jeffrey Bartholet In Washington photo : RISING THREATS : AN Israeli fighter ; Olmert wants a promise of U.S. help against Tehran FROM LEFT : IDF-REUTERS , RONEN ZVULUN-AFP-GETTY IMAGES <p>                     