@@387786

CONNOISSEUR 'S WORLD Headnote Sparkling new settings for a handful of the city 's preeminent cultural institutions give art lovers everywhere cause for celebration . BY TED LOOS // Manhattan 's famous skyline is the ultimate work in progress-older buildings are perpetually making way for bigger , taller ( and sometimes even better ) ones . While the world has recently seen landmarks tragically coming down , plenty of others are triumphantly rising throughout the city . Here are five of New York 's most compelling new-or dramatically improved-cultural institutions . There 's no more arresting silhouette to be found in the city than that of the AUSTRIAN CULTURAL FORUM 's new skyscraper , which recently opened its doors on East Fifty-second Street . ( It replaces the forum 's five-story town house on the same site . ) The masterwork of Tyrol-born architect Raimund Abraham , the twenty-four-story tower steps back and slopes away from the street like a high-tech Alpine peak or an A-frame house on steroids . But this is no urban ski chalet-it 's bravura architecture intended to bring international recognition to Austrian arts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " explains Christoph Thun-Hohenstein , the forum 's director . " And we felt Austria needed a stronger presence here . " Mission accomplished . But as much as Austria needed the forum to lift its profile , New York is lucky to get Abraham 's building , which is , amazingly , the sixty-nine-year  --  old architect 's first public project to be constructed in the United States . ( Although he has a huge cult following and is one of Austria 's most recognizable figures , he 's mostly famous as an agent provocateur and theorist . ) Behind the building 's dramatic glass front lurk ingeniously arranged interior spaces , which are all the more impressive considering the constraints of its narrow  --  just twenty-five-feet wide-midblock site . Occasionally , the dynamic spaces ca n't be contained  --  they literally pierce through the facade in the form of a balcony and Thun  --  Hohenstein 's " crow's-nest " office seven stories above the street . " These were remarkably restrictive conditions , which demanded the ultimate formal reduction , " Abraham says , explaining his modus operandi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ add some local color ) - connects five levels of public spaces . Galleries and seminar rooms finished in brushed aluminum , glass and steel seem light and open despite the close quarters . The forum 's fluid , borderless layout meshes well with its mission : to serve as a contemporary arts center devoted to breaking down barriers between disciplines . To wit , the opening season of events , which run throughout the summer , includes performances of contemporary music inspired by Gustav Mahler and a multimedia exhibition on contemporary Austrian architecture . It 's all being presented under the banner " Transforming Modernity , " a phrase that certainly describes Abraham 's achievement as well . 11 East 52nd Street ; 212-759-5165 . Austrian culture has also taken hold uptown , in the shadow of the Metropolitan Museum of Art . Ronald Lauder , the chairman of Estee Lauder International and a former ambassador to Austria , has pursued his passion for that country 's art to the ultimate end : he has created a new museum , the NEUE GALERIE NEW YORK , in one of Fifth Avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1914 redbrick  --  and-limestone mansion looks as somber and stately as ever-although now it 's typically rung by a line of visitors eager to get in . But since it opened last November , its interiors are alive with one of the world 's most remarkable collections of early-20th-century Austrian ( and German ) fine and decorative arts . " Without being too boastful , I would say that you do n't see such a concentration of this art outside Vienna , " ventures museum director Renee Price . The Neue Galerie is small , with only 200 or so works on display at a time , but each is world-class . The ecstatic , bejeweled ladies of Gustav Klimt mix with Egon Schiele 's emotionally raw watercolors and the designs ( furniture , clocks , silverware ) of architect Adolph Loos . Many are from the personal collections of Lauder ( some are only on loan , others are gifts ) and the late Serge Sabarsky , the legendary art dealer who , with Lauder , dreamed up the idea for such a museum more than a decade ago . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presenting loan shows , like the current exhibition ( through June 10 ) of penetrating early portraits by Oskar Kokoschka . None of this would have come about without Lauder 's extraordinary generosity , which started with a cool $20 million for the building and its renovation . The result : a Mittel-European version of the Frick Collection that has the intimacy of a private residence and a seemingly simple " restored " look that actually took three years to achieve . The young German-born architect Annabelle Selldorf preserved the original oak-and-marble majesty of the building , but also modernized it with admirable sensitivity-new heating grates , for instance , evoke the metalwork of Secessionist architect/designer Josef Hoffmann . " The collections and the building look like they were made for each other , " says an evidently proud Lauder , who has been buying this beautiful , provocative art since he was a teenager and was mentored by Sabarsky . While the second- and third-floor galleries provide plenty of intellectual nourishment , the body can be fed downstairs at Cafe Sabarsky ( 212-288  --  0665 ) , which replicates a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an original Hoffmann chandelier , you can tuck into savories and such sweets as a superb apple strudel . Coffee mit sch lag is a must , and the foam perfectly tops off the rich experience of visiting the Neue Galerie. 1048 Fifth Avenue ; 212-628-6200 . As most pedestrians walking past the scaffolding and construction fences on West Fifty-third Street have gathered by now , the MUSEUM OF MODERN ART is going through another of its periodic growth spurts . ( It has been dramatically altered six times since it opened its doors in 1929 . ) It is now closed until at least 2005 , when Yoshio Taniguchi 's extensive redesign will be completed . It 's the museum 's most ambitious ever-adding 252,000 square feet-and it 's expected to cost several hundred million dollars . Meanwhile , MoMA has gone to heroic lengths to ensure that its famed painting collection can be seen for the next three years : across the river in Queens ( a quick subway or taxi ride away ) , it has built itself an entirely new museum in a former Swingline stapler factory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 160,000 square feet . More than just a dramatic temporary exhibition space , it will permanently house some of the museum 's state-of-the-art storage , cataloguing and research operations . " The new building makes an attribute of change , " says architect Michael Maltzan , who designed the muscular entrance , the lobby , the galleries , the cafe and the bookstore . It 's true : the project provides an eye-opening change of context for the museum 's collections , and the effect is not unlike putting a long-admired masterpiece in a funky new frame . Visitors enter the iridescent-blue structure-an homage to the original blue facade of the stapler factory-by moving through a glass  --  walled entrance sandblasted with MoMA 's familiar logo . All else here , however , is pleasantly unfamiliar : there 's a sweeping , swerving circulation ramp leading to volumes that contain different boldly shaped galleries . These galleries " burst into the public space , " according to museum director Glenn Lowry-and movement could n't be a more appropriate theme , given MoMA 's massive shift of art , personnel and resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major exhibitions is " AUTObodies : speed , sport , transport , " which will take full advantage of the building 's industrial dimensions-some galleries have ceilings more than twenty feet high  --  and fill it with vintage cars ( June 29 through September 16 ) . At the same time , the new museum will continue to display works like van Gogh 's Starry Night ( 1889 ) and Picasso 's Les Demoiselles d'Avignon ( 1907 ) , just some of the Modern 's " greatest hits " that art lovers should n't have to live without . 33rd Street at Queens Boulevard , Long Island City , Queens ; 212-708-9400 . Back in Manhattan and next door to the MoMA construction site is one of the most richly realized museum designs that New York has ever seen : the AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM . The architecture , by Tod Williams and Billie Tsien , a husband-and-wife team , pays tribute to the largely self-taught creators of the decoys , quilts and weather vanes that make up the museum 's core collection . All the while , the $22 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the museum , which opened last December , is no MoMA . The temptation is to call it a jewel box , but " it 's far more gutsy than that , " says Gerard Wertkin , the museum 's director . " The size is modest , but the intent is large . " Take the facade . The museum is clad in shimmering bronze-alloy panels , one triangular section of which tilts out and away from the vertical plane of the street front . The resultant abstract palm shape refers , say the architects , to the hand of the artist . Inside , the materials are very contemporary-steel , glass , lots of concrete and even a wall of green fiberglass panels that extends through the museum 's dramatic , six-story light well-and yet they are anything but cold . " The building has an idiosyncratic sensibility that is very much akin to that of the art we show , " Wertkin explains . Domestic touches abound , since much folk art was originally intended for use around the house . The gallery floors are made from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind a living room rug . Countless niches provide intimate areas for appreciating the art outside a traditional gallery setting . Balconies and lookouts allow visitors to view the collection from different perspectives and watch one another moving through the various gallery levels-one of the many ways in which the building reinforces a sense of community . Last year , the museum received its most significant gift ever , the Ralph Esmerian Collection . Such masterworks from that bequest as a 19th  --  century Statue of Liberty weather vane and Edward Hicks 's painting The Peaceable Kingdom ( 1846-1848 ) are currently on display until June 2 . Other top holdings go up on July 11 , while elements of the Esmerian collection will be displayed periodically . 45 West 53rd Street ; 212-977- 7170 . In the old days , Park Avenue 's ASIA SOCIETY often baffled potential viewers of its art collections and performances . The Society has always been an eminent public policy and education center , but as architect Bartholomew Voorsanger puts it , " Nobody could figure out what was in the building . Was it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1997 to fix that problem , Voorsanger met with the board and told its members , " You should really transform this into a museum . " A modest technical upgrade turned into a $40 million reimagining project as donors got wind of Voorsanger 's remarkable design . It so transformed the place that the name was even changed to the Asia Society and Museum . With global politics and culture on everyone 's mind , the society 's mission is perhaps more vital than ever : to understand the complexities of Asia , which the society defines as ranging from the Middle East to Australia . Adhering to landmark-preservation laws , Voorsanger had to work within the red-granite shell of the original 1980 Edward Larrabee Barnes building . But he gutted the place and somehow managed to double the gallery space to better feature works from the museum 's core holding , the Mr. and Mrs. John D. Rockefeller 3rd Collection . Considered the finest trove of Asian art in the country , it features Chinese ceramics , Indian bronzes and Southeast Asian sculpture . Ambitious temporary exhibitions are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ timely video and photography show " Through Afghan Eyes : A Culture in Conflict , 1987-1992 " ( March 19 to August 11 ) . While avoiding such design cliches as pagoda tops and billowing red silks , Voorsanger successfully captured the spirit of Asian design . Throughout the building , bamboo and birch harmonize nicely with hand-tooled French limestone . He also created the glassed-in Garden Court Cafe , which replaces a dingy terrace , and lunches are now served amid weeping podocarpus trees . ( Friday-night dinners have become popular with Upper East Siders thrilled to have found an appealing restaurant west of Lexington Avenue . ) The museum 's centerpiece is the Robert Miller Family Stair , a curvaceous assemblage of white railings and blue-glass steps that links the four museum floors . Colored like a Ming vase , the torqued staircase has the impact of a freestanding sculpture-a quality also found in the undulating , shoji-like screens , courtesy of designer Yoshi Waterhouse of Vignelli Associates , that open up or close off the greatly expanded gift shop . Attendance has more than doubled since the Asia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to have achieved his goals . In fact , his personal motto sounds right for an entire city rising to its feet again : " I see design as an act of optimism : " 725 Park Avenue ; 212-327-9276 . <p>                     