@@406396

EVERY SO OFTEN , CARA ROSENBLOOM GOES TO WORK IN HER pyjamas - and her boss does n't mind . That 's because Rosenbloom owns her own company , her office is just down the hall from her bedroom , and the only boss in her life is her 22-month-old daughter , Kasey . A registered dietitian who specializes in nutrition communications , Rosenbloom spent almost seven years in the trenches of corporate Canada , and although she enjoyed her jobs , she began to consider self-employment during her pregnancy in 2006 . Before her year-long maternity leave was up , she had launched Words to Eat By , a one-woman nutrition communications company based in her Toronto home . She is n't alone . There are nearly a million self-employed women in Canada , and many are mothers who opted to drop out of the career rat race . It 's easy to see why " mom entrepreneurship " is so popular - what mom would n't want to choose her own work hours and spend more time with her kids while pursuing her passion and potentially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't always work out that way , though . Starting a business requires long hours , and can seriously tax your confidence , your bank balance - even your relationships . And that 's only if your company survives . The cold reality is that fewer than half of small businesses live to celebrate their third anniversary . Yes , entrepreneurship has rewards , but it 's also risky business . Is it for you ? Answer these questions to find out . Q Are you persistent , thick-skinned and decisive ? Although more than one personality type can succeed in business , certain qualities will help you weather the challenges entrepreneurship is sure to bring . Dogged perseverance is one , says Kristi Harris , inventor of Ice Armor , an all-in-one protective hockey suit for kids . " I could easily have given up when the major hockey-equipment manufacturers snubbed me , " she says . " But that just fuelled my fire . " Harris dreamed up the idea as she prepared her son , then five , for a game . " It was after a crazy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The parents and even the kids were frustrated by all the equipment . I asked myself , why ca n't the equipment be all in one piece ? " If you find it hard to make important decisions , and stick with them , entrepreneurship might not be right for you . " Entrepreneurs have to make decisions on a dime , and stand behind them , " says Victoria Sopik , president and co-founder of Kids &; Company Ltd. , a national chain of daycares she found time to launch in 2001 while also managing her household of eight children , aged 11 to 22 . " When faced with a problem , do you require collaborative answers ? Because there 's no time to ask all your friends and your husband what they think , " Sopik says . " Just like being a parent , you have to be responsible for the consequences of your actions . " Q Are you willing to balance passion with practicality ? You have to love what you do , of course . But you may be more successful if you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about changing sectors , " warns Barbara Orser , Deloitte Professor in the Management of Growth Enterprises at the University of Ottawa 's Telfcr School of Management . Following your passion is wonderful in theory , but if you 're relying on your new company to support your family , it may be more practical to use the knowledge and skills you 've built over the years as an employee . If you 're lucky , you enjoy your current line of work and can parlay that passion into your business , as Rosenbloom did . Q Have you done your homework ? You have a fantastic product or service , and your market research ( see below ) suggests that it will sell . That 's a good start . But companies live or the by their owners ' business savvy , not just the quality of their products , says Orser . Do you know what you offer that your competitors do n't ? Does your product allow you to make a good margin - that is , the difference between what you pay to make the product and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about all the sources of financing available to small-business owners ? If you ca n't answer these questions , you may not be quite ready to launch a company . Q Can you line up top-notch child care ? Running a company requires focus and concentration - an almost impossible feat with a baby on your lap . " I believe investing in quality daycare results in a much higher likelihood of a business being sustained , " says Orser , who has seen many mom entrepreneurs quickly burn out after trying to take care of their kids full-time while simultaneously hustling business . It can work for a while , but Orser warns against it for the long term , " working during naps is not sustainable , " she says . For one thing , naps are n't long or frequent enough to get much work done . And it can be hard to schedule phone conversations when you do n't know exactly what time your little one will be asleep . Q Are you prepared to live ( even more ) frugally for a while ? As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's profits . Unfortunately , there may not be any for a while . The average Canadian self-employed mom makes less than she did as a paid employee , especially when you take into account the loss of health benefits , pension and maternity pay for babies she has after striking out on her own . And if you ever choose to return to your nine-to-five job , you may not make as much as if you had never left . Despite being far more successful than the average inventor , it still took Harris five years just to make back the money she spent developing Ice Armor . Like most entrepreneurs , Harris dug into her family 's savings , spending thousands to produce the product prototype and apply for a patent . Although she managed to secure a licensing deal with a European hockey-equipment manufacturer in 2005 that pays her a royalty for every Ice Armor sold , the business has yet to make her rich . Tm hoping this is going to pay off financially down the road , " Harris says . " Right now , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Q Can you accept your work and personal life blending together ? The flexibility that comes with entrepreneurship is one of its biggest draws . Tamar Wagman , a mom of two and co-founder of Sweetpea Baby Food , is able to do daytime programs with her one-year-old daughter - impossible had she continued with her previous career as an event planner . On the flip side , however , an entrepreneur 's work never goes away . You may find you have to work evenings , weekends and holidays . " It 's not nine-to-five , " says Wagman , who started Sweetpea with her childhood friend Eryn Green . " Issues come up on off-hours that need to be dealt with , and that can be a negative . " And planning a vacation , Rosenbloom adds , is next to impossible . Sopik has made a point of not feeling guilty when her business takes a lot of her time . " I never apologize if I 'm at a hockey game and I have to step away to take a business call , " she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I 'd love to be watching the game , but at least I 'm there . " In fact , Sopik believes her long hours and bouts of stress have a positive effect on her children . " It 's really great for kids to see the challenges of the business from a young age because it helps them realize what they choose to do is n't necessarily going to be wonderful and easy . " Still , despite the challenges , entrepreneurship can be gratifying in surprising ways , as Harris discovered recently when her eight-year-old son was asked to write a biography of someone important for his class . " He did me , his mom - an inventor , " she beams . " In the eyes of my kids , I 'm pretty cool . "                     