@@373490

The " spy court " usually makes its rulings in secret . But one decision has so riled the Bush Administration that it is loudly airing an appeal . The court is a federal judicial panel that approves requests for wiretaps and searches in espionage and terrorism cases to ensure conformity to the 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act ( FISA ) , a reform intended to keep the FBI from abusing its power and , say , targeting peaceful dissenters . The ruling , issued on May 17 , was made public last week at the bipartisan behest of the Senate Judiciary Committee , worried about the perceived excesses of Bush 's antiterror campaign . The court ruled that the Justice Department and FBI could not take advantage of several key liberalizations of FISA included in the U.S.A. Patriot Act , passed after the Sept. 11 attacks . Attorney General John Ashcroft wanted criminal prosecutors and counterintelligence agents to share information in a coordinated manner , and Congress agreed by legalizing such information sharing in the act ; but the court now insists that Justice continue to observe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration says its war on terrorism hangs in the balance . As the FISA law stands , an FBI intelligence squad and criminal squad , both assigned to watch potential terrorists , can not freely talk to each other . If the intelligence squad finds out through a wiretap that a bomb is about to be set off , it can not instantly tip off a criminal squad , so the would-be villains can be rounded up . Also , the " spitting on the sidewalk " strategy is undermined ; evidence produced by FISA wiretaps can not be used to support an arrest for a mundane crime like credit-card fraud . Ashcroft and his aides regard the situation as silly and dangerous . " We 've been trying to break the wall down so we can deal with this threat that is always crossing the wall , " says an Ashcroft aide , " and this is putting walls back up . "  --  By Elaine Shannon                     