@@391830

Headnote How a deadly disease could be a hidden cost of choosing cheap meat . Bird flu is caused by a common-and usually harmless-virus found in ducks , but in recent years highly virulent strains have emerged that have caused massive losses of chickens and odier domestic birds raised for food . When an outbreak has occurred , traditionally the virus has been stamped out by quickly destroying all infected and exposed birds . In the United States , 17 million birds were killed in Pennsylvania due to the H5N2 strain of the bird flu virus in 1983 to 1984 , and 200 million birds in Eurasia and Africa have been killed due to the H5N1 strain since 2004 . Needless to say , the poultry industry is terrified of bird flu , but not just because of its avian victims : The H5N1 flu strain arising out of Asia also has killed about 200 people . The last time a bird flu virus adapted to humans , it triggered the flu pandemic of 1918 , which killed an estimated 50 to 100 million people around the globe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raised in stressful , filthy , overcrowded conditions , virulent strains of this virus will continue to arise . The poultry industry is eager both to protect their huge flocks from bird flu outbreaks , and to downplay the connection between the high-risk conditions in their poultry sheds and the propensity these conditions have to facilitate the emergence of deadly strains of the virus . LAYING BLAME Migrating birds have been easy scapegoats . Unfounded claims that wild birds were to blame for the spread of dangerous strains of bird flu were used as a smokescreen to take the focus off industry practices and government policies . But the blanket of protection is being pulled away . A 2006 international science conference , sponsored by the world 's leading veterinary and agricultural authorities , came to the consensus that the main means by which this virus is spreading globally is not via migrating birds , but rather the multibillion dollar commercial trade in poultry products . For example , Britain has more than 10 million free-ranging chickens , but when the deadly Asian strain of bird flu H5N1 first struck the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an outdoor flock-it hit an industrial facility owned by the largest turkey producer in Europe , leaving 160,000 turkeys dead . Likewise , the first outbreaks in Africa and continental Europe occurred in factory farms . Bird flu is traveling more along the railways and highways than the flyways . Not surprisingly then , when this disease lands , it 's more likely to affect those vertically integrated , globalized and industrialized conglomerate poultry empires rather than small , independent producers serving local markets . During the British outbreak in January 2007 , leaked memos showed that the government initially colluded with the industry to cover up that a corporation , Bernard Matthews , was trucking in more than 40 tons of meat from H5N1-stricken Hungary every week As one biologist remarked , one reason fingers continue to point to wild birds is that " corporations pay more taxes than migratory birds do . " The spread throughout Asia seems to have followed the same pattern . Some officials alleged thiat backyard flocks were at higher risk than those housed in enclosed industrial facilities . But when public health researchers from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just the opposite . Publishing their findings in a December 2006 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations report , they found that industrial-scale chicken and egg operations in Thailand were proportionally four times more likely to suffer H5N1 outbreaks than small flocks kept outdoors . Never once has such a virus been known to emerge in a pasture-raised chicken flock-the only scientific study to date on the subject has revealed that industrial facilities are at the highest risk for spreading this virus as well . THE CULPRIT : INDUSTRIAL AG The globalization of this Westernized industrial model of poultry production has not only facilitated the spread of deadly viruses like H5N1 , but also plays a role in their emergence in the first place . After all , people have been raising birds in their back yards for thousands of years and birds have been migrating for millions . Only in recent years have we seen an exponential increase in the number of outbreaks of highly pathogenic ( disease-causing ) strains of bird flu . As leading flu scientist Ilaria Capua remarked , " We 've gone from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foremost expert on bird flu , Robert Webster , director of the U.S. Collaborating Center of the World Health Organization , was asked by the senior correspondent of the TV show " NewsHour with Jim Lehrer " to identify the " change in conditions that suddenly lit a match to the tinder " - in other words , what started the avalanche . Dr. Webster replied : " Farming practices have changed . Previously , we had backyard poultry . I grew up on a farm in New Zealand . We had a few backyard chickens and ducks . The next door neighbor was so far away it did n't matter . Now we put millions of chickens into a chicken factory next door to a pig factory , and this virus has the opportunity to get into one of these chicken factories and make billions and billions of these mutations continuously . And so what we 've changed is the way we raise animals . " Dozens of heritage poultry breeds used to peck around Americas barnyards . Now chickens raised for meat have been bred to be nearly genetically identical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of thousands of birds standing in their own waste . This global monoculture of tens of billions of birds bred for rapid weight gain creates conditions ripe for viral survival , mutation and dispersal . U. S. Department of Agriculture researchers conclude : " Selection of poultry for fast growth rate is often accompanied* by a reduction in specific immune responses or increased disease susceptibility . " In contrast , outside in the open air , influenza viruses quickly dehydrate and die , or are rapidly killed by the UV rays in sunlight . Just as this industrial model has been linked to mad cow disease , deadly strains of E. coli in cattle and multi-drug resistant Salmonella in eggs , the big recent shift in the ecology of avian influenza has been the intensification of the global poultry sector . PREEMPTIVE STRIKES In October 2005 , the United Nations specifically called on governments around the world to address factory farming 's involvement in the spread of avian flu : " Governments , local authorities and international agencies need to take a gready increased role in combating the role of factory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide ideal conditions for the virus to spread and mutate into a more dangerous form . " Some governments are heeding that call . The 27 countries of the European Union , for example , are phasing out the small , wire " battery " cages for egg-laying hens rhat still are used in about 95 percent of egg production in the United States . Europeans also are working toward decreasing the stocking density of broiler chickens . " In the agricultural sector , greater account needs to be taken of the implications of intensive animal husbandry practices , " said Markos Kyprianou , the European Commissioner for Health and Consumer Protection . " Public health policy needs to have a much greater role to ensure human health protection . Policies need to encourage a shift away from intensive rearing ... at an international level . " In the United States , consumer pressure has moved corporations to preempt government action . Recendy , such major buyers of animal products as Burger King , Hardee 's , Carl 's Jr . and Wolfgang Puck have announced policies with improved animal welfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , Smithfield Foods , announced a phaseout of the use of gestation crates-small stalls for pregnant pigs-and die leading U.S. veal producer pledged to eliminate veal crates , calling them " inhumane and archaic . " These steps reflect what could become a sea change in public opinion on industrial animal agriculture in the United States , and these improvements can have positive consequences for human health . VIRAL MUTABILITY The way we treat animals has global public health implications . Most new infectious diseases in recent decades have emerged from animals , and not without human intervention . Whether it 's the African bushmeat trade implicated in the AIDS epidemic , tropical deforestation linked to Ebola , live animal markets and SARS ( Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ) , or cannibalistic feeding practices and mad cow disease , our exploitation of the natural world is coming home to roost . The highly infectious avian flu strain H5N1 is currently almost exclusively a bird virus . Hundreds of millions of birds have died , but only a few hundred people have become infected . Of those infected though , more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public health audiorities awake at night is the possibility that this virus might mutate into a human form , easily transmissible from one person to the next , and thereby trigger the next influenza pandemic . It 's happened before . In 1918 , a bird flu virus spawned one of the worst plagues in human history , a flu pandemic killing millions and infecting half the world 's population . The virus is thought to have gained its virulence in soldiers trapped by the millions in the crowded , stressful , unhygienic conditions of Worid War I. From the point of view of this virus , these same trench warfare conditions exist today in industrial chicken and egg operations around the world , offering billions of feathered " test tubes " for viruses to incubate and mutate within-billions more spins at pandemic roulette . Most experts believe that another flu pandemic is inevitable , but we do n't know when it will strike or how bad it will be . Given the unprecedented spread of the H5N1 virus , there is worldwide apprehension in the scientific community that another pandemic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spur us to action , to better prepare our communities and , perhaps , to recognize the many hidden costs of cheap food . Reversing course away from raising birds by the billions under intensive confinement , and towards more sustainable , organic methods of production can decrease the risk of the emergence of future highly pathogenic flu viruses , but H5N1 has already hatched . There seems little hope in eradicating this virus now that it has become endemic in the ecosystems across two continents . This means that we should all be prepared to take practical , concrete steps to mediate the impact if a pandemic threatens our families and communities . See the sidebar at left to learn more about how to protect yourself . Sidebar Six-week-old ducks'mill about their barn on a duck farm in Pennsylvania . " Influenza Evolution : FROM PONDS TO PEOPLE The avian influenza virus has existed for millions of years as an innocuous , intestinal , waterborne infection of aquatic birds , harmless to both birds and people . So what has caused a duck 's harmless intestinal bug to become a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make us sick in order to spread ; it has evolved to make us cough to shoot the virus from one person to the next . In the avian influenza virus ' natural reservoir though , the duck does n't get sick , because the virus does n't need to make the duck sick to spread . In fact , it 's in the virus ' best interest for the bird not to get sick , so it can spread even further . After all , dead ducks do nt fly . Instead , the virus silently multiplies in the duck 's intestinal lining , is excreted into the pond water , and then is swallowed up by another duck - so the cycle continues as it has for millions of years and no one gets hurt . But when ducks are raised in crowded indoor conditions , or are crammed into cages stacked high enough to splatter virus-laden droppings over land-based birds like chickens ( a problem at live bird markets common in Asia and some American cities ) , then the virus has a problem . Like a fish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gut of a chicken , it no longer has the luxury of being spread easily - chickens are n't paddling around in the pond . The virus must mutate or die . Unfortunately for us , mutating is what influenza viruses do best . In aquatic birds , the virus is perfectly adapted in totally harmless evolutionary stasis . But , when thrown into a new environment - such as that of terrestrial birds in crowded conditions - it quickly starts mutating to adapt to the new host . In the open air , the virus must resist dehydration , for example , and may have to spread to other organs to find a new way to travel . In this case , new flu virus strains have found the lungs and become an airborne pathogen , which is bad news for humans . People in some cultures prefer to purchase live podltry , as shown in this market in Shanghai , China . Sidebar Officials throw chickens into a fire pit in Haikou , China . In 2004 , more than 10,000 birds were killed and burned to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ died at a poultry farm . Sidebar The last time a bird flu virus adapted to humans , it triggered the flu pandemic of 1918 , which killed an estimated 50 to 100 million people around the globe . Sidebar WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION Links Flu to Poultry Industry In the introduction of " The World Health Report 2007 , " recently released by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , Director-general Margaret Chan noted that when the organization was founded around 60 years ago , the infectious disease situation was relatively stable and new diseases were considered rare . " Since then , profound changes have occurred in the way humanity inhabits the planet , " she-writes . Now , the disease situation is " anything but stable . " In part because of " intensive farming practices , environmental degradation , and the misuse of antimicrobials , " she notes that new infectious diseases are now emerging at a rate unprecedented in the history of medicine - nearly 40 new diseases since the 1970s , approximately one new disease every year . During the last five years , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Speaking at the launch of the report , she specifically singled out poultry production . " The intensity of poultry farming is such that we really need to look at how the human-animal interface is managed . It should not come as a surprise that we are seeing more and more disease outbreaks coming from the animal sector . " Similarly , a research report released this summer by the Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ) of the United Nations suggests that the industrialization of animal agriculture in recent decades is increasing public health risks on a global scale . In 1980 , nearly all chickens in China were raised outdoors in small , traditional backyard flocks . By 1997 , though - the year H5N1 arose in Hong Kong - approximately half of the 10 billion chickens in China were intensively confined in more than 60,000 industrial facilities , a few of which raised more than 10 million chickens at a time . An article published by scientists in Vietnam and Thailand in the Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences explains why such facilities may be particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overcrowded conditions in industrial batteries ( several hundreds or even several thousands of individuals in a confined space ) , provides an extremely infectious context through contact with numerous pathogens , as opposed to natural extensive or semi-extensive breeding conditions ... The numbers and density in which animals are bred result in overcrowded conditions , which , among other things , stress the animals , modify their metabolic performances , weaken their immune system , and above all maintain a high risk of hyperinfection by massive infectious loads ... Where a small infectious dose would naturally be controlled by a normal immune system , there is no chance , even for an efficient immune system , of controlling huge infectious closes which " saturate " defense effector mechanisms and " overflow ' the animals " immune mechanisms ... " In " The World Health Report 2007 , " the WHO reiterated that an influenza pandemic currently poses the greatest threat to international public health and that the " question of a pandemic of influenza from this virus H5N1 or another avian influenza virus is still a matter of when , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Possible alternatives that would reduce the risks of contact could , for instance , include replacing large industrial units with several smaller-scale production units containing lower densities of animals . In other words , this means favoring humane treatment and product quality over industrial yield . There are many advantages to this : animals would be less stressed and thus more resistant to infectious aggressions ; contact between individuals would be less intense , which would reduce infection rates since infectious doses would be lower . " The FAO report " Industrial Livestock Production and Global Health Risks " is available at www.fao.orgr ( search for the report title ) . Also see " The Potential Role of Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations in Infectious Disease Epidemics and Antibiotic Resistance , " at **26;7180;TOOLONG 2006/8837/8837. pdf . The " question of a pandemic of influenza from this virus or another avian influenza virus is still a matter of when , not if . " A worker collects chickens to be vaccinated at an Indonesian farm . Outbreaks of bird flu have been reported in vaccinated flocks , though the vaccine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chickens with access to fresh air and pasture are less susceptible to disease than their industrially raised counterparts . Sidebar SURVIVING THE NEXT PANDEMIC In the 1918 flu pandemic , a highly infectious bird flu virus emerged and killed 50 to 100 million people . Though that strain died out , many experts are worried that the bird flu virus could again mutate and cause another pandemic . Pandemic flu is spread just like the seasonal flu : by breathing in respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs near you ; or by touching an object contaminated by respiratory secretions ( a doorknob for example , that was previously touched by someone coughing into his/her hand ) and then touching one 's face-eyes , nose or mouth - before first washing or sanitizing hands . ( See " Natural , Effective Remedies for Colds &; Flu " on Page 97 for more on protecting yourself . ) Both exposures require direct or indirect contact with infected persons , and so the current federal strategy recommends social distancing methods , such as voluntary home quarantine . This means everyone will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or school during a pandemic , like we would during a prolonged blizzard or ice storm . Although globally a pandemic may last 12 to 18 months , historically , pandemics have come in waves . In any particular locale , a wave may only last a number of weeks . This is why the Centers for Disease Control is officially calling on all Americans to stockpile 90 days of essential supplies to weather out the next pandemic effectively ( see www.pandemicflu.gov ) . Sneezing into your sleeve , instead of your hand , helps prevent spreading the flu virus via your hands . Author Affiliation By Michael Greger , M.D. Author Affiliation Michael Greger , M.D. , is director of public health and animal agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States . This article is reprinted from his exceptional book , Bird Flu : A Virus of Our Own HatcNng . You can read the entire book online at www.birdflubook.com . <p>                     