@@400712

Sheathed in a chilling veil of rain , under cover of darkness , a few Navy Seals descend from a ship into a small rubber boat . They motor to a nearby harbor , idle the engine , and gently lower three torpedo-shaped objects into the water . The mission ? Locate that persistent nemesis of amphibious operations : undersea mines . But tonight , instead of the specially trained dolphins or human divers who would normally do this work , the Navy is relying on robots . This scene has been enacted many times recently in San Diego , Seattle , Hawaii and the Mediterranean . It 's a test scenario , a dress rehearsal for the real thing . Naval experts wo n't say whether their smart new unmanned subs , known as autonomous underwater vehicles ( AUVs ) , will be sent into hostile harbors anytime soon  --  that 's classified  --  but they do express deep satisfaction with how the machines are performing . The U.S. Navy has built its dominance on the conviction that bigger is better , but the nature of warfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear that the most ironclad expressions of might are vulnerable to a couple of guys in a rowboat . Early in the Persian Gulf War , the warships Tripoli and Princeton were blown open by mines  --  devices costing a few thousand dollars causing millions in damages . Unable to land , the Marines had to be airlifted in . Mines and other easily acquired technologies such as cruise and ballistic missiles mean that today any nation , no matter how technologically humble , can effectively bar U.S. forces from its coastline . In military parlance the problem is known as " broad-area denial . " One way for the Navy to become more agile would be to employ unmanned submarines , which in the past decade have blossomed at university research labs and have been commercialized by small spin-off companies see " Robots of the Deep Blue Yonder , " Feb . . But though the Navy funded some early AUV development , like most large bureaucracies it was slow to incorporate novelties into its long-range planning . In April 2000 a Navy committee warned that robot-sub technology was available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't wake up , it would fall behind . The committee 's report outlined four desirable " signature capabilities " for the AUV fleet of the future  --  reconnaissance , undersea search and survey , communications and navigation , and anti-submarine warfare  --  and the Navy has since stepped up its AUV research and development . Building these devices wo n't be easy . While a few AUVs  --  like those the Navy Seals used in their mine-hunting test  --  are already operational , their capabilities fall far short of what military planners ultimately envision . Better sensors , signal processing , energy sources and navigation methods will be necessary before AUVs can fulfill their potential role . Operating unmanned submarines is far more challenging than flying unmanned aircraft like the Predator , which , controlled by a remote pilot , made successful sorties last year in Afghanistan . And the issue is n't just autonomy . " Everything 's working against you underwater , " says Robert Wernli , a longtime AUV proponent at the Ocean Systems Division of the Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center ( SPAWAR ) in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower than in air . Currents pull vehicles off their plotted course . Saltwater corrodes them . Radio signals and GPS do n't penetrate deep water , which makes navigation and communication especially challenging . But the military benefits AUVs promise almost certainly justify the effort . Nearly undetectable  --  they operate fully submerged and have low acoustic and magnetic signatures  --  they could be sent ahead to conduct surveillance or prepare for an invasion without tipping off enemy forces . They can be small enough to be launched from almost any ship , sub or aircraft  --  some are even light enough to be FedExed  --  and thus can conduct missions in water too shallow for conventional craft . They can be produced relatively inexpensively , so they would n't need to be recovered in dangerous or inconvenient circumstances . They would act as " force multipliers , " taking care of programmable tasks and freeing up manned warships to take on more complex ones . And they could be sent on the riskiest missions , to help keep sailors and Marines out of harm 's way . For now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Long-term , though , they 're expected to do more than take the man out of the minefield . AUVs will map currents and the ocean bottom to help manned subs and ships navigate safely . They 'll be sent secretly to the coastlines of hostile countries to monitor enemy actions and report back via satellite . They will act as beacons , enabling other underwater devices to keep their bearings without surfacing for a GPS signal . And they will determine when an enemy sub is nearby , follow , and , if necessary , blow it up . " They increase the reach of Navy systems , " says Tom Swean , head of the Ocean Engineering and Marine Systems Program at the Office of Naval Research in Arlington , Virginia . " There may come a time , thanks to AUVs , when very few people are involved in violent action . " TODAY : HUNTING MINES Today 's Navy is a blue-water force  --  its strengths are in the depths , not the shallows  --  but it 's preparing for a brown-water fight . Seventy-four percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And in what the Navy terms very shallow water  --  from about 40 feet to the 10-foot depths where waves begin to break  --  mines pose an especially acute threat . There , where ships and manned subs ca n't venture , the Navy traditionally relies on dolphins to find and mark mines , and on human divers to set charges nearby , then swim away before they explode . The work is painstakingly slow and dangerous . That 's why military planners would love to send in a team of AUVs instead . The AUVs in the Navy Seals ' tests are programmed before being dropped into the water . Each vehicle dedicates itself to a discrete portion of the harbor , covering it in a series of parallel runs  --  a tactic called " mowing the grass . " Scanning 150 feet in each direction with sonar , the robot subs note the location of all mine-like objects . To keep their bearings , they continually send signals to two transponders that the Seals have dropped in the water at predetermined locations . ( The subs are programmed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long it takes for their signals to bounce back , they ascertain their own location . ) After a few hours , when the robot subs have covered the entire harbor , they gather at an appointed place to be retrieved . The AUV used in this operation is the Remus ( Remote Environmental Monitoring Unit System ) , originally developed in 1994 at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute for non-military survey work . The institute 's commercial spin-off , Hydroid Inc. , now produces special versions for military use . The Remus is 63 inches long and 7.5 inches in diameter . It can stay out for up to 22 hours and specializes in depths of 10 to 40 feet , making it ideal for the shallows of the Gulf . The Navy teams several Remuses together in a system known as Sculpin . Each vehicle can be packed in a metal case that weighs just under 150 pounds , the FedEx maximum for rapid commercial delivery : Sculpin 's handlers travel lighter than most camera crews . For now the Sculpin system is designed only to detect mines ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( BPAUV ) , being developed for the Navy by Bluefin Robotics in Cambridge , Massachusetts , operates in the next depth zone , between 40 and several hundred feet . Ten feet long , 21 inches in diameter and weighing about 500 pounds , the BPAUV is no minnow . But Scott Willcox , chief technology officer at Bluefin , says a smaller , more manageable version is in the works . Both the BPAUV and the Remus use side-scanning sonar devices to search for mines buried on or beneath the ocean floor . Transducers on the vehicles ' sides dispatch a thin beam of sound waves that extends out like a fan for 150 feet . Acoustic sensors work best for the job because coastal waters are often turbid , according to Doug Blaha of Marine Sonic Technology in White Marsh , Virginia , which manufactures the Remus 's sidescan sonar . " If you walk into a smoke-filled room , you may not be able to see someone across the room , " Blaha says , " but you can certainly hear him . " Shallow water is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of humanity that sloshes against most of the world 's shorelines . " The big challenge is finding mines in these high-clutter areas , filled with human trash  --  cars , junk , old refrigerators , " says Rob Simmons , a program manager at the Navy 's Program Executive Office for Littoral and Mine Warfare in Washington , D.C. To help AUVs distinguish a mine from a hot water heater , the Navy is developing more powerful sonar that will provide higher-resolution acoustic images . Also under consideration for AUVs are magnetic gradiometers  --  sensors that use internal magnets to detect changes in local magnetic fields caused by metallic objects  --  and chemical sensors that would detect explosive materials leaching from poorly made mines . Mines pose a hazard in deeper water as well . Typically this sort of mine floats near the water 's surface , attached to cables moored on the ocean bottom . Here , detection is currently done not by dolphins and divers but by ships or helicopters towing submerged sonar sleds . Neither system , though , is ideal : The ships put themselves at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flying slow over the water , make an easy target for enemy gunners . The Navy hopes AUVs could one day do the work instead . The area to be covered is vast , so this sort of AUV will be required to stay out for significant amounts of time . The 28-foot-long Seahorse , specially built for blue-water mine sweeping , will come online this year . It can traverse 300 nautical miles on batteries that will keep it going for up to 72 hours . While the Seahorse , which operates 100 to 1,000 feet below the surface , is ready now , the Navy is working to develop another blue-water AUV by 2004 . The Long-Term Mine Reconnaissance System , currently under development at Boeing , consists of two 20-foot-long , 21-inch-diameter vehicles that will be launched and recovered through torpedo tubes . LMRS uses a forward-looking sonar  --  sending sound waves out like a movie projector  --  to spot floating mines , and to steer clear of them and other obstacles while it patrols . Each LMRS vehicle will go out for several days at a time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100 nautical miles from the sub . Because they are " value added " devices , increasing the Navy 's overall work force , AUVs will enable the military to be more proactive . In military parlance , AUVs would enhance " battlespace preparation . " They could be sent out to map the ocean floor in areas of potential conflict  --  identifying mines , dangerous currents and ideal landing routes ahead of time without alerting hostile countries that their shores are of interest . " We would hope to have the necessary mapping done before war breaks out , " says Martha Head , an oceanographer at the Naval Oceanographic Office at the Stennis Space Center in Mississippi . Today that prep work is done by large oceanographic ships , which makes it expensive , manpower-intensive , and far from stealthy . Transferring the job to small , unmanned , expendable vehicles that could get close to hostile shores without attracting notice would increase efficiency by at least an order of magnitude , according to Swean . TOMORROW : DETONATING MINES AND MORE The purpose of mine seeking is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and for special operations forces to land on beaches . In addition to detecting where mines are , it 's necessary to determine where they are not : Often the best strategy is to go around a threat rather than confront one . But when mines lie in strategic places , they must be removed , and usually the best way to do that is to blow them up . Making an AUV that can spot objects that appear to be mines is one thing . That 's where the Navy is now . Making an AUV that can determine whether an object is a mine and not a million-dollar piece of oceanographic equipment , then destroy it if necessary , is much more complicated . That 's where the Navy ultimately wants to be . One of the vehicles military planners believe might someday be able to destroy mines is the Surf Zone Crawler , an unusual AUV being developed at the Navy 's Coastal Systems Station in Panama City , Florida . These small , square , tank-like vehicles are less then a foot tall and have wide tracks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crawlers are n't as vulnerable to ocean currents as swimming AUVs , which makes them ideal for close-range identification of mines . But they 're a long way from being ready . " When it comes down to it , we put our robots in the water and sometimes we get stuck in the mud , " says Chuck Bernstein , a Coastal Systems Station engineer . Another problem : AUVs that are used to blow up mines are likely to be destroyed in the blast . Wernli believes it makes sense to sacrifice one Remus or similar vehicle for every mine destroyed : " If I can take out a mine for $100,000 , that 's worth it . " But until now the Navy has been accustomed to building complex manned craft it does not want to lose , so the idea of creating expendable vehicles represents something of a paradigm shift . And it becomes a problematic notion as AUVs get more sophisticated , sporting new kinds of sensors and communications systems . The more gear an AUV possesses , the more it costs , and the less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of thumb : " Do n't put it in the water if you ca n't afford to lose it . " One solution to the problem is a concept known as cooperative autonomy . In a mine-sweeping scenario , for example , high-end AUVs could release cheaper , more primitive machines that could install themselves next to the targeted mines and wait to be told to blow up . " You can still do the job , but each vehicle does n't have to be as smart , " says Bernstein . Communication will be a key component of such cooperative arrangements . Willcox says Bluefin is outfitting the BPAUV to act as a subsurface server , capable of receiving new mission plans from a ship and relaying them to AUVs down below . The BPAUV will communicate with the submerged vehicles through short-range acoustics , but when it needs to transmit or receive mission-critical information , it will employ a new long-wavelength antenna that transmits radio waves just above the ocean surface . With this capability , the BPAUV could quietly talk to a ship up to 60 nautical miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AUVs that perform many functions , rather than a panoply of specialized craft . SPAWAR engineers are designing a mission-reconfigurable AUV . The goal is a versatile and far-ranging vehicle , launched and recovered from a sub 's torpedo tubes , that would be capable of anything from communications to reconnaissance work . If sub operators want to monitor radio signals near a hostile shoreline , " you equip it with an antenna to listen , collect intel , and then come back out to the safety of deep water to dump the information to those who can use it , " says SPAWAR engineer Barbara Fletcher . Change the payload and the vehicle could conduct mine neutralization or track enemy submarines . A preliminary version of this next-generation AUV is expected to join the fleet in 2009 . NEXT STEP : TECH HURDLES Autonomy is probably the most challenging aspect of the robot sub . AUVs will have to avoid potential threats , assess incoming information , and adapt mission priorities , all without direct human intervention . For all this to happen , sensors  --  sonar , magnetic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can gather higher-resolution images at even greater distances . One technology that could get them there is synthetic aperture sonar , an underwater adaptation of a technique used in radar . For a given point on the ocean floor , a side-scanning sonar sends out and receives a single ping , but synthetic aperture sonars pelt the same spot over and over as the vehicle moves along . In effect , this widens the aperture of the sonar from 12 inches to 100 yards . Enson Chang of Dynamics Technology in Arlington , Virginia , says the new technique could resolve wallet-sized objects a kilometer away . Another necessary area of improvement is in energy for propulsion . Currently , small AUVs like Remus can operate for up to 22 hours and larger ones like Seahorse for up to 72 hours , but military planners need vehicles that can stay out on their own for much longer . Devising better batteries for small AUVs and other power sources such as fuel cells for large ones is the key . To get an idea of how primitive current systems are : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind normally used in flashlights . For now that is the most efficient method , Head says , because D cells have higher energy density than currently available rechargeable batteries . In an ideal world , Navy scientists would like to do much more . They want to build AUVs that have a salmon 's sensitivity to water chemistry , and polymer skins that propel them the way an octopus is moved along by its rippling hide . And they would like their AUV sonars to be more like the dolphin 's , whose broadband acoustic transmissions range from about 30 to 100,000 hertz . " A dolphin can detect a difference in an aluminum cylinder wall thickness of only 0.2 millimeters  --  that 's fantastic , " says Patrick Moore , who runs SPAWAR 's biosonar program . THE FUTURE : ROBOTIC FIGHTERS Perhaps the most futuristic element in the Navy 's vision of wars to come  --  called Manta for its rounded delta shape  --  is taking form at the Naval Undersea Warfare Center Division at Newport , Rhode Island . Manta 's mother ship would be a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skin " like a huge metal shark , its weapons mounted externally . Several 100-foot-long Mantas would be streamlined into depressions in this new sub 's hull ; while attached , they would be an integral part of the larger vessel . Once launched , however , they would be linked acoustically with the mother ship , extending her reach into canyons and shoals where a submarine ca n't follow . Standing well offshore , the mother sub would deploy her giant AUVs to run reconnaissance patrols and in-shore surveys , to act as defensive pickets protecting the main force , to raid enemy ship and shore facilities with a submarine 's full array of weaponry . But the Mantas would themselves be mother ships . Like stealthy Russian dolls , they would launch their own swarms of smaller AUVs and unmanned aerial drones . And , presumably , these smaller robots would be able to send out their own swarms of even smaller AUVs . Toward this end , engineers at Newport have fashioned a one-third-scale Manta Test Vehicle . Shaped like a slightly overfed Concorde , the 8-ton vessel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and carry a variety of payloads . The craft began its at-sea trials in Narragansett Bay in 1999 , and has since demonstrated such skills as deploying and communicating with smaller AUVs . Seen churning through the bay , the Manta Test Vehicle evokes images of the Loch Ness monster , but to undersea warriors , it looks more like the future . Carl Posey is a writer based in Alexandria , Virginia . Military AUV photo gallery : Go to www.popsci.com/exclusive Illustration <p>                     