@@425121

/Jan 2006 REVIEW NOT THE KNITTING YOU KNOW Eleven Eleven Sculpture Space , Washington , DC * June 13-September 10 , 2005 A corporate law firm lobby seems an unlikely venue for an exhibition of this title , but it is in fact home to a public gallery . Sixteen artists showed challenging , contemporary works well suited to their surroundings . Knitting and crocheting , represented in equal measure in the exhibition , have been an integral part of women 's domestic lives . A notch below embroidery , which was equated with leisure and feminine virtue , knitting and crocheting historically were practicalactivities . The repetitive nature of building loop after loop would relegate these skills to the handicrafts arena , but artists in the exhibition accentuated this intrinsic linear quality , transforming an age-old craft into avant-garde art . Blanka Sperkova 's steel-wire constructions are a case in point . Inspired by 18th- and 19th-century tinkers , itinerant men who repaired broken pots by encasing them in mesh , as wellas by female lace makers , Sperkova carries on her Slovak forebears'exquisite craftsmanship , yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diaphanous forms float in space , abstract yet recognizable , evoking primordial feelings and demanding prolonged contemplation . Jeanne Garant 's tightly knit Nesting Boxes seems at first glance deceptively simple . The interiors reveal the most elementary of stitches yet hint at secrets , which the indefinable outer surfaces , loosely draped with translucent films of wax , confirm . The Other White House is completely enclosed on all sides . The viewer , unable to enter , ponders the mystery of the space within . Despite its miniature size , less than 10 inches , it conveys the monumentality of Rachel Whiteread 's casts . Garant 's objects , however , are devoid of rigidity , focusing attention instead on the virtuosic handling of textures on pliable planes . Those who are familiar with NormaMinkowitz 's drawings and crochet work know her ability to penetrate the very nature of thread . Each individual loop leads to an ever-changing , exciting surface , which , coated with resin , evolves into freestanding sculpture . The texture and subtle coloring of her exteriors are as important as the spaces they enclose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poses but does not answer questions . Here is a creature who speaks not only to the intellect , but to a deep-seated inner knowing of myths and long-forgotten stories . Katharine Cobey hand-spins silk and wool for her knit pieces . Her " stabile , " Portrait of Alzheimer 's , a flat shawl , draped over an aperture , tells a haunting story . Meant to adorn and protect , it is begun in a controlled , orderly fashion so that the sudden rift and slow disintegration of the pattern comes as a shock . The contrast of one perfectly worked beautiful border with the ultimate unraveling of the unfinished piece is a poignant metaphor for life 's fragility . At first glance Daina Taimina 's crocheted objects look traditional-pleasing shapes achieved with conventional stitches . A mathematician who teaches at Cornell University , Taimina discovered crochet as the perfect medium for conveying to her students the infinite symmetries of hyperbolic planes . Her four pieces demonstrate that one basic shape can be transformed into a variety of configurations , a true convergence of science and art . Two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revival of crocheted apparel were it not for their sculptural rigidity and latent meaning . An exquisite confection , Joyce Zipperer 's Red Lace Camisole , beautifully crafted from copper wire down to the straps and heart-shaped label , deceives in that its airy laciness offers not freedom but constraint . Alex and Viviana Santamarina startle with objects taken out of their normal context . Stiff , dangerously sharpened pencils form the hanger from which their paper Crochet Corset is suspended , its elegant loops competing with those of the garment . Similarly , in Sustanica. pencils become the circular knitting needle challenging the fiber work in progress . These are witty , provocative works . Gayle Roehm 's realistic Faberg Egg sparkled . It was hard to tell if hers was a bravura attempt at faithful re-creation or , since the base resembled a very fine hat , an ironic statement . Karen Paust displayed knitted and felted objects , of which Harvest was the most successful . Elizabeth Lundberg Morisette is drawn to materials intended for other purposes , such as men 's ties for Dapper , a basket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and copper wire rather than fiber , while Ann Citron makes bowls from enameled electroformed copper wire . Kathleen Holmes 's Decorator Dress is mixed media , as are Andrea Uravitch 's installations of beetles and reptiles in realistic stances . Five pieces by Ming-Yi Sung dominated the exhibition . Her large-scale work pulsates with crude energy . The bewilderment of the androgynous person bursting through the chaos in Creation of the World is palpable , but the dynamic piece is marred by a rainbow whose placement and jarring colors seem an afterthought . The enigmatic Billy Goat evokes Robert Rauschenberg 's Monogram . Its position on a bed of acid-green industrial carpet remnants is puzzling . " Not the Knitting You Know " raised a number of issues , among others , revisiting the division between art and craft and the persistence of entrenched gender associations . The exhibiting artists , with one exception , were female . Are knitting and crocheting still considered at odds with creative and intellectual impulses ? While an exhibition of this scope presented works of uneven quality , most of the artists brilliantly transcended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WORTMANN WELTGE Photograph CLOCKWISE FROM ABOVE : ANDREA URAVITCH-Praying Mantis , 2004 , crocheted fiber , steel , clay , fabric , 15 by 28 by 25 inches ; DAINA TAIMINA-Hyperbolic Plane-Pseudosphere , 2005 , crocheted wool , 6 by 14 by 14 inches ; KATHARINE COBEY-Portrait of Alzheimer 's , 1992 , handspun and hand-knit silk and wool , hanger , dimensions variable , photo/David Cobey ; BLANKA SPERKOVA-fao Lace , 2005 , finger-knitted steel wire , 11 by 15 by 11 inches ; NORMA MINKOWITZ-I Remember , 1999 , fiber , resin , wire , paint , 30 by 13 by 9 inches , photo/Joseph Kugielsky . Author Affiliation Sigrid Wortmann Weltge is professor emerita at Philadelphia University . // <p>                     