@@412383

Governor Jennifer Granholm Champions Smart Growth // Well before she ran as a centrist Democrat and was elected handily to become the first woman to govern Michigan , Jennifer Granholm understood that joining urban Democrats with suburban Republican swing voters was her formula for victory . What ideas in the nation 's eighth-largest state could put black and ethnic voters on the same political page as white suburbanites ? Photograph By delaying road projects and embracing smart-growth principles , Governor Jennifer Granholm of Michigan ( inset ) is taking a stand against runaway state development and sprawl . // As a wife and mother of three who lived in congested suburban Oakland County outside Detroit , Granholm knew a lot about traffic and sprawl . As a former federal environmental crimes prosecutor in Detroit , she knew about urban distress and environmental mismanagement . And as both attorney general from 1998 to 2002 and the most senior elected Democrat in state government , Granholm was an eyewitness to the right wings ruthless program of rewarding generous industrial donors with tax cuts , subsidies and regulatory favoritism . Granholm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the idea that Michigan 's economic competitiveness is based on taxpayer-funded handouts to business . Rather , she said , durable prosperity depended on building the economy from within by curbing ruinous sprawl and traffic , reviving troubled cities , enforcing environmental law and safeguarding Michigan 's natural heritage . The message worked . And during her first year in office , the 44-year-old governor has put on an impressive display of progressive green statesmanship , with the exception of two missteps on water policy . Steven Chester , the new director of the state Department of Environmental Quality , has revived the states environmental enforcement office and is filing lawsuits against polluters , including a clean water action against a factory dairy farm in southern Michigan for polluting nearby streams and another against a prominent developer in northern Michigan for unlawfully filling wetlands . Gloria Jeff , who directs the Michigan Department of Transportation , helped Granholm negotiate an agreement with Republican lawmakers that delayed 17 expensive and unnecessary highway projects and invested the savings in repairing existing roads , especially in cities . The Department of Natural Resources , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dormant state Natural River Act , which protects Michigan 's wildest and most beautiful waterways from overdevelopment . In September , the Pine and Upper Manistee rivers in northern Michigan were formally designated as Natural Rivers , the first such designations since 1988 . The one unexpected and increasingly troubling facet of Granholm 's first year is a surprising weakness in securing the Great Lakes , a central feature of her campaign . Earlier this year , she signed a Republican property rights bill that allows some homeowners on the Lake Michigan and Lake Huron shoreline to bulldoze beaches to clear weeds caused by low water levels . And in mid-December she shut out a citizens group from a private high-level meeting between her aides and Nestle and then announced the administration was siding with the world 's largest food company in a prominent legal dispute over pumping spring water for commercial sale . During the 2002 campaign Granholm had stood with that very same citizens group during a news conference in the rotunda of the state Capitol to criticize her predecessor for permitting what she called a " diversion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been best , though , is her focus on slowing sprawl and rebuilding Detroit and the states other struggling cities . One of her first acts as governor was to ask Republican leaders of the state House and Senate to help appoint a bipartisan land-use council to recommend steps Michigan should take to change damaging business-friendly development patterns . Granholm is putting seven of its recommendations into effect through executive orders , including a directive to establish new state offices in city and town centers . " This critical issue is n't the product of just another " ism ' ' -conservationism , liberalism or Republicanism , " Granholm says . " It 's the product of this fundamental question of whether or not we want to save the splendor of our state for our grandchildren 's generation and beyond . " Jennifer Granholm quite literally burst onto the political stage in Michigan in 1998 , when she came out of Wayne County 's legal office and won the attorney general 's office . Born in Vancouver , British Columbia and raised in southern California , Granholm initially aimed her career @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at movie studios , and once appeared as a contestant on the Dating Game . Recognizing that she was unlikely to become a movie star , Granholm went on to college at the University of California at Berkeley and Harvard Law School , where she met her future husband , Michigan native Dan MuIhern . The central idea of her first term , Granholm says , is to turn Michigan into what she calls a " magnet state , " a place that offers the sort of economic opportunity , civic diversity , and natural beauty that will keep her children in Michigan , encourage entrepreneurs , and attract bright young minds . " Thanks to the new governor we are seeing the making of a conservation-oriented land stewardship policy , " says Dave Dempsey , an author and policy advisor at the Michigan Environmental Council . Michigan is not the only state that is using environmental and civic objectives to improve the economy . Mitt Romney , the Republican governor of Massachusetts , appointed Doug Foy , the former head of the Conservation Law Foundation , to help lead his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former Santa Monica Baykeeper and hydrogen advocate Terry Tamminen head of the state 's EPA . Republican Governor Mark Sanford of South Carolina signed a law to encourage construction of new schools in existing neighborhoods and not out in the countryside . New Jersey s Democratic Governor James E. McGreevey is committed to achieving what he calls " smartgrowth goals , " a politically popular strategy under sharp challenge from his states homebuilders . In Michigan , the new pursuit of a cleaner , greener state is earning Granholm public approval ratings that consistently top 60 percent . That number worries Betsy DeVos , the billionaire right-wing chairwoman of the state Republican party , who frequently attacks the governor for " not leading . " Republican moderates have a different view : " The governor listens , " says Republican State Senate Pro-Tern Patricia Birkholz . " She 's willing to work with you . And she 's very smart . There are things that we will never agree on , but we also have a lot in common , especially on the environment and land use . " Michigan can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican predecessor , three-term Governor John Engler . His 12-year tax cutting , agency-slashing , natural resource-exploiting approach to economic development produced a mess : a nearly $3 billion state budget deficit , the highest unemployment rate in a decade and widespread environmental damage . <p>                     