@@410819

A coastal wetland nourishes birds , and the endangered mangroves , American crocodile . Photograph A member of the custard-apple family , anonillo grows in a mangrove swamp . The branches are draped with bromeliads , while Crinum lilies nestle in the roots . // On the west coast of Mexico near the town of San Blas is a limestone spring called La Tobara ( or La Tovara ) , part of an inviting system of lagoons , canals , and navigable tidelands . These wetlands are about a ninety-minute drive from Tepic , the state capital of Nayarit , but I traveled there from the coastal town of Puerto Vallarta , Jalisco , where I was staying . Heading north on Mexico 's Highway 200 , I soon crossed from the Central into the Mountain time zone . The route followed the coastal plainpast crops of avocado , mango , papaya , teak , and pineapple-and then meandered up and down the low foothills of the Sierra Madre . As I continued along the coast on Route 161 , a mangrove swamp lay to my left , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right were agricultural crops , including peanuts and jackfruit . Just north of the village of Santa Cruz , I stopped to investigate a small stream flowing toward the ocean . What caught my eye was a tree that looked very much like the black willow that grows in the temperate eastern half of the United States . It turned out to be a yew-leaf willow , which ranges from western Texas and southern Arizona all the way south to Guatemala . Near the stream I noted buttonbush , golden glow , and bushy broom sedge-all familiar plants that I had n't expected to find in Mexico . Eventually just three miles south of San Blas , I reached La Aguada boat docks , the starting point for my trip through the wetlands ( a second boat landing , El Conchal , is at the edge of town ) . Boarding a motorized canoe called a panga , which carried seven other passengers and our guide , I set out on one of the most captivating nature excursions I have ever taken . After leaving the dock , we glided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut through an otherwise impenetrable jungle of red , white , and black mangroves , with overhanging branches and intricate tangles of curved prop roots . About ninety species of mangrove exist worldwide . They grow primarily in tropical climates between 25deg north latitude and 25deg south latitude , in salty or brackish waternear the ocean , in marshes , and at the mouths of rivers . The root cell membranes of the red mangrove are specialized to reduce the intake of salt from the water , and the thick , leathery leaves of the black and white mangroves are adapted to excrete salt compounds . Red mangrove roots provide protection for young fish , invertebrates , reptiles , mammals , and birds , while the underlying peat formed from root matter traps soil and silt and filters runoff and pollution . As we made our way along the canal , we saw several American crocodiles sheltering within the mangrove roots , as well as a modestsized green iguana lying on a lowhanging branch . Although they feed primarily on fruits and leaves , iguanas in this part of Mexico may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deliver a good wallop , and their strong jaws can inflict a deep bite . Our guide was especially knowledgeable about the bird life and was able to show us three boat-billed herons-magnificent tropical birds with broad bills . This kind of heron uses its sensitive bill to detect edible food in the water ( mainly fish and shrimp ) , which it can then quickly engulf . We were treated as well to the sight of a common potoo , whose coloration blended perfectly with the lichen-striated mangrove branch on which it sat . A distant relative of the whippoorwill , the potoo feeds mainly at night , opening its short , curved bill very wide to sweep up flying insects . We also saw a citreoline trogon , a gorgeous bird with a predominantly yellow underside . Passing out of the mangrove swamp , we entered a deep marsh . Large wading and diving birds seemed to be everywhere : great white egrets , great blue herons , green herons , tricolored herons , roseate spoonbills , anhingas , cormorants , and jacanas . Just as we were leaving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which flew away from our panga , while a chachalaca ( a pheasant-sized bird whose name reflects its call ) went scurrying off among the trees . We followed the canal into another wooded area , this one with swamp forest trees instead of mangroves . Our journey ended at a beautiful lagoon fed by La Tobara spring . Here visitors may leave their pangas for a guided tour around a crocodile breeding farm that was created to help preserve these endangered creatures . Robert H. Mohlenbrock , professor emeritus of plant biology at Southern Illinois University , Carbondale , explores the biological and geological highlights of US. national forests and other parklands . For visitor information in the United States , call ( 800 ) 44-MEXICO Or write : Tourist Office City Hall Main Plaza San Blas , Nayarit C.P 639426 Mexico HABITATS Mangrove swamp has abundant red mangrove and lesser numbers of black mangrove and white mangrove . Other common trees are mahoe , whose large yellow flowers turn red as they mature , and the palm Sabal mexicana . Bromeliads , including at least three kinds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the giant leather fern , the same species that grows in brackish waters in peninsular Florida , and a huge Crinum lily with strapshaped leaves up to six feet long and clusters of foot-long white flowers . Deep marsh is dominated by false cane , a grass that grows as tall as twelve feet and has large terminal clusters of spikelets , and flag plant , which reaches ten feet and has large , cannalike leaves and rather small lavender flowers borne on slender , zigzagging stems . Narrow-leaf cattail , with stout stems up to ten feet tall , is also common . Somewhat shorter plants include Johnson grass , the same species that is a troublesome weed in the United States ; a five-foot-tall deciduous fern ( Thelypteris interrupta ) related to the lady fern of the eastern United States ; and a broad-leaved arrowhead that appears to be the same species common in southern U.S. wetlands . Smaller herbs are marsh pennywort and camphor weed ( both also common in U.S. wetlands ) . Other plants are false nettle , a pink SaintJohn's-wort , and two species of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over much of the vegetation . Wooded swamp trees usually have either thick , leathery , toothless leaves or leaves divided into numerous leaflets . In the first group is Persea podadenia ( similar to and related to the red bay of the southeastern United States ) and a tropical species called Pisonia aculeata . In the second group are a species of mimosa and a cat's-claw , members of the legume family Here also are the palm Acrocomia mexicana and several large species of wild fig . Wild orchids and bromeliads find homes in the crotches of many trees . Visitors should beware of poison ivy , the same species found in the United States . Spring-fed lagoon plants include watercress , a species that inhabits spring-fed swamps in many parts of the world . Overhanging the lagoon are several handsome specimens of Cecropia peltata , a tree whose large lobed leaves have a whitish underside . Photograph // <p>                     