@@381987

This was a big deal . Certainly , it was the end of George W. Bush 's radical experiment in partisan governance . It might have been even bigger than that : the end of the conservative pendulum swing that began with Ronald Reagan 's revolution . Not only did the Democrats lay a robust whupping on the Republicans in the midterm elections , but  --  far worse  --  the President was forced into a tacit acknowledgment that the defining policy of his Administration , the war in Iraq , was failing . In 1994 , when Bill Clinton lost both houses of Congress , he merely replaced his consultants and , liberated from the liberal wing of his party , sailed into the enforced moderation of divided government . Last week George W. Bush replaced Donald Rumsfeld , the blustery symbol of American arrogance overseas  --  and , after six years of near total control at home , had to adjust to a situation in which his vision had been rejected by the voters and his power seriously truncated . Rumsfeld was replaced by Robert Gates , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ team of President George H.W. Bush and was well schooled in the cautious " realism " that marked the reign of Bush the Elder . <P> In fact , if there was a common strand in last week 's Democratic victories and Republican defeats , it was the ascendancy of realists . The architects of the Democratic victory , Senator Charles Schumer and Congressman Rahm Emanuel , had calculated with cold-eyed efficiency which candidates the party would support , regardless of the extent of their orthodoxy . On the Republican side , realists seemed to be taking over the national security apparatus  --  even if was not yet clear that the President would follow their advice . <P> Bush 's decision to delay the sacking of Rumsfeld until after the election will undoubtedly stand as one of the greatest mistakes of his presidency . It was a purely political decision , straight from the Karl Rove playbook : show no sign of weakness or indecision in the midst of a campaign  --  or , as Bill Clinton neatly summarized it , Strong and wrong beats weak and right . Not this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bush the election . It may also have cost him whatever chance he had for a dignified exit from Iraq . His refusal to change his team and his strategy prevented an effective response to the centrifugal disintegration of Iraq over the past few months . The exit polls indicate that the war was not the main issue in the 2006 election : the general odor of corruption and incompetence emanating from Washington seemed to be the real motivator . But the Administration 's stubbornness on Iraq , neatly symbolized by Rumsfeld 's detachment from reality , certainly did n't help the G.O.P. cause .                     