@@412384

Overharvesting Threatens the Booming Herbal Industry // Officers confiscated plants with a market value of $250 to $500 per pound from two homes in New York . In Indiana , a two-year investigation led to the issuing of search warrants , misdemeanor charges and the bust of six traffickers . Ordinary drug dealers ? Not quite . In both cases the plants seized were not marijuana but illegally harvested wild ginseng . Welcome to the commercial traffic in medicinal plants , a booming industry that boasts millions of dollars in sales per year in the U.S. alone . As the popularity of herbal products has grown , several plant species used for medicinal and aromatic purposes have become victims of overharvesting , and many are already threatened by habitat loss . The problem will only get worse , as recent studies point to the use of such plants as black cohosh to treat cancer and menopause discomfort . United Plant Savers , a non-profit educational organization , has put many popular species such as American ginseng ( Panax quinque-folius ) , black cohosh ( Cimicifuga racemosa ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) on its list of critically threatened medicinal plants . The medicinal and aromatic plant industry is aware of the threats and has created a unique assembly called the Medicinal Plant Working Group ( MPWG ) . Formed in 1999 to respond to increasing industrial demand , MPWG works closely with the Plant Conservation Alliance . Members include representatives from industry , government , academia and environmental groups . The goal is to balance the often-fractured relationship between plants , harvesters , native people and consumers and to self-regulate the industry . Photograph Echinacea is just one of the popular medicinal plants that is threatened by over-enthusiastic wild harvesting . Other increasingly endangered botanicals include black cohosh and goldenseal. // " Plants teach us to be respectful of nature . The issue of sustainability is a central concern and we 're studying the use of plants such as goldenseal and black cohosh , " says Michael McGuffin , president of the American Herbal Products Association and Chairman of the Industry Committee of the MPWG . Trish Plaster is chairwoman of MPWGs Conservation and Ethnobotany Committees , which are scientifically monitoring native @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely of volunteers who collect data , " she says . " We record the size and width , note companion plants , dig and weigh roots , and record locations so we can learn about regeneration . We need to get an idea of what 's sustainable , and we need to preserve plants of cultural significance . " Questions about corporate responsibility , sustainable harvesting and indigenous partnerships were the focus of the second annual Industrial Leadership for the Preservation of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants symposium , held in Philadelphia last October . Mark Blumenthal of the American Botanical Council reminded the delegates that " plants have been used for hundreds of thousands of years . We must be concerned about the destruction of the cultures that brought these plants to us . " Indeed , according to Dominique Conseil , president of herbal products company Aveda , the symposium evolved from a focus on biodiversity and habitat destruction to embrace the human elements . " Sustainability begins with individuals , and individuals need to work together to create a transformation , " he said . " We need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forget the biological connection between people and plants . Nature provides the best model for business and the solution to sustainability concerns . " MPWG 's " Elders " Circle , " composed of indigenous people who represent the native perspective , was well represented at the conference . " We humans plan for us , " said Leon Secataro , a man of Canoncito Navaho heritage , " and we never really consider the animals and the plants , although they are essential for our survival . We need to bring indigenous knowledge and modem science togetner . " Secataro believes we must look 500 years and beyond regarding sustainability and our environment . " Humans are the last comers to the Earth and we have been given intelligence that is supposed to enrich our path , " he says . Secataro is not the only member of the Elders ' Circle who issued reprimands to the medicinal and aromatic plant industry . " There are a lot of greedy people not talking from their heart , " said Susan Burdick , a woman of Yurok/Karuk heritage . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you overharvest , you are breaking the circle . " T is Mal Crow , a man of Cherokee and Hitchiti descent , said the industry does not have sufficient respect for the plants used in the commercial process . " Black cohosh is not grown commercially , it takes five years to mature , and last year 350 tons of it was harvested every week . That is not sustainable . Medicine must be treated with respect . When native people harvest plants , we sing songs and say prayers . " Crow is also concerned with the human side of the industry . " There is a difference between buying and partnering . Partnerships are the key to good business relationships between native people and companies . We have to get over the past and move on together . " Josef Brinkman of Traditional Medicinals indicts every person in the supply chain as being responsible for overharvesting . " Social sustainability is a prerequisite for environmental sustainability , " he says . " There has been a rise in ethical consumerism . Organic and fair-trade certifications allow consumers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " There are obstacles in this idealistic approach . According to Bhishma Subedi , executive director of the Asia Network for Sustainable Agriculture and Bioresources , " With certification come higher expenses for the producer . Many small producers can not afford the costs to obtain certifications , even though their products deserve the distinction . " If overlooked , this problem could force small wildcrafters into a cycle of poverty . As buyers demand certifications for an ecologically and socially conscious public , small producers will have trouble selling their goods without them . Nevertheless Subedi remains optimistic . " Long-term , stable relationships will be the basis for sustainable and fair trade , " he says . " There is still a lot to be done , " concedes Conseil , " but there are no true obstacles . " <p>                     