@@379974

When union firebrand Amir Peretz snatched the leadership of Israel 's Labor Party last week , he sent a shock through the country 's political system . Labor , the traditional bastion of the Israeli lite , has been in sharp decline since its last Prime Minister , Ehud Barak , was defeated by Ariel Sharon in 2001 . Now Peretz , a Moroccan-born resident of one of Israel 's poorest towns , promises to revitalize Labor by shaking things up even more . <P> As an exhausted Peretz , 53 , ran between meetings with Labor lawmakers and his predecessor as party leader , Shimon Peres , he told TIME that he plans to quit Sharon 's government immediately and force elections as early as next March . He hopes to draw voters with a social agenda that includes a higher minimum wage and government-subsidized pensions . He hopes the program will attract poorer people who have dismissed Labor as a party for the rich , particularly Arab voters and Jews whose origins , like Peretz 's own , lie in the Arab world . Officials in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electoral success on the discontent of those voters acknowledge Peretz could hurt them . " He observes some of the traditions of the Sabbath , and he 's Moroccan , " says an official with the Shas Party . " That will attract voters ' attention . " <P> In Peretz 's 10 years heading the Histadrut , Israel 's labor federation , he squeezed successive governments with general strikes and , after a falling out with Barak , formed a breakaway faction in parliament . It was the grass-roots devotion of union activists and the faction 's supporters that earned him his surprise win last week . Peretz promises a more conciliatory approach to the Palestinians than Sharon 's . Opponents lampooned him during the campaign , saying it was impossible to imagine the roughhewn Peretz meeting with President Bush to discuss the peace process . But Peretz told TIME that he 'll cut out the middleman and talk directly to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .                     