@@398939

The Berlin Wall of Hormone Replacement Therapy came tumbling down on July 17 with the formal announcement in the Journal of the American Medical Association that the $600 million study called the Women 's Health Initiative would be stopped three years earlier than planned . The study presented irrefutable evidence of the harm that estrogen-progestin therapy was doing to women . It was official-Hormone Replacement Therapy ( HRT ) increased the risk of developing breast cancer , strokes and heart disease . What had , in fact , been known for decades now became public knowledge . The use of synthetic HRT was a major medical mistake . Doctors are now questioning their most preferred treatment for menopause . Both menopausal women and their doctors are in a true quandary about what to do now . It appears that there is even more confusion about HRT and menopausal symptoms than ever . Therefore , unravelling the many myths , misinformation and , in some cases , lies about menopause is vital , ensuring women safe passage through their menopausal years . Historical Myths The 1960s heralded a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevailing Victorian view of menopause , as a mysterious debilitating psychological condition , the vogue . Instead of treating women with a variety of mood-altering tranquilizers , shock treatment or , in some instances , institutionalization , the advent of steroid hormone drug therapy would elevate menopause into the realm of legitimate medical concerns . Menopause , a natural process , would become pathologized and medicalized as an estrogendeficient disease . It did n't take long for the manufacturers of the burgeoning steroid hormone market to set their sights on the menopausal woman . In 1966 a New York gynecologist , Dr. Robert Wilson , wrote the first book enticing menopausal women to the medical wonders of estrogen . Feminine Forever extolled the virtues of estrogen replacement to save women from the " tragedy of menopause which often destroys her character as well as her health . " He popularized the erroneous beliefs that menopause was a deficiency disease , the ovaries shriveled up and that estrogen replacement was a kind of long sought after youth pill . Wilson singled out estrogen as the missing ingredient for the menopausal woman and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of symptoms . However , there had been no formal assessment of the safety of estrogen therapy nor were there any studies demonstrating the safety of its long-term use . The use of unopposed estrogen went out of vogue when it was revealed that it prematurely shortened the lives of its users . In 1975 , The New England Journal of Medicine examined the rates of endometrial cancer for estrogen consumers and concluded that five years of use increased the risk sixfold . Women who had used estrogen long-term were 15 times more likely to develop endometrial cancer . Unopposed estrogen was identified as the only known cause of endometrial cancer . Within a few years of the publication of Wilson 's book , not only was his early research into estrogen 's supposed benefits publicly condemned as flawed and invalid , but the FDA announced that Robert Wilson was an " unacceptable investigator . " Unfortunately , for the tens of millions of women who have been lured into the use of hormone replacement therapy in the hope of keeping them young forever , Wilson 's theories and promises have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very powerful substances . They are exceptionally potent chemicals that are made by the body in the tiniest amounts , in parts per billion or trillion . Begin tampering with nature 's finely tuned messengers of life 's processes and you are asking for trouble . This is especially true for women . A woman 's physiology and psyche are intimately connected to her monthly flow of hormones . Hormones stimulate , regulate and control all vital bodily functions . They not only direct and determine physiological processes but also influence emotional and mental states . A lot is said about the hormones , estrogen and progesterone . But what exactly are they ? Estrogen really is n't a single hormone . To be accurate it refers to a class of hormones with estrus activity ( i.e. proliferation of endometrial cells in preparation for pregnancy ) . The key estrogens are named estradiol , estrone-both of which are implicated in stimulating abnormal cell growth when found in higher than normal amounts in the body-and estriol which is considered to be cancer inhibiting . Each type of estrogen has a different function @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ovaries although small quantities are secreted from the adrenal glands , the placenta during pregnancy and in fat cells . In the case of progesterone , however , we are talking about only one specific hormone . Thus progesterone is both the name of the class and the single member of the class . Progesterone is also made in smaller amounts by the adrenal glands in both sexes and by the testes in males . What is little known is that progesterone is the precursor hormone from which estrogen , testosterone and the adrenal cortical hormones are made . While all the attention has been focused on estrogen , it is actually progesterone that deserves a greater starring role in maintaining hormonal balance in women . The synthetic hormones , estrogen and progestin , used in hormone replacement therapy are actually powerful steroid drugs . More accurately , hormone replacement therapy should be known as hormone drug therapy . At a conservative count , The Physicians Desk Reference lists a combined total of approximately 120 potential risks and reactions associated with HRT Synthetic progesterone also known as progestin ( such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even exist in nature . It can not be converted by the body into other steroid hormones unlike natural progesterone , the bio-identical form . Progestins are also riddled with serious side effects including cancer and cardiovascular disease . In fact , the National Institute of Health and the World Health Organization ( WHO ) have listed all synthetic estrogens as well as progestins as known human carcinogens . Far from duplicating or supplementing nature 's hormones , the synthetic hormone components of HRT introduce powerful drugs into a healthy woman 's body , predisposing her to serious physical and emotional imbalances as well as potentially life-threatening conditions . The Estrogen Deficiency Myth At menopause , the amount of estrogen and progesterone being produced by the ovaries declines although other hormones continue to be produced . Estrogen levels drop to only 40-60 percent , just low enough so that the egg follicles do not mature , thus making pregnancy impossible . Contrary to popular belief , the ovaries do not shrivel up nor do they cease functioning . With the reduction of these hormones , menstruation becomes scantier and erratic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete year without a menstrual cycle . However , after menopause the ovary continues to be a productive endocrine gland working in conjunction with other body sites such as the adrenal glands , skin , muscle , brain , pituitary gland , hair follicles and body fat to produce estrogen ( estrone ) , testosterone and androgens well into old age . A healthy woman never really stops making estrogen or progesterone . Doctors who see the ovaries as useless after menopause point out that in women 's older years the ovaries grow smaller . However , as women age , the part of the ovary that shrinks is known as the theca , the outermost covering where the eggs grow and develop . The innermost part of the ovary , known as the inner stroma , actually becomes active at menopause for the first time in a woman 's life . With exquisite timing , one function starts up as the other winds down . The female body is able to make healthy and symptom-free adjustments in hormonal balance after menopause , provided a woman has taken good care of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diet and mental and emotional health . The appearance of menopausal symptoms are more indications of imbalance than an inevitable decline in health and function . By incorporating a healthy diet , nutritional support and positive lifestyle changes , symptoms of hormonal imbalance disappear . Hormonal symptoms are really symptoms signalling that the body is out of balance . Adrenal exhaustion , thyroid problems , blood sugar imbalance , toxic livers , inflammation of the intestinal tract , food allergies , heavy metal toxicity and Candida are some of the health problems that contribute to hormonal imbalance . What is coming to light is the fact many women actually have an excess of estrogen . " Estrogen dominance syndrome " is a term that describes a condition of an imbalance between estrogen and progesterone . The delicate balance between these two hormones is now skewed in estrogens favor . Stress , nutritional deficiencies , environmental estrogenic-like substances found in pesticides , herbicides and plastics are the likely contributing factors to the creation of estrogen dominance ( as well as taking synthetic estrogens combined with an ensuing deficiency of progesterone ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused or made worse by estrogen dominance : acceleration of the aging process , allergies , breast tenderness , decreased sex drive , depression , fatigue , hair thinning , excessive facial hair , fibrocystic breasts , foggy thinking , headaches , hypoglycaemia , increased blood clotting ( increasing risk of strokes ) , infertility , irritability , memory loss , miscarriage , osteoporosis , premenopausal bone loss , PMS , thyroid dysfunction mimicking hypothyroidism , uterine cancer , uterine fibroids , water retention , bloating , fat gain ( especially around the abdomen , hips and thighs ) , gall bladder disease and autoimmune disorders such as lupus and MS . Far from a deficiency in estrogen , modern menopausal women are much more likely to have an excess of estrogen . The Perimenopause Myth Research is now revealing that the ovary at perimenopause ( the period of time from the first change a woman notices after age 35-40 until one year has passed without a flow ) is more active than it has been since adolescence . One leading researcher , endocrinologist Dr. Jerilynn Prior , has found that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estrogen , with unpredictable moods , heavy flow , hot flashes and mucous symptoms that appear suddenly and unexpectedly . " The many symptoms that women experience during the perimenopause years , such as weight gain , irrational hunger , increased migraines , heavy periods , worsening endometriosis , breast swelling ( with pain or lumps ) , new or growing fibroids , new or increasing PMS , pelvic pain and uterine cramps are caused by high levels of estrogen . Dr. Prior has found that the average estrogen levels in perimenopausal women are higher than in younger women . The older women not only had higher levels of estrogen but also had lower levels of progesterone . Many of these common health problems can be offset by increasing the level of natural progesterone . The problem is not always that progesterone levels are actually lower than normal but are low in comparison to elevated estrogen levels . Increasing progesterone levels using a natural transdermal progesterone cream ( not a progestin ) can alleviate , if not eliminate , most estrogen dominant symptoms . These findings have also been supported by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has developed a way to measure women 's ovarian hormones using saliva . He has reported his findings of ovarian hormone levels in various populations of distinct genetic , ecological and cultural backgrounds . He found that in Western populations premenopausal estrogen levels represent a high extreme of the spectrum and should be considered abnormal . Further , he suggests that these abnormal levels may relate to the current epidemic of breast and ovarian cancer . Saliva assay tests are far more accurate than blood serum tests to assess hormone levels . Menopause Truths Women are now faced with the challenge of redefining menopause . Menopause per se should be regarded as a normal adjustment reflecting a benign change in a woman 's biological life away from childbearing and onward to a period of new personal power and fulfillment . The Western perception of menopause as a threshold of undesirable symptoms and progressive illness due to estrogen deficiency is an error unsupported by fact . More accurately , menopausal problems should be viewed as an abnormality brought about by industrialized cultured deviation from a healthy lifestyle . The hormone story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only one version of the story has been readily available to the majority of Western women . Serious doubt has been cast on the efficacy and appropriateness of estrogen and progestins as a treatment . Women are certainly suffering more than ever before from a wide variety of female complaints . What complicates the hormone story is that HRT , the seeming cure for these complaints , can actually make them worse . Without understanding the farreaching side effects of estrogen and progestins , doctors are often misdiagnosing the cause of these aggravated conditions . Other drugs may be prescribed with disastrous effects , as the spiral of unnecessary medication increases . It is indeed time for women to take even greater responsibility for their health , their choices and lifestyle . It is also time to ask pertinent questions of health providers , to demand answers and to be willing to investigate safe , effective and natural alternatives . It is up to every woman to read , question , trust her natural instincts and learn about the workings of her own body . It is also essential that women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fully prepared a woman to journey though all the stages of her life safely , effortlessly and naturally Photograph Sidebar Menopause Myths Sidebar 1 . Menopause is a time of decline , physically , emotionally and mentally . 2 . The ovary fails . 3 . A menopausal woman ceases to produce estrogen. 4 . Uncomfortable symptoms are inevitable . 5 . Hormone replacement therapy is safe . Sidebar 6 . Perimenopause is a time of declining estrogen levels . 7 . Menopausal women are estrogendeficient. 8 . Estrogen keeps the skin soft and wrinkle-free. 9 . Synthetic estrogen and progestin do not cause cancer . 10 . The uterus is a disposable organ after a woman 's childbearing years . Sidebar Increasing progesterone levels using a natural transdermal progesterone cream ( not a progestin ) can alleviate , if not eliminate , most estrogen dominant symptoms . Sidebar Menopause Facts Sidebar 1 . Menopause is a time of increased power , creativity , vitality and wisdom . 2 . An ovary functions throughout a woman 's life . 3 . A menopausal woman produces estrogen from her ovaries and her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a smooth , symptom-free transition . 5 . Hormone replacement therapy has 120 possible risks and side effects . 6 . Perimenopause is a time of high , fluctuating estrogen levels and low progesterone levels . Sidebar 7 . Western menopausal women have some of the highest levels of estrogen ever recorded , according to the WHO. 8 . Estrogen is known to age the skin and cause loss of muscle tone . 9 . Estrogen and progestins are known human carcinogens. 10 . The uterus makes hormones that protect the heart and blood vessels . Author Affiliation by Sherrill Sellman Author Affiliation Sherrill Sellman is the author of the bestselling book Hormone Heresy : What Women Must Know About Their Hormones . She is a contributing writer to many publications , a passionate women 's health advocate and an international lecturer . She can be contacted at : www.ssellman.com , e-mail : golight@earthlink.net or PO . Box 690416 , Tulsa , Oklahoma 74169 . She also has a free monthly HormoneWise e-Digest . Send an e-mail hwise@ssellman.com Author Affiliation SHERRILL SELLMAN Author Affiliation An international author , psychotherapist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her book , Hormone Heresy-What Women Must Know About Their Hormones , lectures and seminars , she has empowered women all over the world to make more educated and informed choices about their health . www.ssellman.com // <p>                     