@@387692

Headnote CR INVESTIGATES Headnote OUTSOURCING RAISES AIR-SAFETY CONCERNS // To save money , airlines have outsourced many of their operations , from baggage handling to onboard eatering- But the latest trend has far greater consequences than who provides the food for your next flight . More and more , airlines are contracting out the work to maintain planes-fixing wheels , repairing engines , and more . Indeed , commercial aviation in America is flying into uncharted skies : In 2005 , the latest full year for which data are available , most of the 20 largest domestic airlines were outsourcing more than half of their major maintenance . Contract repair facilities , especially those overseas , are subject to less oversight than in-house shops , with fewer screening programs for workers , fewer inspections , and loopholes that allow even more subcontracting . At the same time , the Federal Aviation Administration , which is in charge of regulating airlines and promoting air safety , is reducing actual inspections of airplanes by its own staff as it moves to an electronic-surveillance system that relies more on statistical analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others say they are concerned about the trend . Airlines are contracting out maintenance work to facilities that are not always certificated , says Rep. James Oberstar , D-Minn. , House transportation committee chairman . " It 's not being done with the same oversight , " he says . " What we have is the potential of major failure . " John Goglia was the first FAA-certified mechanic to serve on the National Transportation Safety Board , which investigates airline accidents , and he has similar worries : " You add up all these ticks of risk , and you could have a problem . " A CONSUMER REPORTS investigation already has found warning signs : * As the major airlines hire low-cost bidders in locations throughout the U.S. , and in Mexico . El Salvador , China , Singapore , and the Philippines , among others , much of the work is being done by nonlicensed mechanics . The practice is allowed under federal rules , as long as one licensed employee signs off on the job . * A number of mishaps and reports of safety violations are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are skeptical that sufficient safeguards are in place to make sure that airlines and others who are supposed to be monitoring the repair work do so adequately . * Security is a growing concern since repair facilities are not always subject to the same levels of screening as in-house operations . Arrests at some repair shops have snared terrorism suspects and undocumented workers , who were subsequently deported . * A CR analysis of flight data shows that airlinesthat outsource more tend to have more delays blamed on the airline . There seems to be a correlation , according to industry experts . A series of reports has brought about little action . The Inspector General 's Office of the US . Department of Transportation said in a December 2005 report : " Neither FAA nor the six air carriers we reviewed provided adequate oversight of the work that non-certificated facilities performed . " The FAA disagrees that safety is being compromised , saying the proof is in " today 's ultra-low air carrier fatal accident rate . " In a statement , the agency says , " There has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of outsourced maintenance . " RECENT SAFETY RECORD The issues of maintenance and oversight have not gained widespread attention , in part because of the airline industry 's safety record in recent years . There has not been a major deadly airline accident since 2001 , when an American Airlines jet crashed in Queens , N.Y. , killing 260 people onboard and five on the ground . But there have been deadly accidents involving smaller commercial aircraft , and a Government Accountability Office report in September said that with four fatal accidents in fiscal 2006 , the FAA would miss its air-safety goal for the year . The issue especially pains Douglas and Tereasa Shepherd , whose daughter Christiana , a college student , was among 21 killed in a 2003 commuter-plane crash in Charlotte , N.C. The plane was operated by Air Midwest as a US Airways Express flight . In May 2005 , the Shepherds received some satisfaction during a ceremony attended by families of the Charlotte crash victims . Greg Stephens , president of the airline , read a public apology at the gathering . " Air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Stephens said . " This tragedy has caused us to investigate rigorously our policies and guidelines regarding aircraft maintenance , operation , and safety in general . " It was an unprecedented apology obtained in a hard-fought legal battle by the Shepherds . The National Transportation Safety Board said the plane lost control because of problems with an airfoil that was improperly serviced by the outside company . The NTSB placed blame on both the airline and the FAA for lack of oversight . The Shepherds are skeptical that the tragedy has improved safety . Douglas Shepherd says , " The bottom line for these companies can not be money . That has to change . Outsourcing with no oversight leads to loss . " REPAIRS AND OVERSIGHT These have been hard years for the airline business . According to the trade group Air Transport Association , the U.S. industry lost $35 billion between 2001 and 2005 . That has spurred big pay cuts , layoffs , and a trend toward contracting out some operations , including maintenance . For decades , most major airline repairs were performed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facilities . To oversee this work , the FAA established regional offices around the country and assigned inspectors . Industry veterans say there was a time when a dozen employees working on an airplane were all FAA-licensed mechanics . Now , they say , it 's not uncommon for a dozen nonlicensed workers at an offshore facility to complete major maintenance - such as engine changes , structural repairs , and flight-systems overhauls-overseen by one certificated mechanic . Even when the repair station does have an FAA certificate , there are big loopholes . The FAA acknowledges there have heen recent instances in which a repair-station operator has had the certificate revoked and shortly afterward was granted one in a new business . The agency is considering some new rules . The changes in maintenance cause concern for top officials . Mark Rosenker , chairman of the NTSB , gives the FAA generally good marks on airlinemaintenance issues . But Rosenker says with the increased use of overseas facilities by the airlines , the FAA might need to change how it oversees the maintenance work on airplanes . " It 's time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjust to that , " he says . In recent years , the FAA has moved toward an electronic surveillance system , dubbed Air Transportation Oversight System ( ATOS ) , that relies less on inspection and more on statistical trends . CR obtained an internal FAA memorandum dated June 13 , 2006 , detailing specifics of ATOS as it pertains to outside maintenance facilities . The memo states : " As the focus of ATOS is on systems-based inspections rather than event/activity-based inspections , air carrier hubs and employee domiciles will generally play no role in this determination . " In other words , say critics , resources are being assigned to bigpicture computer models , rather than inspectors " kicking tires " up close . But several FAA inspectors interviewed by CONSUMER REPORTS said they are concerned about relying so heavily on computer modeling to ensure airline safety . A common theme is that they could not function as safety inspectors without inspecting the repair facilities . In part , the new system relies on airlines to serve as the eyes and ears of the FAA . But that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed a 3200,000 fine against United for allegedly operating a jet for 17 flights after outside maintenance contractor TLMCO , based in Greensboro , N.C. , " failed to properly reinstall fuelsystem components . " The fine was reduced , as often happens , to $33,000 . Mary Schiavo , the DOT 's inspector general from 1990 to 1996 , says . " Airlines ca n't self-inspect . We see it in other countries where there is no oversight , and there is a much higher accident rate . " The FAA is part of the DOT , and the inspector general 's office publishes periodic reports on issues of policy and operations . One such report , released in December 2005 , raised questions about the level of oversight . The report stated that the FAA never inspected approximately 1,400 noncertificated repair facilities , including 104 foreign facilities . At the same time , the FAA last year lost about 200 inspectors , or 6 percent , from attrition . Nick Lacey , FAAs director of flight standards from 1999 to 2001 , says the FAA might not be able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lacey says , " If you asked the FAA , Are your air carriers more compliant with regulations today than yesterday ? " the agency would not know . A SPATE OF PROBLEMS The most visible battleground for the new system has been Northwest Airlines . With a fleet of 369 planes , it has struggled through labor negotiations , culminating in a strike by its maintenance staff that reduced the number of in-house mechanics from about 3,600 to 900 . Documents obtained by CONSUMER REPORTS show ihe FAA recorded 56 separate maintenance violations against Northwest between July 2005 and January 2006 . They included a serious instance in September 2005 when a DC-9 jet was trying to land and the wing flaps retracted on their own , creating a potential loss of control of the airplane during its descent . The pilots had to reset the flaps to land safely . The flaps retracted on their own again after landing . During the same month , NASA 's Aviation Safety Reporting System issued a lengthy Alert Bulletin warning of a " critical " problem with wheel and tire assemblies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Technicians reported finding broken , loose , and missing wheel tie bolts on wheels built up by a contract-maintenance facility " A spokesman for Northwest , Roman Blahoski , says that the majority of violations had been resolved and that the wheel problem had been discovered by Northwest and fixed . He said that whether technical problems result from work done in-house or not , " our quality systems are designed to find them and fix them with minimum disruption to the traveling public . " But Linda Goodrich , an FAA inspector and a vice president of the Professional Airways Systems Specialists , a union that represents FAA inspectors , says that the airline industry has been emboldened to do more outsourcing and that the facilities abroad are a special problem , " They 're laughing at us , " Goodrich says . " The inspector is basically rendered useless overseas . Northwest is the epitome of this . " Maintenance servicing by outsourced repair shops has become an issue at several other airlines as well . George Miller , a Houston-based lead technician for Continental Airlines and a member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his experience , two or three out of 10 planes chat Continental gets back from outside shops need more work in-house . He adds , " If we keep outsourcing , then we 're going to have a real problem on our hands . " Continental disputes that assessment , saying it has representatives checking all major maintenance work . " Our success can be measured by the performance results . We have excellent maintenance reliability , " spokeswoman Julie King says . Tim Hafer , a former mechanic for United Airlines , became a whistleblower , telling the FAA that unlicensed administrative assistants were signing off on repairs . The FAA closed the case after sending a letter of correction . Hafer is still contesting his termination from the airline , which United had said was for other reasons . Hafer says , " You would expect a mechanic to be licensed and you would expect everyone working on the plane to be certified and trained . And it 's not the case . " Alaska Airlines outsources 92 percent of its major maintenance and has had troubles too . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2003 and 2006 . Fred Mohr , Alaska 's vice president of maintenance and engineering , acknowledges the FAA 's actions but says , " Safety and compliance are paramount to Alaska Airlines . " Concerning Alaska 's outsourcing , he says . " I would tell any passenger , " Resl assured , this work is being done by the best people in their field . ' ' " SECURITY CONCERNS The issue of contracting out airline maintenance also raises security issues for an industry ' still reeling from terrorism . At SASCO/ST Aerospace , a maintenance contractor in Singapore that served Northwest , an employee suspected of having Al Qaeda connections was arrested along with 14 others in late 2001 . The Singapore government says that the suspect was doing reconnaissance of the facility and that he later helped in the investigation . Even domestically , repair-station employees and subcontractors are not subject to the same scrutiny as airline workers . In March 2005. immigration agents arrested 27 undocumented workers employed as aircraft mechanics for the maintenance contractor TIMCO . Marshall S. Filler , the managing director/general counsel of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says outsourcing is not a negative , although he agreed that the FAA could use more resources to improve oversight of facilities . Of illegal workers being used , he says , " It does n't prove anything-it may highlight there are some holes to fill . " Aides to Rep. Oberstar said it could be time for his transportation panel to hold hearings on the issue of certification of outside repair stations and employees , which are regulated under Pan 145 of the federal aviation rules . Consumers Union , publisher of CONSUMER REPORTS , believes that the standards should be made uniform , to equally apply whether the work is performed by the airline or an outside company . CU also suggests that steps be taken to prevent shrinkage of the FAA inspectors ' ranks . Oberstar says the situation might warrant a change : . ' It 's a recipe for failure . " Sidebar CR Quick Take Concern is growing that air transportation is losing its margin of safety as airlines contract out more maintenance . * Major carriers are outsourcing more than half of their maintenance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the U.S. and overseas , operate with staff that is not licensed and does not have to undergo screening . * The FAA is increasingly relying on statistical analysis instead of visual inspection to catch safety problems . * At the same time , the agency is losing safety inspectors through attrition . Sidebar Douglas and Tereasa Shepherd , whose daughter died in a crash : " Outsourcing with no oversight leads to loss . " Sidebar Trouble in the skies JULY 2000 The fatal crash of an Air France supersonic Concorde in Paris kills 113 . The French agency Bureau d'Enquetes et d'Analyses said that the accident occurred during takeoff due to " high-speed passage of a tyre over a part lost by an aircraft " ( Continental ) on the runway . That part had been replaced by a maintenance contractor , Israel Aircraft Industries in Tel Aviv . SEPTEMBER 2005 A Northwest Airlines DC-9 jet was starting final approach for a landing , and the wing flaps retracted on their own , according to federal records , causing a potential for a crash landing . The pilots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flaps retracted on their own again after landing . DECEMBER 2004 After undergoing extensive maintenance at an outside repair shop . Alaska Airlines operated a jet for months without proper emergency lighting in the cabin . The FAA says the airline performed 40 inspections of the plane but failed to detect the problem . The agency proposed a 5500,000 fine . The fine was paid but was significantly reduced . DECEMBER 2005 In an " improper action , " a mechanic at a noncertificated repair facility reset a fuel-pump circuit breaker without following proper procedures , according to the federal Department of Transportation . This incident , at an unnamed U.S. airline , could have caused " a fire or fuel tank explosion , " the agency report states . Linda Goodrich , FAA inspector and union executive : " The inspector is basically rendered useless overseas . " // <p>                     