@@420926

AFGHANISTAN Violence against women keeps intensifying . Shaima Rezayee was a pioneering , 24-year-old , Kabul-based TV host idolized " by women and youthful fans for appearing unveiled . Denounced by fundamentalist clerics , she was fired from her job . About two months later , she was found dead in her home , shot in the head . Authorities say her brothers may have been involved in the murder . In Pul-i-Khumri , northern Baghlan , three Afghan women , including a nongovernmental ( NGO ) aid worker , were found raped and strangled , the bodies accompanied by a note stating , " This is retribution for those women who are working in NGOs and those who are involved in whoredom . " Afghan Youths Convention claimed responsibility . In northwestern Badakhshan , a woman named Amina was stoned to death after being convicted of adultery ; authorities arrested six men , including the mullah who reportedly authorized the stoning , the woman 's father and some other relatives . BULGARIA A domestic violence law , one of the first of its kind in the region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is modeled after Minnesota 's similar 1979 law : The Women 's Human Rights Program of Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights ( www.mnadvocates.org ) worked with the Bulgarian Gender Research Foundation to frame the legislation , and Minnesotans organized a local and national letter-writing campaign to the Bulgarian Parliament in support of the law . WHO VS . USA The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services sought to block the World Health Organization from endorsing mifepristone , an abortion pill that could save lives among the 80,000 women who die from unsafe abortion practices in poor countries every year . WHO wants the pills on its list of " essential medicines . " In poor nations where abortion is legal , there is currently no alternative to surgery . IRAN Before presidential elections earlier this year , about 450 women took to the streets near Tehran University . It was women 's first public act of dissent since 1979 , when the then-new Islamist government enforced wearing of the chador ( veil ) . Some women were clubbed , beaten and detained for marching . They chanted , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land , but we the have no rights , " and carried signs that read , " Freedom , justice and gender equality . " The Guardian Council ( run by six unelected clerics and six judges , all male ) had disqualified all 89 women who had registered to run for president , sparking the protest . The Women 's Forum Against Fundamentalism in Iran ( www.wfafi.org ) cites numerous additional reasons for the demonstrators ' rage , including statistics showing women 's poverty , unemployment and lack of reproductive , sexual , marital , custody and divorce rights ; rape , battery , sexual slavery and other forms of violence ; political repression ; and public lashings , detentions , stonings and a high rate of female suicide . Mahboudeh Abbasgholizadeh , editor of the activist women 's magazine Farzaneh , was imprisoned without charges for a month last fall . Of the demonstration , she said , " Women 's rights will be fulfilled only when the constitution changes " ( the current constitution is based on fundamentalist interpretation of sharia , or Islamic law ) . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ www.msmagazine.com . GUATEMALA At least 247 women were violently murdered in the first six months of this year , adding to the 527 women killed in 2004 , according to a recent Amnesty International report . The percentage of women slaughtered in Guatemala over the past three years has grown from 4.5 percent of all homicides ( 2002 ) to 12.1 percent ( 2004 ) . As with the murders of women in Mexico ( see page 34 ) , authorities have denied any problem . Amnesty charges state " incompetence and discrimination " that " fuels impunity and thereby sends a message that the crimes are acceptable . " Only 9 percent of the 1,188 murders registered in the country between 2001 and 2004 have been investigated ; many showed evidence of sexual assault . Though officials refer to the victims as " gang members " or " prostitutes , " Amnesty indicated that among the victims were homemakers , students and professionals from 13 to 40 years of age , plus many domestic employees , shop or factory workers , and migrant laborers . EGYPT Hundreds of street demonstrators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( including groping , sexual harassment and beating ) on progressive women during a previous demonstration for political change . Eman Taha , a journalist , was hospitalized for four days after being kicked repeatedly in the stomach . While male demonstrators were also attacked , the assaults on women became a rallying cry , not only for women ( one of whom demanded " a national apology " ) but also for odd , and possibly opportunistic , bedfellows : the Muslim Brotherhood and the Center for Socialist Studies . The latter group acknowledged that they were now engaged in a dialogue as a result of the events , and one Islamic professor denounced assaults on " the sanctity of women . " The government denies involvement in any strategic effort to intimidate women and is " investigating " the attacks . // <p>                     