@@405452

Will Ferrell 's lock on macho infantilism retrofits the ' 70s relic Land of the Lost . When kids play games , they pretend to be adults : soldiers , spacemen , cops and robbers or , for the more precocious , doctors and nurses . The theme is , Be what you want to be . Then when they grow up , go to Hollywood and make movies , they often create characters that are emotional adolescents , infants , kids . The credo of so many action films and comedies is , Be what you used to be or what you still , secretly , are . This tendency could be the film industry 's wise acknowledgment that inside every adult is a backward child ruled by fears and cravings . Or it could just be that movie people know what audiences will pay to see : grownups behaving not like Cary Grant sophisticates exchanging witty repartee but like kindergartners making poop jokes . Will Ferrell , in the screen persona he 's perfected over a healthy six-year box-office run , takes the **26;724;TOOLONG transference a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Anchorman , Talladega Nights and Blades of Glory , he plays overage children who try to act like adults , with their steely intonations and take-charge attitude . His usual character is the kind of fellow who learned how real men behave by watching Clint Eastwood and Harrison Ford movies -- Hollywood , not life , has been his teacher , and he 's not such a quick study . Endless setbacks and critiques have not dented Ferrell man 's lunatic belief in himself . He strides manfully forward , his eye on the horizon -- thus never noticing the open manhole he 's about to step into . Ferrell 's latest excursion into delusions of manhood is director Brad Silberling 's Land of the Lost , an action comedy with the sloppy construction and saving grace notes of the star 's other movies . It 's based on the Sid and Marty Krofft live-action adventure show -- about a man and his son and daughter who are trapped in a time-warp landscape of dinosaurs and talking lizards -- that lasted for just 43 episodes on Saturday mornings in the mid- ' 70s . The series is recalled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had visible zippers . But its puny pedigree does n't eliminate it from big-screen retooling . Indeed , if a TV show from the ' 60s or ' 70s had a premise elementary enough to be pictured on a lunch-box lid , chances are it 's recently been made into a movie . One more victory for the retro kids . Rick Marshall ( Ferrell ) , who calls himself a quantum paleontologist , has been working on a tachyon meter -- it looks like a boom box -- that will puncture the space-time continuum . The world laughs at Rick , perhaps because he loves show tunes . But someone believes in him : sexy British scientist Holly Cantrell ( Anna Friel ) , who has found the imprint of his lighter in a rock that 's millions of years old . She takes him to the desert area where she found it , and after bumping into the obligatory rude dude , a souvenir salesman named Will ( Danny McBride ) , they all go sliding down a waterfall into the time-jumbled land of the lost . The script , by Chris Henchy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorite tropes . There 's the monkey-man Chaka ( Jorma Taccone ) , a sort of humanoid Cheeta from the old Tarzan movies ; the Altrusian lizard lords Enik ( John Boylan ) and the Zarn ( voiced by Leonard Nimoy ) ; and a huge army of the zombie-like Sleestaks -- as Will sagely observes , " That 's how zombies get you : volume . " If fans of the TV show want a Tyrannosaurus rex to chase Rick into a cave , as in the old days , they 'll get their wish . The difference is in the care taken with the creatures and their environment . The dinos have plausibility and personality , and there are enough rocks , jutting jaws and monster guts thrown at the screen to make a 3-D version of the movie appealing . Production designer Bo Welch 's desert vistas -- with , say , an ocean liner stuck in the sand at a 60-degree angle -- bring Dalesque visions to a routine action comedy . Father to the other two space-time travelers in the show , Rick here is more the intrepid guide , or he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To blend in with prehistoric beasts , he 'll douse himself in the dinosaur urine he 's harvested . He 'll wander -- make that blunder -- into dangerous situations and , in the movie 's sharpest moment , tiptoe through a nest of baby dinosaurs , sedating the little ones by singing " I Hope I Get It " from A Chorus Line . Less overbearing than in his earlier films but no less resolute , Ferrell seems to be channeling his George W. Bush impression from Saturday Night Live and the one-man Broadway show that earned him a Tony nomination . Rick has that same unwarranted self-assurance , the same blindness to his crippling dooficity . And because Rick , like every other Ferrell male , is no more self-conscious than he is self-aware , there will be the actor 's requisite topless scene . For if Matthew McConaughey is the alpha male , Ferrell is the omega . His chest is large , white and flabby , and it 's pocked with what look like dozens of tiny , imperfectly attached hair-implant tufts . It might be a helicopter 's eye @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that 's what makes this preening so funny : his character 's cluelessness to ( and Ferrell 's awareness of ) the limits of his erotic appeal . We see Rick emerge from a motel pool , and as he shakes his wet hair , the movie goes into loving slo-mo ; it both enters his fantasy and laughs at his sub-Adonis reality . Here 's the 41-year-old Ferrell playing another child 's game , revealing the idiocy and sweetness in the ego of the American male -- the kid who never grew up . PULLQUOTE Ferrell is the intrepid guide to the other two space-time travelers , or he acts that way , even when he 's feeling trepid BOX If Nurse Jackie is an angel of mercy , she 's a fallen one TELEVISION , PAGE 64                     