@@406414

Go before they 're gone . How to visit seven endangered places  --  responsibly . PRESERVATION ORGANIZATIONS face a difficult challenge when treating the world 's endangered spots as tourist attractions : promote the area too much and you risk trampling the very thing you 're trying to save . And while it 's true that many places  --  whether imperiled by man or nature or a combination of forces  --  benefit most from the donations you make from afar , for others , tourism is critical to their survival . Here are seven sites where your visit can help reverse the damage . The Channel Islands , California Few people know of the biological diversity that exists twenty-five miles off the coast of Santa Barbara in the so-called Galpagos of North America . The five rugged islands that make up Channel Islands National Park ( nps.gov/chis ) are home to more than 2,000 terrestrial plant and animal species  --  145 of which can be found nowhere else  --  as well as North America 's oldest dated human remains and evidence of the pygmy mammoth and the flightless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when it comes to tourism , the Channel Islands encourage travelers to visit , but only through strict controls that cap guests at 100 per day on the smallest island . Historically , the biggest threats have been introduced species from old farms ; nonnative animals have destroyed ancient archaeological sites and pushed species like the island fox toward extinction . Happily , for a place that traditionally has had few avenues for receiving contributions , new ways to give are cropping up . The just-formed Channel Islands Park Foundation ( 805-658-5737 ; ciparkfoundation.org ) accepts donations , as does the Nature Conservancy ( nature.org/california ) , which owns 76 percent of Santa Cruz , the largest isle in the chain . How to visit : Island Packers ( from $45 ; 805-642-1393 ; islandpackers.com ) runs ferries from Ventura and Oxnard . For those who really want to roll up their sleeves and help , the Sierra Club ( sierraclub.org ) sponsors volunteer cleanup trips . Wilderness Inquiry ( from $595 per person ; 800-728-0719 ; wildernessinquiry.org ) arranges custom trips led by naturalists for groups of ten to eighteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Gujarat , the Champaner-Pavagadh Archaeological Park is a massive repository of monuments from both Hindu and Islamic cultures , some dating back to the Stone Age . Largely unexcavated , the more than 100 temples , palaces , homes and fortifications scattered across four miles were first inhabited by the Solanki kings . In 1484 the sultan of Gujarat captured the city and made it his capital . Half a century later , after being invaded by the Moghul emperor , the city was promptly deserted . UNESCO granted the site World Heritage status in 2004 following two decades of lobbying by the Heritage Trust , a local NGO headed by prominent architect Karan Grover . Its listing has afforded it some protection , strengthening the local economy by attracting tourism and reducing the out-migration of labor . Now , however , an antiheritage lobby wants UNESCO to pull its recognition , complaining about restrictions put on commercial and residential construction in the protected zone . The biggest threat , Grover says , is the government 's apathy toward enacting a master plan for responsible development . " The delay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it 's built , " he says . How to visit : Our Personal Guest ( call for pricing ; 212-319-1354 ; ourpersonalguest.com ) , an exclusive New York travel agency run by Pallavi Shah , plans customized tours of the area in conjunction with the Heritage Trust and ensures that donations go directly to site preservation . The Everglades , Florida Even though Everglades National Park ( nps.gov/ever ) was dedicated more than sixty years ago , only half of the park and the surrounding swampland 's original ecosystem remains today . America 's subtropical wilderness has fallen prey to a variety of threats ; foremost among them is a massive water-diverting system that drained much of the area to build suburbs and farms , which ultimately polluted the habitat and endangered a dozen animal species . Congress passed an $8 billion restoration plan in 2000 to curb the damage , but bureaucracy has stalled the funds , and development continues to creep down the banks . For travelers , one way to help , says Mark Kraus , chief operating officer of the Everglades Foundation ( evergladesfoundation.org ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economy is the environment  --  tourism brings so many dollars into local economies . " How to visit : Trips with Everglades Day Safari ( $140 per person ; 800-472-3069 ; ecosafari.com ) depart from Fort Lauderdale and Fort Myers and are led by ornithologists and reptile experts ; the company donates a portion of the proceeds to Friends of the Everglades ( everglades.org ) . South Florida 's Tropical Audubon Society ( 305-667-7337 ; tropicalaudubon.org ) organizes free bird-watching expeditions . Valley of the Golden Mummies , Egypt In a remote depression in Egypt 's Western Desert , Supreme Council of Antiquities secretary-general Zahi Hawass and his team have used sonar technology to locate more than 10,000 mummies since they first began excavating , in 1999 . Hawass believes that the sprawling cemetery was established around the time of Alexander the Great 's conquest of Egypt and was used actively during Roman rule . But despite sponsorship by the SCA and Ministry of Culture , looting remains a concern . Only 250 of the mummies have been excavated ; of those , twelve are housed in an ill-equipped temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have faded the painted colors and caused some mummies to deteriorate . Unsupervised tourists take flash photos , further harming these delicate antiquities . How to visit : The two-week Footsteps of Alexander the Great tour by Abercrombie &; Kent ( from $8,300 per person ; 800-554-7016 ; abercrombiekent.com ) takes visitors to the valley and arranges private stops ( by special request ) to observe archaeological digs ; proceeds bolster the valley 's preservation efforts . Church of San Pedro Apstol , Peru This 1606 Baroque church in Andahuaylillas is filled with murals so spectacular that it 's commonly referred to as the Sistine Chapel of America . But the cathedral has been plagued by problems ever since an unfortunate restoration attempt in 1980 : a heavy floor that had stabilized the building wound up being removed , eliminating the tension required to keep its columns straight , according to Norma Barbacci , World Monuments Fund program director for Latin America . And years of seismic activity have left cracks in its already damp walls . The WMF took on the emergency repair effort last year , placing the church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $1 million needed for its full structural overhaul . San Pedro may be outside the tourist circuit of Cuzco ( though only an hour 's drive away ) and Machu Picchu , but the WMF is helping to create a circuit for San Pedro and neighboring churches ( one in Huaro , whose restoration was completed in 2007 , and one in Canincunca , which may be restored next year ) . " Simply seeing the churches is what will help the most , " Barbacci says . How to visit : Wren &; Fida International ( from $2,950 per person , double ; 801-364-4481 ; wrenandfida.com ) arranges private expeditions , choosing hotels that work closely with Peru 's National Institute of Culture . Seventy percent of each $1.75 church entrance fee goes to the preservation effort ; the remainder is spent on programs ensuring responsible development in the surrounding towns . You can also give directly to the World Monuments Fund ( 646-424-9594 ; wmf.org ) . The Pantanal , Brazil Vast swaths of Brazil 's 340,000-acre Pantanal Matogrossense National Park , on the country 's borders with Bolivia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dwindling number of floodplains in the world still in this condition . The United Nations has named the Pantanal  --  the gargantuan 30-million-acre area surrounding the park  --  a biosphere reserve , and UNESCO has conferred World Heritage site status on portions of its land ; but 98 percent of it is privately owned , so these designations signify little in terms of preservation . Its uplands are steadily being converted into ranches and large-scale agricultural concerns , which could wind up causing massive chemical damage . Cattle ranchers shoot the jaguars that wander onto their property , and smuggling for the pet trade has reduced the hyacinth macaw population . According to the nongovernmental organization Conservation International , by 2006 , 17 percent of the Pantanal 's native vegetation had been destroyed . If you extrapolate from this figure , it 's not a stretch to say that the area may not exist in forty years . For ranchers and developers , revenue from ecotourism is one of the only incentives that can offset the lure of making money from the destruction of the forest  --  an even better reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Natural Habitat Adventures ( $5,995 per person , double ; 800-543-8917 ; nathab.com ) offers eleven-day trips in conjunction with the World Wildlife Fund for groups of up to fourteen to the Pantanal ; the company donates $200,000 each year to Word Wildlife Fund causes . Local operators for Wren &; Fida International ( 801-364-4481 ; wrenandfida.com ) pair travelers with scientists as they track jaguars , study endangered macaws and conduct other research . Temple of Portunus , Rome One of the most important Roman Republican structures still standing , the Temple of Portunus has suffered from " benign neglect , " according to World Monuments Fund chief operating officer Lisa Ackerman . While it is on the site of what was the first central market in Rome , it has proved less popular with tourists than the Forum , in part because an adjacent highway cuts it off from other ancient attractions . The WMF placed the structure on its watch list in 2006 ; exposure to salt in the air had caused both its masonry and its frescoes to crumble . Last year a 9th-century fresco fragment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of restoring the temple , shedding light on its conversion to a Christian church . When the project is finished this summer , visitors ( in controlled groups ) will be able to see these frescoes for the first time in centuries . How to visit : New York-based outfitter Archaeological Tours ( $5,480 per person , double ; 866-740-5130 ; archaeologicaltrs.com ) conducts twelve-day , scholar-led trips to ancient Roman sites , some of which require special entrance permission . The company makes donations toward the restoration of the sites it visits . Peter the Great Photographer Peter Beard has spent much of his whirlwind life jet-setting between two extremes : the dusty plains of the Serengeti and the manicured lawns of the Hamptons . His eponymous tome , Peter Beard ( Taschen ) , reproduces a selection of diaries and collages that span his four-decade-long , continent-skipping career . First published as a limited-edition folio in 2006 , it has recently been reissued at a less-prohibitive price ( $100 ) without sacrificing any of the detail in Beard 's Boschian landscapes . Each page  --  populated by disco queens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , postwar pinups and rampaging rhinos  --  is synthesized from his own iconic photos , handwritten musings and newspaper clippings . Beard says he aims to channel " the original cry of Tarzan " in his artwork , and this two-volume boxed set , bound in red cloth and embossed with gold , is certainly a gift fit for Lord Greystoke himself  --  or at the very least , for the man of the house on Father 's Day . ELIZA PICKERING The vibrant Channel Islands , just a short ferry ride from the Southern California coast . The UNESCO-protected Shaheri Masjid temple in India 's Champaner-Pavagadh Archaeological Park . A vanishing sight : The marshes of Florida 's Everglades . A sarcophagus unearthed in the Valley of the Golden Mummies . FAST FACT Two endangered Everglades species : Florida panthers and West Indian manatees . FAST FACT The earliest known egyptian mummies date back to 2600 B.C.                     