@@423710

If you need proof that the free enterprise system works to the advantage of consumers , you need only look to the optics industry , where each year manufacturers around the globe strive to produce better , more innovative products at increasingly reasonable prices . The exceptions are optics made by many European firms . They also keep getting better , but their prices are being forced skyward by the U.S. dollar 's current weakness against the euro . If you 've read this gear test in past years , you 'll notice some changes in the format . Through the tests remain as exhaustive as ever , the charts have been simplified to make them easier to understand . As in recent years , each product was rated on a scale of 1 to 100 ; any product that received an over-all score of less than 70 was excluded from this report . The category " image quality " now comprises several optical attributes  --  including resolution , contrast , eye relief and field of view  --  that combine to make using the instrument a pleasant visual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great significance to many hunters , remains a separate category . It is measured by simply determining how long after official sunset a black and white test wheel can still be seen . " Design " is mostly about fit and function and takes into consideration the optic 's craftsmanship , ergonomics and usefulness in the field . And given their importance to those who work hard for their money , " price/value " ratings continue to be given serious attention by members of the test team . Remember , " Price is what you pay . Value is what you get . " Full-Size Binoculars This years 's selection of full-size binoculars ( those with objective-lens diameters of 30mm or larger ) displayed amazingly good optical performance . Naturally , we expect this from models that are 1,000 or more , but even the low- to mid-priced models performed exceedingly well . For example , the Celestron Sky-Master 15x70 , which sells for 125 , had excellent resolution and was able to focus on small details at long distances . And thanks to its extremely high twilight factor of 32.4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 131 ) , it outlasted the other full-size binoculars in the low-light test by 11 minutes . Meanwhile , at the small end of the full-size binocular group , the Leica Ultravid 8x32 , which in the words of one tester had " phenomenal clarity , " rivaled the best of the larger 8x42 models in image quality and low-light performance . It was , in fact , a very strong contender for Editor 's Choice honors . Personally , I 'd be quite comfortable using this petite optical jewel as a go-any-where , all-around hunting glass . And speaking of 32mm objectives , the great-performing Browning 8x32 , which costs less than a quarter as much as the Leica Ultravid , was chosen as the Great Buy for this optical category . Regarding costly binoculars , everyone agreed that the 1,550 Zeiss Victory 8x42 FL had the highest light transmission ( brightest image ) , which on all Zeiss Victory binoculars is better than 90 percent . One enthusiastic tester described it as being " so bright , it 's like locking at the sun . " That 's an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scene through extremely clear optics does kind of hurt your eyes . How can that be , when your eyes are receiving just over 90 percent of the available light and not all of it ? It happens because the perceived brilliance of a viewed object or scene depends to a great extent on the brightness of the area surrounding it . For this reason , optics manufacturers intentionally surround an instrument 's field of view with blackened areas  --  created by black eyecups and the blackening of internal surfaces . It 's like looking out the portal of a dark tunnel at a sunlit landscape . The blackened area surrounding the scene causes the eye pupils to dilate , allowing more light to reach the retinas and , as a result , making things appear brighter . The question that arises is , considering its superior light transmission , why did n't the Zeiss Victory 8x42 finish best in the low-light performance test ? The answer is the twilight factor , which helped the models with higher magnifications and larger objective lenses perform better in low light . Both the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Zeiss 8x42 by a few minutes . However , if we had tested the Zeiss 10x42 instead of the 8x42 , it might have beaten the Brunton and Steiner models , and a Zeiss 10x56 might even have beaten the Celestron 15x70 . Everyone was impressed with Leupold 's Golden Ring 8x42 , which , despite being a prototype , was clearly in the same class as the finest European and Asian binoculars . Also praiseworthy is the new Bushnell Elite 8x43 , which , together with its 10x43 sibling , replaces the Bausch &; Lomb Elite binoculars . For corporate reasons , Bushnell has discontinued using the Bausch &; Lomb name on its Elite lines of binoculars , spotting scopes and riflescopes . Compact Binoculars This year , compact binoculars ( with objective lenses smaller than 30mm ) have been given their own section , complete with Editor 's Choice and Great Buy designations . Judging compact binoculars side by side with full-size models is like comparing subcompact cars with sport-utility vehicles . Compacts are all about convenience and portability . If your outdoor activities demand reasonably good optical performance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compact . But when it comes to hairsplitting sharpness ( resolution ) , seeing in extremely low light and glassing for hours on end without undue eye fatigue , compacts  --  with their small objective lenses and tiny exit pupils  --  simply ca n't compete with their bigger cousins . Despite the comparable resolution of the glass in compacts , their smaller size causes them to fail quickly in low light . For example , in this year 's low-light tests , the average wink-out time for compacts was 29 minutes after sunset , whereas the average for full-size binoculars was 40 minutes . In other words , the full-size binoculars allowed 38 percent more twilight glassing time during which game could be spotted . Even so , each year millions of American hunters go afield carrying nothing but compacts , which , in most cases , fulfill all of their glassing needs . For that reason , we thought it was important to provide due time and space to compacts in these gear tests . You will find some notes on exit-pupil diameter and prism type in the " comments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role in how well an optic works . The performance of compact binoculars is limited most by the small diameter of their exit pupils , which is where light , after leaving the eyepieces , converges to enter the eye pupils . Exit pupils are the small disks of light that appear to be in the eyepieces when the binocular is held at arm 's length and pointed toward a bright background . Their diameter can be calculated by dividing the diameter of the objective lens by the magnification . An 8x20 binocular , for example , has an exit pupil diameter of 2.5mm ( 20mm 8 = 2.5mm ) , which is the smallest exit pupil a binocular can have and still provide a sharp image . There are two basic problems with small exit pupils . They do n't provide the eyes with enough light for dawn and dusk viewing , and it is very tiring to keep your eyes properly aligned with them during prolonged periods of glassing . Prism type , whether Porro or roof , tells the potential buyer three important things about a binocular : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Porro-prisms have their objective lenses offset from the eyepieces ( outward for full-size models and inward for compacts ) , while roof-prism binoculars have their objective lenses and eyepieces on the same axes , which makes them less bulky . Second , the surfaces of roof-prisms must be more precisely aligned than those of Porro-prisms , which tend to make roof-prism binoculars a little more expensive . Third , for models with Porro-prisms to be of the highest quality , they must be made of BaK4 optical glass , and for roof-prisms to be of the highest quality , the roof surfaces must be phase-corrected ( P-coated ) . The real beauty of compact binoculars is that you need n't mortgage the family house to buy them . Of the six compacts tested , the four Porro-prism models had suggested retail prices under 130 , and the two roof-prism models cost 249 and 299 respectively . When compared with our full-size binoculars , which can cost several times as much , it 's easy to understand why millions of hunters are buying and using compacts . Spotting Scopes This year 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that many of the " super scopes " that we had gotten accustomed to seeing from major manufacturers were absent . By super scopes we mean really large models with objective diameters between 70mm and 100mm that offer super-sharp resolution and , of course , are super-expensive . There are two reasons we are seeing fewer of these models . First , there are n't many slots left in optic manufacturers ' product lines for such specialty instruments , and second , given their large size , hefty weight and high cost , there are relatively few sold . Instead , we now see the attributes of such scopes evolving into smaller , lighter and usually less expensive models . A case in point is Brunton 's Eterna 18-38x50 ED , which was so good it came very close to being an Editor 's Choice as well as a Great Buy . To our knowledge , this is the first time apochromatic optics ( ED glass in this case ) have been used in spotting scopes with 50mm objectives . Improvements were clearly seen in crisp , clean , color-correct images @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these smaller , more affordable models , the need for a big , bulky spotting scope diminishes . Predictably , larger objectives , which may or may not be of good quality , are showing up at middle to lower price levels . An example of one that we tested was the 399 Alpen 20-60x80 , which did earn our Great Buy designation . On the dark side , however , we received a low-priced scope with a 100mm objective that fell apart during shipment and , as a result , could n't be tested . The remainder of the scopes had objective diameters ranging from 50mm to 65mm . In the low-light performance tests , they outlasted the riflescopes and all the binoculars , except the Celestron 15x70 , by as much as 20 minutes in some cases . The truth is that spotting scopes , particularly those with large objective lenses and fully multicoated optics , are the best low-light instruments available to sportsmen . This does n't nullify the need for good low-light binoculars , which are easier to pack . A scope that should probably have gotten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PF-65ED with its 20  --  60X eyepiece . At powers above 34X , it began to exceed the resolution limit of its 65mm objective lens . In other words , after zooming beyond 34X , the image , as it got larger , began to appear less sharp . The ability of any optical system to resolve fine details is limited by the size of its objective lens  --  with larger lenses being capable of producing sharper images . Most manufacturers of scopes in the 60mm class use zoom eye-pieces that begin at 15X and top out at 45X so as not to push the objective beyond its ability to bring objects into sharp focus . So why do some manufacturers of 60mm scopes still use a 20  --  60X zoom ? Probably to attract optics buyers who erroneously believe that higher magnifications are invariably better . Sightron 's SII 20  --  60x63 scope ( which by traditional standards was n't bad ) suffered a double whammy . First , like the Pentax , it zoomed all the way to 60X , where the image became fuzzy . Second , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have apochromatic optics ( Brunton , Leupold and Pentax ) , is showed noticeable chromatic aberration ( color fringes at the edges of viewed objects ) , particularly at the higher powers . The good news is that it also comes with a wide-angle 25X eye-piece that has very good resolution , although the color fringing  --  which can be eliminated only with apochromatic optics  --  is still there . The Bushnell Sentry Ultra Compact 12  --  36x50 got kind words from the test team because , as one tester said , " It 's very compact , and you ca n't beat the price . " Accessories included at no charge are hard and soft carrying cases and a tabletop tripod that converts to a car-window mount . Riflescopes I 've been rightly accused of being old-fashioned , evidence of which can be seen in my partiality for fixed-power riflescopes . I was therefore gratified when our test team members , two of whom are still in their 20s , expressed great admiration for Leupold 's FX-III 6x42 fixed-power riflescope . The scope combines the latest hightech advancements in optical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favored by knowledgeable shooters for generations . Leupold is one of the few manufacturers that still offers a full line of single-power riflescopes , which have been updated and designated as the FX-II and FX-III series . Does this signal the triumphant return of fixed-power scopes to the American shooting scene ? Perhaps to some extent , particularly with conservative-minded shooters who subscribe to the notion that simpler is better . There are , indeed , a number of points in favor of fixed-power scopes : 1 ) they 're more compact and lightweight , which makes them easier to carry and more resistant to the punishing effects of heavy recoil ; 2 ) they have less flare ( stray light reflected off surfaces within an optic , which can be seen as a loss of image contrast or as ghost images ) ; 3 ) they tend to be slightly-more accurate than variable-power scopes ; 4 ) they usually have longer and thus safer eye relief and 5 ) they tend to have a greater range of adjustment for windage and elevation . But lest we become too nostalgic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the foremost of which is , of course , the ability to change power . Moreover , features that might be regarded as bells or whistles by some shooters are considered absolute necessities by others . The 2005 crop of scopes includes some truly great variable-power models tailored to a wide variety of shooting situations . Prices range widely , from 279 for the Nikon Buckmaster 4.5  --  14x40 to 1,439 for the Schmidt &; Bender 1.1  --  4x24 , which has a great illuminated-dot reticle with an extremely wide adjustment range . Bushnell 's Elite 4200 2.5  --  10x50 got considerable attention for its Rainguard hydrophobic ( water-repellent ) lens coating , which everyone liked , and its Firefly reticle , which glows softly in low light and received mixed reviews . Though not exactly new , side-focus parallax adjustments are becoming more common and someday might totally supplant the traditional adjustable objective ( AO ) as a means of image focusing and parallax correction . An AO moves the entire objective lens forward or backward , whereas side-focusing moves an internal lens located ahead of the erector tube . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily reached and adjusted without moving one 's head out of the shooting position . Reaching the AO on a long target or varmint scope can be awkward . We had two scopes with side focus , the Nikon Buckmaster 4.5  --  14x40 and the Sightron SII 3.5  --  10x44 . The Sightron is unique in that there are no yardage numbers on the focus knob . That 's fine , given that such numbers are often incorrect . If the eyepiece is focused so the reticle appears perfectly sharp and the focus knob is adjusted so the target image is equally crisp , then the scope will be parallax-free . This article contains a table . Please see hardcopy of magazine or PDF . This article contains a table . Please see hardcopy of magazine or PDF . This article contains a table . Please see hardcopy of magazine or PDF . Ratings Guide FAIR GOOD VERY GOOD EXCELLENT ( Out of a possible 100 ) ( 60  --  69 ) ( 70  --  79 ) ( 80  --  89 ) ( 90  --  100 ) BEST NEW INNOVATIONS Lock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new Golden Ring 8x42 and 10x42 binoculars allows the user to set and lock the interpupillary distance ( IPD ) between the eyepieces to match the interocular distance between his or her eyes . Not having to continually readjust a binocular 's IPD makes it easier to use with just one hand . Ecologically Friendly Glass The use of Eco-Glass which contains no arsenic lead or other heavy metals is becoming more wide spread . Unlike in the manufacture of conventional optical glasses the residue and dust that result from cutting and polishing need n't be disposed of as pollutants . Eco-Glass is also markedly lighter , reducing the weight of the instrument . Calculating Twilight Factor As in the past our low-light test conclusively reaffirmed the validity of twilight factor , also called twilight performance a mathematical equation published by Carl Zeiss employees A. Koehler and R. Leinhos in 1959 . The equation uses the square root of the magnification multiplied by the objective diameter in millimeters to accurately predict how well an optical instrument will perform in low light . To compute the twilight factor of an 8x42 binocular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press the square root key , which yields a factor of 18.3 . By comparison , a 10x40 binocular has a twilight factor of 20 and a 10x50 has a twilight factor of 22.4 . The underlying principle is that enlarging the images of objects makes them easier to see in low light . As our tests have repeatedly shown , higher magnifications and larger objective diameters trump everything else , including high-resolution glass , when it comes to seeing well in low light . However , by going to extremes on magnification and objective size you can end up with instruments that are too big and too heavy and have too much magnification for practical field uses . BEST NEW INNOVATIONS Get Close The Convergent Lens Optical System Engineering ( CLOSE ) feature , found only on the Pentax Papilio 6.5x2.1 and 8.5x2.1 compact binoculars allows the viewer to focus on objects as close as 18 inches . It 's equivalent to having a super sharp stereo scopic view of an object within 3 inches of your eyes . This is made possible by allowing the objective lenses to move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ INNOVATIONS Apochromatic Lenses Optics designated as ED HD or FL ( extra-low dispersion high definition or fluoride ) have had chromatic aberrations ( image degrading color fringes ) eliminated from the objective lens to the greatest extent possible . Though apochromatic lenses were once limited to very expensive instruments with large objectives such optics are now becoming available on mid priced instruments with smaller objectives as we saw in the superb Brunton Eterna 18-38x50 spotting scope and even the Zeiss Victory 8x42 FL binocular Test Team OL 's test team , from left John Taranto , an Associate Editor at OL , peers through optics while hunting deer and turkeys on the farmland and hardwoods of central New York . Doug Howlett , OL Articles Editor , has worked in outdoor publishing for 12 years and has used optics while hunting in more than 20 states and Mexico . Bill McRae has been a devotee of fine hunting optics for more than 60 years . He has served as a consultant to optics companies , written more than 120 articles on the subject and led OL 's optics test team since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools of mackerel and tuna with an old Bushnell while fishing off the Outer . Banks of North Carolina . He appreciates optics , though he has yet to shoot anything past 120 yards . BEST NEW INNOVATIONS Extended Eye Relief With the popularity of hard kicking , light weight rifles , the need for longer eye relief is finally getting some attention . An example is the Burris Short Mag 2  --  7x26 scope , with its considerably safer 3.75 to 5 inches of relief . BEST NEW INNOVATIONS Simple Is Better The Simmons 3  --  9x40 Master Senes riflescope , though too prototypical to compete in this year 's tests , has simplified its power-changing mechanism . The TrueZero flex , erector system swaps out the usual floating , arrangement of springs with an interior tube that is attached to the inside of the scope body for a more durable instrument . The scope now has 30 percent fewer parts and roughly 22 percent less weight . Illustration <p>                     