@@412740

Nelson Mandela , who was incarcerated for 27 years , commemorated the four-year anniversary of his release from Robben Island Prison ( left ) , just three months before he was sworn in ( below ) as South Africa 's first Black president on May 10,1994. // TEN years ago , 120 months ago , Black and White time stopped and restarted with the liberation of South Africa , which marked the official end of White colonization in Africa and the beginning of a new era of world history . The event started with a miracle moment in the history of time . As the whole world watched , the reactionary White South African regime released ( February 12 , 1990 ) Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela , who had been imprisoned for 27 years for helping to lead the South African Liberation struggle . There then followed in quick order an All Peoples Election ( April 26-29,1994 ) that led to the election and inauguration ( May 10 , 1994 ) of Mandela as the first Black president of South Africa . Photograph Long lines snaked across the countryside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on April 26 , 1994 . Their commitment electrified the world and led to the historic election of Nelson Mandela . At the end of Mandela 's four-year term , the former president celebrates ( top ) with newly sworn-in President Thabo Mbeki at the June 1999 inauguration ceremony . Mandela ( above ) is joined by his wife , Graca Machel , at a reception in Johannesburg . In recent years , more women have become leaders in government . At right , President Mbeki talks with South African Foreign Minister Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma during the Commonwealth Heads of Government ( CHOGM ) meeting in Abuja , Nigeria , last year . Photograph Long lines snaked across the countryside as South Africans waited seven and eight hours to vote on April 26,1994 . Their commitment electrified the world and led to the historic election of Nelson Mandela . At the end of Mandela 's four-year term , the former president celebrates ( top ) with newly sworn-in President Thabo Mbeki at the june 1999 inauguration ceremony . Mandela ( above ) is joined by his wife , Graca Machel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more women have become leaders in government . At right , President Mbeki talks with South African Foreign Minister Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma during the Commonwealth Heads of Government ( CHOGM ) meeting in Abuja , Nigeria , last year . Photograph HIV-positive babies in South Africa have generated international focus on the country and its fight to stop the spread of the virus that causes AIDS . President Mbeki ( below ) comforts Fatima Benting , 85 , during a ceremony where more than 1,000 fami- lies received ownership of the land they were forced to leave during the apartheid era. // In and through these events , Mandela became one of the mira- cle names and personas of the time , and South Africa , which had become a pariah state because of apartheid and the brutal oppression of the Black majority , became a focal point of African and world interest . The new South Africa was not a gift . It was literally wrested from the White minority by the decades-long struggle of Black South Africans , under the leadership of the African National Congress , supported by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moments , played a critical role in that process , leading the worldwide economic boycott of the apartheid regime . Many African-Americans , including Black students and leaders of Trans- Africa and the Congressional Black Caucus , went to jail during the protests , forcing the U.S. Congress to pass economic sanctions over the objections of President Ronald Reagan . Since that time , South Africa has scored a number of successes , including the integration of White and Asian populations , the naming of many women leaders , a successful transition with the inauguration of Mandela 's successor , Thabo Mbeki , and the spreading over Africa and the world of a South African Doctrine of peace , freedom , and concrete attacks on the legacies of colonialism and racism-poverty , sickness , ignorance . But major problems remain , as Mandela and President Mbeki have acknowledged . Among them are astronomically high rates of HIV infections and an economy plagued by 30 percent unemployment . The new government has had some successes in land reform and in transferring real wealth to the Black majority , but the economic structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasons , and others , the 10-year anniversary is being hailed as a rededication to the goals of the first South African miracle . The celebration in America will include a diplomatic reception in Washington , D.C. , on April 27 , and a South African music showcase during the New Orleans Jazz Festival , also in April . Additionally , there will be a salute to South Africa during the Memphis in May Festival , and the country will be spotlighted during a Kennedy Center Gala , also in May . Among the many celebrations in South Africa itself will be the I third democratic election . " This , " President Mbeki says , " will constitute the high point of our celebrations of our first decade of liberation on April 27 , and an affirmation of our resolve further to consolidate the democratic victory for which many sacrificed their lives . " <p>                     