@@418056

Mideast coverage TWO ITEMS in the August 15-22 issue provide a study in contrast . " Speaking the truth " ( a phrase which translates the document " Dabru Emet " ) is a review of a book edited by five Jewish scholars titled Christianity in Jewish Terms . This volume has the potential of pointing the way to a significant advance in Christian-Jewish relations . The other piece , however , is an example of the sort of thing that can have the very opposite effect . Headed " The last colonizer , " it is a review of Zionism and the State of Israel : A Moral Inquiry , a book that challenges the legitimacy of the Jewish people 's establishment of the sovereign state of Israel in their ancient homeland . This latter review is one in a series of articles , reviews , columns and editorials that have appeared in the CHRISTIAN CENTURY in recent months which , in sympathetically advancing the Palestinian cause , have been harshly and one-sidedly critical of Israel . This particular piece 's claim that " to make way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " is an example of specious and inflammatory language . The dismissive way in which the writer proclaims that " Israel 's precondition for negotiating a peace treaty is that Palestinian refugees be denied the right to return " suggests that he is utterly unmoved by the following fact : if Israel allowed back the hundreds of thousands of descendents of refugees from 1948 who have been kept in squalid refugee camps by their own leaders and others in the Arab world and fed a steady diet of anti-Israeli invective for over 50 years , the existence of the Jewish state would be doomed . For the writer , who asserts that " the Zionist ideology which underlay the establishment of the state is nothing more than a contemporary form of colonialism which deserves to be discredited and overcome , " even the territory which formed the state of Israel from 1948 to 1967 is " occupied Palestine . " As a person who for years has been actively engaged in promoting positive Christian-Jewish relations at the local level and who welcomes the efforts of the " Dabru Emet " scholars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are embraced and applauded by Christians , unfair anti-Israel rhetoric of a sort seen frequently in the CENTURY-which at times calls into question Israel 's very existence as a Jewish state and which ironically in fact does little to help end the Israel-Palestinian conflict and bring true peace to the region-will inevitably widen the gap between Christians and Jews . It certainly undermines the call for " friendship " between Jews and Christians which closes the review titled " Speaking the truth . " Michael C. Kotzin Jewish Federation/Jewish United Fund of Metropolitan Chicago , Chicago , Ill . For a just peace WE ARE STUNNED at the enormous tragedy that hit the U.S. and caused great suffering to the American people . As we grieve the loss of so many lives , we share your sorrow , fear and concern for your loved ones and all innocent people , victims of hatred and sick minds . The extent of the catastrophe reveals the vulnerability and weakness of human beings and governments in the face of terror . As Palestinians who have been victims of terror , we are appalled at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pain and injustice that we have been living through the past year , we condemn all terrorist crimes that dehumanize and perpetrate evil . It is important to realize that once more the media are at work to divert attention from this terrible calamity by trying to find scapegoats to blame . Now is the time to work with more determination to deal with the root causes that create violence , a violence that is consuming our world . It is the time to remember that only God is great . Let us pray that his love and mercy will comfort the bereaved , heal the injured , and help and guide leaders into taking decisions that will avoid more suffering to humankind . Naim Ateek Sabeel Ecumenical Liberation Theology Center , Jerusalem Soldiering ... MARTIN L. COOK deals with two separate questions ( " Soldiering , " July 4-11 ) : " Why does a nation have a military ? " and " Why does a Christian join it ? " I believe a nation needs a military in this world where , sadly , evil is real and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the same time , I want our nation to work for arms reduction and a world government that , I believe , will come in time . Christians can choose to join their nation 's military when their nation 's security policy includes goals such as peacekeeping , peacemaking and nation-building . They want to see people running the military who abhor killing and , themselves , do not want to die . They do not want to see the military run by people who want to " waste " an enemy . Other Christians disagree with a nation 's having a military and refuse to join it . I believe God uses all of us to achieve the " peaceable kingdom " that none of us could build alone . A Wayne Schwab Essex , N.Y Given the history of Christianity 's complicity with state-supported military and economic violence , one can see that the themes of two articles in the July 4-11 issue- " Soldiering " and " Navy mom " - could easily have been addressed by other patriotic Christians during the 1,700 years since the Roman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to admit , they could not have been written during the first 300 years of Christianity , when the church of Jesus Christ was faithful to the nonviolent Jesus and was essentially a pacifist church . Is n't it ultimately the duty of Christian leadership to point out inconsistencies with Jesus ' clear opposition to homicidal violence in the service of the nation-state ? Those of us who profess discipleship to Jesus must constantly reexamine the church 's political and theological stances in light of its founder , who was a peacemaker and an unconditional lover of both friends and enemies . ( Increasing numbers of Christians are no longer justifying homicidal military violence against enemies of the state . ) In fairness to the writers of the two articles in question , it must be said that most of their ( and our ) bishops , clergy , chaplains , parents and lay leaders do not teach with any thoroughness that the ethical principles in the Sermon on the Mount are the primary foundational documents of Jesus ' mission and ministry . Of course , that systematic negation of Jesus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moratorium on the Sermon on the Mount , " has been going on for 17 centuries . We need to ask ourselves , " What kind of Christianity is it that lives with and endorses military organizations that are historically responsible for much cruelty to humankind ? " Gary G. Kohls Every Church a Peace Church , Duluth , Minn . For 20 years I have been a chaplain in the Air Force Reserve . As a noncombatant , I do not bear arms , but I wear the same uniform as those service members who are trained to kill with precision and efficiency and to devise plans to destroy an enemy 's infrastructure with missiles and bombs . As a military member , my association with violence and war appears to compromise my service of the God who would turn swords into plowshares . As a military chaplain who wears a cross , I seek to bear witness to a God of peace and justice and , at best , exercise a prophetic moral presence to professional killers . I am intensely aware of the moral ambiguities of these apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believer in God identify with and minister to warriors ? Or am I blindly serving two masters ? I have thought about this for a couple of decades . My response is guarded and is fraught with the inherent ambiguities of the situation . First , I have justified my activity as a chaplain in the military based on my perception that all human structures and bureaucracies are morally ambivalent . As a civilian pastor I experienced something of the duplicity , avarice , complicity and culturally controlled behavior of churches . As a university professor , I have seen deals cut and employees summarily fired as educational institutions sought to protect their self-interests . Are the sins of the military qualitatively different from other fallible organizations ? Or are they similar , although at times more intense and more obvious ? I believe the latter because human pride , arrogance and sin infect every institution . Second , history is replete with the clashes of civilizations and nations and with ethnic and racial strife . I believe that jealous nations , totalitarian egotists and vengeful ideologues would likely commit acts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we did not support a vigorous defense . Violence may not be inevitable , but it is a frequent reality . As a military member I have vowed to defend the U.S. Constitution , which I admire . I love my country and its best traditions . I am proud to support its defense . Third , I have found that military culture strongly embraces goals that often are given weak support in civilian life , such as the actualization of interracial harmony , cultural diversity , religious pluralism , character development and family stability . Chaplains especially champion the free exercise of religious rights by military members . Chaplains are defenders of the First Amendment , advocating religious freedom and monitoring fair government treatment for all faiths . I agree with Martin Cook , who does not find the argument for an original pacifism among Christians a warrant for a contemporary position of not participating in the military . The cultural dynamics have changed . Today 's advocates of Christian nonviolence selectively choose this " genetic " argument . I am sure most of them would not support the communitarianism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early Christianity . I challenge those who object to Christians in the military to examine their own tacit approval of violence . I wonder how many are diehard sports fans ? America 's virtual wars take place on the gridiron , the racetrack and the ice . Football , auto racing and hockey are " blood " sports that attract zealous fans who long for hard hits , fender benders and bare knuckles or high sticks . Maybe the military is only a symptom of the culture 's smoldering desire for violence . Personal and institutional violence is never far from us . We are Christians in ambiguous moral situations ; the military is only one among many others . Donald W. Musser DeLand , Fla . Standardized testing THE CENTURY editorial " A time of testing " ( July 18-25 ) was right on target . While testing is important , overemphasis on it can be counterproductive , as , for example , by leading to " teaching to the test . " Senator Paul Wellstone rightly stresses the importance of investment . What public education needs is more adequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worn-out facilities , smaller classes and better teacher compensation . Edd Doerr Americans for Religious Liberty , Silver Spring , Md . The overemphasis on testing places tremendous pressure on everyone in the public school system . If scores are low , politicians are embarrassed , principals may lose their jobs and teachers may get all the blame . Teachers feel compelled to ignore interesting and challenging material as they drill students on test taking . This is as boring for teachers as it is for students . Then there is cheating by teachers and schools . Large-scale testing is a wasteful , expensive game of " Let 's pretend that we are doing something about education . " Howard J. Wall jr . Rockingham , N. C. Clergy income MATTHEW J. PRICE writes as if economic worry is only a concern of married , male clergy when it is a concern for all clergy , male or female , married or single ( " Fear of falling , " Aug. 15-22 ) . Far more women clergy are single ( divorced , widowed or never married ) than their male @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and/or aging parents . Most studies I 've seen place clergywomen in lower salary brackets and smaller churches . I 'd say the stress in this area is greater for women than for men . Lisa S. Heckman Westmont Presbyterian Church , Johnstown , Pa . Excellent church I SHARE SOME of Carl Dudley 's misgivings about Paul Wilkes 's identification of 300 excellent Protestant congregations , even though my congregation made the list ( Books , July 18-25 ) . I do n't know how we made the list . I do n't know who , if anyone , " fingered " us . I took the time to fill out the extensive questionaire ( perhaps some other pastors did n't ) . Immanuel is n't typical of the churches on the list in that we are an old , downtown church with " lively but traditional worship and scholarly , biblical preaching " ( two attributes listed in Wilkes 's guidebook ) . But I can testify that the congregation is a good place to be and that it is capable of finding creative ways to accomplish its mission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are gifts of the Spirit given to us , and I do n't think they are exportable-that caveat should probably also have been added to Wilkes 's book . But are we using our designation for promotional purposes ? You betcha ! Frank C. Senn Immanuel Lutheran Church , Evanston , Ill . <p>                     