@@389292

Headnote Sure , anything can happen in the NCAA Tournament , but talent almost always wins in the end By Mike DeCourcy // You 'll hear it plenty of times this month : Anything can happen in the NCAA Tournament . That 's true , of course . So why do n't you test that theory by picking the No. 16 seed in the San Antonio Region to win the championship and see how it works out ? In reality , the list of potential champions usually is shorter than Xavier 's Drew Lavender and includes teams with multiple NBA prospects , experienced coaches and the ability to stress defenses with low-post scoring or creative perimeter players . There really are only a few serious challengers to Florida in its quest for a repeat . HIDDEN MVP Playing with so many capable scorers , Mario Chalmers sometimes struggles to get consistent opportunities at shooting guard . In the last four games of the regular season , he averaged 18.5 points on just 9.8 shots per game . If he matches those numbers in the NCAA Tournament , Kansas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful as Sherron Collins , Chalmers is effective attacking off the dribble or firing from long range . When attacking , Chalmers is adept at getting fouled-and he 's the best free throw shooter among the Jayhawks ' regulars . HEAVYWEIGHT CONTENDERS North Carolina Why they could win six : The Tar Heels are loaded with weapons . They can put a scorer at every position , and the backups are almost as dangerous . Center Tyler Hansbrough is the kind of player who can carry a team through tough tournament games and draw so much attention that those around him have an easier time . Freshman point guard Ty Lawson changes games with his speed and 3-point shooting , but he must be more committed to pushing the defense . Carolina 's fast , attacking style is suited to tournament success because officials call the laterround games more closely . Why they could go bust : Youth has n't prevented the Tar Heels from frequently flashing brilliance , but it has been a factor in their tendency to falter late in games . In the final 6 minutes of fall-from-ahead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 34-15 . The Tar Heels have to be sturdier in the clutch . This team is a little short on toughness . Certainly no one pushes around Hansbrough , and Marcus Ginyard brings it when he 's in the game . But Ginyard does n't play enough to change the team 's personality . Coach Roy Williams insists he can win using 12 players , but precedence suggests he needs to tighten his rotation . Kansas Why they could win six : No contender can match this team 's versatility on offense . That 's primarily because power forward Julian Wright can create offense with his ballhandling , passing and , if need be , shooting . But it 's also a function of having three small guards-Sherron Collins , Russell Robinson and Mario Chalmers-who can shift between playmaking and scoring . The team has so much quickness and length that playing effective defense is only a matter of paying attention . Any one of the top eight players is capable of scoring 15 points , and half of them are capable of hitting 30 . Collins , a freshman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and early this season . Why they could go bust : Kansas has become more cohesive and more insistent about running its offense in recent weeks , but sticking with the plan still is not an ingrained habit . Because there are so many scorers-and because Collins still is n't completely in charge at point guard-the Jayhawks sometimes shoot before giving their scheme a chance to stress defenses . There still is n't an established hierarchy at center . Junior Sasha Kaun , the best defender at the spot , is a flighty player prone to significant mistakes . Freshman Darrell Arthur , who can give Kansas reliable low-post scoring , is learning to handle the responsibilities that come with playing in big games . HIDDEN MVP In Carolina 's six losses , small forward Reyshawn Terry averaged 5.5 points . That 's about half of what he produces when the Tar Heels win . When Terry is scoring effectively , he takes the big shots that some of the younger players are n't yet comfortable firing.Terry averaged 14.3 points a year ago , so it 's obvious he can generate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make costly mental errors that force Williams to remove him in favor of sophomore shooter Danny Green or Marcus Ginyard . HIDDEN MVP After playing at an all-conference level as a sophomore point guard , Jamar Butler was moved off the ball to accommodate Mike Conley . Butler Is a terrific 3-point shooter , although his percentage has declined because he is learning how to get open without the ball and is taking more deep shots . Butler is OSU 's best on-ball defender , and he can take that responsibility from Conley when the opposing team has a dominant point guard . Ohio State Why they could win six : Freshman Greg Oden effectively shuts off opponents ' access to the lane . He is the most dominant defensive center since Patrick Ewing . Some analysts say Oden lacks fluidity on offense , but they 're ignoring the fact the Big Ten is the most defense-oriented of the major leagues . He likely will have more space to operate during the tournament , although how much will depend on the consistency of Ohio State 's perimeter scorers . Wing Ron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but scores by getting to the line . Point guard Mike Conley is the best pure playmaker in college basketball , but his lack of comfort as a shooter gives opponents defensive options they would n't otherwise have . Why they could go bust : The Buckeyes are among the few elite teams with key players still struggling to find their roles . Freshman Daequan Cook can manufacture points like few others , but he tries to earn more minutes by scoring quick baskets off the bench , a tactic that too often fails . Power forward Ivan Harris stretches the defense away from Oden with his 3-point shooting , but he does n't provide enough help on the defensive boards . Although freshmen play the most important roles for this team , OSU has shown it can excel on the road against tournament-caliber opponents . But Oden , Conley and Cook have not played under tournament-level pressure . UCLA Why they could win six : There are other strong defensive teams , but only UCLA has Darren Collison , who can tear apart opponents at the point of attack . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which gives the Bruins easy baskets that do n't come with exposure to defensive breakdowns . Wings Arron Afflalo and Josh Shipp attack the lane and hit long-range jumpers . Afflalo can fulfill his duties on offense while also guarding the opponent 's top wing threat . Forward Luc Richard Mbah a Moute has the ability to drive in tight spaces , a skill that is difficult to scout and has greater value in tightly called NCAA Tournament games . Why they could go busfa You 'll hear that foul shooting might be a problem because UCLA 's team percentage is poor , but the three perimeter starters all shoot better than 77 percent . The Bruins ' real problem is lack of size . Center Lorenzo Mata is only 6-9 and plays 22.6 minutes per game , which means the other 17.4 minutes are played with no one bigger than 6-8 on the court . If UCLA wins it all , the Bruins will be among the shortest of the modern teams to claim the championship . The lack of height makes it harder to erase mistakes ; even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blocker can cover up . HIDDEN MVP When point guard Jordan Farmar left for the NBA draft after his sophomore season , UCLA knew Darren Collison could handle the position . Me played plenty last season and was in charge of the offense when he shared the court with Farmar . Collison has been more than just a fast guy who handles the ball and runs the attack . He has excelled In all four primary duties : creator , shooter , defender and leader . Even though the Bruins lost a guy who was a first-round NBA pick and McDonald 's Ail-American , they genuinely improved at point guard . MIDDLEWEIGHT CONTENDERS Memphis . The Tigers rely on drives to draw in the defense and create open perimeter shots . But Memphis might not have enough shooters to make its attack work against elite opponents . Senior Jeremy Hunt certainly does his share of damage from outside the arc ; he has hit two or more 3-pointers in all but eight games . The frontcourt lacks a full-time player with true low-post scoring moves , but wide-body Joey Dorsey and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Andre Allen or Willie Kemp creates for them . The Tigers might rely too much on fueling their attack with turnovers ; the teams they would face in a Final Four will not give up the ball so easily . Texas A &M.; Point guard Acie Law helped silence questions about whether the Aggies can score enough . Since a win over Kansas in the team 's first February game , Law has averaged 22.2 points and 6.0 assists . This team might have more jump shooting threats than anyone . Law and wings Josh Carter , Dominique Kirk and Donald Sloan can make 3s , and big men Joseph Jones and Antanas Kavaliauskas are comfortable as face-up shooters . What separates the Aggies from the primary contenders is their extreme reliance on Law . If you 're going to lean on somebody , he 's a great choice , but other teams have more variety . Wisconsin . Even before the elbow injury to center Brian Butch , the Badgers were light on big-time scoring threats . However , the possibility that wing Alando Tucker might rise to the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wisconsin be considered a threat . The Badgers do n't need Butch for rebounding or defense , but he was the best scoring threat among the four bigs in their rotation . His ability to shoot from long range bothered opponents with true centers . To make up for his absence , capable big man Greg Stiemsma must reach a level of consistency that previously has eluded him . Sidebar No longer at the point , Butler gives the young Buckeyes welcome experience on defense and from 3-point land . Sidebar Creator , shooter , defender , leaden Collison makes a strong point for another UCLA title . Sidebar Tucker alone makes Wisconsin a contender . 