@@405405

KIRSTIE ALLEY " It does n't matter if Kirstie Alley is 120 lbs . or 220 lbs.  - -  she is beautiful , talented and funny " Cindy Marquedant Brooklyn , Mich . I have to applaud Kirstie for speaking out so candidly about her weight gain . It 's good to know that someone in Hollywood struggles with real-life issues like the rest of us . Heather Corgatelli via e-mail Just as the swallows return to Capistrano , we now , again , must return to the ongoing saga of Kirstie Alley 's weight drama being played out in the public eye . The question is , at this point does anyone really care ? Karen Blicker Hicksville , N.Y . Kirstie Alley 's unrealistic expectations about losing weight seem to be her biggest downfall . She is a gorgeous woman , but at the age of 58 , there is no reason she needs to weigh 128 lbs . What 's wrong with feeling good about yourself at a healthy weight for your age ? Danielle Kretch Moreland Hills , Ohio BULLIED TO DEATH Parents should make it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hurtful words or deeds . Otherwise , we will surely continue to hear sad stories like this . Melissa Kiebort Exton , Pa . How is it that this society has made the term " gay " so intolerable that two boys , who probably did n't really know what being gay means , took their own lives rather than being so described ? Gena Fisher Kidder , Mo . ELIZABETH EDWARDS Your story confirmed what everyone already knew : Elizabeth Edwards is an incredibly strong , honest and compassionate human being who deserved much better from her husband . Sarah Funk Pine Plains , N.Y . Elizabeth Edwards 's courage is truly inspiring . It looks like the wrong Edwards ran for President . Perry Ciment Miami Beach , Fla . FARRAH FAWCETT Ryan O'Neal has been at Farrah Fawcett 's side throughout her ordeal and has shown what love and caring is all about . I only wish the journey was n't going to end the way it probably will . Barbara Corbett Toronto Twenty-three years ago my daughter Farrah , 7 years old and terminally ill with leukemia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foundation : a meeting with Farrah Fawcett . Ms. Fawcett was very gracious during her visit and gave my daughter an autographed Cabbage Patch Kids Doll . Four months later , the day before our Farrah died , Ms. Fawcett found out what hospital we were in and made a personal phone call , as well as sending a huge arrangement of balloons . Farrah Fawcett never wanted any publicity for these acts of kindness , but at a time like this , she should be recognized for her compassion and rest assured that she is in everyone 's thoughts and prayers . Roie Rot Plainfield , Ill . SMALL MIRACLES Reader Kathalijn Sprenger of Berkeley , Calif. , had understandable concerns when her baby boy was born last October after just 24 weeks . " He weighed 1 lb. 5 oz. and was only 12 inches long , " she writes . But she found comfort in our May 18 article about a group of Minnesota preemies now in their teens and early 20s who not only survived their early trials but thrived . " Your story about Dr. Ronald @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " gives us a ton of hope about where this little guy can go in life , thanks to the remarkable work of his doctors and nurses in the NICU . " Juliana Forster , 21 , of Gallatin , Tenn. , once a preemie herself , agreed : " All these students have the same attitude that I do : the need to live life to the fullest . " BOX WRITE US TO CONTACT EDITORIAL : Send a fax ( 212-522-0794 ) , e-mail ( editor@people.com ) or mail ( Letters to the Editor , PEOPLE , Time &; Life Building , Rockefeller Center , New York , NY 10020 ) . Letters should include the writer 's full name , address and daytime phone number and may be edited for clarity and space .                     