@@372488

In the wake of Sept.11 and the anthrax mailings , the Centers for Disease Control recommended that states adopt a model law creating sweeping new powers to deal with public-health emergencies . State officials could order citizens to be vaccinated , quarantine those suspected of having a contagious disease , take over hospitals and physicians ' offices and seize and destroy property deemed a threat to public health . Since January at least 30 states have considered adopting all or part of the model law , but they 've run headfirst into a motley coalition of civil liberties groups , religious conservatives , free-marketeers and gay-rights activists . As a result , many states have begun to decide they do n't want that much power after all . So far only Utah has passed a version of the law , according to the American Legislative Exchange Council , and in the past month several other states have stripped away all but the most essential provisions . <P> The backlash started when gun advocates realized that the model law gave health officials the power to restrict the sale of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word firearms from its list of materials the government could control . Then religious and pro-family groups rebelled against forced treatment and vaccination ; so several states considering the legislation took out provisions making refusal to be vaccinated a misdemeanor . Gay activists feared that the bill might permit states to quarantine people who have HIV or AIDS . The CDC responded by narrowing its definition of a public-health emergency . But the most crucial aspect of the bill  --  the ability to quarantine citizens who may pose a health threat to others  --  is the one that has become the most contentious , pitting public-health officials in a state-by-state battle with civil libertarians . Existing law typically forces state authorities to get a court order before putting someone in quarantine . The CDC 's model law gives health officials the power to isolate a citizen immediately so long as they file for a court order within 10 days . Several states considering the bill have reduced the waiting time to 72 hours , but that 's still too long for some critics . Says Twila Brase , president of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitably sweep up healthy people . And what happens when they refuse to be held ? You 're going to have Kent State all over again . " The alternative , though , may be just as grim . In Maine , warns deputy attorney general Linda Pistner , there 's nothing to stop someone with smallpox from walking out of the hospital . " Without this tool , " she asks , " how else can we minimize the loss of life ? " <P>  --  By Andrew Goldstein                     