@@402333

// Recent breakthroughs in skin science have made it possible for every consumer to attain healthier and younger looking skin at any age . Since most boomers do not have the time in their active business and family schedules for more extensive cosmetic surgical procedures and techniques that engender considerable bruising , swelling and down time , there has been a growing trend away from anesthesia , needles and cutting . Instead , people are looking for more natural methods and at-home skin care regimens for keeping their skin healthy and reversing the wrinkles , lines and furrows of skin aging . I am amazed and delighted by the rapidity of the advances made in only the past few years in the quest for non-surgical methods for achieving younger looking skin . Nowadays people can do so much for their skin easily , quickly , inexpensively and conveniently , in the privacy of their own homes . Retaining the skin 's natural moisture is at the heart of any proper at-home skin care regimen . As we get older , the body produces less of the important substances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ younger skin has the ability to easily and rapidly renew its cells and maintain the necessary moisture levels , more mature skin needs assistance in these areas . For decades women , searching for hope in a bottle , have tried every potion , lotion , cream and magic elixir to dimmish the appearance of facial wrinkles . Unfortunately , the sizes of the molecules of the main ingredients within nearly all moisturizers are far too large to allow them to penetrate through the skin barrier to where they are most needed . Moisturizers are not absorbed into the skin nor can they do a lot of other things that have been claimed for them , such as shrinking pores , preventing wrinkles or rejuvenating skin . In general they serve to promote smoothness and softness by locking in whatever moisture is naturally present in the skin and retarding further loss . For this purpose , plain petroleum jelly is excellent at preventing the loss of moisture from the skin and protecting it against environmental irritations . If petroleum jelly is found too greasy , the regular use of any supermarket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finest department store brands provide little more than fancier packaging . To further minimize the development of dryness , I recommend the use of only mild moisturizing or sensitive skin cleansers or bars and to cleanse no more than twice daily . Of course , I also emphasize the extreme importance of adequate sun protection to prevent incoming ultraviolet damage , a leading cause of skin aging , mottling and wrinkling . Any sun protection brand with a SPF of 30 is recommended for outdoor sports and swimming . Otherwise a SPF of 15 will suffice for casual outdoor exposure . A number of other topical agents are worth trying as part of any rejuvenating skin care regimen . These include products containing alpha hydroxy acids ( AHAs ) , nontoxic acids derived from fruits , foods and plants that are produced naturally as part of our natural metabolism . AHAs are believed to affect the surface of the skin as well as the tissue below . Research has demonstrated that they decrease the glue that holds the cells of the dead outer layer together on the skin surface , plump @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ability to retain moisture . There is some indication that AHAs may even stimulate new collagen synthesis . I recommend AHA products containing 12-15 percent concentrations for use on the face as well as on the chest , neck and under the eyes . Creams , lotions and gels containing AHA have increased exponentially in the cosmetic industry . With this AHA regimen you may note within about eight weeks that your skin appears smoother and healthier-looking . After six months to a year of continuous application you may see diminished sagging and less wrinkling . Antioxidants have also gained popularity for battling Father Time 's effects on the skin . By-products of our own metabolic processes , sunlight , medications and environmental pollutants are all known to contribute to the formation of free radicals , out of control chemicals that can damage our cells and lead to aging , skin malignancies and other conditions . Antioxidants , therefore , by scavenging up free radicals before they can do harm , make a logical addition to our topical skin care routine . The antioxidant , vitamin E , or tocopherol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to speed wound healing as well as rejuvenate skin . Vitamin C is another well-known antioxidant and it is essential for collagen synthesis . Initial investigations have indicated that it may improve skin firmness , texture and wrinkles . It should be emphasized that while topical products containing these vitamins have demonstrated their cancer-fighting properties , more research remains to be done in order to substantiate their anti-aging capabilities . A minimum of six months of daily use is usually necessary before results are seen with either of these topical antioxidants . The latest supplement for achieving younger-looking skin Finally , no skin care regimen would be truly complete without efforts to rejuvenate the skin from the inside out . Collagen is a protein that plays an essential role in maintaining skin tone , suppleness and elasticity . Hyaluronic acid ( HA ) , an equally vital skin constituent , supports collagen by retaining moisture and functioning as a lubricant between connective tissues and the skin . Unfortunately , with the passage of time and continued sun exposure , these vital constituents become altered and diminished , contributing to the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ micronutrient raw materials necessary for the skin to more optimally produce its own collagen HA becomes essential for maintaining structure and function and slowing down the chemical pathways of aging . I recommend daily oral supplementation with BioCell Collagen II(TM) , a unique combination of collagen II , hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate ( HA 's companion that rebuilds cartilage ) to nourish the skin from the inside out where topical applications can not reach . This dietary supplement provides the only natural and bioavailable source of these three elements needed to maintain skin moisture and elasticity . This complex concentrated matrix of elements , formerly only available to plastic surgeons as injectable drugs , not only halts the appearance of skin aging , but also potentially reverses the aging process altogether . By restoring facial contours , enhancing moisture levels and reducing wrinkles , this ingredient heals and rejuvenates skin tissue to levels that will erase the distinguishing features between young and old . This supplement is not a short-term solution , such as the use of injectable collagen ; rather it is a necessary part of any regimen intended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special mention . Physical attractiveness and the quest to look younger is no longer solely an issue of vanity . In a study of aging women , conducted at the University of Pennsylvania , results showed that those who were considered physically attractive registered greater satisfaction with their lives , were more outgoing , more realistic , perceived themselves as having less sickness and indeed were in better health . In addition to attaining younger-looking skin , an effective anti-aging skin care regimen can serve to boost self-confidence and enhance overall quality of life . Today , looking younger at any age can be achieved affordably , conveniently , and naturally at home . Rejuvenating winter-damaged skin in time for spring and summer While every season has its effect on skin , winter can be particularly brutal . For example , most people associate the summer with the need for sun protection . Winter can pose its own serious sun threats , too . At least 60 percent of the sun 's rays are reflected off ice and snow , spelling the potential for serious sun damage . The thinner atmosphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intense sun exposure capable of causing bad sunburns and permanent damage . But that 's not all . Winter winds and outdoor chapping weather , and the need for indoor heating and the lowered humidity that follows , all serve to unduly dry and irritate the skin and increase the possibility of irritation and the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles . I suggest that simple attention to a few basic steps for everyday skin care can go a long way to putting the brakes on the damage from Old Man Winter and getting that winter skin ready for its spring debut . Adequate sun protection Whenever out on the slopes , or working/playing outdoors in the snow and ice , use an SPF 30 , water-resistant sunscreen . Apply to all exposed areas about 30 minutes before going outdoors and reapply at least every two hours thereafter . Appropriate moisturization : Outdoors as well as indoors , liberally apply moisturizers containing both occlusive ingredients , such as petrolatum and mineral oil , that lock moisture in the skin and humectant ( water grabbing ) ingredients , such as urea and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels of the skin to the uppermost levels where it is most needed . The best time to apply any moisturizer is on moist skin following a bath or shower . Proper cleansing : Pure toilet soaps and deodorant soaps tend to be too alkaline and drying for most skin , particularly during the winter . Abrasive soaps are also too harsh for most people at any time of year but particularly so during the winter months . Wash your face not more than twice daily and look for those cleansers labeled sensitive skin or moisturizing , as these contain cleansing ingredients that are non-alkaline ( non-degreasing ) and moisturizers to counteract the drying effects of the soap , respectively . Be especially gentle , avoid wash cloths or polyester scrub sponge , and cleanse only with your fingertips . Proactive lifestyle changes : Attention to such factors as the avoidance of smoking and the limitation of drinking always make good sense as part of any health maintenance regimen . Toxins produced by smoking damage the skin directly by impairing wound healing and other vital processes and indirectly by working along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drinking , too , can enhance the facial flushing from cold weather and lead to the development of permanent , unsightly broken blood vessels on the face . Maintaining a balanced diet is important , too . Vitamin supplementation is necessary to supply the antioxidants vitamins C and E to combat free radical damage . In addition , daily consumption of BioCell Collagen II for supplying the raw materials necessary to maintain the skin 's collagen and hyaluronic acid content , which is absolutely necessary for moisture maintenance , can be especially helpful in dealing with winter 's stresses on the skin . BioCell Collagen II can be found in high quality nutritional supplements in health food and vitamin and dietary supplement stores everywhere or by visiting **25;1818;TOOLONG Sidebar people can do so much for their skin easily , quickly , inexpensively and conveniently Author Affiliation by Nelson Lee Novick , M.D. , FACP , FAAD Author Affiliation Nelson Lee Novick , M.D. , FACP , FAAD is an associate clinical professor of dermatology at The Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City and a dermatology clinic chief at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of numerous books and hundreds of byline articles on skin care , cosmetics and cosmetic skin surgery . Other current books by Dr. Novick include Super Skin-A Leading Dermatologist 's Guide to The Latest Breakthroughs In Skin Care and You Can Look Younger At Any Age ( both published by iUniverse , 2000 ) . Dr. Novick maintains a private practice devoted to cosmetic dermatology on Manhattan 's Upper East Side . // <p>                     