@@393038

AFTER MORE THAN A DECADE OF HURRIED LIVING IN MIAMI , LOS ANGELES , PARIS , AND NEW YORK , AN ENTREPRENEUR UNPACKS HER COLLECTIONS AND HER THREE CATS ON A SLEEPY PENNSYLVANIA FARM AND LAUNCHES A CATALOGUE OF HOME FURNISHINGS THAT CELEBRATES THE CHARMS OF HER BRANDYWINE VALLEY PROPERTY // This page : " This house has a soul , " says Robin Sherwood , who is working to restore the structure and the 11 acres of apple and cherry orchards she has named Frecklefarm . When the Victorian farmhouse underwent renovation in the 1960s , every door , lock , brick , and piece of trim was saved . " It was like coming across lost treasure when I found them in the cellar , " she says . Opposite page : Both the dining room 's original heartpine floors and its soothing sky-blue walls date from the 1890s . Framed 19th-century children 's book illustrations flank the window . Distressed Louis XVI-style chairs surround a pedestal table topped with a reproduction Marseilles quilt , heirloom Johnstown , Pa. , cut glass , and an Indian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ snowberry . OPPOSITE PAGE : TABLE : ETHAN ALLEN . QUILT : ELSA C. SEE SHOPPING GUIDE FOR DETAILS . september marks the three-year anniversary of when Robin Sheiwood traded her Italian loafers for a pair of riding boots . The Miami native had sold her family 's restaurant business , worked for Sotheby 's New York , and was ready to retreat to the country " I looked for years , " she says , " in historic cities like Charleston and Middleburg , even combing the Napa Valley . " But it was a stay in a Brandywine Valley B and B that set her heart racing . " There were miles of historic homes . " After seeing the speck her property made on a map  --  compared to the neighboring estates-Robin dubbed it Frecklefarm . The name is now shared with her mail-order catalogue business , which offers home accessories inspired by her own home 's romantic French colonial look . But Frecklefarm 's provenance is what excites her most . After finding that ruins of a 17 10 stone house and village exist on the property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " My hope is that one day this property will go into conservancy , " she says . Opposite page : In the library , Robin 's collection of out-of-print etiquette and French design books rests within arm 's reach of button-tufted chairs . A tasseled tieback and antique wire basket add Gallic touches . This page , clockwise from above : Robin found the 1910 Chinese carpet , which sprouts cherry blossoms and peonies , at an estate sale in Los Angeles . The Francophile 's Directoire mahogany-veneered secretary . A Napoleonic engraving and one of the chairs that were Robin 's first collecting purchases . OPPOSITE PAGE AND THIS PAGE , ABOVE , RIGHT : CHAIRS : WHITE ON WHITE . This page , left : " You should see how the walls change color as the sun sets , " says Robin of her pistachio bedroom , which began life as a Victorian sleeping porch . The original farmer 's hand-mixed hue plays up the room 's tea-dyed rose-strewn quilt and Hampton Ivory dessert plates . Below : " The china pattern is Princess Rose , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robin explains . The floral theme continues with a 1980 Ralph Lauren tapestry cushion nestled on a reproduction of a Swedish Gustavian chair with carved rosette . Opposite page : Joy suns herself in the master bedroom on a garden-inspired Frecklefarm quilt . Nature prints-here , hand-painted Audubon lithographs  --  and French candlesticks number among Robin 's collections . A new nightstand made by a local craftsman is paired with an 1845 Keystone State arrow-back chair , bought at auction . The train case was a gift from a French suitor . a country romance QUALITY Robin 's auction house background taught her to respect purchases and to be selective . " I but less but the best I can afford , " she says , including well  --  crafted reproduction pieces that work with originals . WALL ART Living with cats has challenged the collector 's displays ; Robin has retreated to the walls , where she hangs plates , quilts , nature prints , silhouettes , and art works that have dimension and texture . COLOR Frecklefarm 's soothing color palette suggests the brilliance of a Pennsylvania sky or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature 's calming palette can make an ordinary space extraordinary . FEMININITY Create a nurturing ambience with such textural touches as quilts. antique linens and lace , and pillows made from vintage fabrics . Garden patterns , delicate porcelains , and nostalgic cut glass instantly add romance to a room . INSPIRATION Committed to researching the past , Robin studies museum paintings for period details , looks to Impressionists for color cues , and pores over the etiquette books that advised Victorian women on the arts of setting up house . " That 's why the first purchase that I ever made was a set of chairs-I read it in a turn  --  of-the-century etiquette book , " she says with a laugh . <p>                     