@@385452

Choosing the right bone-building supplement can be a bit tricky . To improve bone health and reduce fracture risk , however , look elsewhere . They draw a distinction between bone quality ( which concerns reduced risks of fracture ) and bone quantity ( which is concerned exclusively with bone mineral density , or BMD ) . One reason for this distinction is that for the vast majority of women , BMD is not statistically significantly related to fracture risk . BMD only captures a small component of the totality that is bone health . Bone quality , not merely quantity , is important . Calcium , the major component of BMD measurements , does not add greatly to bone 's resistance against the most dangerous types of mechanical stresses . Calcium alone does not do much to improve bone quality . It is the other 28 percent of the bone , the collagen and other components found in the bone matrix , and that are active in bone formation , that give a degree of flexibility and resilience to bone , hence primarily helping to reduce fracture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calcium supplement , is one option for maintaining and improving bone quality , as has recently been shown in a clinical trial conducted at Ohio State University . Bone-Up long has been established as the superior calcium formula with microcrystalline hydroxyapatite . The focus of this product is as much on augmenting bone quality as on preserving bone quantity . The difference , in a nutshell , is whether a product promotes bone formation rather than merely preventing bone loss . Current medical treatments with bisphosphonates focus only on preserving or increasing bone quantity ( BMD ) by preventing remodeling by osteoclasts . Even the usual remedy of calcium plus vitamin D really only aims at reducing calcium loss . BoneUp does more because it activates bone formation . In a soon-to-be released study , female students at Ohio State University who had not done recent , regular resistance exercise followed an eight-week resistance exercise program and also consumed either placebo or Bone-Up . At the end of the study , BoneUp treatment , but not the placebo , was found to have produced statistically significant positive changes in markers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hormone ( a hormone that affects bone metabolism and is affected by calcium nutritional status ) . Not only was bone resorption reduced ( i.e. , there was support for maintaining BMD or bone quantity ) , but also two major bone formation markers were improved . In other words , in just two months the bone building activity of the bone matrix had been activated . The Bone-Up formula contains more than just calcium and vitamin D because it is apparent that minerals other than calcium play significant roles in maintaining bone health . The trace mineral boron , for instance , plays a role in estrogen metabolism . Potassium has been shown to reduce calcium loss from the body . Magnesium helps to keep calcium in the bones , where it belongs , rather than in the lining of the arteries , where it does not . Zinc stimulates bone formation and reduces bone resorption . There are other factors , as well . Vitamin K maintains lumbar bone and reduces new fractures . MK-7 or vitamin K2 is even more powerful in this regard . Folic acid reduces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Vitamin C , copper , manganese , and glucosamine are all important for supporting the activities of the bone matrix , the most active site of bone repair . Still , it is the hydroxyapatite that is the star of the show . It has been proven in clinical trials to increase bone mass . Hydroxyapatite is the actual form of calcium found in bone tissue . It produces a more prolonged calcium balance than do soluble calcium salts because it can cause the bone osteoblasts ( bone forming cells ) to become receptive to its components and to build bone tissue . Hydroxyapatite microcrystals provide both the organic and inorganic constituents found in bone . It has been proposed that the bone-building process is enhanced by the presence of the proteins ( the organic matrix ) or that the microcrystalline structure provides a large surface area from which the minerals may be released from the organic matrix in the intestines . But that is theory and hypothesis . In practice , the hydroxyapatite and other ingredients in Bone-Up work to support bone health and renewal . That is all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : NIH Consensus Development Panel . " Osteoporosis prevention , diagnosis , and therapy . " JAMA 2001 ; 285(6):785-95 . Castelo-Branco , C. , Pons , F. , Vicente , J. J. , Sanjuan , A. , Vanrell , J. A. " Preventing postmenopausal bone loss with osseinhydroxyapatite compounds . " Results of a two-year , prospective trial . J Reprod Med . ( July , 1999 ) Vol. 44(7) pp. 601-5 . Eastell , R. " Pathogenesis of postmenopausal osteoporosis . " In : Favus , M. J. , Holick , M. F. , Christakos , S. , Goldring , S. R. , Kaplan , F. S. , eds . " Primer on the Metabolic Bone Diseases and Disorders of Mineral Metabolism. " 4th ed . London : Lippincott , Williams &; Wilkins ; ( 2000 ) pp. 260-2 . Shiraki , M. , Shiraki , Y .. Aoki , C .. Miura , M. " Vitamin K2 ( menatetrenone ) effectively prevents fractures and sustains lumbar bone mineral density in osteoporosis . " J Bone Miner Res. ( 2000 ) Vol. 15 pp. 515-21 . Tucker . K. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Cupples , L. A. , Wilson , P. W. F. , Kiel , D. P. " Potassium , magnesium and fruit and vegetable intakes are associated with greater bone mineral density in elderly men and women . " Am J Clin Nutr. ( 1999 ) Vol. 69 pp. 727-36 . Author Affiliation Dallas Clouatre , Ph.D . Author Affiliation DALLAS CLOUATRE , Ph.D . Clouatre earned his doctorate from the University of California-Berkeley . A member of the American College of Nutrition , he is a contributor to Let 's Live , Whole Foods Magazine , Nutrition Business Journal , Vitamin Retailer and other health publications . His most recent books are the User 's Guide to Weight Loss Supplements and Anti-Fat Nutrients , revised 4th edition ( Basic Media ) . // <p>                     