@@390391

Headnote Albert Handell , one of the most important artists working in pastel today , is currently the subject of a retrospective exhibition at The Butler Institute of American Art . Here , he describes some of the seminal paintings in the show and his continuing exploration of the medium . The Butler Institute of American Art , in Youngstown , Ohio , is one of the few museums to regularly feature the work of contemporary pastel painters . Several times a year , the Butler mounts these exhibitions in the Flora B. Giffuni Gallery of American Pastel Art , a space named in honor of the woman who founded the Pastel Society of America and who generously provided support to the museum . The Butler also schedules workshops and lectures by the artists whose paintings are on exhibition . From September 9 through November 18 the Butler will present a retrospective exhibition of pastel paintings by Albert Handell , an artist who has championed the pastel medium in books , videos , DVDs , workshops , and exhibitions for more than 30 years . The museum and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publishing a catalogue in connection with the exhibition . The 70-year-old artist studied painting at the Art Students League of New York , in Manhattan , with Louis Priscilla , Robert Ward Johnson , and Frank Mason ; and he traveled throughout Europe before establishing studios in Woodstock and Santa Fe . In the book he wrote with his wife , artist Anita Louise West , Handell explained his basic approach to creating plein air pastel landscapes . " I do n't like to travel more than 30 minutes from my studio to find a painting location , " he says . " If it 's farther than that , I prefer to stay for a few days at a nearby hotel . Once I arrive at the location , I scout around until I can isolate a scene that touches me . " The artist also points out that several locations have become particular favorites , and there are a number of paintings in the Butler exhibition that were created near these streams , fields , and waterfalls . Once he finds a landscape that attracts his attention , Handell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Perfect ) to isolate shapes that can be effectively composed into a painting . " I urge students to be mindful of the fact that they are interpreting a three-dimensional landscape on a flat surface , " he explains . " One way to approach composition is to break down a painting into its two-dimensional elements , which ultimately combine to create the sense of three-dimensional space . These elements are the shapes , patterns , and planes . Squinting your eyes helps you see your subject in two dimensions . It eliminates the surface details and groups together all the large shapes . Try to see the landscape in patterns of light and shadow . " I sometimes apply a wash of watercolor before layering the pastel , but eventually I use a stick of raw umber pastel to establish the drawing and shadow masses , " Handell continues . " Afterward , different colors can be painted into this single tone . Varying detail leaves something to the viewer 's imagination and leads the eye from specific areas to suggested areas . To keep the shapes unified , use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the largest shapes to the smaller ones , and from the center of interest out to the rest of the composition . Be careful not to overstate the unimportant elements , as this can weaken the impact you desire . " After providing a brief review of his painting techniques , Handell offered specific comments about some of the landscapes and portraits included in the retrospective exhibition . Sidebar OPPOSITE PAGE Portrait of Jerry Schiffer 1971 , pastel , 22 x 15 . Collection the artist . " Before taking my pastels outdoors for the first time in 1972 , I painted portraits and figure studies in pastel , " Handell recalls . " This particular portrait was created on a very dark gray sanded paper , and the dark undertone helped bring out the strength and drama of the portrait . The model had experienced a difficult life , and I think I captured some of his anguish in my portrait . " www.myAmericanArtist.com To read more about pastel plein air paintings , check out " Liz Haywood-Sullivan : Dynamic Darks With Pastel " in the pastel section of www.myAmericanArtist.com @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pastel , 15 ? 21 . Collection the artist . " While driving along the Glaseo Turnpike in Woodstock , New York , I spied these trees and stopped to paint them , " Handell remembers . " The design of the resulting painting is strong because the upright darks of the tree trunks contrast with the lost and found edges . Those are the same value as the background colors , and they tie the two areas together . I kept the sky simple to provide a contrast to the trees and background . " OPPOSITE PAGE , TOP RIGHT Mendocino No. 1 2002 , watercolor and pastel , 14 x 10 . Collection Richard McKinley and Donald Robertson . " I started this painting by placing the vertical line of the green wall , " the artist recalls . " I wanted to make sure it was off-center and allowed for the other two Important verticals In the scene : the staircase and the white trim . Once I was comfortable with their placement , I established all the darks , the local colors of the green house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " OPPOSITE PAGE , BOTTOM RIGHT The Coyote Fence 1992 , pastel , 9 x 11 . Courtesy Vantana Fine Art , Santa Fe , New Mexico . " The subject of this painting is a simple arrangement of the corner of a coyote fence juxtaposed against an adobe wall on which there are strong cast shadows , " Handell says . " The adobe wall had a light , rich , warm color that contrasted with the darker grays of the wooden fence . These colors played off each other and helped create a contrast of local colors with light and shadow . " BELOW Taos Red 1997 , pastel , 14 x 15 . Collection Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hess . When Handell moved to northern New Mexico , he was inspired by the light and colors of the region , as well as a " lifetime 's worth of subjects to paint . " He created this pastel along the road from Santa Fe to Taos and composed it as a rich tapestry of patterns - the light and shade on the houses , the structural details of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dappled Light 2007 , pastel , 14 x 15 . Courtesy Vantana Fine Art , Santa Fe , New Mexico . " With a complicated subject such as this , I 'm sure I started with the darks of both trees and just went from there , " the artist speculates . " The changing light can be both maddening and delightfully surprising , especially when one is working in close proximity to a subject . I had to be careful not to get thrown by the shifting light , to change the theme once I got started , or to get too involved in fussy and unimportant details . " RIGHT Woodland Zephyr 2004 , pastel , 12 X 18 . Courtesy Vantana Fine Art , Santa Fe , New Mexico . In the creation of this piece , the artist began with washes of transparent watercolor and built layers of pastel over that surface . He allowed some of the watercolor to remain visible in the final painting to add " textural delight and variety " to the picture . ONLINE GALLERY www.myAmericanArtist.com ABOVE Rushing Waters 2005 , pastel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Santa Fe , New Mexico . This recent painting comes close to being a signature image for Handell , as he frequently delights in painting secluded woodland areas where streams of water cascade from rocks , ripple along streams , or swirl around protrusions . Water keeps moving along until it finds its level , " he explains . " And even then it keeps moving . I see that movement as a timeless rhythm , and I compose my paintings to emphasize the force and motion of the water . For more information on Handell , visit his website atwww.alberthandell.com . For more information on The Butler Institute of American Art , visit www.butlerart.com . Author Affiliation M. Stephen Doherty is the editor-in-chief of American Artist . <p>                     