@@409162

EVEN IF THE GALILEO SPACECRAFT HAD N'T discovered a magnetic field enveloping Ganymede , space physicists would still know that something odd was going on there . In recent years they have deduced that Jupiter 's largest moon has a tenuous atmosphere of oxygen and ozone ( Osup 3 ) and a larger corona of atomic hydrogen . Spectroscopic observations by the Hubble Space Telescope in mid-1996 even revealed faint fluorescence from oxygen atoms at ultraviolet wavelengths . Their interest piqued by these prior discoveries , two research teams were recently surprised to find that the moon has a double glow : an ultraviolet emission at the poles and a distinctly red one around the equator . A team led by Paul D. Feldman ( Johns Hopkins University ) and Melissa A. McGrath ( Space Telescope Science Institute ) used HST to image the faint ultraviolet auroras enveloping Ganymede 's polar regions . The auroras result when electrons in Jupiter 's magnetosphere flow along magnetic field lines leading toward the poles . There they break up oxygen molecules in Ganymede 's tenuous atmosphere ; the resulting excited oxygen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ angstroms . Meanwhile , the wisps of gas surrounding Ganymede 's midsection are fluorescing in red light bright enough to be seen by some future astronaut standing on the surface . Last August , on two nights when Ganymede was in Jupiter 's shadow , Michael E. Brown and Antonin Bouchez ( Caltech ) used the Keck I telescope to record the red light emitted by oxygen atoms at 6300 angstroms . Not an aurora in the usual sense , this emission is instead concentrated over the equator , a region protected by the moon 's magnetic field from direct bombardment from the Jovian magnetosphere . Brown thinks the oxygen atoms are being excited by a torus of trapped low-energy electrons derived from atmospheric gases . Photograph Left : Ganymede 's weak magnetic field is strong enough to shield the satellite 's equatorial region from Jupiter 's magnetosphere . However , charged particles travel freely along the open field lines to each pole . Middle : Acquired by the Hubble Space Telescope on October 30,1998 , this composite ultraviolet image of Ganymede reveals auroral glows over the satellite 's polar regions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Right . Bright pixels denote the unexpected red-light glow found encircling Ganymede 's equatorial region . Photograph This composite map based on green and violet images from the Galileo spacecraft accentuates the bright polar caps of Ganymede . White lines denote the caps ' edges , while colored ones mark the boundaries between closed ( looped ) and open lines in the big moon 's magnetic field at various times during each orbital cycle . Black and distorted areas indicate missing data . // Oddly , no red glow is seen over the poles , where magnetospheric particles rain down incessantly . One possible explanation : once excited , atomic oxygen can take 5 or 6 minutes to emit a photon of red light - long enough for the atom to drift off into space or be " quenched " by striking the moon 's surface . <p>                     