@@406385

THE OTHER DAY SOMEBODY ASKED ME if I exercise regularly . As I was about to recount a ( fake ) running injury , I thought , what a ridiculous question . Of course I work out ! I may not belong to a gym but , like most parents , my life is filled with opportunities to strengthen , stretch and tone . In fact , most of us complete a daily regimen to rival a marathon . How many of these moves are part of your daily workout ? Pant pulls You may call it depressing - I call it exercise . The benefits of devoting four minutes of panting and heaving to get into a pair of pants that used to fit are legion . Note , though , that this activity may require a spotter in case you get the zipper stuck or need help to stand erect . But once you are up and moving , you 'll reap the rewards of using all your core muscles to keep your stomach in check . Remember to breathe shallowly so your button does n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fantastic ? Memory laps There is physical value in forgetfulness . Use a pedometer when looking for lost objects . Take a deep breath , then exhale , saying , " Now , where the hell did I leave my keys ? " To increase the calorie burn , make sure you already have your child in the car seat waiting for you . As you run upstairs and down , retracing your steps from laundry room to attic , think of the inches you 're burning off . Up and down , up and down . Finally , you remember : You left the keys with your wallet . Take a deep breath , then exhale , saying , " Now , where the hell did I leave my wallet ? " Repeat . Dishwasher dives The daily routine of stack-bend-replace could give those upper arms the superhero look you 've been dreaming of . Unlike at most gyms , you 're guaranteed no lineups for this machine ... Baby snatches Take any toddler to a store ( preferably one with glassware ) . While you try to browse , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the snatch-and-lifts you do while little Toni careers from one side of the aisle to the other . Snatch and lift , snatch and lift . After 30 minutes , look in the mirror . Be proud of the sweat pouring off your red face ! Snow falls Snow on the ground is no reason to abandon your workout . Try the " triple sow-cow " - slip on the patch of sidewalk your son had promised to shovel . Use every muscle in your body as you twist and spiral to avoid falling into an embarrassing heap . Oh , look : The Russian judge gave you 4.2 ! Fabulous ! Take a bow and wave to the neighbours you just know are watching . Running late There is nothing better for the burn than waking up late and having to be somewhere , like daycare , Danny 's hockey practice or a parent-teacher interview , in 20 minutes . Check the watch , embrace the panic , then run - run like you 've never run before . Keep focused , gulp for air and pump those legs ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know your workout was successful by the size of the sweat stains under your arms and how far your tongue is hanging out of your mouth . Our lives are made up of active verbs . When are n't we running , grabbing , jumping , twisting , pulling or bending ? Maybe these exercises do n't come with a membership , a guarantee to lose inches or the requirement that you shower naked with strangers , but they count for something . So next time you drag yourself off to bed at the end of the day , do n't feel guilty that you did n't do a spin class . Just catalogue your daily grinds . Then breathe deeply , raise your arm above your head and pat yourself firmly on the back . Repeat .                     