@@386453

A few simple steps can lead to a longer , healthier life // ITS death threat is bigger than that of breast cancer and AIDS combined . It 's the nation 's No. 1 killer , and its claim on the lives of African-American women is astonishing when compared to other races . More than 100,000 African-Americans die annually from cardiovascular disease , which makes this disease the leading cause of death for Blacks . And an estimated 45 percent of African-American women have cardiovascular disease , according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of the National Center for Health Statistics . Many Black women are unaware of their risk for heart disease . But with the proper education and awareness , taking care of the heart today can decrease the chance of being diagnosed with heart disease in the future . Dr. Clyde Yancy , professor of internal medicine/cardiology at UT Southwestern Medical Center and an American Heart Association volunteer , describes the condition for Black women as a " ticking time bomb . " " The unique risk that 's borne by the African-American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be compartmentalized in the African-American woman , especially high blood pressure and obesity , " Dr. Yancy says . " But the good news is that so many of these factors are modifiable . " This may be news to some who are unaware that certain risk factors can be controlled . Dr. Yancy believes the two biggest issues for Black women are getting their blood pressure checked and modifying their weight . He points out that by the age of 35 , one in three Black women is hypertensive , and early intervention to lower high blood pressure is crucial in preventing heart disease . Risk factors that contribute to the poor state of heart health for many Black women range from obesity , high blood pressure , high blood cholesterol levels , diabetes , physical inactivity , smoking , poor diet , stress and lack of yearly checkups . Statistics indicate that 50 percent of African-American women are obese . Eating a well-balanced diet combined with exercise is essential to your health . Foods should be steamed , baked or broiled , not fried ; and eating a diet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a heart attack . Because African-Americans are twice as likely to develop diabetes and high blood pressure , eating healthy by cutting back on foods high in sugar and sodium contributes to preventing heart disease . Knowing your numbers for blood pressure , fasting blood glucose , blood cholesterol levels and weight is important to help you understand if you 're at risk for heart disease . And if you are at risk , you and your doctor can begin to make preparations for prevention now . Heart disease survivor Bridget Harris , 37 , of Atlanta believes in educating other women about the importance of annual checkups and paying close attention to any changes within the body . The healthy-eating athlete , whose family has no history of heart disease , was diagnosed in 2005 after numerous visits to her doctor for three months . She was mindful of various symptoms and her persistence paid off after she was misdiagnosed with indigestion . Fortunately , Harris was already well-informed about heart disease before her diagnosis . But many women lack knowledge and are misdiagnosed every day , so national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of the disease 's common misdiagnosis . Although doctors and Harris ca n't answer why she became a victim of heart disease , Harris ' newfound purpose in life is joining organizations , such as the American Heart Association , to educate young women about the disease . Symptoms include indigestion , chest pain , dizziness , shortness of breath , heart palpitations and fatigue . Harris is an example for people who never thought they were at risk for heart disease because they 're healthy or their family shows no history of the disease . " People look at me and say , " Bridget eats healthy and works out , and look at what happened to her ' ' , " Harris says . " If it does n't make them change their behavior in some way , it will at least make them think about some changes they want to consider in their lives . " A collection of medications is now available for lowering high blood pressure and cholesterol levels , which are contributing factors for developing heart disease . BiDil , the first drug in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of heart failure in self-identified Black patients . Dr. Yancy believes this uniquely tested drug in African-Americans is effective and a breakthrough that shows promising benefits . Doctors say statistics indicate that BiDil reduces the death rate from heart disease by 43 percent for patients who took it . " I would love for every African-American woman to get the message that you can become heart-healthy , and the steps you need to take are simple : Get your blood pressure checked ; if you have diabetes , get it treated ; and if you have a weight problem , reduce the weight . You can get heart-healthy , " Dr. Yancy says . - Kendra Y. Mims Sidebar A routine physical examination is one of the major steps that can determine just how heart-healthy you are . Sidebar 10 WAYS TO PREVENT DYING FROM HEART DISEASE BEFORE 40 1 Get your blood pressure checked on a regular basis 2 Schedule an annual physical checkup 3 Maintain a healthy weight with a balanced diet that includes fruits , vegetables , water , whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 Avoid foods that are fried , high in sodium , sugar , cholesterol and trans fat 5 Exercise for 30 minutes at least four times a week 6 Consult your physician to determine proper levels for cholesterol ( HDL and LDL ) , blood pressure , fasting glucose , body mass index and waist circumference 7 Quit smoking 8 Monitor diabetes and control your blood sugar level 9 Reduce stress 10 Pay close attention to any symptoms , including chronic indigestion , chest pain , dizziness , heart palpitations , shortness of breath and extreme fatigue . Sidebar A well-balanced diet can help you maintain proper weight and control blood pressure . Sidebar " I would love for every African-American woman to get the message that you can become heart-healthy , and the steps you need to take are simple . " // <p>                     