@@390687

So aged are many Air Force planes , a colonel who calls himself a ' ' ' ' 61 model '  --  he was born in 1961  --  has flown a tanker made in 1957 . Montgomery , Ala. - Two and a half minutes . That is how quickly ground troops in Iraq can receive requested close air support from " the iron over head . " The request might pass from a ground unit to a forward air controller , to an intelligence analyst , to someone who does risk assessment ( should air power be used against a sniper ? A building ? A city block ? ) , to a combat lawyer who advises the commander if the risk is consistent with the rules of engagement and the laws of war . Based on that advice , the particular munition or angle of attack axis might be changed . At the Air University here at Maxwell Air Force Base , officers are studying their service 's new roles . Time was , air power 's primary purpose was to attack massed enemy forces , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have neither . Yet in " the long war " against terrorists , air power is , Air Force people insist , " our asymmetric advantage . " The enemy has no comparable capacity for intelligence , surveillance and reconnaissance . During World War II , on average , only about 20 percent of a plane 's bombs fell within 1,000 feet of its target . So , a force of 1,000 airplanes-with 10,000 crewmen in jeopardy-would have to drop 9,000 bombs to destroy the target . Precision munitions guided by GPS or lasers make today 's small inventory of aircraft-some of them stealthy-astonishingly efficient , even in counterinsurgency operations close to friendly ground forces and civilians . That inventory is , however , older than it has ever been-on average , 24 years old . And further aging might be another cost of Iraq . Multiple deployments of Army and Marine units have so frayed those services that there is an emerging consensus that they should be enlarged . Expansion is necessary only because of Iraq , which for years will serve as a powerful warning against manpower-intensive " preventive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budgets are menaced by the demographic fact that dominates all federal budgeting-the explosion of entitlement spending because of the retirements of 77 million baby boomers , which begin in four months . Any expansion of the Army and Marine Corps will come at the expense of the urgently needed recapitalization of the Air Force , which has just 180 long-range bombers ( 94 B-52s- the youngest of which was built in 1962-65 B-1s and 21 B-2s ) . The average age of its tanker fleet is 45 . Without tankers , long-range bombers are not long range , and aircraft can not be kept aloft to surveil the battlefield and offer quick response for ground support . A colonel here who calls himself a " ' ' 61 model " - born in 1961-has flown a tanker made in 1957 . Flying combat missions , hurrying casualties to out-of-theater hospitals , maintaining the " air bridge " of " bullets and beans " that keeps U.S. forces supplied-all these duties make the Air Force susceptible to the stresses afflicting the rest of America 's overextended military . The other services have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Force has been since 1991 , enforcing the no-fly zones . Air Force personnel will be forgiven for feeling that their contributions are underappreciated-again . Americans whose understanding of the European theater of World War II derives from entertainment such as " Band of Brothers " and " Saving Private Ryan " might not know that the fatality rate among U.S. air crews was 40 percent higher than among U.S. ground forces . In World War II and the 1950s , new planes were constantly added to the inventory . Today 's aircraft are much more capable but also more complex and expensive and can take decades to develop . The development of the F-22 , now being deployed , began 21 years ago . Imagine the challenge of matching technologies to threats that are decades over the horizon . Although American ground forces have not been attacked from the air since Korea , the Air Force must plan for the possibility that the rise of a " near-peer adversary " - perhaps China-will put the USAF in the precarious position of being , as an officer here says , " one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power was born during the most unintelligently fought , and for that reason the most calamitous , of wars , World War I , when generals , reflexively resorting to romantic-and anachronistic-notions of offensives , fought machine guns with young men 's chests . The Air University , a means of intellectual recapitalization , was created in 1947 , the year before the Air Force became an independent service . The university 's mission , which is increasingly urgent as military history disappears from the curricula on American campuses , could be indelicately expressed in the words of the Spartan king quoted by Thucydides : " The Nation that makes a great distinction between its scholars and its warriors will have its thinking done by cowards and its fighting done by fools . " <p>                     