@@415002

The Society of Environmental Journalists Plays an Importantand Controversial-Role // The first time Deborah Schoch saw industrial-grade DDT it was a chunk the size of a walnut . Schoch was working for the Los Angeles Times , covering the Environmental Protection Agency 's efforts to survey for contamination of a lower-middle-class neighborhood near two Superfund sites . Schoch had wanted to be a political reporter . But these bits of industrial poison eventually forced the first neighborhood-wide relocation ( of 60 families ) in California 's history and changed her career trajectory . The environment became her beat . Few newsrooms in the country have more than one environmental reporter on staff-if that . Schoch was lucky to work with several , including one veteran who steered her to join what many environmental journalists consider an indispensable resource for their work , the Society of Environmental Journalists ( SEJ ) . The group was founded in 1989 by a handful of newspaper writers who had won the prestigious Edward J. Meeman environmental journalism award . The central goal of this new professional network of working reporters and editors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ journalism . The founders did all the work themselves , out of their homes and their offices . Ten years later , SEJ has a fully staffed office in Philadelphia and an operating budget of $668,000 . Its membership is above 1,100 , about 62 percent of whom are full-time reporters with print , broadcast or online media . The remaining members are academics or associates-the latter a category for people whose journalism is paid for primarily by nonjournalism organizations . Lobbyists and public relations people are denied membership . SEJ generates some income through dues and programs , but the bulk of its funding comes from foundations , including the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation , Turner Foundation , W. Alton Jones Foundation , Scripps Howard Foundation and the C.S. Mott Foundation . SEJ 's signature offering is a national conference each year , supported by several regional events . The conferences are full of practical advice , intended to arm environmental reporters with information , sources and colleagues to do better work in the face of misunderstanding from bosses and intense scrutiny from those they cover . Panels at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ species , nuclear weapons production and sprawl , global trade and global warming . Regional events have focused on refineries and fisheries , land use and science writing . It 's still a grassroots group , with most content put together by members volunteering their time . SEJ also publishes a quarterly newsletter , the SEJournal , and puts out a weekly Tipsheet of story ideas and sources . It oversees a members-only listserv where journalists on deadline can ask colleagues for sources or argue at their leisure over perennial internal debates like objectivity , quality journalism or news of the day . In all , SEJ programs serve 1,800 journalists each year . Brant Houston , a 17-year veteran newspaper reporter who now heads the Missouri-based Investigative Reporters and Editors , says journalism organizations should be judged by the quality of their membership services , resources , publications and networking . And by those criteria , he gives SEJ the highest marks . " I think it 's among the best of the journalism organizations , " he says . Michael Fischer oversees environmental grants at the William and Flora @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The amount of coverage of environmental issues is on the wane , " he says . " There are fewer column inches and fewer minutes on the nightly news related to environmental issues . And John Q. Citizen , in order to be responsibly engaged in civic decision-making , needs that kind of information or the environment will lose . " Photograph Environmental writer Barry Lopez ( center ) was a speaker at the annual SEI conference in 1999. // Most members agree that it 's the less tangible things SEJ provides that are the most significant . " You ca n't underestimate the value of networking , especially when so many journalists are operating in such a hostile environment inside and outside their newsrooms , " says James Bruggers , the environmental reporter for the Louisville , Kentucky , Courier-journal and SEJ 's board president . Why the hostile atmosphere ? " I think that there 's a suspicion that if you 're covering environmental issues you 're a tree hugger , " says Natalie Pawelski , environmental correspondent at Cable News Network ( CNN ) , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with hippie , leftist political activists in people 's minds . " Fighting that perception is important because being lumped in with environmental activists-or agents of industry , for that matter-allows editors and audiences to dismiss critical environmental news as slanted . SEJ zealously defends its credibility as a journalism organization rather than an activist one by scrupulously screening its funders and maintaining stringent membership criteria based on who pays for a reporter 's work . It 's a striving for objectivity not usually seen in journalism organizations-and one that , some argue , is taken too far , as when the group excised the word 11 green " from a section heading , or argued that the group 's journal did not need to be printed on recycled paper . Others say the real challenges to environmental reporters run deeper than their image . " There 's just simply more at stake in environmental journalism , " explains author Richard Manning , one of the first of a handful of newspaper reporters martyred for telling hard stories . In 1988 his reporting identified accelerated , unsustainable logging by Champion International @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year he was fired . Since joining SEJ he 's seen enough similar scenarios to believe there is an " organized , orchestrated attack " against practitioners and the beat . Ken Ward , Jr. , one of SEJ 's founders , says the confluence of events 10 years ago that created SEJ was unique-and perhaps not replicable . " I think it would be extremely difficult , if not impossible , to found SEJ today , " he says . " Developments in the media mitigate against it , and I 'm talking about everything from consolidation of media companies and dumbing down information to outright antipathy from editors to environmental issues in some cases . " Although SEJ was originally conceived as a small , mutual-aid group for the handful of full-time environmental reporters , the organization has quickly grown into what one former board member called " the most important environmental organization in the country . " Its quest to improve the quality , accuracy and visibility of environmental journalism is far from over , but the organization at age 10 appears to be on solid ground to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                