@@372002

You can smell the fish sticks from lunch in Sherron Watkins ' 60-year-old house near downtown Houston , see the framed pictures of the family vacation and the baby in bunny ears and even one of her country-crooning second cousin , Lyle Lovett . Things have been so hectic , Watkins apologizes , that the Christmas ornaments have n't been put away yet . The daughter of two educators , Watkins grew up in nearby Tomball , where she worked the cash register at the family grocery store and began saving her money . By 1982 , she 'd picked up two accounting degrees in Austin and quickly found a job with Arthur Andersen . She eventually landed a job with Enron , Houston 's red-hot energy trading firm , rising in eight years to vice president for corporate development . Her quick ascent surprised no one , says her husband Rick : " She always had a flair for numbers . " <P> That flair led Watkins last summer to conclude there was something rotten at Enron . The numbers did n't add up . A pair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ top officials  --  perhaps including Lay himself  --  who for months had been trying to hide a mountain of debt , and started a chain reaction of events that brought down the company . Watkins ' letters , along with thousands of other documents , are now in the hands of congressional and criminal investigators who are probing how Enron , its pet-rock auditors at Andersen and a host of other supporting actors allowed the country 's seventh largest company to suddenly go bankrupt in December . " I am incredibly nervous that we will implode in a wave of accounting scandals , " Watkins wrote of Enron 's financial health . " I have heard one manager-level employee from the principal investments group say , ' I know it would be devastating to all of us , but I wish we would get caught . We 're such a crooked company . ' " <P> Maybe you can only glimpse the soul of a company when it breaks open right before your eyes . But we know now , thanks to Watkins , that Enron hid billions of dollars in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accounting schemes that were intended to pump up the buzz about the company and support its inflated stock price . We also learned last week that executives at Andersen , the accounting giant that enabled Enron 's every move , fretted about the arrangement but saw the chance to double their fees if they just kept their heads down . And now that the party 's over and the damage control is in full swing from Houston to Chicago to Washington , just about everyone who helped create this mess is busy pointing fingers , scapegoating the other guys , firing the lower-downs and diming out the higher-ups . Last week what was once envisioned as a new kind of company resembled little more than a circular firing squad of executives , accountants , consultants and lawyers , all fighting to stay in business or , at least , out of jail .                     