@@400100

By manipulating sex and reproduction in their hosts , many parasites improve their own odds of survival and may shape the evolution of sex itself . // Sex is fraught . Every teenager can attest to the havoc it wreaks-and to its unique power to change a life . Of course , that 's one of life 's lessons that survive far beyond the teenage years  --  and far beyond the human condition . To anyone who explores the ramifications of sex in other species , its permutations seem bottomless . In recent years , the study of evolution , of parasites , and even of disease has often led back to sex . Particularly fascinating are the ways in which some parasites manipulate sex and reproduction in their hosts  --  stories of exploitation and subterfuge that have amazed and astonished even life scientists long jaded by tales of biological intrigue . Take the case of Nosema granulosis , a protozoan that often resides within the cells of Gammarus duebeni , a small shrimp that lives in intertidal pools along the coasts of Europe . When an infected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cytoplasm of her eggs and thereby infect her offspring . But if the protozoans infect a male shrimp , they can not readily infect his offspring by hitching a ride in his sperm , because sperm contain so little cytoplasm . As a result , N granulosis is transmitted solely by female hosts , not by the males . So what happens when the protozoan ends up in a baby male shrimp ? That would seem to be the end of the line . What 's a protozoan to do ? To bypass this dead end , N granulosis takes over the sex-determining mechanism of the shrimp and converts the male into a female . That bit of genetic magic assures the protozoan 's passage to future generations-though how it accomplishes this , no one knows . Naturally , if the protozoans were to become too common in host populations , they could drive the shrimp to extinction by causing a scarcity of males . Fortunately for the survival of both species , the protozoans are not transmitted to all the eggs of an infected mother ; in the wild @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifth of the baby shrimp . Parasites that manipulate the sex of their hosts are called reproductive parasites-and they are not as rare as one might like to think . Some , such as N. granulosis , convert males into females , but a widespread and diverse array of microorganisms simply kill the sons of their hosts ; the daughters , which transmit the microorganisms , are allowed to live . The protozoan Amblyospora californica , for instance , is transmitted through the eggs of infected female mosquitoes , but it kills the developing male larvae . Once again , that would seem to be a dead end for the protozoans in the males , but all is not lost . The protozoans in the males develop into specialized spores that can not infect other mosquitoes but can infect small aquatic crustaceans called copepods . When a female copepod ingests the remains of a male mosquito larva killed by the protozoans , the copepod also ingests the spores . The protozoans then infect the female copepod and turn her ovaries into a " protozoan factory , " generating the kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larvae are filter feeding , they take in the spores from the water , and so complete the cycle . Thus the parasite has the best of both worlds : it exploits its female mosquitoes for transmission via eggs , and the male mosquitoes for infectious passage to new hosts . Pretty clever for an organism without a brain . Other male-killers include various bacteria that make themselves at home in fruit flies , wasps , butterflies , and beetles . In those insects , though , the only way the microorganisms make it into the next generation of hosts is through the eggs of infected mothers . No sex-change operation on a male insect is possible ; no suitable " third-party " species like the copepod is available to provide the parasites in males with an alternative host . For parasites that end up in a male , the options are limited . Killing the male insect has zero cost to the parasite , but what is the benefit ? In some cases it appears that killing off male hosts enhances the survival of the hosts ' infected sisters . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the infected female insects have more resources for themselves . That alone , of course , does n't help the parasites in the male insects . Unlike the A. californica protozoans , they gain nothing directly , because they die along with their hosts . They do gain indirectly , however , because the death of the male insects benefits the parasites ' " family . " All the parasites passed along by the infected mother insect are genetically identical to one another ( that is , they are a clone ) . The parasites that happen to infect a daughter insect benefit from the additional resources available to her . So , by killing males the extended clone of parasites increases within host populations . For infected insect mothers , however , the infection is a disaster , because all of their sons are killed . Then male-killers become widespread , they can even affect the mating system of their hosts . Francis M. Jiggins , a biologist at the University of Cambridge , has detected male-killing microorganisms in high proportions of the individuals in some populations of African butterflies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to changes in the mating system . In Acraea butterflies males normally congregate at food plants , and matings take place there when the females arrive to lay their eggs . But in some populations of the white  --  barred Acraea , so many females are infected with male-killing bacteria ( more than 95 percent in some cases ) that males are extremely scarce . In those populations , females assemble in courting areas called leks to attract the few males that are flying about . These lucky males procure many matings , but there is still not enough sperm to go around , and many females remain uninseminated . Female leks are extremely rare in nature ; in most species that form leks , it is the males that aggregate to attract the females . But under the pressure of male-killing bacteria , the white-barred Acraea appears to have evolved an unusual but adaptive mating system . Biologists have just begun to document the diversity of male-killing bacteria in nature , and it is likely that a large percentage of invertebrate species play host to them . Vertebrates may also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ People need not worry , though : given the intense study of our own species , if we carried male  --  killing microorganisms , they would certainly have been discovered by now . The white-barred Acraea is an extreme case ; male-killers rarely infect a fraction of a population large enough to force a change in the mating system of a host species . Yet some biologists speculate that even a relatively small proportion of infected individuals ( say , 5 percent ) pushes the sex-determining genes of a host species to change in ways that enable it to escape or to suppress the male  --  killing effects . The cat-and-mouse game between male-killers and their hosts may be one of the motors contributing to the great diversity of sex-determining mechanisms that occur in nature . The undisputed virtuosos of reproductive parasites are bacteria of the genus Wolbachia , which , like many of their brethren , are transmitted in the cytoplasm of eggs . These bacteria also infect across species boundaries , which has made them unusually widespread in invertebrates . Wolbachia bacteria infect many insects , arachnids ( mites @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At least 20 percent of all insect species harbor them , and the proportion could be as high as 70 percent-biologists are still trying to determine the number . Because most animal species are invertebrates , the abundance of Wolbachia 's hosts makes the genus among the most common parasitic bacteria on the planet . Analysis of its DNA indicates that the bacteria have lived in insects for at least 50 million years , and in invertebrates for at least 100 million . Only ten years ago Wolbachia was regarded as an obscure little group of bacteria , but the genus has come up in the world , at least in the eyes of biologists . Its broad distribution is one of the major mysteries of Wolbachia : how can one genus of bacteria infect so many kinds of hosts ? Some investigators speculate that species that are ecologically associated in some way ( predators and prey , for instance , or competitors feeding on the same food resource ) may occasionally exchange Wolbachia . But conwincing evidence has not yet surfaced to back up the speculation . Wolbachia bacteria are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Like other reproductive parasites , some members of the genus kill the male insects they infect , whereas others turn males into sexually functioning females . Some even induce parthenogenesis in their hosts  --  a mode of reproduction in which eggs develop into females without fertilization , thereby dispensing with males and their sperm . Parasitic parthenogenesis has been noted in more than three dozen species of insects , mainly wasps . The bacteria accomplish this trick by manipulating the basic processes of the cell in such a way that the single set of chromosomes in the egg is duplicated , and the unfertilized egg develops into a female . When the bacteria in parthenogenetic insects are killed with common antibiotics such as tetracycline , the insects usually revert to sexual reproduction . Sometimes , however , the insect species have been parthenogenetic for so long that when the Wolbachia bacteria are eliminated , the insects can no longer reproduce sexually . In the small parasitic wasp Encarsia formosa , antibiotics lead to the production of males , but the males can not mate : the genes needed for male @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stories to tell . In some , the females no longer respond to courtship ; in others , the males no longer produce functional sperm . Given enough time , mutations accumulate in the genes for sexual characteristics , and the species can no longer revert to sexual reproduction . Their reproduction becomes completely dependent on the bacteria that live inside their cells . But perhaps the most intriguing effect of Wolbachia is the ability of some strains to induce an incompatibility between host sperm and eggs , a process that may even implicate the microorganisms in the evolutionary divergence of insect species . The discovery of these capabilities has a long history . Wolbachia bacteria were first observed in the 1920s , when the pathologists Arthur Hertig and S. Burt Wolbach , working at Harvard Medical School , found them inside the eggs of Culex mosquitoes . Hertig later named the bacterial genus in honor of his colleague and mentor . In the 1950s the German biologist Hannes Laven discovered that when males from some strains of the mosquito C. pipiens were crossed with females of another strain , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect was inherited through the mother 's lineage . As he viewed it , the cytoplasm in the eggs of certain strains of insects was incompatible with the sperm from certain other strains . Laven was apparently unaware , however , that bacteria had earlier been discovered in the eggs of the insects . It was n't until the early 1970s that two other investigators , Janice H. Yen and A. Ralph Barr of the University of California , Los Angeles , made the connection . They showed that Laven 's " cytoplasmic incompatibility " was caused by the bacteria . Antibiotic treatments that eliminated the bacteria also changed the compatibility relationships between males and females . The basic pattern is that eggs from uninfected females are incompatible with sperm from infected males . The Wolbachia present in the testes of males biochemically " encrypt " the developing sperm , probably by altering proteins that bind to the sperm DNA . The same strain of Wolbachia must then be present in the egg to " decode " the encrypted sperm . Otherwise the chromosomes from the sperm are not properly processed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The actual mechanisms are still a mystery , but it is already clear to investigators that there are many different kinds of Wolbachia , which differ in their encryption systems . The diversity of the encryption mechanisms raises the possibility that Wolbachia could play a role in the evolution of new insect species . If different populations of a species , or closely related species , are infected with different strains of Wolbachia , the bacteria could prevent the insects ' gene pools from Mixing . Just such a circumstance may have arisen in jewel wasps , a genus ( Nasonia ) of small parasitic wasps that kill fly pupae . There are three closely related species of jewel wasps , but each is infected with its own distinct Wolbachia . The bacteria render any matings between the different wasp species incompatible , thereby preventing the development of hybrids . Biologists have also discovered that Wolbachia plays an essential developmental role in some host species . For example , if Wolbachia bacteria in the wasp Asobara tabida are eliminated with antibiotics , the female wasps fail to develop ovaries and so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such diseases as river blindness and elephantiasis in people and heartworm in dogs-also need the bacteria if their embryos are to develop properly . Antibiotic treatment of adult worms kills the embryos , rendering the adults sterile . This discovery has increased interest in the possibility that nematode diseases can be controlled with antibiotics see " The Worm and the Parasite , " by T. V. Rajan , page 32 . To study the details of Wolbachia 's capabilities , biologists have experimentally transferred the bacteria from one insect species to another . The method is similar to the microinjection techniques developed for in vitro fertilization : a needle containing the bacteria from one insect is injected into the egg of a different , uninfected species . Not surprisingly , perhaps , the " foreign " Wolbachia bacteria can have different effects in their new hosts . For example , in the adzuki bean borer moth ( Ostrinia scapulalis ) , Wolbachia turns a male host into a female . When the same bacteria are injected into the common flour moth Ephestia kuehniella , however , they simply kill the males @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manipulating invertebrate reproduction , investigators are now discovering an entire pantheon of sex-manipulating microorganisms that are transmitted from females to their offspring through eggs . A recent finding is a relative ( as yet unnamed ) of soil bacteria in the genus Cytophaga . Biologists have shown that the unnamed bacterium induces parthenogenesis in hosts as varied as wasps and mites , and is likely to be widespread . Others await discovery . The genus Rickettsia , which is a member of the same family as Wolbachia , includes a number of disease-causing bacteria spread by arthropods , such as the microorganisms responsible for Rocky Mountain spotted fever and typhus . Recently , Rickettsia bacteria that are transmitted through eggs and cause male-killing have been identified . I anticipate that once additional discoveries are made , it will be clear that most members of the genus are engaged in distorting sex in arthropods , and that causing disease in vertebrates is a relatively uncommon trait . The widespread occurrence of reproductive parasites illustrates a basic principle : whenever a microorganism is inherited through the eggs of its host , it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reproduction in ways that enhance the microorganism 's transmission . An even more remarkable story than that of Wolbachia and other reproductive parasites belongs to the " microbes " present in nearly all plants and animals-the mitochondria . Flourishing in the cytoplasm of nearly all nucleated cells , mitochondria are specialized organelles , with their own DNA . They are the cell 's power stations , generating energy for cellular metabolism . There is now overwhelming evidence that mitochondria evolved from a symbiotic bacterium during the early evolution of nucleated cells . In fact , on the basis of similarities in their DNA , biologists now think mitochondria and Wolbachia may be distant relatives . Like Wolbachia , mitochondria are inherited through the cytoplasm , and therefore from mothers but not from fathers . And , like Wolbachia , mitochondria that skew the sex ratio of their " host " organisms toward females can be favored by natural selection . Biologists have demonstrated that in many plants , such as corn and rye , mitochondrial variants cause an abortion of the male parts of the plant , the pollen-producing anthers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it leads to an increased production of seeds , which transmit the mitochondria . A contest ensues : plant genes evolve that suppress the renegade mitochondria , and new mitochondrial variants arise that can escape the new control . As far as anyone knows , animal mitochondria do not play such games . The reason may be simply that animal mitochondria have much smaller genomes than their counterparts in plants , and therefore may not be able to draw from as rich a grab bag of genetic trickery Fortunately for animals and plants , most of the time mitochondria are quite well behaved . The comparison with mitochondria raises one final , tantalizing question about bacteria of the genus Wolbachia . Given their ubiquity , their adopted homes within the cells of other organisms , and their heritability through the eggs of their hosts , why have n't they evolved into organelles like the mitochondria before them ? Perhaps it 's only a matter of time before they do . If bacteriologists take a peek in , say , 50 million years , they might well find that Wolbachia bacteria have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new kind of cell organelle . What service that organelle might perform is anyone 's guess . Sidebar Parasites that are passed on through the eggs of their host species face a potential dead end if they find themselves in a son of their former host . Author Affiliation When John H. Werren ( " Invasion of the Gender Benders , " page 58 ) began his graduate studies in biology at the Univer Author Affiliation sity of Utah , he focused on behavioral ecology , investigating how and why parasitic wasps manipulate the proportion of males and females in their progeny . But he found that there were also " genetic parasites " that altered the sex ratio . Some of the parasites turned out to be microorganisms . After completing his Ph.D. , he entered the US . Army , and , as he describes it , " in one of those funny coincidences , the Army decided that I would work on water bacteriology , despite my having no formal training in bacteriology . So I learned a lot of bacteriology and , in collaboration with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the parasitic wasps . " Now a professor of biology at the University of Rochester in New York , Werren studies Wolbachia bacteria and their role in the evolution of new insect species . // <p>                     