@@406441

It all began , as many things do , with the Catholic Church . " Digo s , Seor ? " yenos , mi Dios ! ' " La palabra de Dios . " Many of us can fake a few Spanish songs or Mass responses , but I wanted to know more of this language spoken throughout the world . When the gospel is proclaimed bilingually , it 's as beautiful as two intertwined vines - but I could only follow one . I was embarrassed when I 'd arrive to give a talk , and the organizer would say , " We did n't have enough people for the Spanish track , so we 've put them all in your English-speaking one . " Pobrecitos ! I could only imagine how cheated I 'd feel if I signed up for a workshop in my native language , then had to listen in another . With the help of a friend , I crafted a halting welcome in Spanish , rehearsed it endlessly and tried not to insult the authence too much when I bumbled through this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a dumb gringa , neither understanding nor speaking the language of almost half the American church . I could n't even read the Spanish translations of my own books ! Drawing even more attention to my incompetence , I had insisted on my children being bilingual . One studied in Guatemala , another in Mexico , and a third became fluent in Spanish ( and learned a few raunchy jokes ) working in a hotel kitchen . Whenever I 'd get flustered because we were late for a flight or important event , they 'd reassure : " Estamos bien ! ' But this was about more than one small family . There is something compelling about the universality of the Catholic Church . It strikes me every year at the Los Angeles Religious Education Congress , the largest and most diverse gathering of this kind in the country . Asian drummers , African dancers , mariachi musicians , readers and singers from various cultures all combine their talents for dramatic liturgies that showcase the rich variety within our tradition . " None of us is as smart as all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worship . Within a single culture , we can be bland as vanilla pudding . When multiple streams combine , it builds to a crescendo of " wow . " Kathy Coffey Furthermore , the U.S. bishops have spoken courageously on immigration . When federal agents raided Swift &; Co. meat packing plants , religious leaders pointed to the injustice of separating children from parents whose " crime " was working at jobs most native-born Americans would reject . While I sympathized mightily , I could n't express it in a language they would understand . Learning Spanish seemed like a step toward a larger heart . So every Monday for the past nine months I 've trudged to a local campus for Spanish class . My skills are still embarrassing : With limited vocabulary and knowledge of only the present tense , my efforts must seem like a toddler 's . What 's heartening is the verve of Marianne , our Venezuelan instructor , who repeats the basics until she must want to shriek . Still , she enhances our study with the play of language : the nuances , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their native tongue for a long time get complacent with it . We rely on the same , tired expressions . In contrast , new brain channels must open and expand as I learn the Spanish word for a familiar object or concept . It 's fun to see if it parallels English or French , and how colloquialisms reflect the spirit of a people . Most folks like to be in a place where they feel competent and successful . Yet the students in this class have moved beyond their comfort zones to risk appearing foolish when they try unfamiliar words or sentence constructions . A small , tentative Pentecost happens in Spanish class , with a similar , powerful wind blowing there . Another key reason to keep trying is my unofficial coach , Maria from Mexico . She spends most of the day laundering and folding towels or cleaning at my athletic club . With this job she supports three young sons . I 'm embarrassed to be taking aerobics class or yoga when she looks exhausted . Yet she remains unfailingly cheerful , greeting all the members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English is limited , but she tries mightily . When I think how hard it must be for her to function in this culture , it makes my struggle to learn her language easier . Maria has graciously taken on the role of mi maestra , correcting pronunciation , checking homework , and most of all being a cheerleader. " iMuy intelligenter she 'll crow when I make the slightest attempt . The teacher role seems to transform her ; for those 20 minutes , she transcends the mountain of towels . Other drivers listen to music in their cars . These days my Spanish tapes enthrall me with the merry escapades of Carmen and Enrique , who would go to the movies if they could only find the pesky Haves . The Moreno family enjoys the beach . The list of irregular present participles stretches through three long red lights . Many spiritual writers emphasize the virtues of vulnerability and hesitation . Wandering clueless through a foreign language , we abandon adult precision and are willing to become like children again . The hilarity of the " beginners mind " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flubbing the pronounciation , wished a " happy new ass " ano ) instead of " Happy New Year " ao ) to armed soldiers in Guatemala City . Beyond the structure and vocabulary of the language , I 've also learned how difficult it is to acquire fluency . Those who blithely complain that newcomers learn English must be exceptionally quick to master languages or sadly unaware of the challenges . When it comes down to it , most of us are motivated by other people . When we do things to gain their approval , improve their lives , strengthen or understand them , we get a glimmer of what the mystical Body of Christ must be . Not even a paycheck can inspire us like the need of a child , the call of a friend , or the challenge of a relationship . Many years ago a woman named Marisol must have planted the seed of my current Spanish study . She attended a workshop I gave in San Bernardino , California . When the sound technician needed to attach my microphone and I had no pockets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belt . What I remember best , though , was not her generosity , nor her beauty , but her eyes . When Marisol described her family , her dark eyes became pools of sadness . Her mother was dying in Guatemala , and she could n't afford many trips there . It was obvious how close mother and daughter were and how aching their separation must be . I wanted to comfort Marisol in her own language . My lack of Spanish became painful then . I 've carried her image for several years , thinking that a world with Marisol 's eyes must be all right . People with such large vision forgive our narrowness . If the human family continues to reach across language gaps and cultural differences , we 'll be OK . In unique and different ways , we 'll hear , praise , and internalize " la palabra de Dios . "                     