@@413123

As the end of the school year approaches , many teens and their families are happily engaged in preparing for senior proms , class trips and high school graduations . After four years of high school , some young people will be eagerly heading off to college or perhaps starting a job . They can hardly wait to see what it 's like to be on their own in the " real world . " But not everyone looks to the future with excitement . For youth who are about to " age out " of the foster care system , the prospects may be less than inviting . It is the job of parents to prepare their children for independent living . Foster parents , however , often need to pay extra attention in making sure their foster children have acquired the necessary skills . If your foster child is turning 18 and transitioning out of foster care , he or she will need to have mastered a number of " survival skills " to make it in the adult world . Apply for a job , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meal , do laundry  --  these are just a few of the competencies that should be on your young person 's " I can do " list . How to drive a car , use resources such as maps , telephone books and the internet , and complete applications for health insurance , or college and financial aid should also be added . The lack of these skills , in addition to having no adequate support system , have thrown many former foster youth into homelessness , chronic unemployment , even incarceration . " At one end of the spectrum , the youth tell us their foster parents treat them exactly as if they were their own , providing every support  --  emotional , psychological , physical and material  --  that they could ask for , " says Cleopatra Anderson-Wright , who heads Philadelphia 's Department of Human Services ' Adolescent Initiative Program . " These youth are often high achievers who have a well-balanced sense of themselves . " But Anderson-Wright adds , " At the other end are youth who do n't have a network of supports available in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a devastating impact . " Many state human service agencies across the country now offer programs similar to Philadelphia 's , programs that prepare young people to transition out of foster care . Such programs " start working with kids as young as 14 , 15 , 16 , " says Millicent Williams , Director of the Child Welfare League of America Family Foster Care Services , because , " It 's too late to start preparing a young person for independence once they 've turned 18 . " These " life skills " programs typically offer education support , employment and housing assistance , counseling , even cultural enrichment activities . Financial incentives , known as transitional stipends , may be offered upon discharge from foster care , or upon completion of the program if the teen has already been officially released from foster care . A referral from a social worker is usually necessary for enrollment . The problem with transition programs , however , is that there are simply not enough of them to serve the thousands of youth who age out of the system each year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are only three state-funded independent living programs serving less than 50 young people over a seven-county area . But a caring and responsible foster parent can do a lot to address the problem , one young person at a time . Wilhelmina Cockroft and her husband , Carl , have been foster parents for more than ten years . Recently elected to the Board of Directors of the Pennsylvania Foster Parent Association , Cockcroft is also founder of Teens Achieving Power ( TAP ) a community-based program that shares the same goals as the state-funded ones . " For most young people , competency comes from having responsibility in the home , " Cockroft asserts . " In many cases , kids who live with their biological families are no more capable than kids in foster care . The only difference is that they 've got their parents to back them up . " TAP , which is still in need of sufficient operating capital , was originally started to serve adolescents aged 10 to 18 , but Cockroft , who has also formed a foster parent support group , continues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed . " Some of the kids are developmentally delayed or emotionally delayed or both , " she says . " But a learning disability just indicates that the child is going to need more attention and guidance . " Cockroft would like to see TAP evolve into a program with a greater capacity to help youth in foster care . Her dream is to manage a building of about ten apartment units that would house youth who have aged out of the system . Each one would be responsible for holding down a job and paying their own rent , utilities , food clothing  --  everything they would need to maintain themselves . A TAP staff person would be on hand to assist them with money management , and to teach them how to use the resources that are available to them . " Sort of a guardian angel , " " Cockcroft adds , who would allow them to make mistakes . " <p>                     