@@388071

Headnote NASA inventor and his publicist wife create DRAMATIC SHOWCASE // IF ifs not a marriage made in heaven , it may be the next best thing . Aerospace engineer Courtland Bivens III spent more than 18 years at NASA , where he patented numerous aeronautical inventions . Today , while his colleagues are golfing , the retired colonel and deputy chief engineer of flight testing spends weekends devising ingenious millwork , molding and ceiling creations . His wife , Regina Lynch-Hudson , is a successful publicist . Together , the left- and rightbrained duo have designed the Daffodil Villa , a daffodil-yellow manor in Roswell , Georgia , just outside Atlanta , that harmoniously blends their extremely different tastes and passions . Yellow , according to LynchHudson is a color associated with laughter , happiness , good times and creative energy . If s an effective hue for the marketer to surround herself . So Bivens abandoned his practical , middle-of-the-road , blue-gray tendencies to turn a rundown foreclosure into a lively thinkpad for his wife . " She 's the mastermind , and I implement her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I handled the renovation the way I handle a PR campaign ; every detail was calibrated and deliberate , " Lynch-Hudson says of the nine-month reconstruction project . So what makes this yellow European-style villa so special ? A story on the front page of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution 's Living section said , " The meticulously designed 6,000-square-foot home stands out among its builder-beige neighbors like a dollop of butter in a bowl of oatmeal . " But it was the couple 's rare ability to compromise that made it work . They agree that they are the perfect balance of ying and yang . And Bivens ' eye-for-perfection and Lynch-Hudson 's flair for over-the-top drama yielded a unique artistic design . The masterful collaboration begins at the entryway . There 's a 20-foot faux-rock wall , installed by Bivens , a double-spiral staircase , majestic chandelier , Corinthian columns , baby grand piano and black , gold and copper carousel horse-all reminiscent of an old Hollywood movie set . Four fireplaces and a formal dining room in lipstick red add to the home 's luxurious atmosphere . The textured Venetian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four-inch black molding or " ribbon " bordering the room 's ceiling-a signature motif throughout-was crafted and installed by Bivens . Lynch-Hudson added hand-painted , high-gloss black mirrors . Posh cheetah-print chairs and window treatments surround a sleek black lacquer table . " With a little coaxing I even convinced him to let me cover an antique chair ( a chair he inherited from his godfather ) , " says Lynch-Hudson . It was her turn to give when Bivens tore up the dining room ceiling for four months to inlay 800 medallions constructed from molds . In fact , the couple 's contrasting personalities and pursuits are reflected throughout the house . An authentic Roman general 's helmet , designed exclusively for Bivens by an armorer in England , is part of a collection that embraces his love of world history and his West Point training . Medieval swords are more signs of Bivens ' love of lore , battle and chivalry . But along with his interest in knights and warriors from the Dark Ages , Lynch-Hudson lightened things up with her love of the mystical , enchanting and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and linen are the classic ivory of luxurious resorts the couple has visited . Their initials and emblem , Daffodil Villa , are imprinted on satin pillows , waffle-weave bathrobes and plush towels . The master suite mimics Mediterranean Revival Style with travertine tile flooring and an Old World black wrought-iron bed . The guest room is bright yellow with a high-gloss black four-poster bed , a collection of black mirrors in varied sizes and a large-scale painting of a nude diva wearing only a feathered mask . Modernist yellow and black leather sofas sit on black-and-white marble floors in the parlor and home office . Four top-lit Corinthian columns and canned lighting ( installed by Bivens ) illuminate large-scale original works . Among them is a sensual oil painting by Clara Harkavy titled Regina Reclining , featuring the lady of the house dressed in a fireengine red gown with red fox fur boa , lounging across an elegant antique fainting sofa . " Every woman needs three indulgences as she approaches 50-a red convertible Jag , a rich night cream and a portrait that captures her completely in her element @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good night 's sleep and a glass of Chateau Le Pin , " laughs Bivens . He is in the process of building a wine room in the house . - Sylvester Monroe Sidebar Aerospace engineer Courtland Bivens III and his publicist wife , Regina LynchHudson , transformed a foreclosed European-style house in Roswell , Ga. , into a colorful home/office showcase they call " the Daffodil Villa . " They are now building a wine room and are replacing their gallery-level ceiling with solid brass panels . A banana yellow " keeping room " is accessorized in cheetah motif on everything from pillows to window treatments . The faade of the Daffodil Villa features European awnings and classic black lions . A lipstick-red dining room ( below ) stands out in the otherwise yellow-dominated house . Sidebar A double spiral staircase , reminiscent of an old Hollywood movie set , is what instantly sold the couple on the house . Original paintings ( left ) and other artwork are evident throughout the home . A computerized baby grand piano ( below ) in the great room fills the home with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Old World black wrought-iron bed . Below , the master bath suite reflects the motif of luxury hotels Bivens and Lynch-Hudson have visited , with monogrammed bathrobes and " Daffodil Villa " logos on towels . Bivens and Lynch-Hudson , in front of their lipstick-red dining room . He crafted the ceiling from 800 medallions . She applied Venetian plaster to the walls and painted . // <p>                     