@@379490

Jonathan ( Elijah Wood ) is a collector with a limited range and a deep , if enigmatically motivated , passion . What he saves is family memorabilia  --  his grandma 's false teeth , a dollar bill , even dirt from ground that is somehow hallowed in family memory . All this stuff he seals in plastic Baggies and pins to a wall in his room . One of his most prized possessions is a photograph of his grandfather with a Ukrainian woman who , according to family legend , saved his life during World War II . In Everything Is Illuminated , Jonathan journeys to the Ukraine to discover her fate . <P> In its early  --  and best  --  passages , writer- director Liev Schreiber 's film , adapted from Jonathan Safran Foer 's novel , is more comically daring than such a tale has any right to be . Jonathan  --  always dressed in a dark suit and tie , peering at the world through thick glasses and expecting to find vegetarian cuisine in the depths of a country where sausage appears to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ministrations of his tour guides . They operate a grandly named organization called Heritage Tours , which consists of a dubious car and eccentric employees : Alex ( Eugene Hutz ) , who says he enjoys writing but really wants to be an accountant ; and Alex 's grandfather ( Boris Leskin ) , the driver , who claims to be blind and to require the services of " a seeing eye b " named Sammy Davis Jr . Jr . Alex is one of those young Europeans who dream the American dream but whose actual knowledge of the country consists of half-baked and out-of-date pop-cultural references . The grandfather is full of mysterious anger . The dog is just nuts but salvageable . <P> What they 're searching for is the shtetl from which Jonathan 's grandfather escaped , and it becomes increasingly clear that it was wiped out a half-century earlier by the Nazis . They find , at last , one survivor , Lista ( Laryssa Lauret ) , who is also a collector but on a grander scale than Jonathan can imagine . Her aim is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoarding its detritus . There is , as it turns out , one other survivor , whose identity should probably not be revealed here . Alas , the tragic dimensions of Everything Is Illuminated do not quite reach the originality and intensity of its comic passages . There is something conventional , not quite emotionally realized , in its evocation of the Holocaust . Perhaps the first thing people said about the Holocaust  --  that its horrors were beyond the range of art to fully comprehend  --  may be the truest . <P> On the other hand , Schreiber 's film represents a bold attempt to integrate the themes of increasingly lost memories and the forgetful , distracted modern mind . That means the obsessive Jonathan has a more important historical role to play than he perhaps imagines . It also means that this often vivid movie , though it does n't quite attain its highest intentions , is well worth seeing . And thinking about .  --  By Richard Schickel                     