@@380693

Did Major General Geoffrey Miller  --  commandant at Guantnamo Bay and a top adviser on interrogations at Abu Ghraib  --  do wrong ? No , says a new report by Lieut . General Stanley Green , the Army Inspector General ( IG ) , that TIME obtained last week . An investigation recommended last summer that Miller be reprimanded for poor oversight of a high-value prisoner at Gitmo . But Green told TIME that the evidence is not there to back charges against Miller of dereliction and lying to Congress about his role in the scandal . The report concludes that at Gitmo Miller was unaware a canine had been used to intimidate alleged " 20th hijacker " Mohammed al-Qahtani , or that al-Qahtani was forced to don women 's underwear and perform dog tricks  --  even though Miller was intimately involved in planning al-Qahtani 's interrogation . The report even lavishes praise on Miller , noting the " strength , energy and effectiveness of his leadership . " Miller 's military lawyer told TIME : " The IG is entirely correct in fact and law . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing last week , chairman John Warner pointedly suggested to one of Miller 's superiors that he " go back over this entire matter , " warning that Miller will be recalled before the panel to explain himself . Sources close to the powerful committee say that anger at Miller has escalated sharply since he invoked his right to avoid self-incrimination and refused to testify in the detainee-abuse trial of an Abu Ghraib dog handler . In that case , defense lawyers argued that their client was following guidelines from Abu Ghraib military-intelligence chief Colonel Thomas Pappas , who in turn has said under oath that Miller advocated using dogs to " get information " from prisoners . <P> Green , the Army IG , says that people need in the abuse-scandal investigations to find a " donkey to pin the tail on . " But he insists " Miller is not the one . " Which leaves the question : Who is ?                     