@@413475

The tale of Albert Einstein 's " greatest blunder " // Sung to the tune of " The Times They Are A-Changin ' ' " : Come gather " round , math phobes , Wherever you roam And admit that the cosmos Around you has grown And accept it that soon You wo n't know what 's worth knowin ' Until Einstein to you Becomes clearer . So you 'd better start listenin ' Or you 'll drift cold and lone For the cosmos is weird , gettin ' weirder. - The Editors ( with apologies to Bob Dylan ) Cosmology has always been weird . Worlds resting on the backs of turtles , matter and energy coming into existence out of much less than thin air . And now , just when you 'd gotten familiar , if not really comfortable , with the idea of a big bang , along comes something new to worry about . A mysterious and universal pressure pervades all of space and acts against the cosmic gravity that has tried to drag the universe back together ever since the big bang . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced the expansion of the universe to accelerate exponentially , and cosmic gravity is losing the tug-of-war . For these and similarly mind-warping ideas in twentieth-century physics , just blame Albert Einstein . Einstein hardly ever set foot in the laboratory ; he did n't test phenomena or use elaborate equipment . he was a theorist who perfected the " thought experiment , " in which you engage nature through your imagination , inventing a situation or a model and then working out the consequences of some physical principle . If-as was the case for Einstein-a physicist 's model is intended to represent the entire universe , then manipulating the model should be tantamount to manipulating the universe itself . Observers and experimentalists can then go out and look for the phenomena predicted by that model . If the model is flawed , or if the theorists make a mistake in their calculations , the observers will detect a mismatch between the model 's predictions and the way things happen in the real universe . That 's the first cue to try again , either by adjusting the old model or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful and far-reaching theoretical models ever devised is Einstein 's theory of general relativity , published in 1916 as " The Foundation of the General Theory of Relativity " and refined in 1917 in " Cosmological Considerations in the General Theory of Relativity . " Together , the papers outline the relevant mathematical details of how everything in the universe moves under the influence of gravity . Every few years , laboratory scientists devise ever more precise experiments to test the theory , only to extend the envelope of its accuracy . Most scientific models are only half baked , and have some wiggle room for the adjustment of parameters to fit the known universe . In the heliocentric universe conceived by the sixteenth-century astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus , for example , planets orbited the Sun in perfect circles . The orbit-the-Sun part was correct , but the perfect-circle part turned out to be a bit off . Making the orbits elliptical made the Copernican system more accurate . Yet , in the case of Einstein 's relativity , the founding principles of the entire theory require that everything take place exactly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a house of cards , with only two or three simple postulates holding up the entire structure . ( Indeed , on learning of a 1931 book titled 100 Authors Against Einstein , he responded , " Why one hundred ? If I am incorrect , one would have been enough . " ) That unassailable structure-the fact that the theory is fully baked-is the source of one of the most fascinating blunders in the history of science . Einstein 's 1917 refinement of his equations of gravity included a new term-denoted by the Greek letter lambda-in which his model universe neither expands nor contracts . Because lambda served to oppose gravity within Einstein 's model , it could keep the universe in balance , resisting gravity 's natural tendency to pull the whole cosmos into one giant mass . Einstein 's universe was indeed balanced , but , as the Russian physicist Alexsandr Friedmann showed mathematically in 1922 , it was in a precarious state-like a ball at the top of a hill , ready to roll down in one direction or another at the slightest provocation . Moreover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Einstein knew of no counterpart in the physical universe to the lambda in his equations . Einstein 's general theory of relativity-called GR by verbally lazy cognoscenti-radically departed from all previous thinking about the attraction of gravity . Instead of settling for Sir Isaac Newton 's view of gravity as " action at a distance " ( a conclusion that discomfited Newton himself ) , GR regards gravity as the response of a mass to the local curvature of space and time caused by some other mass . In other words , concentrations of mass cause distortions-dimples , really-in the fabric of space and time . Those distortions guide the moving masses along straight-line geodesies , which look like the curved trajectories that physicists call orbits . John Archibald Wheeler , a physicist at Princeton University , put it best when he summed up Einstein 's concept this way : " Matter tells space how to curve ; space tells matter how to move . " In effect , GR accounts for two opposite phenomena : good ol ' gravity , such as the attraction between the Earth and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Earth ; and a mysterious , repulsive pressure associated with the vacuum of space-time itself . Acting against gravity , lambda preserved what Einstein and every other physicist of his day had strongly believed in : the status quo of a static universe . Static it was , but stable it was not . And to invoke an unstable condition as the natural state of a physical system violates scientific credo : you can not assert that the entire universe is a special case that happens to be precariously balanced for eternity . Nothing ever seen , heard , or measured has acted that way in the history of science . Yet , in spite of being deeply uneasy with lambda , Einstein included it in his equations . Twelve years later , in 1929 , the U.S. astronomer Edwin P. Hubble discovered that the universe is not static after all : convincing evidence showed that the more distant a galaxy , the faster that galaxy is receding from the Earth . In other words , the universe is growing . Embarrassed by lambda , and exasperated by having thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Einstein discarded lambda , calling its introduction his life 's " greatest blunder . " That was n't the end of the story , though . Off and on over the decades , theoreticians would exhume lambda-more commonly known as the " cosmological constant " - from the graveyard of discredited theories . Then , sixty-nine years later , in 1998 , science exhumed lambda one last time , because now there was evidence to justify it . Early that year two teams of astrophysicists-one led by Saul Perlmutter of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in Berkeley , California ; the other by Brian Schmidt of Mount Stromlo and Siding Springs Observatories in Canberra , Australia-made the same remarkable announcement . Dozens of the most distant supernovas ever observed , they said , appeared noticeably dimmer than expected-a disturbing finding , given the well-documented behavior of this species of exploding star . Reconciliation required that either those distant supernovas acted quite differently from their nearer brethren , or else they were as much as 15 percent farther away than the prevailing cosmological models had placed them . Not only was the cosmos expanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was also causing the expansion to accelerate . Something had to be driving the universe outward at an ever-increasing pace . The only thing that " naturally " accounted for the acceleration was lambda , the cosmological constant . When physicists dusted it off and put it back in Einstein 's original equations for general relativity , the state of the universe matched the state of Einstein 's equations . To an astrophysicist , the supernovas used in Perlmutter 's and Schmidt 's studies are worth their weight in fusionable nuclei . Each star explodes the same way , igniting a similar amount of fuel , releasing a similarly titanic amount of energy in a similar period of time , and therefore achieving a similar peak luminosity . Hence these exploding stars serve as a kind of yardstick , or " standard candle , " for calculating cosmic distances to the galaxies in which they explode , out to the farthest reaches of the universe . Standard candles simplify calculations immensely : since the supernovas all have the same wattage , the dim ones are far away and the bright ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task ) , you can tell exactly how far away they are from you . If the luminosities of the supernovas were not all the same , brightness alone would not be enough to tell you which of them are far from Earth and which of them are near . A dim one could be a high-wattage bulb far away or a low-wattage bulb close up . Fine . But there 's a second way to measure the distance to galaxies : their speed of recession from our Milky Way , a recession that 's part and parcel of the overall cosmic expansion . As Hubble was the first to show , the expansion of the universe makes distant objects race away from us faster than the nearby ones do . By measuring a galaxy 's speed of recession ( another straightforward task ) , you can deduce its distance from Earth . If those two well-tested methods give different distances for the same object , something must be wrong . Either the supernovas are bad standard candles , or our model for the rate of cosmic expansion as measured by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1998 . It turned out that the supernovas are splendid standard candles , surviving the careful scrutiny of many skeptical investigators . Astrophysicists were left with a universe that is expanding faster than they had ever thought it was . Distant galaxies turned out to be even farther away than their recession speed had seemed to indicate . And there was no easy way to explain the extra expansion without invoking lambda , the cosmological constant . Here , then , was the first direct evidence that a repulsive pressure permeated the universe , opposing gravity . That 's what resurrected the cosmological constant overnight . And now cosmologists could estimate its numerical value , because they could calculate the effect it was having : the difference between what they had expected the expansion to be and what it actually was . That value for lambda suddenly signified a physical reality , which now needed a name . " Dark energy " carried the day , suitably capturing our ignorance of its cause . The most accurate measurements done to date have shown dark energy to be the most prominent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes from the relation between the amount of matter and energy that inhabits the cosmos and the rate at which the cosmos is expanding . A convenient mathematical measure of that shape is usually written as the uppercase Greek letter omega ( ? ) . If you take the matter-energy density of the universe , and divide it by the matter-energy density required to just barely halt the expansion ( known as the " critical " density ) , you get omega . Because both mass and energy cause space-time to warp , or curve , omega effectively gives the shape of the cosmos . If omega is less than one , the actual mass-energy falls below the critical value , and the universe expands forever in every direction for all of time . In that case , the shape of the universe is analogous to the shape of a saddle , in which initially parallel lines diverge . If omega is equal to one , the universe expands forever , but only barely so ; in that case the shape is flat , preserving all the geometric rules we all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exceeds one , parallel lines converge , and the universe curves back on itself , ultimately recollapsing into the fireball whence it came . At no time since Hubble discovered the expanding universe has any team of observers ever reliably measured omega to be anywhere close to one . Adding up all the mass and energy they could measure , dark matter included , the biggest values from the best observations topped out at about 0.3 . Since that 's less than one , as far as observers were concerned , the universe was " open " for the business of expansion , riding a one-way saddle into the future . Meanwhile , beginning in 1979 , Alan H. Guth , a physicist at MIT , and others advanced an adjustment to big bang theory that cleared up some nagging problems . In brief , Guth explained why things look about the same everywhere in the universe . A fundamental by-product of this update to the big bang was that it drove omega toward one . Not toward onehalf . Not toward two . Certainly not toward a million . Toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a problem with that requirement , because it helped get the big bang to account for the global properties of the known universe . There was , however , another little problem : the update pre- dieted three times as much mass and energy as observers could find . Undeterred , the theorists said the observers just were n't looking hard enough . At the end of the tallies , visible matter alone could account for very little of the critical density . How about the mysterious dark matter ? Nobody knows what dark matter is , but observers knew there is five times as much dark matter as visible matter . They added that in as well . Alas , still way too little mass-energy . The observers were at a loss . " Guys , " they protested , " there 's nothing else out there . " And the theorists answered , " Just keep looking . " Both camps were sure the other camp was wrong-until the discovery of dark energy . That single component raised the mass-energy density of the universe to the critical level . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holds three times as much dark energy as anything else . A skeptical lot , the community of astrophysicists decided they would feel better about the result if there were some way to corroborate it . The Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe ( WMAP ) was just what the doctors ordered and needed . This NASA satellite , launched in 2001 , was the latest and best effort to measure and map the cosmic microwave background , the big bang 's blueprint for the amount and distribution of matter and energy in the universe . Astrophysicists can now say with confidence that omega is indeed equal to one : the matter-energy density of the universe we know and love is equal to the critical density . The tabulation ? The cosmos holds 73 percent dark energy , 23 percent dark matter , and a measly 4 percent ordinary matter , the stuff you and I are made of . For the first time ever , the theorists and observers kissed and made up . Both , in their own way , were correct . Omega is one , just as the theorists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get there by adding up all the matter-dark or otherwise-as they had naively presumed . There 's no more matter running around the cosmos today than had ever been estimated by the observers . Nobody had foreseen the dominating presence of cosmic dark energy , nor had anybody imagined it as the great reconciler of differences . So what is this stuff ? As with dark matter , nobody knows . The closest anybody has come to a reasonable guess is to presume that dark energy is a quantum effect-whereby the vacuum of space , instead of being empty , actually seethes with particles and their antimatter counterparts . They pop in and out of existence in pairs , and do n't last long enough to be measured . Their transient existence is captured in their moniker : virtual particles . But the remarkable legacy of quantum mechanics-the physics of the small-demands that we give these particles serious attention . Each pair of virtual particles exerts a little bit of outward pressure as it ever so briefly elbows its way into space . Unfortunately , when you estimate the amount of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives of virtual particles , the result is more than 10(120) times bigger than the value of the cosmological constant derived from the supernova measurements and WMAP . That may be the most embarrassing calculation ever made , the biggest mismatch between theory and observation in the history of science . I 'd say astrophysicists remain clueless-but it 's not abject cluelessness . Dark energy is not adrift , with nary a theory to call home . It inhabits one of the safest homes we can imagine : Einstein 's equations of general relativity . It 's lambda . Whatever dark energy turns out to be , we already know how to measure it and how to calculate its effects on the cosmos . Without a doubt , Einstein 's greatest blunder was having declared that lambda was his greatest blunder . A remarkable feature of lambda and the accelerating universe is that the repulsive force arises from within the vacuum , not from anything material . As the vacuum grows , lambda 's influence on the cosmic state of affairs grows with it . all the while , the density @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repulsive pressure comes more vacuum , driving its exponential growth-the endless acceleration of the cosmic expansion . As a consequence , anything not gravitationally bound to the neighborhood of the Milky Way will move away from us at ever-increasing speed , embedded within the expanding fabric of space-time . Galaxies now visible will disappear beyond an unreachable horizon . In a trillion or so years , anyone alive in our own galaxy may know nothing of other galaxies . Our-or our alien Milky Way brethren'sobservable universe will merely comprise a system of nearby stars . Beyond the starry night will lie an endless void , without form : " darkness upon the face of the deep . " Dark energy , a fundamental property of the cosmos , will , in the end , undermine the ability of later generations to comprehend their universe . Unless contemporary astrophysicists across the galaxy keep remarkable records , or bury an awesome time capsule , future astrophysicists will know nothing of external galaxies-the principal form of organization for matter in our cosmos . Dark energy will deny them access to entire chapters from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my recurring nightmare : Are we , too , missing some basic pieces of the universe that once was ? What part of our cosmic saga has been erased ? What remains absent from our theories and equations that ought to be there , leaving us groping for answers we may never find ? Sidebar " Negative gravity " has forced the expansion of the universe to accelerate exponentially . Sidebar Direct evidence indicates that a repulsive pressure known as dark energy permeates the universe , opposing gravity . Sidebar Are we missing some basic pieces of the earlier universe ? What part of the cosmic saga has been erased ? Author Affiliation Astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson is the Frederick P. Rose Director of the Hayden Planetarium in New York City . // <p>                     