@@418361

See also related article on page 72 of same issue Every branch of science has at some point been confronted by a daunting question that stumps progress for years , even decades . How did the continents form ? What causes fever ? Is there intelligent life beyond Earth ? Solutions may accrue incrementally or arrive in a flash of inspiration . Sometimes it seems they are destined never to come at all . Here are four disciplines in need of a modern-day Einstein . 1 Cosmology WHERE WE ARE NOW In 1998 astronomers discovered that the universe is expanding ever faster over time , driven by a mysterious force they dubbed dark energy . Is dark energy the result of countless virtual particles being created and destroyed in empty space ? Will it eventually rip spacetime apart , or might it wither away ? Physicists have no clue . Calculations show that empty space should bubble with virtual particles , theoretical objects that produce so much energy that they should have blown the universe apart long ago . Since this has n't happened , theorists had figured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cancel the energy of the rest , leaving space as calm as flat soda . Yet observations , based on the brightness of distant exploding stars , show levels of dark energy that are tiny but not zero . If the virtual particles thought to inhabit space are truly the source of dark energy , it 's a conundrum : They should produce either huge amounts of dark energy or none at all . " We really , totally are in the dark , " says theoretical physicist Lawrence Krauss of Case Western Reserve University . TASK FOR THE NEXT EINSTEIN Explain what dark energy is . MOST PROMISING APPROACH The so-called anthropic principle holds that different parts of the universe each have dark energy of a particular strength and that we just happen to live in , and hence observe , a part of the universe with a low level of dark energy . If that sounds like a cop-out to you , you 're not alone . The anthropic principle makes no predictions , Krauss says , and thus goes against the grain of four centuries of physics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on how their predictions matched the world . To build support for the anthropic principle , physicists must show that dark energy could take on different values and then calculate the odds that it would have the value that astronomers measure . 2 GENOMICS WHERE WE ARE NOW Experts have identified most of the genes in the strands of DNA curled inside our cells , but between those genes are long , apparently nonsensical stretches known as " junk DNA . " This wilderness makes up as much as 98.5 percent of the human genome . But recently , as the intricacies of gene functioning have become clear , geneticists have begun to wonder whether junk DNA might have some subtle purpose , such as influencing when genes are turned on and off . Last May a team at the University of California at Santa Cruz found that humans and rodents share nearly 500 identical sequences of junk DNA . If that DNA were truly useless , it should have become garbled by random mutations over evolutionary time . Many of the conserved sequences cluster near genes that are crucial for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ramp up protein production . A few hundred sequences are just a drop in the junk-DNA bucket , though . " It 's frustrating because there 's so much of it , and there seems to be at least some that 's fairly tightly conserved between species , " says Alan Guttmacher , deputy director of the National Human Genome Research Institute . " It 's an attractive target to try and understand . " TASK FOR THE NEXT EINSTEIN Find out what junk DNA does , or ascertain that it is useless . MOST PROMISING APPROACH The National Human Genome Research Institute 's new project , Encode , will probe junk DNA 's possible functions  --  in part by comparing the genomes of various mammals to reconstruct their evolutionary history . 3 CLIMATOLOGY WHERE WE ARE NOW Current simulations of the global climate break the world into a grid and ask how the temperature , wind and moisture of each square on the grid affects its neighbors . These simulations ably predict the activity of big atmospheric features , such as jet streams , but they fumble when it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behavior of clouds . That 's an important omission , because clouds both reflect light and trap heat , so they could add to or diminish global warming . The updrafts of air that form clouds are only hundreds of meters across , whereas the smallest units of climate models are some 200 kilometers wide . Calculating interactions among smaller units requires more power than today 's computers possess . Climate experts expect to have the computer power to solve the cloud problem in a few decades , but they want answers now . " It 's the single largest uncertainty in predicting climate change , " says Chris Bretherton of the University of Washington . TASK FOR THE NEXT EINSTEIN Model clouds more accurately . MOST PROMISING APPROACH Though as yet untested , simulations of life-size clouds dotting an Earth that 's one tenth its true dimensions promise to yield realistic climate data . Such models require one thousandth the computing power of a full-scale model of global cloud cover , says Bretherton , who took part in the research . " That brings the cost down to something we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NEUROSCIENCE WHERE WE ARE NOW Scientists know how memories form : When something noteworthy happens , certain brain cells branch out and connect to one another . If the event is intense and long-lasting enough , the connections , called synapses , become durable . If not , the memory is lost ( which explains why an inopportune interruption will keep you from memorizing a phone number ) . From there , though , things get more mysterious . Recent work by neuroscientist Karel Svoboda of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in New York reveals that 40 percent of the synapses in a mouse 's brain change over the course of a few weeks . Still , the mouse retains earlier memories  --  but scientists do n't know how . Perhaps memories migrate to new groups of brain cells or become stored in some more efficient way . " How can we have a memory that lasts for years when the underlying synapses are no longer there ? " ponders Karim Nader , a neurobiologist at McGill University . " I 've got no clue . " TASK FOR THE NEXT EINSTEIN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brain cells ' changing connections in living animals . One new technique is to manipulate a mouse 's genes so that its brain cells produce a green fluorescent protein when they 're active . Peering through a microscope , investigators will then be able to track changes in brain cells and synapses as the animal uses its memory , simply by following the green signal . Illustration <p>                     