@@403280

As public awareness of the controversies surrounding genetically modified ( GM ) crops grows , the ability to choose whether or not to eat gene-altered food is quickly diminishing . The reasons are twofold : First , many GM crop plants and farm fields are not closed units . They naturally spread their GM traits and " contaminate " other plants and farm fields . This happens through pollen carried by wind or insects , or by GM seed that falls onto non-GM fields from passing trucks or from farm equipment previously used on a transgenic field . Second , because thus far the government is treating bioengineered food crops the same as crops produced through conventional breeding , there 's been little attempt to segregate them in commodity grain channels or to keep transgenic varieties from contaminating the nation 's primary seed stocks . Walter Fehr , an agronomist and director of the Office of Biotechnology at Iowa State University , says GM varieties of staple crops like corn and soybeans may have contaminated seed stocks from breeder seed on down . Breeder seed is supposed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the seed for any given variety comes from breeder seed , and if it contains transgenic material , everything that descends from it will , too . Comprehensive research to determine the extent of transgenic contamination in public seed stocks has n't been done . But , Fehr says , incidents of transgenic contamination of seed stocks have occurred . Certified organic food is supposed to be 100 percent GM-free . But now both organic and conventional farmers who do n't want biotech varieties can no longer trust their seed . Transgenic contamination is so rampant that seed suppliers wo n't guarantee their seed is GM-free . That , plus concerns about contamination through pollen drift have stopped many organic farmers in the Midwest from growing corn , soybean and rapeseed crops . In April 2002 , Western Producer , a Canadian agricultural newspaper , quoted one biotech industry supporter who said that despite rising public opposition to biotech foods , increasing GM acreage may eventually end the debate . " It 's a hell of a thing to say that the way we win is to not give the consumer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Dale Adolphe , executive director of the Canadian Seed Growers Association . So far , only four crops - corn , soybeans , rapeseed and cotton - account for most of the biotech crops on the market . But GM contamination issues are about to get much more dangerous as food crops are being engineered to produce pharmaceutical drugs and industrial chemicals . Citizens need to weigh in on the biotech food debate , before there is no choice . In the United Kingdom , a national , government-sponsored public debate got under way in June . For details and updates , and tips on how you can help determine your food 's future , visit the " GM Nation ? " Web site , www.gmnation.org.uk. // <p>                     