@@375679

Even when he ruled Iraq , Saddam Hussein led a nomad 's life . As President he was too paranoid to sleep in the massive , marble-lined palaces he erected all over Iraq as monuments to his power . According to close associates , he would stay instead in small houses on the edges of his various compounds , changing location every eight to 10 hours and keeping an assistant on duty around the clock to pack and unpack his suitcases . Saddam , his former secretary says , so admired the fortitude of the Bedouin tribes that wander the Iraqi wilderness that he often headed into the mountains  --  accompanied , of course , by caravans of aides , cooks and bodyguards  --  to bed down among them . " He lived very simply , " says the secretary . " He did n't need much . " <P> That can be a useful quality when you 're running for your life . If Saddam 's circumstances are anything like those of his sons Uday and Qusay , who died in a shoot-out with U.S. forces in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the barest essentials : money and guns . U.S. officials figure that Saddam has probably dispensed with all his well-known bodyguards , who would be recognizable to the growing number of former regime courtiers who are showering U.S. forces with information about the whereabouts of their old boss . " He 'll have people around him that no one knows , " says a Pentagon official close to the search for Saddam . <P> And while the U.S. hunt for Saddam remained furious in the cities of Baghdad and Tikrit , American commanders told TIME they had picked up a rush of new intelligence that suggested Saddam was moving through the arid plains outside the northwestern city of Mosul , seeking sanctuary with Bedouin loyalists he hoped would defend him to the death . Locals have approached U.S. troops with so many unsubstantiated reports of Saddam 's presence in the area that commanders refer to them as Elvis sightings . " He 's out there in the desert , " a powerful sheik in the town of Sinjar , 60 miles west of Mosul , told Lieut . Colonel Henry Arnold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Operating on intelligence more reliable than the sheik 's tip , members of Task Force 20 , the military 's special-operations unit charged with nabbing high-value targets in Iraq , quietly descended on an airstrip near Mosul last Wednesday  --  backed by MC-130 combat Talon planes , modified humvees and so-called little-bird attack helicopters  --  to prepare for a potential assault . A battalion from the 101st Airborne Division , based in Sinjar , was on alert to seal off escape routes leading to the Syrian border . But that day Saddam was not to be found . " We shoot a lot of dry holes . It 's the law of averages , " says a Pentagon official . " But his number 's going to come up . "                     