@@381582

Even during placid times , Mexico 's annual Informe , or State of the Union address , makes for high political theater . And so when outgoing President Vicente Fox arrived at the San Lzaro Congress building in Mexico City to give his final Informe last Friday night , Mexicans were ready for some drama . And they got it . Congressmen loyal to leftist presidential contender Andrs Manuel Lpez Obrador , who has spent the past two months protesting the results of the July 2 election , jumped from their seats and surrounded the broad podium , shouting " Fuera ! " ( Out ! ) . So obdurate were the legislators that they blocked Fox , decked out in his presidential sash , from delivering his speech . All he could do was hand the text to congressional leaders in the lobby and go home . <P> The confrontation was the latest noisy move by Lpez Obrador 's supporters , who condemn his apparent electoral loss as a fraud . It is unlikely to be their last . This week Conservative Felipe Caldern , a member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is expected to be declared the winner by a razor-thin margin , after two months of ballot recounts and bitter legal challenges . But thousands of Lpez Obrador stalwarts insist they will continue occupying the Zcalo , Mexico City 's main plaza , and the Paseo de la Reforma , its principal avenue , where they have been living for weeks under pup tents and sprawling tarpaulins . " We 'll stay here as long as it takes to get Lpez Obrador declared the winner , " says Norma Cruz , 48 , a poor housewife from the rural southern state of Oaxaca who has been camping with her husband and four children in the Zcalo for almost a month . " This is the only way left to take on the monopolies of economic power in Mexico . " <P> At this point , though , Cruz is more likely to witness the second coming of Montezuma than to see Lpez Obrador , the former mayor of Mexico City , declared President . There is little compelling evidence that victory was stolen from him . To many observers , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he did lose  --  if only by 243,000 votes out of 41 million cast  --  is no longer democratic protest but demagogic petulance . Polls show that Mexicans are exasperated by the massive political street fair , complete with mariachi bands and the aromas of regional cooking . But the most hotly contested election in the nation 's history has exposed more glaringly than ever the potentially violent social divide in Mexico . Addressing this split in a constructive way will be crucial to Caldern 's ability to defuse the growing turbulence . And that , in turn , could have a beneficial impact on Washington 's efforts to curb illegal immigration , which may not be successful until its southern neighbor builds more reliable government institutions and a more equitable economy .                     