@@405432

The massive protests have shaken Iran 's rulers . But that wo n't make them any easier to deal with . A few days before the Iranian election , President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad held a big rally at the Mosallah Mosque -- said to be the world 's largest , if it is ever completed -- in central Tehran . It was not very well organized . About 20,000 supporters of the President were inside the building , being entertained by a series of TV stars , athletes and religious singers . Many thousands more swirled outside . Inside , a TV host led the crowd in chanting " Death to Israel . " " Squeeze your teeth and yell from the bottom of your heart , " he implored . Later , the host said he had once asked Iran 's President where he got the energy to travel to all the provinces . " My heart is powered by nuclear fuel , " Ahmadinejad replied . The place was hot , and packed , and people were fainting . After several hours , the host announced that the President would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowds outside the mosque . And so Nahid Siamdoust , TIME 's Tehran reporter , and I began a three-hour journey to get back to my hotel , which was only a few miles away . We walked at first , then found a cab . But central Tehran had become an implacable traffic jam -- and a gridlocked political debate . The Ahmadinejad supporters , many on motor scooters , skittered through the lines of automobiles , most of which were decked out with signs supporting the moderate challenger Mir-Hossein Mousavi . There was good-natured banter between the two groups . " Chist , chist , chist , " the Ahmadinejad supporters chanted , referring to Mousavi 's awkward , constant use of that word -- Farsi for " y'know "  - -  during his debate with Ahmadinejad . The Mousavi supporters chanted , " Ahmadi -- bye , bye . " After about an hour , our cabdriver gave up , and Nahid and I set out on foot . The streets were getting very crowded now -- and there was a giddiness to the scene . It was the sort of crowd that might gather after a football @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , white and green of the Iranian flag , seemed to be enjoying the freedom as much as the more flamboyant Mousavi supporters , who were draped in green . At one point , an Ahmadinejad supporter stuck his head out the window of his car and sang a lullaby , " Mousavi -- lai , lai , " in response to the students chanting " Ahmadi -- bye , bye . " The students laughed . It was as if someone had opened a door and an entire country had spilled out . It was possible to believe , for a moment , that these genial young people , from both sides , might be creating a new , more open Iran for themselves . And then , the door slammed shut again . It has to be assumed that the Iranian presidential election was rigged , but it is impossible to know how heavily the government 's thumb rested on the scales . It is entirely possible that Ahmadinejad would have won anyway , but narrowly , perhaps with less than 50% of the vote , setting up a runoff election he might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is possible that his government , perhaps acting in concert with Supreme Leader Ayatullah Ali Khamenei , decided to take no chances . But even if the election campaign , in the end , proves meaningless , it provided a rare look at the divisions in Iranian society , and not just between the working-class Ahmadinejad supporters and the wealthier , better-educated backers of Mousavi . It also put the internal rivalries at the highest levels of the Iranian government on public display for the first time , and in the most embarrassing fashion . The President was , without question , the best politician in the race . His debates against the two reformers , Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi , were routs . Both challengers were exemplars of the older generation -- the generation that made the Islamic revolution in 1979 -- and both were flummoxed by a candidate who seemed to have been trained by some Iranian equivalent of Karl Rove . They appeared paralyzed by what they considered his coarse impertinence ; in American terms , these might have been debates between George Bush the Elder and Newt Gingrich , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a slick combination of facts and accusations . He spoke directly into the camera . He deployed little charts , as Ross Perot did in the 1990s , to show that things were n't as bad as people thought . His statistics were heavily massaged and challenged by his opponents , but he had muddied his greatest vulnerability -- the stagflating Iranian economy . The real jaw dropper , however , was Ahmadinejad 's willingness to attack in the most personal terms . He attacked Mousavi for being supported by former President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani , whom he flatly called corrupt ( a widespread belief among reformers and conservatives alike ) ; he attacked Mousavi 's wife Zahra Rahnavard , a famous artist and activist , for allegedly getting into college without taking the entrance exam ; he attacked Karroubi for taking money from a convicted scam artist . The reformers -- and even many of the more prominent conservatives ( who call themselves principalists )  - -  considered these attacks outrageous , outside the rules of Iranian politics . " The attacks might have worked with Ahmadinejad 's supporters , " said Amir Mohebbian , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " But they were not good for the system . " Indeed , Ahmadinejad 's toughest debate was with the other principalist candidate , Mohsen Rezaei , a former commander of the Revolutionary Guards , who challenged the President 's inflationary tendency to spend money on direct wealth redistribution -- all sorts of stipends for the working class and the poor -- while neglecting a long-term investment strategy . Unlike the older reformers , Rezaei refuted the President 's arguments effectively . He directly addressed the Iranian people : " You go to the store . You know the price of cheese ... The people know what the real story is . " But much of the cheese-buying public -- the working class , the elderly , the women in chadors -- seemed to adore Ahmadinejad . One of the favorite slogans of his supporters was " Ahmadinejad is love . " On election day , Nahid and I went to Ahmadinejad 's childhood neighborhood , Nazi Abad , and interviewed voters . The lines at the central mosque were every bit as long as they were at the voting stations in sophisticated north Tehran . There was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was palpable . He was kind to the families of martyrs , one man said , which was true -- Ahmadinejad had lavished attention on the veterans of the Iran-Iraq war and given special preferences for university admissions to their children . " He works so hard for us , " an elderly woman in a chador said . " He does n't sleep at night . " A younger woman said , " He is the one person who really supports our class of people . Everyone has been insulting him , but I believe that the Messiah is supporting him . I saw it in a dream . " Mousavi , on the other hand , inspired little personal adoration . He was known as a tough and effective manager , and a favorite of Ayatullah Khomeini 's during the early years of the Islamic republic -- especially during the Iran-Iraq war -- when he served as Prime Minister . But he had pretty much disappeared from public view for 20 years , living a quiet life as an artist and architect until he re-emerged as a polite prototype of the north Tehran lite . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign , Rafsanjani and Mohammed Khatami -- who seemed as concerned with Ahmadinejad 's crude populist style as with his crude populist economics . Mousavi 's wife inadvertently made plain the mind-set when I asked her about her husband 's art and she told me , " Artists exist at the very top of a society . When an artist becomes President , it is a step down . But there 's no way out . For the happiness of the people , it is necessary . " Mousavi seemed less pretentious . On the day before the election , Nahid and I interviewed him in a building he had designed , part of an art school and gallery complex in central Tehran . He seemed an exceedingly gentle man , soft-spoken to a fault -- whisper-spoken , in fact . His most emphatic moment came when we asked about Ahmadinejad 's attack on his wife . " I think he went beyond our societal norms , and that is why he created a current against himself , " Mousavi said . " In our country , they do n't insult a man 's wife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a President to tend to such small details . " He also criticized Ahmadinejad 's incendiary rhetoric on international issues like Israel and the Holocaust , as he had during the campaign : " In our foreign policy we have confused fundamental issues ... that are in our national interest with sensationalism that is more of domestic use . " But " sensationalism " for " domestic use " is what political campaigns are usually all about . During more than a week in Iran , I interviewed as many people who admired Ahmadinejad as were appalled by him . On election day at the Hossein Ershad Mosque in north Tehran , I spoke with Ismail Askari , the head of the taxi drivers ' union in the city of Malard , just west of Tehran . He was a Mousavi supporter , but he admitted , " Most of the people in my cab have been happy with the present government . " And while it 's the ultimate journalistic clich to quote a cabdriver , I ca n't resist this one : on the Saturday before the election , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the electricity , so the candidate could n't speak -- in the city of Kharaj , about an hour west of Tehran . The cabbie who drove us back to Tehran said his parents were divided on the election . " My mother supports Mousavi , and my father supports Ahmadinejad , " he said . " I was uncertain until I saw them debate . Ahmadinejad seemed stronger . I do n't think I would want Mousavi negotiating with other governments . " Which may be exactly what the Supreme Leader -- who is the real power in Iran , with control over the military , the judiciary , foreign policy and the nuclear program -- had in mind when , on June 13 , he prematurely certified the phantasmic Ahmadinejad landslide . In the days before the election , reformers and principalists -- including several Ahmadinejad advisers -- told me that negotiations with the U.S. were likely , regardless of who won . " But it might be easier for the Supreme Leader to proceed if the tough guy is re-elected than if Mousavi is , " said Mohebbian , the prominent principalist . " The negotiating team will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Leader , who has great doubts about proceeding , will want a tough bargainer . " In truth , the reformers I spoke with seemed as unyielding as Ahmadinejad , if more politely so , when it came to discussing what Iran would be willing to concede in negotiations with the U.S. They were adamant on Iran 's nuclear-enrichment program , which is permitted for peaceful purposes under the nuclear nonproliferation treaty . None of them , except Mousavi , was willing to acknowledge that weaponization of uranium might be in the works and therefore be a subject for negotiation . ( Mousavi told me that if such a program existed , it would be negotiable , but he did n't say , and may not know , that it actually exists . ) The reformers were unanimous in the belief that Barack Obama 's conciliatory words were not enough , that the U.S. had to take palpable actions before talks would be possible . I asked each of them what steps Iran was prepared to make for peace . The answer was always the same . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Americans , " said Karroubi , the most progressive of the four presidential candidates . " We did n't stage a coup against your elected government , " he said , referring to the CIA 's participation in the 1953 overthrow of the Mohammed Mossadegh government . " We have not frozen your assets . We do n't have sanctions against you . " ( Of all the reformers , only Mousavi seemed to think that Obama 's acknowledgment of the 1953 coup in his Cairo speech was a " positive step . " ) Ahmadinejad 's advisers were even more adamant than the reformers . When I asked Mehdi Kalhor , Ahmadinejad 's top communications adviser , what he thought of Obama , he made a crude attempt at humor . " Only the skin color has changed " from George W. Bush , he said . " Now the color is chocolate . Chocolate is sweet . Children like it , but I do n't very much . " We met in Kalhor 's office . He was wearing a red golf shirt , and his long hair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is different from Bush , " he said , more seriously . " But you need these negotiations more than we do . " I asked him why the U.S. did , since Iran was the country that was isolated from the rest of the world . " You 're more isolated than we are , " he replied , directly reflecting his boss 's public arrogance . Ahmadinejad has offered to debate Obama at the U.N . but has been silent about substantive negotiations . When this point was raised by an AP reporter at his postelection press conference , Ahmadinejad was dismissive . " That 's a suggestion , " he said . " Not a question . " Such intransigence -- and the tarnished election results -- makes the question of negotiations harder for Obama , but also easier in some ways . The U.S. President was appropriately cautious after the elections -- criticizing the use of violence against the protesters , but not the results of the vote . It seems clear that his Administration will continue to seek negotiations that will , among other things , attempt to increase the transparency of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they will respond quickly . If they continue to dally , Iran 's electoral embarrassment will make it easier for Obama to rally other countries behind a tougher sanctions-and-deterrence plan that will further isolate Iran . But that may be exactly what the current regime wants . " Look , for the past 30 years , the Supreme Leader -- first Khomeini , now Khamenei -- has blamed all our problems on the Great Satan , " a prominent conservative told me . " If you take away the Great Satan and we still have problems , how does he explain it ? Almost everyone here is in favor of ending this war with America . But no one has less incentive to make peace than the Supreme Leader . " On the day after the election , two crowds gathered in front of the Ministry of Interior -- Mousavi and Ahmadinejad supporters , several hundred of each , separated by the police . They chanted their slogans back and forth , and I was reminded of the wonderful street debates I 'd seen several nights earlier . But suddenly the police , on motorcycles and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and brandishing billy clubs , charged into the Mousavi crowd . People began to run ; some were knocked down ; bodies were flying . And the Ahmadinejad crowd began to cheer . It is impossible for an outsider , in Iran for 10 days , to sift through the governmental opacity , the contradictory demonstrations , and predict what comes next . It seems likely that no matter how many people flood the streets in protest , the Supreme Leader will continue to back Ahmadinejad . It also seems likely that while Barack Obama should continue to press for negotiations , he should n't be too optimistic about the prospect of success . time.com/swampland PULLQUOTE Iran 's electoral embarrassment will make it easier for Obama to rally other countries to further isolate Iran . But that may be exactly what the current regime wants                     