@@405366

JUST THREE MONTHS INTO HIS FIRST TERM , PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS ALREADY begun delivering exactly the sort of changes feminists have been seeking for women 's health and reproductive rights , and virtually every week brings the promise of more to come . What was unimaginable during the last eight years has now become expected , making this a time of both celebration and anticipation for advocates of reproductive justice . The first bit of good news came just a few days after Obama ' s inauguration . In one of his first acts , the new president rescinded the global gag rule - which denied U.S. international family-planning funds to any organization that provided , referred women for , or advocated for changes in laws prohibiting safe abortion services . As Rep. Diana DeGette ( D-CoIo. ) said , Obama 's action did nothing less than " put the United States back on the path of promoting public health and humanitarian aid around the world . " The gag which originated during the Reagan administration and was previously rescinded during the Clinton administration - operated in countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death among women of reproductive age . It undoubtedly contributed to higher rates of unintended pregnancy and abortion by denying women access to contraceptive services . Obama 's stimulus bill - The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act - offered another key victory for women and their families , this time on the U.S. domestic front . The stimulus includes greatly increased funding for early childhood education as well as more funding for Medicaid , a program that provides more than 20 million adult women with health services . There was one disappointment for women in the final package : The bill did not include a much-discussed provision making it easier for states to expand eligibility for family planning services under Medicaid . However , the president made up for this compromise by including the provision in his proposed budget for fiscal year 2010 , which was awaiting Congressional modifications in April . The next provision of great interest to women came in the fiscal year 2009 omnibus spending bill , signed into law in early March . It includes the Affordable Birth Control Act , which immediately lowers the costs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women . In the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 , Congress had tightened eligibility for nominally priced drugs , which inadvertently cut off colleges and safetynet medical providers from obtaining low-cost birth control . As a result , until the omnibus legislation passed , college and low-income women had been paying up to 10 times more than previously for their monthly birth control prescriptions . The omnibus package also included the first round of increased funding for health programs critical to women 's lives . Title X , which provides family planning services for low-income families , received an increase of $7.5 million over the $300 million appropriated in fiscal year 2008 , while $498 million was added to U.S. global AIDS funding and $150 million more to international family planning programs . Although smaller in dollar amount - $50 million - the renewal of funding for UNFPA , the United Nations Population Fund , was particularly noteworthy , as Bush had frozen funding in 2002 and vetoed a cumulative $240 million in annual congressional appropriations for it - a substantial loss to the fund and the vulnerable women that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ UNFPA supporting forced abortions in China . This time , $50 million will be sent as the U.S. contribution . The omnibus legislation also cut $14 million from abstinence-only programs - a small start toward the goal of eliminating the more than $175 million allocated for these programs , which traffic in misinformation and fear and perpetuate dangerous gender stereotypes . Moreover , such programs have proven time and again to be ineffectual in stemming teen pregnancy rates . Finally , the White House has begun action to rescind the " provider conscience " regulations issued by the Bush administration in its waning days despite an estimated more than 200,000 medical professionals , health-policy analysts and citizens criticizing them during the public comment period . The regulations , which would let anyone from a doctor to a janitor refuse a patient service based on the provider 's personal beliefs , were intended to " make it easier for providers to refuse patients vital health services , and harder for patients to learn more about their health status and options , " according to Debra Ness of the National Partnership for Women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A lot , actually , and some of it wo n't be easy . First , reproductive and sexual health education in this country needs retooling . Zeroing out funding for abstinenceonly programs is just the beginning ; we also need line-item funding for comprehensive sexual and reproductive health education and a set of clear curriculum principles based on evidence and on human rights . The administration 's draft budget for fiscal year 2010 contained what many considered weak and confusing language on sex education , so advocacy groups such as Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States ( SIECUS ) and Advocates for Youth are pushing the White House to not only zero out funding for abstinence-only programs but also make a statement about health education for children and teens . There is very strong opposition to change , not surprisingly , from the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops , far-right evangelicals and the many groups now getting funding for abstinence-only programs . Similarly , profound changes are needed in the President 's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief ( PEPFAR ) . The guidelines left over from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - such as not supplying contraception for HIV-positive pregnant women - must be changed , and quickly , as another round of grants is soon to go out . Congress and the president also need to make commitments to increase domestic funding for HIV prevention , treatment and care , and increase Title X funds . And then , of course , a major reform of healthcare insurance looms ( see page 46 ) , which will certainly affect the kinds of services and care available to women and girls . There is a lot to do . But with a proactive president and congressional leadership , feminists can now say , " Yes we can . " - JODI JACOBSON                     