@@406442

JUST AFTER APRIL FOOLS DAY BILL MOYERS HAD TWO AWARD winning independent journalists on his show to talk about why America 's free press has fallen asleep at the wheel- and the three of them ended up agreeing that just about the only people doing real journalism on television these days are a pair of class clowns named Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert . How did two Comedy Central pranksters like Stewart and Colbert become the vanguards of American journalism ? Is it because the free press itself has become something of a joke ? And why is n't that funny ? Amy Goodman of the daily news program Democracy Now ! and Glenn Greenwald of Salon.com , who had just won the first " Izzy " Award from the Park Center for Independent Media , told Moyers that the problem with corporate media in this country is that they are " embedded " in the establishment and cover stories from the perspective of the nation 's political and financial elites . In the lead up to the Iraq War , this " embedded " press failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ links to Al Qaeda , and more recently an " embedded " press failed to investigate the financial house of cards behind the subprime loan fiasco . As Goodman and Greenwald see it , the corporate-owned mainstream press and its celebrity reporters and pundits make up a third leg of the nation 's establishment , along with Wall Street financiers and Washington polticos . So instead of a free press that critiques , questions , challenges , and investigates our financial and political elites- uncovering the inconsistencies , follies , and deceptions behind the official press releases and propaganda being handed down from on high - major news outlets largely repeat what their contacts and sources in the White House , Pentagon , and Wall Street tell them . AS A RESULT , THE STORY IS USUALLY WHATEVER an official spokesperson says it is , and the press corps simply parrots these press releases . In biblical terms we would say that most of the anchors and reporters of America 's free press have morphed into " court scribes . " Instead of challenging the assumptions and deceptions of the national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become quasi-official spokespeople for the government and financial sector . White House , con- gressional , and Pentagon officials and WaU Street and corporate executives appear on news shows as experts , analysts , and pundits , and their mus- ings are treated as oracles from on high . Retired generals are revered as proconsuls , and until recently leading CEOs and bankers were treated as demigods . For decades the press reported every wink and nod from Alan Greenspan as if they issued from Mount Olympus - until he confessed being caught off guard by greed in the financial sector . Who could have expected the existence of avarice in the banking community ? Not the mainstream press . INTO THIS GAP BETWEEN THE OFFICIAL STORY and the lived reality of millions of Americans has stepped a down named Jon Stewart and his trusty colleague Stephen Colbert . Four nights a week Comedy Central runs fake news shows lampooning the stories of the day . On The Daily Show and The Colbert Report , Stewart and Colbert get many of their laughs by depantsing political and financial bigwigs and mucky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wall Street follies , and debunking the myth of almighty government and the cult of the know-it-all expert . For years Stewart touted the Iraq War as " Mess O'Potamia . " But Stewart and Colbert also hold up the mavens of mainstream media to ridicule , mocking the idiotic and insipid stories clogging the daily news cycle . ( How many more stories must we see on Michelle Obama 's bare arms ? ) And on more than one occasion Stewart has taken cable and network news shows to task for failing to report the real political and financial story . Funny work for a comic . That is just what Stewart claims to be and is : a comedian who satirizes and lampoons our inflated national ego and embarrassing foibles . But in a time when few mainstream news outlets are interested in taking on the establishment , when an " embedded " press is in bed with its sources and wo n't ask the tough question or uncover the facile deception , a class clown may be the only one willing to puncture the ludicrous pronouncements of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or decline of a vigorous and critical free press . Without the sunlight and oxygen provided by a relentless and tough-minded press , the temptations of arrogance and corruption are too much for those in power . Leaders start believing their own spin , and citizens are reduced to consuming propaganda . Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert are not journalists , but their scathing satire of our political and financial elites , as well as their mockery of an embedded media that is too often enamored of and indebted to those same elites , reminds us what journalism should be doing . Maybe it is folly to suggest , as Bill Movers has , that Jon Stewart should have replaced Tim Russert on Meet the Press because he is the one interviewer ready to go after the elites . But until somebody else is willing to take up the real work of journalism , we should send in the clowns .                     