@@373295

In the wake of an international outcry over the 15 Palestinian civilians Israel killed in the process of assassinating senior Hamas leader Sheik Salah Shehadah last week , Israeli leaders said they would n't have dropped the one-ton bomb on his Gaza hideout if they had known the result in advance . But given Shehadah 's recent achievements , it is clear why Israeli security officials wanted him gone . Palestinian officials and Israeli security sources tell TIME the 49-year-old Gazan had transformed Hamas ' terror operations over the past year . From Gaza , Shehadah used e-mail and cell-phone text messages to rebuild West Bank terror cells destroyed by the Israeli operations . According to Israeli intelligence officials , Shehadah recently smuggled about half a dozen highly skilled bombmakers from the Gaza Strip to the West Bank to replace men arrested or killed in recent Israeli sweeps there . These " masters , " as Israeli intelligence calls them , brought with them new , improved explosives formulas , which use levels of urea higher than in previous recipes to create a bomb that 's more stable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mortars and of Hamas ' Qassem II rockets and exported the know-how from Gaza to the West Bank , according to Israeli security officials . But he may prove an even more lethal force in death . In the days before his assassination , relatively moderate Hamas leaders in Gaza were secretly talking to senior officials in Yasser Arafat 's Palestinian Authority . Palestinian officials close to Arafat say the Palestinian leader wanted to calm the violence because he felt it was undermining his global stature . The Hamas leaders were considering a brief truce , but the rage caused by the death of Shehadah and the civilians around him ended that prospect . Hamas will struggle to find an organizer as good as Shehadah . But his immediate legacy remains the network he built in the West Bank , and it is primed to take an awful revenge on Israelis . <P>  --  By Matt Rees , Jamil Hamad and Aharon Klein                     