@@391866

Headnote Rauschenbusch 's Christianity and the Social Crisis IN THE 1880S Walter Rauschenbusch was a Baptist pastor in the Hell 's Kitchen district of New York City , where he served a poor , hurting , immigrant congregation and where he converted to the social gospel . His searing encounter with urban poverty , especially the funerals that he performed for children , drove him to political activism and a social-progressive understanding of Christianity . He later recalled that during his early ministry he had six books in his head : five were scholarly , one was dangerous . Three times he tried to write the dangerous one but had to put it aside , and each time he came back to it , he found that he had outgrown the manuscript and had to start over . In 1891 Rauschenbusch decided , with deep sadness , that he had to resign from the ministry because he was going deaf . A surflike roar in his ears made it very difficult to do pastoral tasks ; he called it " physical loneliness . " He was offered a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teaching would work any better than ministry for a deaf person . His idea was to resign his position , go abroad for a year , write the dangerous book and launch a literary career . His congregation insisted , instead , that he take a paid sabbatical-which he gratefully did , in Germany . There he labored on a book titled Revolutionary Christianity , which argued that Christianity should be essentially revolutionary , in the manner of Jesus . Until then Rauschenbusch had preached the liberal idea , derived from Albrecht Ritschl , of Christianity as an elipse with two centers : eternal life as the goal of individual existence and the kingdom of God as the goal of humanity . The old pietism and the social-ethical Jesus of modern theology folded together . But in Germany it occurred to Rauschenbusch that Jesus had one center , the kingdom of God . Jesus proclaimed and launched a postmillennial idea of the coming reign of God , and the church was supposed to be a new kind of community that transformed the world by the power of Christ 's kingdom-bringing Spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that embraced everything . Here was something so big that absolutely nothing that interested me was excluded from it .... Wherever I went , whatever I touched , there was the kingdom of God . It carries God into everything that you do . " In Revolutionary Christianity Rauschenbusch contended that the kingdom of God is always at work toward the realized life of God . He stressed that this idea was beautiful , comprehensive , filled with justice-making ethical content and evangelical : " You have the authority of the Lord Jesus in it . But the year passed , the book never quite came together , Rauschenbusch returned to his congregation , and the following year he married a schoolteacher , Pauline , who helped him cope with his worsening deafness . They made pastoral calls together , and their marriage was a sustained love affair , mutually supportive and affectionate . The next time Rochester Theological Seminary called , in 1897 , Rauschenbusch felt that he was ready for an academic career . His father had headed the German department at Rochester Seminary for many years , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , teaching English and American literature , physiology , physics , civil government , political economy , astronomy , zoology and New Testamentall in German-in addition to raising money for the German department . This exhausting regimen left no time for his own work , and the German-American community that he served was mostly hostile to the social gospel . Finally , in 1902 , the seminary 's position in church history opened up , and that is why the greatest works of the social gospel have such a strong historical bent . While learning his new field of church history , Rauschenbusch spoke at civic groups and churches about the social gospel , helped to organize the Federal Council of Churches and wrote pamphlets for an outfit called the Brotherhood of the Kingdom ( which , after a brief debate , admitted sister members ) . And he started thinking again about that big , dangerous book . He went back to his sprawling manuscript to see what he could salvage from it , and he found a few things , especially the starting point : Jesus and his kingdom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he finished in 1907 : Christianity and the Social Crisis . The first part described the essential purpose of prophetic biblical religion as the transformation of human society into the kingdom of God . The second part explained why the church had never carried out this mission . The third part urged that it was not too late for the church to follow Jesus . RAUSCHENRUSCH REALIZED that the key to the book was the second part , but he feared that the third part would get him fired . It had a blazing manifesto for socialism in a closing 80-page chapter titled " What to Do . " For his analysis of what happened to Christianity , he leaned on Adolf von Harnack , but argued that no one had given a satisfactory answer . Rauschenbusch implied , but was too modest to say , " No one until now . " In his view , every chapter of church history could be titled " How the Kingdom of God Was Misconstrued in This Era , or Replaced by Something Else . " Revolutionary Christianity had patches of labored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sparkling in Christianity and the Social Crisis . The book enthralled a huge audience with its graceful flow of short , clear sentences , its charming metaphors and its vigorous pace . It was filled with sharp moral judgments , especially against priestly religion , capitalism and social oppression , but the book also showed Rauschenbusch s tender heart for individuals . His basic argument was that prophetic religion is the " beating heart " of scripture , that the prophetic spirit " rose from the dead " in Jesus and the early church , and that Christianity is supposed to be a prophetic Christ-following religion of the divine commonwealth . Rauschenbusch knew about the recent apocalyptic turn in German scholarship , and he did not oppose it outright . He reasoned that Jesus undoubtedly shared some of the eschatological consciousness of a conquered people , just as he shared the commonplace belief in devils . But the apocalyptic thesis depended on a handful of " coming Son of Man sayings " that were overwhelmingly outnumbered by social-ethical sayings ; Rauschenbusch judged that Mark 13 sounded more like the early church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social-ethical Jesus of the parables and the Sermon on the Mount . Christianity and the Social Crisis was skillfully fashioned and perfectly timed . Instead of getting fired , Rauschenbusch returned from a sabbatical in Germany to find that his book was a supercharger for a movement . It went through 13 printings in five years , sold 50,000 copies and set a new standard for political theology . It built upon works by American social gospelers Washington Gladden , Josiah Strong , Richard Ely , Shailer Mathews and Francis G. Peabody , but nothing like Rauschenbusch 's stunning conflation of historical , theological and political arguments had been seen previously . The book had a huge impact at liberal seminaries . Politically it was more radical than the thought of most social gospelers , but it was rightly viewed from the beginning as the greatest statement of the social gospel movement . That movement had many faults and limitations , some of which Rauschenbusch shared . Most of the movement was sentimental , moralistic , idealistic and politically naive . It preached a gospel of cultural optimism and a Jesus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late-Victorian . It spoke the language of triumphal missionary religion , sometimes baptized the Anglo-Saxon ideology of Manifest Destiny , and usually claimed that American imperialism was not really imperialism , since it had good intentions . The social gospel helped to build colleges and universities for African Americans , but only rarely did it demand justice for blacks ; it supported suffrage for women , but that was the extent of its feminism . It created the ecumenical movement in the U.S. , but it had a strongly Protestant , anti-Catholic idea of ecumenism , and Rauschenbusch was especially harsh on this topic . Most social gospel leaders vigorously opposed World War I until the U.S. intervened , whereupon they promptly ditched their opposition to war ( with the brave exception of Rauschenbusch ) . After the war they overreacted by reducing the social gospel to pacifist idealism ; by dien Rauschenbusch was gone . The succeeding generation was very hard on the social gospel . On occasion Reinhold Niebuhr allowed that Rauschenbusch was more prophetic and a bit less idealistic than the movement , but he never pressed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repeatedly . Niebuhr taught , wrongly , that the social gospel had no doctrine of sin and , more justly , that it was too middle class and idealistic to be a serious force in power politics . After Niebuhr 's generation had passed , liberationists judged that the social gospel and Niebuhr 's Christian realism were too middle class , white , maledominated , nationalistic and socially privileged to be agents of liberation . Yet for all its faults and limitations , the social gospel movement produced a greater progressive religious legacy than any generation before or after it . Christian realism inspired no hymns and built no lasting institutions . It was not . even a movement , but rather a reaction to the social gospel-a reaction centered on one person , Reinhold Niebuhr . The social gospel , by contrast , was a 60-year movement and enduring perspective that paved the way for modern ecumenism and social Christianity . It had a tradition in the black churches led by Ida B. Wells-Barnett , Reverdy Ransom , Benjamin E. Mays and Mordecai Johnson . It had anti-imperialist , socialist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And it created the ecumenical and social justice ministries that remain the heart of U.S. social Christianity . The social gospel made a novel , radical and far-reaching contribution to Christianity and society by claiming that Christianity has a mission to transform the structures of society in the direction of equality , freedom and community . If there was such a thing as social structure , redemption had to be reconceptualized to take account of it ; salvation had to be personal and social to be saving . The greatest apostle of that gospel , Rauschenbusch did not rest on moral idealism alone ; he had an answer to the apocalyptic thesis , though for decades he and the social gospel were ridiculed for holding out ; his systematic theology had seven chapters on sin and what he called the kingdom of evil ; and he preached the coming commonwealth of God with unparalleled brilliance and inspiration . I close with two statements from Christianity and the Social Crisis . The first is a warning that moral idealism alone will never create a good society : " We must not blink @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any great social change .... The possessing classes rule by force and longstanding power . They control nearly all property . The law is on their side , for they have made it .... For a definite historical victory a given truth must depend on the class which makes that truth its own and fights for it . " But that was never his first or last word . First and last he always qualified the idealism in another way : that the commonwealth of God is the very life and word of the Lord Jesus , and that it must be struggled for even though it can not be fully attained : " We shall never have a perfect social life , yet we must seek it with faith .... At best there is always an approximation to a perfect social order . The kingdom of God is always but coming . But every approximation to it is worthwhile . " That was the radical core of the social gospel . Sidebar For all its faults , the social gospel created a movement and perspective that reshaped modern Christianity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York . This article is adapted from an address he gave this fall at Union to mark the 100th anniversary of the publication of Rauschenbusch 's Christianity and the Social Crisis . <p>                     