@@414507

The British are n't cunning in Guy Ritchie 's crime caper Snatch , a paean to violence in our postmodern age . by Lisa Schwarzbaum // IT 'S BEEN EMOTIONAL , " A golem-like enforcer says by way of an exit line in Guy Ritchie 's first comic crime caper , Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels . The joke , of course , is that it 's been anything but . Men are smashed , shot , and hatcheted to bloody death , but among the living , emotions are limited to gibes and chummy squabbles ; otherwise , ironic distance prevails . Leaving even the intensity of Pulp Fiction 's screwy universe behind , Ritchie yanked any vestiges of consequence out of the business of being a murdering criminal , keeping only cold , laddish yuks in which nothing matters except hoisting a pint in the company of mates . And the former director of rock videos jazzed up these laughs by larding on jokey camera moves , a groovy rock soundtrack , and a screenplay filled with deadpan , slangy speechery . This ironic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposite of the preference among American filmmakers for emotional communication at best ( even Tarantino clansmen connect ) , gooey sentimentality at worst . And , indeed , Lock , Stock was much less popular in the States than in the U.K. ( where the movie is more accessible to that population 's peculiarly nuanced understanding of class systems , its Monty Pythonizable habits , institutions , and speech patterns ) . In any event , attentiongetting in no small part because of the endearing performance of Britain 's popular , charismatically ferocious national soccer star Vinnie Jones as a stonefaced crime soldier ( the exit line was his ) , the 1998 movie established Ritchie 's reputation as a director of faux-tough capers . Snatch , Ritchie 's second feature , is a faux-tough caper modeled lock , stock , kit , and caboodle on his earlier film . It 's not a sequel , not a remake ; it 's reheated Ritchie . ( Finding Forrester is reheated Good Will Hunting from Gus Van Sant , but additional cooking time enhanced the flavor . ) The tone is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to violent death is the same , and it 's even colder , executed with even more mannered hysteria . The plot is a more ambitious scheme of double crosses , but it 's also a more self-conscious lark : One running joke involves the antics of an excitable dog that swallows a rubber squeak toy , another the menace exuded by a silky , vicious local crime kingpin ( Alan Ford , narrator of Lock , Stock ) who grinds up the bodies of adversaries and feeds them to his pigs . Once again , blokes with colorful nicknames fumble on the wrong side of the law , crossing wires with other small-time crooks and killing one another in good fun . A diamond-heist gang , including Frankie Four Fingers ( Del Toro , in the costume of an Orthodox Jewish dealer , wrapping his lips around stale bagels of dialogue like " So nu , vot do you know ? " ) , tangles with a crew from an illegal boxing racket . ( The working title of the movie was Diamonds , which is boring and has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hell of it , but turns out to apply only to the repeated interception of one very valuable rock . ) Photograph READY TO MUMBLE The lads of Snatch struggle to understand Pitt // The boxing touts get mixed up with violent bookies . The lot of them cross paths with shady pawnshop operators . The pawnbrokers bicker with their own getaway driver , a man so massive he can barely get out of the car . ( For those who are counting , the female population is triple that of its predecessor , and , miraculously , of the three women characters , only one dies ! ) The visual jokes are the same-location titles , slo-mos and jerky speedups , tilted POVs and cartoon effects , exaggerated aurally-and many of the actors are the same . But the locals are now mixed with upmarket imports in loud costumes . Joining returnees Ford , Jones ( once again impressive as a taciturn enforcer guarding a secret cache of brains ) , and Jason Statham ( as a promoter of illegal boxing matches ) are Dennis Farina ( as a shady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his employ ) , Rade Serbedzija ( as an all-purpose , double-dealing , dangerous Slav ) , and Brad Pitt ( as an Irish Gypsy bare-knuckles boxer ) . It 's a strange day in East End London when Pitt , mumbling in a thick paste of an accent and etched with tattoos , is the nimblest , most effective , least self-amused participant in this playhouse fight club , but there it is : The ease with which this avatar of California stardom casts off his Hollywood identity and blends into relaxed , scruffy , one-of-the  --  ensemble Britbloke " averageness " brightens every scene he 's in-and brightens , too , the performances of those around him , despite their protestations that he 's just one of the punters . Pitt 's participation makes Snatch feel like a more charming comedy than it really is . Really , it 's a knockoff . And ultimately , what 's snatched is as rare as zirconium . C <p>                     