@@391005

TEXT BY DAVID NOLAND WITH REPORTING BY TYGHE TRIMBLE INFOGRAPHIC BY GOLDEN SECTION GRAPHICS SPACE CRAFT BY DOGO IT IS THE FIRST OF ITS KIND : a graph representing every single space launch , starting with Sputnik 1 on Oct. 4 , 1957  --  6039 spacecraft in all . The heights of the lines indicate apogee ( maximum distance from Earth ) . Lines that extend off the page show craft traveling a million-plus miles . Launch site countries are color coded , but note : A rocket launched in Russia that boosts a Chinese satellite counts as a Russian launch . ( China first used its own rocket to launch a sat in 1970 . ) Although not every launch is discernible , patterns emerge . The band at about 200 miles shows mostly Earth observation sats in polar orbits ; a band near 900 miles is mainly communications sats in equatorial orbits . The first three decades are dominated by Soviet ( red ) and American ( blue ) launches . But notice how U.S. launches fall behind the Soviets ' aggressive pace in the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' 90s , China , Europe and others are increasingly represented . Explorer 1 Built in 84 days after the Soviet 's Sputnik , America 's first satellite launches in 1958 and reaches an apogee of 1579 miles  --  a success after several fiery failures in Vanguard , the first U.S. satellite program . Mercury Although its initial space passenger is Ham the chimp , the first U.S. manned spacecraft carries Alan Shepard , John Glenn and five other astronauts . They log a total of two days , 6 hours in Earth orbit . Gemini A vital steppingstone to Apollo , America 's two-man spacecraft picks up where the Mercury program left off . It flies 12 manned missions and pioneers orbital maneuvering , rendezvous , docking and spacewalking . Apollo The first ( and still the only ) craft to carry humans out of Earth orbit , Apollo flies 10 missions to the moon . Six missons touch down and put 12 people on the lunar surface . Damaged Apollo 13 loops , but does n't land . Apollo-Soyuz Apollo 's last flight  --  a boost into orbit on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a Soviet Soyuz 19  --  signals the end of the space race and the start of international space cooperation . Voyager Voyager 1 and 2 travel beyond the edge of our solar system , where they still carry greetings on a phonograph . In 1998 , Voyager 1 beat out Pioneer 10 to become the most distant man-made object ever . HOW WE MADE THE CHART We started with a database of space launches compiled by Jonathan McDowell , a Smithsonian astrophysicist and fanatic space historian . After analyzing the data , we turned it over to Jan Schwochow , a German illustrator who converted the numbers into the vertical lines on the chart . 1957 FIRST SATELLITE The Soviet Union 's launch of a 23-in. - dia. silver ball , Sputnik 1 , kicks off the Space Age and jolts the United States into a frenzied effort to catch up . NASA is created 10 months later . 1961 FIRST MAN IN SPACE Yuri Gagarin 's single 108-minute orbit of the Earth in Vostok 1 affirms the supremacy of the Soviet space program , and stirs fears in the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ORBIT Though Alan Shepard 's 16-minute suborbital hop put an American in space in 1961 , it was John Glenn 's Mercury ride ( pictured at left ) that put an American in orbit . 1966 FIRST SPACE DOCKING Docking with an Agena rocket , Gemini 8 demonstrates a vital maneuver for moon flights . When a thruster malfunctions , Neil Armstrong coolly undocks and regains control . 1969 FIRST HUMANS ON THE MOON Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin ( left ) walk on the moon , culminating an audacious nine-year , $20 billion effort that transfixes the world . It is arguably mankind 's greatest technical achievement . 1976 FIRST MARS LANDING Viking 1 sends back dazzling photos of the barren Martian surface , revealing rocks and red dust . But its on-board lab , after some tantalizing first results , finds no signs of life . 1983 FIRST PROBE TO LEAVE THE SOLAR SYSTEM Eleven years after its launch , Pioneer 10 becomes the first man-made object to leave the solar system . It continues to transmit data until 2003. 1986 FIRST SHUTTLE ACCIDENT A cold day at Cape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doom the seven astronauts aboard the Challenger and paralyze the U.S. space program for almost three years . 1990 FIRST TELESCOPE IN SPACE Floating above the atmosphere , the Hubble peers deeper into the heavens than any other instrument , pinpointing the age of the universe and unraveling the mysteries of black holes . 1998 LARGEST SPACE STATION Designed to be built up piece by piece over 12 years , the $130 billion International Space Station is the justification for the shuttle and a symbol of international cooperation . 2001 FIRST SPACE TOURIST Dennis Tito , a California space buff , pays $20 million for a ride on a Soyuz to the International Space Station , where he spends nearly eight days and orbits the Earth 128 times . 2006 FARTHEST RETURN MISSION On a mission to collect dust from comet Wild2 , Stardust sets the record for the farthest round-trip sample-return mission ( 2.9 billion miles ) and the fastest re-entry ( 29,000 mph ) . <p>                     