@@375092

During their onslaught against the Republican Guard in the southern approaches to Baghdad , U.S. military commanders had grim words to describe what they were doing to the elite Iraqi forces . " I find it interesting when folks say we 're softening them up , " Air Force Lieut . General T. Michael Moseley , the air-war commander , said on April 5 , the day the U.S. Army entered Baghdad . " We 're not softening them up . We 're killing them . " Later on , in its assessment of the damage the U.S. had wrought , the Pentagon focused on devastation to the Guard 's armor , concluding , for example , that all but two dozen of their 800 tanks had been destroyed or abandoned . But a central mystery of the war remains : What happened to the people , the thousands of Republican Guard soldiers arrayed outside Baghdad who were subjected to the full wrath of the most powerful military on earth ? <P> TIME set out to answer that question by traversing the two rough arcs along which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our reporters focused on seven battlefields : Hindiyah , Hillah , Kut , Yusufiyah , Mahmudiyah , Suwayrah and Dawrah . They surveyed the aftermath of the fighting , inspected graveyards , visited hospitals and interviewed eyewitnesses . They also spoke to Republican Guard survivors about their escape and the fates of their comrades . <P> The evidence that TIME 's team collected indicates that relatively few members of the Republican Guard were actually killed in the fighting . According to the accounts , the Iraqi forces for the most part survived aerial bombardments by keeping their distance from their armor , which U.S. pilots targeted with great precision . Then as U.S. ground troops approached , the Republican Guard generally fled . Many of them appear to have acted on their own , motivated by fear and self-preservation . In Baghdad , according to a high-ranking Republican Guard officer interviewed by TIME , troops were actually instructed to desert . This may help explain why the members of the Special Republican Guard , deployed within Baghdad as the Iraqi regime 's ultimate defenders , put up virtually no resistance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entire elite-forces structure collapsing around them . <P> Saddam Hussein must have known that the Republican Guard could not stop the advance of the U.S. military on Baghdad , but he might have imagined it could slow the onslaught . As U.S. forces swept through Iraq from Kuwait , the Iraqi command deployed four divisions  --  the Baghdad , Medina , Nebuchadnezzar and Hammurabi  --  south of the capital in two defensive arcs . The outer arc , about 100 miles long , stretched roughly from Karbala to Kut . The inner one , some 30 miles long , extended from Yusufiyah to Suwayrah . Just how many troops this involved is unclear . On paper , each of the four divisions had roughly 10,000 men , but according to U.S. intelligence , all were undermanned . Pentagon officials and outside experts estimate that the Republican Guard forces arrayed south of Baghdad that clashed with invading U.S. troops totaled somewhere between 16,000 and 24,000 men .                     