@@383691

All you need to know in May // HOT READS 1 PLUM ROLE Plum Sykes ( Bergdorf Blondes ) invites us back inside the sensational private lives of New York 's enchanted social set with The Debutante Divorce , an amusing novel that raises the question , Who needs a husband anyway ? 2 BETWEEN THE LINES In My Mother 's Wedding Dress , Bazaar contributor Justine Picardie recalls the memories associated with beloved articles of clothing like her vintage-punk pants and a jacket once owned by her late sister . Interwoven with fashion tidbits from history , literature , and pop culture , this memoir proves our wardrobes reflect more than our sense of style . 3 OREMEMBRANCE OF LIVES PAST Best-selling author Augusten Burroughs returns with Possible Side Effects , another lewd but sophisticated collection of intimately personal essays . Brave , dark , and screamingly funny , this book is so engaging , it 'll leave you craving more . 4 DADDY 'S GIRL Just in time for Father 's Day next month , Keith McDermott delivers Lessons From Our Fathers . Notables including the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reminisce about their dads in this charming compilation . HOT EXHIBITIONS 1 ANGLO-SEXY Britannia rules the fashion waves ( " AngloMania , " Metropolitan Museum of Art , NYC , May 3-Sept. 4 ) in this lively look back at 30 years of innovative design , covering everything from the birth of punk ( Vivienne Westwood ) to today ( John Galliano , right ; Alexander McQueen , far right ) . 2 PEOPLE PERSON German-born photographer Wolfgang Tillmans has his first solo show at a major U.S. museum ( MCA , Chicago , May 20-Aug. 20 ) . Internationally celebrated , he is renowned for his unstudied portraiture ( snapping club kids , friends , and family ) and his provocative installations ( combining a jarring mix of images ) . 3 DADA DIVA Legendary androgynous model , actress , and disco queen Amanda Lear presents her latest paintings in the group show " Never Mind the Bollocks : Here 's Amanda Lear " ( Envoy , NYC , Apr. 21-June 3 ) . Recalling the inventive , often ingenuous spirit of Dadaism and Surrealism , the DaIi muse 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by her role in pop culture over the past four decades . HOT COFFEE-TABLE TOMES 1 MASTERMIND In Guy Bourdin , Guggenheim curator Alison M. Gingeras chronicles the career of this groundbreaking fashion photographer , who influenced everyone from Steven Meisel to Jean-Baptiste Mondino . With his radical ad campaigns and brilliant , unsettling commercial work ( notably , an eerie lingerie catalogue for Bloomingdale 's ) , Bourdin finally takes his place in fashion history as a true legend . 2 STRAIGHT UP Nightlife impresario Amy Sacco serves up Cocktails , a history of the highball that will look chic in your living room and help you out behind the bar . Be sure to try recipes from her Manhattan hot spots , Bungalow 8 and Bette. 3 BEACH BOD Happy birthday , bikini ! Kelly Killoren Bensimon commemorates the 60th anniversary of the itsy-bitsy teeny-weeny in The Bikini Book , a gorgeously illustrated tribute featuring Bond girls , Hollywood pinups , and every incarnation ( tankini , anyone ? ) of the symbol of sexy beach chic . DESIGNERS ' HOT TIPS WHAT 'S ON YOUR RADAR NOW ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roger Martin du Gard . Films : Walk the Line and Brokeback Mountain . Music : Devendra Banhart Gela Taylor of Juicy Couture Book : In Cold Blood , by Truman Capote . Film : Stanley Kubrick 's Barry Lyndon . Music : The Killers , Kaiser Chiefs , the Libertines , Duran Duran , and Johnny Cash Matthew Williamson Book : The Line of Beauty , by Alan Hollinghurst . Film : Badlands , starring Sissy Spacek and Martin Sheen . Music : Franz Ferdinand , M.I.A. , and Gorillaz HOT FLICKS 1 CODE RED It 's here at last ! Tom Hanks and Audrey Tautou star in The Da Vinci Code , the hyperactively anticipated film based on Dan Brown 's novel that had some believers shaking their heads . Directed by Ron Howard , it will have you pondering for days . 2 VALLEY BOY Edward Norton and Evan Rachel Wood find an unlikely ( and clandestine ) love in Down in the Valley , a chillingly beautiful film about a misguided cowboy wannabe whose amiable exterior hides the truth from everyone , including his rebellious , much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role as global action hero Ethan Hunt , who 's facing the assignment of his life in Mission : Impossible III , the latest installment in the wildly popular series . Joining the cast this round are Philip Seymour Hoffman as the villain and Michelle Monaghan as the love interest who gets caught up in all the high drama . By Jessica Houssian Sidebar Tillmans 's Deer Hirsch , 1995 God save McCreen : LOOKS from " AngloMania " Sidebar Dal poses with Lear , circa 1969 , in a portrait by Jean-Yves Haydar Bourdin 's ads for Charles Jourdan , 1968 and 1979 ( below ) Sidebar Ursula Andress sports a hip ' ' 60s version in Dr. No Sidebar Tautou and Hanks search for clues Sidebar Wood and Norton ride into the sunset Cruise shields Monaghan // <p>                     