@@406437

WITH THE FLUCTUATING PRICE OF GAS THIS past year and the growing economic crisis , the most common prayer uttered from behind the wheel these days is probably a plea for relief from the expense of filling up . While many families are suffering from job losses and other financial woes , I remember another , more serious supplication shared by my family at the beginning of any family road trip . After my father would pack the trunk of our Volkswagon Beetle ( later a VW Rabbit- no spacious minivan or SUV for this family of four ! ) , we would take our places in the car : Dad behind the wheel ; Mom riding shotgun , map in hand ; and my sister and I in the cramped back seat . As we pulled out of our suburban Milwaukee neighborhood and headed toward the freeway , my parents would remind us to pray for a safe trip . Then they would lead us in an Our Father and a Hail Mary , punctuated by , " St. Christopher , be our guide , " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and only then , did the radio go on , the car bingo games come out , and the pestering of " How long till we get there ? " begin . I LATER LEARNED THAT THE CHURCH HAD DROPPED ST . Christopher 's July 25 feast day from the liturgical calendar in 1969 out of concern that his story was based primarily in legend , although local and personal veneration is still allowed . It seems the tale of an 18foot giant , perhaps with the face of a dog , portaging people across a dangerous river and later martyred , did n't pass the historicity test . But the image of St. Christopher ( literally " Christbearer " ) carrying people to safety still resonates , even in a century in which travel is so much safer that many of us do n't even think about the danger involved in leaving our homes . The brisk sale of St. Christopher medals and statues attest to the desire for some totem to the gods to protect us while traveling . A bobblehead dashboard Jesus , who promises to be your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more modern , kitschy version . Even Icon brand motorcycle jackets - most likely not purchased primarily by devout Catholics- often feature a St. Christopher medallion in an inside pocket . I do n't have a Jesus or St. Christopher statue in my car , but for years I have carried a St. Christopher medal in my passport wallet for overseas trips . Better safe than sorry . NOW THAT HUMMERS ARE OUT AND HYBRIDS ARE IN , Americans may be spending less time on the road , whether out of economic necessity or concern for the earth . Unfortunately I am not one of them . After five years of somewhat sanctimonious non-car ownership and reliance on public transportation , I purchased a used Toyota Camry , which I now drive a total of almost 100 miles round- trip , two or three times a week , to my job . I have become an ber-commuter , joining the average American who spends more than an entire work week in his or her car each year . Although it 's easy to go on auto-pilot while driving the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more time to contemplate my new driving habits while Tm stuck in bumper-to-bumper traffic caused by summertime construction or a lane-closing accident . The latter reminds me of the sobering reality that I am maneuvering a several-thousand-pound machine . With some 6 million car accidents a year in the United States and a car-related fatality every 13 minutes , getting in the car is still one of the more dangerous things people do each day . And in times of danger , we Catholics turn to our faith and to prayer . In the 1950s a Catholic priest founded the Sacred Heart Auto League to encourage " prayerful and careful " driving . Membership is free , but for a small donation you can receive a dashboard statue or visor clip to remind you to keep it under the speed limit and to be courteous to the guy who cuts you off . A few years ago the Vatican also encouraged Catholics to take the high road with its " 10 Commandments of Driving " in " Guidelines for the Pastoral Care of the Road . " While the media had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard to argue with the church 's advice to avoid road rage , help victims of accidents , and avoid drinking and driving . And though some may have chuckled at the recommendation to start each trip with a sign of the cross , it did n't seem odd to those of us who ask for God 's guidance before putting the keys in the ignition . I still do . Sometimes it 's just a quick , " God , let me be safe " or " Be with me on this trip . " Like many Catholics , I also pray when an ambulance passes by or when I see a disabled car or an accident . Both my sister and I and our families still start each long road trip with an Our Father and a Hail Mary . St. Christopher , be our guide .                     