@@387816

Headnote Think you do n't have time for eight hours of z 's a night ? Here are seven reasons-including trimming your waistline and improving your skin-why you need to fit it in . BY LAUREN WIENER // We 're a nation of busy women , so while we 're vhittling down our to-do lists , sleep often gets the pink slip first . Surveys from the National Sleep Foundation in Washington , D.C. , show that women snooze nearly 90 minutes less than the eight hours a night most experts consider a healthy standard . " As a 24-7 society we have this notion that sleep is a waste of time , " says James Maas , Ph.D. , professor of psychology at Cornell University and author of Power Sleep . In fact , we seem to admire and envy so-called short sleepers like Martha Stewart and Donald Trump , who claim to run their empires on just four hours a night . But when we cheat on sleep , we 're actually jeopardizing our health , making us likelier to catch colds-or develop diabetes . Still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Let the evidence speak for itself . 1 Keep off those extra pounds Scientists at the Columbia University Medical Center recently discovered that people who logged five hours of sleep a night were 60 percent more likely to be significantly overweight than those who managed to get seven to nine hours . One reason behind the bulge : Tired people eat more . " Sleep deprivation increases hunger by altering levels of leptin and gherelin , hormones that regulate appetite , " explains study author James E. Gangwisch , Ph.D . Another theory , according to a new article in the journal Obesity Reviews , poses that the more hours you 're awake , the more you 'll eat . The author suggests that you can cut 6 percent of your daily calorie intake-that 's 120 calories from a 2,000-calorie diet-by sleeping eight hours a night instead of seven . 2 Muscle up your memory " During sleep , your mind processes everything you 've learned that day , " says Jeffrey Ellenbogen , Ph.D. , an associate neurologist at Harvard Medical School . So pulling an all-nighter to nail tomorrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 're better off reviewing what you can , then getting enough rest so the details can sink in . " Recent studies show that different stages of sleep may improve various aspects of memory . In new research from the journal Nature , German scientists found that late stages of non-REM sleep ( the non-dreaming phases that comprise most of our sleep ) help us consolidate and recall the facts we 've just acquired . And in another recent study , Canadian researchers discovered that an earlier stage of non-REM sleep increased significantly after people learned how-to tasks-like a new knitting stitch or cooking technique-just before going to bed . After noting that the participants completed the activities 20 percent faster the next morning , the researchers concluded that shut-eye helps keep our reflexes sharp . 3 Reduce your risk of diabetes A study published in the Archives of Internal Mediane found that women who slept only five hours a night were two and a half times more likely to have diabetes as those who slept seven to eight hours . A serious condition that occurs when your body ca n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , diabetes increases your risk of heart disease and nerve and kidney damage . One explanation for the link is that too-little sleep throws key hormones off kilter . " Stress hormones like cortisol and adrenaline-which increase when you 're sleep-deprived-reduce the effectiveness of insulin , the hormone that regulates blood glucose , " says study co-author Susan Redline , M.D. , director of University Hospitals of Cleveland Sleep Center . When you ca n't use insulin properly , glucose levels rise , which increases your diabetes risk . Another possible reason is that you expend more energy when you 're well-rested than when you 're wiped out . Picture yourself after a night of refreshing sleep : You 're ready to tackle anything , whether it 's mastering the plow pose during your morning yoga session or plowing through your overstaffed in-box . " But if you feel exhausted , you 're less likely to completely engage your brain , so it needs less glucose to function , " says Kristen Knutson , Ph.D. , a research associate at the University of Chicago . The glucose that your brain would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your blood . 4 Protect your heart While you slumber , your heart rate slows and blood pressure dips by an average of 10 to 20 percent , says Columbia University 's Gangwisch . " When you do n't sleep , your body loses this opportunity to slow down . Your heart works harder for a larger portion of the day , which causes blood pressure to increase over time , " he explains . In fact , Gangwisch 's research team discovered that women who snooze less than six hours each night increase their risk for developing high blood pressure by 70 percent , compared with those who get seven to eight hours . Slacking on sleep also triggers inflammation , which occurs when your stressed-out immune system goes into overdrive , flooding the body with an overabundance of infection-fighting white blood cells that actually damage healthy tissues . Researchers from the University of California , Los Angeles , recently found that after just one night of four hours ' sleep , people had increased levels of these blood proteins , which are linked to a greater risk of heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When you 're short on sleep , it 's written all over your face . " Inadequate shut-eye triggers a chain of physical changes that negatively affect your skin , " says David E. Bank , M.D. , an associate in clinical dermatology at Columbia University Medical Center . As you begin to feel tired , your body prepares itself for rest by lowering blood pressure and pulse rate . This means less blood flows to your skin , which can take a toll on radiance . And if you 're literally fighting to stay awake , your body kicks up its stress response-secreting hormones that help set off breakouts. 6 Stave off the sniffles When a nasty cold strikes , all you want to do is sleep , right ? No wonder : Your body requires rest to fight off invading germs . But even one night of fragmented slumber can break down your immune response , according to researchers at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine . They found that women who were least able to snooze through the night had the lowest levels of viruscombating cells in response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stress on the body that makes you more susceptible to infection , " says Jan Born , PLD. , a professor of neuroendocrinology at the University of Lbeck in Germany who studies the link between sleep and immunity . 7 Be a safer driver Sleeplessness slows reaction time as much as alcohol does , which helps explain how 100,000 auto accidents occur each year because of sleep-deprived drivers . It 's hardly surprising , considering that when you 've been awake for 17 hours , your brain may be as impaired as if you 'd had two martinis . Recent research published in the journal Sleep revealed that people were more likely to be distracted from a simple , monotonous task after they got five hours ' sleep than those who snagged a full eight hours . And do n't count on caffeine to keep you safe . In a recent study at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research , half of sleep-deprived subjects were given a supplement containing the amount of caffeine in two cups of coffee ( the other group received a placebo ) . Participants then engaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they took risks . While the caffeinated subjects reacted quicker than those who did n't receive any stimulant , both groups made the same amount of risky decisions during the task . " In the real world , this means that even though you may feel alert enough to drive home after slugging down a large soda or coffee , you 'll still likely make potentially dangerous choices , such as speeding through a yellow light or tailgating another car too closely , " says study author William Killgore , Ph.D . Sidebar Our bodies require sleep just as much as they do food and water Sidebar Sleep lowers stress hormones , so you 'll wake up calm and collected Sidebar What 's keeping you from a good night 's sleep ? During any given month , 30 percent of women face insomnia , says Joyce Walsleben , Ph.D. , director of the Sleep Disorders Center at New York University 's School of Medicine . The four key reasons many of us have trouble nodding off : * STRESS Even low levels of stress ( worries about bills , a looming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and make your heart beat faster-not exactly optimal conditions for drifting off easily . Slumber strategy " Write down stressful thoughts in a notebook earlier in the day , then brainstorm solutions , " suggests Walsleben . " This trains you to deal with worries at that time instead of when you 're lying in bed . " * PMS Symptoms like tender breasts , bloating , and headaches cause discomfort that keeps many women awake . Slumber strategy Consuming 1,000 mg of calcium and 400 mg of magnesium daily may help reduce fluid retention , breast tenderness , and bloating , says Walsleben . Ask your doctor about supplements . * YOUR BEDMATE Austrian researchers found that couples had more disrupted sleep on nights they slept together than when they snoozed solo . Slumber strategy Noisy sleepers should see a doctor , since snoring can be the result of sleep apnea , a potentially deadly condition that occurs when relaxed throat muscles block air passages and make breathing difficult . * PREGNANCY Your growing uterus puts pressure on your bladder , so you 'll wake up frequently to use the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiencing late-night heartburn . Slumber strategy Try supportive pillows and lying on your side . Cut down on liquids before bed to minimize bathroom breaks , and avoid spicy foods late in the day to prevent heartburn . DO NOT DISTURB ! Beat a blanket hog : Use separate comforters Sidebar IF YOU HAVE TO DRINK CAFFEINE TO STAY ALERT BEHIND THE WHEEL , YOU 'RE NOT AS SAFE AS YOU THINK . Your all-day sleep-prep plan A good night 's steep does nt just begin when you hit the pillow . The habits you engage in throughout the day can influence how well you snooze . For better rest , take these sleep-smart steps . 6:30 A.M. GET SNOOZE BUTTON-SAVVY Your sleep-regulating internal dock works best when you wake up at the same time every day . To break your habit of repeatedly hitting the snooze button , move your alarm dock across the room . A new study in the journal Neuron found that the physical act of rolling out of bed activates brain cells that prevent you from falling back asleep . 8:15 A.M. SOAK UP THE SUN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a sleep-inducing hormone . But leave your sunglasses behind this time-the rays actually have to hit your retina to send the signal , says Meir Kryger , M.D. , author of A Woman 's Guide to Sleep Disorders . If you cant hoof it to work , try a pre-breakfast hike . 12:30 P.M. MAKE A DATE Social people are better sleepers , according to a recent study from the Duke University Medical Center . Having frequent lunches or other get-togethers makes you more likely to stick to a schedule , say study authors , who believe that your body 's internal clock runs best when you follow a regular routine . 3:15 P.M. DUMP THE DECAF University of Florida researchers found that most decaf coffee still contains small amounts of caffeine , which can add up if you drink several cups after lunch . Snack on some fruit instead , says Cynthia Sass , R.D. , a Tampa , Florida-based nutritionist . " The combination of vitamins , fiber , and carbohydrates provides enough energy to get you through the rest of the afternoon , " she explains . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body temperature , which makes falling asleep more difficult Give yourself at least three or four hours between working out and lights-out to allow adequate time to cool down . 8:00 P.M. STICK TO ONE GLASS OF WINE " Alcohol slows the nervous system , so a second round may help you feel sleepy initially , " explains Kryger . " But when your blood-alcohol level drops in two to four hours , you could wake up feeling wired . " 10:30 P.M. MAKE YOUR BEDROOM PET-FREE Nearly 25 percent of the patients in a study at the Mayo Clinic Sleep Disorders Center said they sleep with a cat or dog-and more than half said that it disrupted their z 's . If your pet 's wriggly body keeps you tossing and turning , give him his own bed , preferably in another room-HOLLACE SCHMIDT Spritz pillows with lavender scent to fall asleep faster // <p>                     