@@402954

When I go to parenting trade shows I avoid the child-safety people . I do n't mean retailers who sell baby-proofing products , I mean outfits who are peddling fingerprint ID kits , or this gadet or that service to keep your child safe from the horrors of abduction . I 've never liked them . And it 's not just that their products and services remind me of something I 'd rather not think about . It 's the way they misuse information to create paranoia and then try to profit from it . Graph Not Transcribed These fearmongers sell all kinds of things : identity kits , video surveillance cameras , beepers that go off if a child gets more than a certain distance from you . One offers labels with 1-800 numbers , which you sew into your child 's clothing . That supposedly gives you access to some worldwide child-finding service that swings into action if your child goes AWOL . As far as I 'm concerned , these products have no place in any child 's life . I ca n't say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But I 've found that even the best-intentioned ones use questionable information . I spoke with a gentleman from a non-profit organization that , among other things , runs fingerprinting clinics for parents . I asked him how the police use fingerprints for finding missing children . He had no idea . Well , I 'll tell you what fingerprints are for : to identify dead bodies , not find missing kids . Fingerprints can be used when a body ca n't be ID 's in any other way  --  as in , mangled beyond recognition  --  but nobody ever tells you that . Police say fingerprints could conceivably be used to establish that a child had been in a certain room somewhere . Perhaps , but one Ontario Provincial Police detachment I called said they had never used fingerprints to solve a missing-child case . ( If that 's true , why do police continue to endorse this practice ? ) I feel like it 's been said a thousand times , but I 'll say it again : Kids are seldom abducted by strangers . It happens and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account for less than one percent of all missing children cases , and close to 90 percent are parental abductions . Children are almost always molested or otherwise harmed by people they know , often by people they trust . In that case , fingerprints , beepers and 1-800 numbers do n't do a thing . While some of these services are simply useless , others are downright scams . Today 's Parent has had complaints about a company called Child Save Canada , for example , which sells a 1-800 child-finding service . One of our readers gave them a void cheque so they could make a yearly withdrawal . They took the supposedly annual fee three months in a row , even upping the fee the third time ( one of the charges was later refunded ) . The Toronto Better Business Bureau has a file of 29 similar complaints against this company . I have this idea that someone will eventually invent a system whereby your child is constantly watched on a TV monitor , or maybe you 'll be able to buy global child-positioning technology so you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whereabouts at any given moment . I hope I 'm wrong . I do n't think anything protects children better than human beings . The worst thing these paranoia products do is make us forget what really keeps kids safe . It 's parents  --  caring adults who feel connected to their children , who keep an eye on them , monitor their activities and make it their business to know the people who look after them . That 's not foolproof either , but at least it does n't sell you a false sense of security . <p>                     