@@407836

Hollywood Kerfuffle HBO 's Project Greenlight returns for more adventures in amateur filmmaking. by Carina Chocano Sun. , 10:30 p.m . ( HBO ) It 's a prevailing myth of American life that lack of opportunity-more than lack of innate talent or intelligence-is what keeps most people from achieving their dreamiest dreams . But ever since TV got into the business of handing out big breaks like supermarket flyers , that notion has been seriously challenged . Hopefuls keep lining up for their televised shot at ready-made celebrity , but , for the most part , shows like American Idol reveal more about the prefab-star-making process than about the deep wellspring of talent in which so many Americans believe themselves to be soaking . As a result , the shows tend to be enjoyable only in the cheapest , most schadenfreude-y way . A shining exception in this pantheon of regrettable programming is HBO 's Project Greenlight . For those who missed season 1 , Matt Damon , Ben Affleck , and producer Chris Moore ( Good Will Hunting ) conceived Greenlight in 2000 . Thrilled with their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set out to grant an aspiring screenwriter the chance to direct his script as a million-dollar studio film , which Miramax ( who coproduces the series with HBO ) agreed to fund . The winner was Pete Jones , a peach-faced former insurance salesman from Chicago with a schmaltzy script called Stolen Summer . Watching Jones , drunk on a cocktail of hubris and ignorance , butt heads with industry veterans made for some of the most compelling , hilarious , and heartbreaking televised drama in years . Needless to say , Stolen Summer was a box office disaster . As a result , this season , measures have been taken to distrib- ute the onus of respon- sibility more evenly : Winners were selected from separate writing and directing categories and paired up based on com- patibility . Moreover , this year 's submissions were , for the most part , superior to last year 's . At least three of the four finalists in the director category displayed a respectable grasp of the craft ; Moore even described one shot-from finalist Jessica Landaw-as one of the best he 'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right ? Of course not . Project Greenlight is many things-a contest , an aid organization , a cause-but , most of all , it 's top-notch entertainment . And despite the scary brush with quality filmmaking , the show has once again landed squarely in Jones territory-only this time , instead of one earnestly hapless wannabe , there are three of them . Winning screenwriter Erica Beeney , who penned a coming-of-age tale called The Battle of Shaker Heights , seems smart , hardworking , and just one script note away from a total meltdown . For comedic value , however , she ca n't touch the Mutt-and-Jeff antics of winning directing team Efram Potelle , a freelance " media artist , " and Kyle Rankin , a landscaper . Having directed their own movies in Portland , Maine , Efram and Kyle are currently swaying perilously on the rickety scaffold of insane overconfidence . First they tried to convince Miramax that they did n't need to hire an editor or a production designer because they could do both jobs themselves , and then they spent an entire meeting staring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told she would n't read for the part . In perhaps the most egregious example of the duo 's priority impairment , Potelle held up a preproduction meeting to ask for a free car after he learned BMW 's product-placement department loaned the vehicle-less Beeney a Beamer for her short stay in L.A. " So , " he sniffed , " I heard that they were giving away cars here at Project Greenlight . " While most win-your-dream-job reality series tend to be long on the slow-and-steady climb part and short on the fast-and-nasty fall , Greenlight dares to show what happens when the talent ( or lack of it ) hits the fan . As of this writing , it appears that we will again find ourselves rooting against the winners and for the recovering rage-aholic Moore , the beleaguered producer Jeff Balis , and maybe even for Miramax 's Harvey Weinstein . ( Affleck and Damon , always smart , funny , and gallant at the start of the series , wisely leave the trenches early on and later check in with occasional phone calls . ) Whether the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopes of winding up with a more compelling TV show , we 'll never know . But as interesting and informative as it would have been to watch a levelheaded and talented filmmaker tackle his or her first studio project , it would pale in comparison to Efram and Kyle 's Big Adventure . For all its benign do-goodism , Greenlight ultimately plays like a cautionary tale for aspiring players : Be careful what you wish for-Miramax just might fund it . A Sidebar Rebound of the Week SCOTT FOLEY Felicity 's ex will be admitted to NBC 's Scrubs for some career rehab after his sitcom A.U.S.A , flopped . The prescription : six episodes as the neurotic boyfriend of Dr. field ( Sarah Chalke ) . // <p>                     