@@381154

To understand just how brutal the war in Iraq has become , spend a day at work with Sheik Jamal al-Sudani . A Baghdad mortician , he travels to the holy city of Najaf every Friday to bury the capital 's unclaimed and unknown dead  --  the scores of bodies that turn up every day , bearing no identifying characteristics save the method by which they were murdered . On a typical trip to the Wadi al-Salaam cemetery last month , Sheik Jamal and a small band of volunteers unload the grim cargo they have brought 100 miles from the Iraqi capital in an old flatbed truck . Sheathed in powder-blue body bags are the remains of 72 men , many of them bearing signs of terrible torture  --  holes in the skull made by power drills , mutilated genitals , burns . They are the signature of the shadowy Shi'ite groups that have been kidnapping and murdering hundreds of men and boys , most of them Sunnis , in a campaign that has terrorized Baghdad 's neighborhoods . <P> On any given Friday , Sheik Jamal inters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how close they were to the blast from the extent of burning and depth of the shrapnel wounds " ) , execution ( " Their hands are usually tied behind their back , and they 've been shot in the head " ) , garroting and beheading . He buries victims of U.S. air strikes , some of whose bodies have been fused together by the heat of the explosion " so you ca n't tell which limb belongs to which head . " Every now and again , he will get a body bag with charred-black body parts , dismembered by massive explosions . Those are the remains of suicide bombers . " When you explode a bomb strapped to your chest , " he says , " it tears up your body in a particular way . " <P> Death comes to Iraq now in many new and terrible forms . Though there is outrage among many Iraqis about the alleged massacre in Haditha last November , the violence on Iraq 's streets is so unrelentingly horrific that even the worst atrocities have lost their power to shock . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bullets and bombs . Definitive statistics are impossible to find in a country where the most violent provinces are out of bounds for journalists and human-rights workers , and where the state infrastructure  --  hospitals , morgues , police stations  --  is not up to the task of caring for the living , never mind counting the dead . According to the Iraq Body Count project , the most frequently cited source , at least 38,000 Iraqi civilians have been killed since May 1 , 2003 , when President George W. Bush announced that " major combat operations " had ended . More controversially , a study in the British medical journal Lancet in November 2004 put the toll at more than 100,000 since the invasion . Both studies say more than 4 in 10 of those deaths are attributable to U.S. forces .                     