@@407772

GREAT GETAWAYS TO SUIT YOUR TRAVEL STYLE Headnote Think you 've " done " Europe ? You haven't-not until you have sampled its storybook mini-states . By William B. Whitman // At a time when the " New Europe " is grabbing headlines with its common currency , foreign policies , and revolutionary open frontiers , we would like to toast Old Europe , once dotted with fiercely independent fiefdoms and city-states , whose quarrelsome rulers put the feud in " feudal . " Five of these mini-states-Andorra , Monaco , Luxembourg , Liechtenstein , and San Marino-have survived into the 21st century . There 's no better time than now , in this period of Europe 's reinvention , to rediscover these examples of Europe 's fast-fading yesteryears , when citizens plied their trades along twisty lanes under the gaze of castle-dwelling dukes or princes . The bonus ? You 'll also discover world-class dining and shopping , and bold new attractions . Luxembourg What more appropriate starting point to Old Europe 's city-states than the land with the national motto " We want to remain what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biggest of Europe 's small gems . And what better place to start your visit than high on the massive fortifications of Luxembourg City , the capital ? Known as " Europe 's balcony " for its expansive views of pastoral countryside and often-battled-over forests , this fortress for centuries fended off incursions by grabby neighbors who valued Luxembourg 's strategic location smack in the heart of the continent , garnering it the sobriquet " Gibraltar of the North . " Today these battlements frame a small yet bustling city combining the atmosphere of a 16th-century village with the vitality of a European financial hub ( the duchy is the world 's eighth largest banking center ) . From the fortifications , wander over to the city 's core , a maze of lanes centered on the army 's onetime parade ground , the Place d'Armes , often called the city 's parlor because of its many outdoor cafes ( if you 're partial to shellfish , try La Lorraine ) . Continue along the cobblestone alleys to the medieval old town-a UNESCO World Heritage Site-and the Grand Ducal Palace , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official home of the grand duke and his family . Tours ( offered in August ) proudly tout the ducal furnishings and artworks . Indeed , modern Luxembourg seems very comfortable with its ruling family . " Luxembourgers love their royals , " says Jean-Pierre Dumont , a local . " The duke and his family are very normal people . You see them in the street , at the cinema . " Just outside Luxembourg City lies one of Europe 's most historically significant patches of land , the forested Ardennes , site of pivotal World War I battles and , more recently , the 1944 Battle of the Bulge ( fought in the French part of the forest ) . Now the picture of peace , the Ardennes is a popular weekend getaway . Visit the town of Clervaux , whose 12th-century chateau features a permanent exhibit of photos by Luxembourg-born photographer Edward Steichen , and the meticulously preserved medieval hamlet of Vianden , complete with an 11th-century castle and an Old Europe-style lodging in a former monastery , the Hotel Heintz . For your final night , follow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stay at the Grand Hotel Mercure Alfa , Gen. Patton 's quarters in Luxembourg City during the Battle of the Bulge . www.visitluxembourg.com . Liechtenstein If you 're one of the few people on the planet who 've never seen The Sound of Music , not to worry-you 'll get the general idea by visiting the Principality of Liechtenstein , the Alpine enclave whose prince , Hans Adam II , rules his subjects from a medieval castle high above his village-capital , Vaduz . Though located in a trafficked wedge between Switzerland and Austria , Liechtenstein has retained a storybook air , with cow-grazed meadows and turreted castles-Old World grace notes made possible by a prosperous economy fueled by a thriving banking industry . " Most industries here are ' soft , ' producing such things as ceramics and false teeth , " notes one local . " Factories even tend to be disguised in chalet-style architecture . " That said , Liechtenstein has been busy updating its attractions in the last decade to offer visitors more . Tops has to be the edgy national art museum , a sleek cube @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purity and sophistication make it a wonderful showcase for the prince 's treasures , be they works by Camille Corot or Pablo Picasso , " notes New York artist and recent visitor Rita McBride . The nearby Postage Stamp Museum may be more traditional but still draws even noncollectors to its exhibits of colorful commemorative stamps-issued four times a year-that have made Liechtenstein famous among philatelists . True to their feudal roots , Liechtensteiners like to show off their royal castle , though it is off-limits to the public . The 20-minute hike up Schloss-strasse ( Castle Street ) from town gives you a close-up of the castle and a view of the snowcapped Alps and stretches of vineyards outside Vaduz . Some of the vineyards are the prince 's private domain , but you can dine amid royal vines at Torkel restaurant , where you 'll enjoy gourmet Liechtensteiner dishes with the prince 's award-winning Pinot Noir . Planning to be in Vaduz on August 15 , Liechtenstein 's national day ? You 'll be able to congratulate His Highness on his wines in person : The castle gates open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Mass , a beer-filled reception-and an evening of royal fireworks. www.tourismus.li . Monaco A lunch at Monte Carlo 's restaurant Le Saint Benoit confirms everything you have heard about the jet-set principality of Monaco . From your table on the restaurant 's terrace you 'll gaze out at a jewel-box harbor packed with oceangoing yachts , while behind you a boulevard lined with luxury apartments purrs with the motors of Ferraris and Bentleys . You already know that Monaco is a longtime playground for the super-rich-home of the fairy-tale couple Princess Grace and Prince Rainier , and a setting for more than one James Bond film-so this opulence is n't exactly a bombshell . Still , this tiny principality attracts up to six million visitors yearly , and not all are millionaires . " Many tourists here , expecting to see only the casinos and nightclubs they 've heard about , are surprised to learn of our brand-new Grimaldi Forum , " notes Peter Murphy , the Monaco-based president of Festival Cruises . A massive , glass-pyramided complex with restaurants , concert halls for the Opera and Ballets de Monte-Carlo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third millennium , " the forum will soon be joined by a new hotel and garden complex that will further update Monaco 's profile . New is good for business , but Monaco still does well by its traditional attractions , from the lavish 19th-century Casino de Monte Carlo , to the cathedral-which houses the tombs of Princess Grace and members of the Grimaldi family , rulers of the principality since its founding in 1297-to the prince 's palace compound and the Museum of Antique Automobiles , Rainier 's colletion of vintage vehicles . It may be this mix of avant-garde with tradition that best sums up this vest-pocket territory 's appeal . Certainly one visitor has become a big fan . " I adore Monaco , " says fashion model Adriana Karembeu . " It is a piece of jewelry for me , something you do not find anywhere else . " www.visitmonaco.com . Andorra Remoteness and wild terrain have made Andorra , nestled high in the Pyrenees Mountains between France and Spain , a favorite hangout for smugglers since Charlemagne founded this tiny principality 1,200 years ago . Today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " co-princes " - the French president and the Spanish Bishop of Seo de Urgel ) , Andorra is a destination you have to want to visit . Do n't worry : If you 're a shopper or like sports and the outdoors , you will . " Shop ' til you drop " takes on heightened meaning in Andorra 's mountain-bound capital , Andorra la Vella . Savvy Europeans know to come here to browse dozens of duty-free boutiques for bargains in electronics from such quality names as Bang &; Olufson , and fashions from international designers like Fendi and Bottega Veneta . They also know to save a day for Caldea , Europe 's largest spa complex-a techno-glitz Aladdin 's cave with indoor lagoons , waterfalls , an infinity of massage and bathing options , and three restaurants . But these creature comforts are only one aspect of this 175-square-mile land ; Andorra 's countryside offers " probably the best skiing in the Pyrenees-exhilarating and challenging , and with great accommodations , " says four-time American visitor Roger Pommerenke , who likes the slopes near Pas de la Casa . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pastime : hiking the principality 's network of trails , then dining at one of the borda , old barns that have been converted into restaurants serving Andorran dishes like coques ( flat cakes ) and a country stew called escudella . But brush up on Catalan , Andorra 's official language ; English is not widely spoken in this still remote land , www.andorra.be . San Marino From the " who would have thought " file : More than three million tourists yearly visit the 24-square-mile Republic of San Marino , the world 's oldest republic . A prime location in central Italy helps : San Marino sits southwest of the sea-resort town of Rimini and an hour 's drive east from Florence . But it 's that " smallest nation " thing that pulls in the visitors , though San Marino 's crowd-pleasing products-cheeses , wines , textiles , postage stamps-help . Start a visit in the republic 's tiny , car-free capital , also called San Marino , atop Mount Titano . Park in the town parking lot , then amble up the medieval-era , shop-lined streets to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Here , find a table at Righi La Taverna and order up tagliatelle with piadina , the local flatbread , and some Brugneto di San Marino , a local red vintage . Enjoy , but go easy on the wine because next you 'll venture up the Salita alla Rocca ( Ascent to the Rock ) to San Marino 's three 13th-century castles and the town ramparts , from which , on a clear day , you can spot Croatia across the Adriatic Sea . San Marino enjoys an international reputation for its commemorative stamps ( Abe Lincoln is a favorite subject ) , so start-or add to-your collection at the national philatelic office on Via Donna Felicissima . Fond of kitsch collectibles ? You 'll find all kinds at the republic 's many souvenir stands , from medieval crossbows to high-octane local wines in olde medieval casks . Time your visit to San Marino around one of its major celebrations : the investiture pageant in April and October of the Captains Regent , the co-heads of state who " rule " for six months ; and the July Medieval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and costumed processions . Before you say arrivederci to this nano republic , pay your respects to the fourth-century founder and patron saint-his remains , that is-in the Basilica del Santo . Who knew that his city-state , created as a Christian refuge in Roman times , would survive two millennia of turbulent history ? www.sanmarinosite.com . Author Affiliation WILLIAM WHITMAN writes for Forbes-FYI , Hemispheres , and other publications . // <p>                     