@@365913

Jerry Bruckheimer is the Michael Moore of criminal law . Defense lawyers love his CSI shows because they have caused juries to demand DNA analysis in nearly every two-bit 7-Eleven holdup . Prosecutors , meanwhile , feel hampered by the fact that 10 eyewitnesses are not enough to satisfy CSI-watching jurors who crave the supposedly conclusive proof of hair follicles on a knife . <P> CSI , because of its popularity and fecundity , is the most dramatic new influence on a justice system that has always been affected by books , movies and TV . " When Perry Mason first aired , lawyers were not allowed to approach witnesses to question them , " says Christopher Stone , director of the Vera Institute of Justice , a nonprofit that promotes innovation in the justice system . " But you could n't fit Mason and the witness in the same frame , so the directors had Mason walk over and lean on the witness rail . Then juries expected lawyers to do that , and if they did n't , jurors thought something was wrong . " Moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which was unpopular with law enforcement and some politicians , by showing viewers that reading suspects their rights did n't hamper the cops ' ability to interrogate them . And former Los Angeles County public defender Stan Goldman , now a Loyola law professor and legal editor for Fox News , says Quincy had lawyers concerned that juries would demand fingerprints for every case . <P> The CSI effect has been similarly potent . Last November prosecutors in Galveston , Texas , despite a plethora of nonforensic evidence , could n't convince a jury that Robert Durst had murdered Morris Black , even though Durst admitted inadvertently killing him , because Black 's head could n't be found . The head , the defense argued , contained key evidence that Durst had acted in self-defense . " The CSI effect is real , and it 's profound , " says jury consultant Robert Hirschhorn , who also says he purposely selected jurors familiar with CSI and forensics-type shows for the Durst trial . <P> But all those sprays and lasers and high-tech microscopes , it turns out , are expensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CSI , " says Robert J. Castelli , a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice who was a police officer for 21 years . " To analyze properly a sample of DNA can cost as much as $10,000 . You 're not going to be using DNA analysis in every burglary . " So prosecutors are now spending a lot of time trying to explain to juries that DNA evidence is n't always essential . Joshua Marquis , a pro-death-penalty district attorney in Oregon , is worried that cops will have to start doing all sorts of unnecessary forensics work just to placate CSI-educated juries . " A good analogy to this situation is defensive medicine , " says Marquis . " You have doctors who will order a series of very expensive and probably unnecessary tests to cover their asses . Are we going to have police officers doing that same thing ? "                     