@@403685

/Jan 2000 Rose Ireland fondly recalls school Christmas pageants where baby Jesus in a manger was attended by pint-sized " parents " Mary and Joseph , and the kindergarten kids were the angels . The St. John 's mother of three says , " From my background Pentecostal , Christmas is the manger scene . But because it 's not Christmas for everyone , that 's not what our Christmas concert looks like now . " Like many other public schools , Eugene Vaters Academy has abandoned the traditional Christmas concert in favour of a multicultural celebration . Montreal 's Marie-Helen Goyetche , a Catholic , decided to send her sons , Max , eight , and Alex , six , to a Protestant-run school where the curriculum includes learning about a wide range of religions . " We bought a Jewish menorah last year , " she says , " because they were studying about different ways of celebrating holidays . " Ireland and Goyetche represent two viewpoints of a thorny controversy , one that seems particularly relevant at holiday time : In an increasingly multi-faith society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A quick poll of sample boards of education across the country reveals that practice and policy are all over the map  --  especially when it comes to the Lord 's Prayer . In BC , the prayer is not part of opening exercises , but in Newfoundland it is . Alberta law allows prayer in school , but most secular urban public schools have stopped this practice . In Saskatoon , about one in five classrooms still recites the Lord 's Prayer daily , despite years of complaints from parents who call the required ritual a form of schoolyard bullying . Carl von Baeyer , a Unitarian , is one of the parents who finally took the situation to a provincial Human Rights Commission tribunal last summer . The tribunal ruled in their favour , but the case could move onto the court system if the Saskatoon school board does n't accept the tribunal 's decision . " One of the saddest stories presented to the tribunal , " says von Baeyer , " was of a Muslim child , a recent immigrant , who was required to participate in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rest of the class laughed at him . The teacher thought that he 'd done it on purpose and scolded him . " Von Baeyer also recalls how his own daughter was treated during the morning recitation of the Lord 's Prayer : " She stayed in class and began quietly saying her own prayer , but she only got a few words out and she was shushed . " Clearly , what was once a largely Catholic and Protestant country , is now a richly diverse nation of immigrants who have brought cultural and religious traditions from all over the world . A 1997 study among grade-seven and - eight students in Toronto found that only 31 percent identified themselves as Christian , says Myra Novogrodsky , former co-ordinator of the Toronto District School Board 's Equity Studies Centre . Another 37 percent claimed no religious affiliation , and 22 percent identified their faith as " other . " In Toronto , says Novogrodsky , public schools are asked to respect a multitude of religious practices and to accommodate their needs  --  even when that means designating special prayer rooms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not permitted by their religion to expose any part of their bodies , to wear form-covering tights or leotards during swim class . Is this taking things too far ? Not according to Dima Kurd of Toronto , a Muslim mother of four , whose children went through the public school system in the ' ' 70s . She remembers how she had to visit teachers repeatedly , from grade to grade , to explain why her daughter could not wear gym shorts . When her children asked her what they should do when the other kids recited the Lord 's Prayer , she told them " you say what we say at home , because that 's also a Lord 's Prayer , and you say it in your heart . " Christmas was hardest : " When their friends were learning Christmas carols or practising for the concerts , my kids would stay in the classroom or go to the library to work . It 's difficult for a five- or six-year-old to understand why we do n't believe in Santa Claus or gifts . " While school policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three decades , equity is still " a daunting task at times , " says Phyllis Benedict , president of the Elementary Teachers ' Federation of Ontario . " There is very little concern given by the education ministry to anti-racism and multiculturalism , and it 's sometimes a very difficult thing because of the biases children bring from home . " When faced with parents who object to exposing their children to other religions , Benedict says as a last resort teachers will suggest a child be excluded from activities that go against the parents ' grain . The best they can do in those situations is to " arrange with the child to quietly do something else out of the classroom . " The December holiday season is a flashpoint for these concerns , but Benedict favours the all-inclusive approach : " It 's an opportunity to look at other ways of celebrating at that time . Exposure to different belief systems is key to a child 's education . The more opportunities we have to push their boundaries , to culture that sense of respect and understanding , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Von Baeyer , however , considers that approach well-meant tokenism at best . " There 'd have to be a commitment to training teachers and to monitoring , supervising , supporting and consulting with teachers who are going to do this  --  and they 're still going to get lots of complaints from people who say " I do n't want my child exposed to other religious viewpoints . Mine is the only correct one . ' On balance , I 'd say the schools are better off not trying . " Some educators believe the taste-of-everything concept fails children at the most basic level . " As parents and as a school , you give a child direction , " says former principal John Doornbos , now executive director of the Manitoba Federation of Independent Schools . " I think we 're seeing children turn agnostic and atheistic because there is no spiritual direction for them . " Even Hasanat Ahmad Syed , of the Canadian office of the Ahmadiyya Movement in Islam , says he 'd rather see Muslim children reciting the Lord 's Prayer in school than no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The greater danger is atheism , " he says . " Even if the Muslim children are saying the Lord 's Prayer , at least they are still praising God . " Caught in this crossfire of opinion , public educators continue to seek an inoffensive middle ground , recognizing they will never make everyone happy . Including Rose Ireland , who very much misses the annual sight of a choir of cardboard-winged angels hovering over the manger on the school stage , while the youngsters warble determinedly through hymns  --  sweetly , innocently and profoundly off key . Secular Trends Up until 1998 , religion was at the very foundation of the public-school system in Newfoundland . Four boards  --  Roman Catholic , Seventh Day Adventist , Pentecostal and Integrated ( combining Presbyterian , Moravian , United , Anglican and Salvation Army )  --  ran their own schools . But a shrinking and scattered student population , rising costs and a growing multicultural milieu meant denominational segregation no longer made sense . Amalgamation into one secular system took six years , two referendums and a number of court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the dust has n't settled yet . Quebec is moving inexorably in that direction , as well . A secular system , lobbied for by teachers and academics , will likely soon replace the historic Catholic/Protestant dichotomy . " Schools are not churches , they 're not temples , they 're not mosques , they 're schools , " says Lorraine Page , president of the Centtale de l'Enseignement du Quebec . " There is a place for religion in the schools , but only in the context of teaching , of learning , of building a common citizenry . " <p>                     