@@390645

Headnote Big-city air pollution moves to the burbs and beyond Jeffrey S. Gaffiiey , a sunburn-prone atmospheric scientist , set offone morning in March 2006 for a day of field work in Mexico City-without his hat and sunscreen . At Mexico City 's altitude , 2,240 meters above sea level , sunlight beating down through the thin air delivers as much as 30 percent more ultraviolet radiation than reaches coastal regions . " I thought I 'd be fried at the end of the day , for sure , " he recalls . But Gaffiiey , a researcher at the University of Arkansas in Little Rock , came through the day unscathed . The sunburn that he 'd feared never developed because much of the sun 's ultraviolet radiation was blocked by the city 's notoriously dirty air . Some of the radiation was scattered back to space by the high-altitude haze smothering the city ; some was absorbed as it stimulated chemical reactions within that soup of pollutants . He and more than 450 other researchers from Mexico , Europe , and the United States had come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in , above , and around the metropolis . The MILAGRO campaign-the Megacity Initiative : Local and Global Research Observations-was designed to scrutinize local and regional air quality , the effects of pollutants on human health , and the influence of Mexico City 's pollution on regional and global climate . Mexico City , whose 20 million inhabitants endure constantly nasty air , was an ideal study site . Any urban area with more than 10 million residents is considered a megacity . Many studies suggest that these gigantic urban areas have become the world 's dominant sources of atmospheric pollutants . Some of their emissions are long-lived and apt to drift far from home . Pollution from Asian megacities routinely wafts to North America ( SN : 12/12/98 , p. 374 ; SN : 1/1/00 , p. 4 ) . Other research suggests that as much as one-third of the low-altitude ozone in some parts of Europe originates in North America . MILAGRO data will enable scientists to better understand how air pollution evolves , says Gaffney . Increasingly , field studies and lab experiments indicate that the color , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City is the world 's second-largest megacity , many of the problems observed there may foreshadow troubles to come in smaller , rapidly growing urban areas throughout the world . On the other hand , computer simulations suggest that many smaller megacities export a proportionately higher share of their pollution to distant regions even than Mexico City does . A GROWING PROBLEM In 1800 , only 3 percent of the world 's population lived in cities . Today , more than half of our planet 's 6.6 billion people reside in urban regions . By 2030 , if forecasts by the United Nations are correct , three-fifths of the world 's projected population of 8.3 billion will live in cities . The growth of population in cities leads to increased energy consumption within relatively small areas , a trend that typically decreases air quality and increases the prevalence of adverse health effects , says Luisa T. Molina , an atmospheric scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . Those consequences are particularly pronounced in Mexico City , she noted in May at a meeting of the American Geophysical Union in Acapulco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground-level concentrations of ozone in Mexico City have exceeded the country 's air-quality standards 284 days per year , on average . Geography does n't help : Mexico City lies in a broad basin ringed by tall mountains that can block the movement of air masses that might clear out pollution . Furthermore , the city 's rapid spread in recent decades has aggravated its pollution problems . Mexico City now covers about 1,500 square kilometers-about 10 times as much land as it occupied just 50 years ago , says Molina . That sudden sprawl , coupled with unregulated land use , has translated into a drop in population density that has in turn necessitated people and goods moving greater distances throughout the metropolis , says Luis G. Ruiz-Suarez , an atmospheric scientist at the . National Autonomous University of Mexico in Mexico City . Many residents commute long distances through areas that lack mass transit . All told , the 3.5 million vehicles traveling in and around the Mexico City area burn about 40 million liters of fuel each day . Their emissions , along with those from power plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air over the city a noxious stew . Hence the need for the MILAGRO campaign , the first comprehensive , multinational effort to assess the impact of a megacity on regional and global air quality , says Molina . To supplement observations from orbiting satellites and from ground stations throughout the city , MILAGRO-project scientists flew six sensor-laden aircraft , and even one ultralight craft , through plumes of pollution at various altitudes . The researchers relied on a variety of chemical fingerprints to identify pollution sources , says James J. Schauer , an atmospheric scientist at the University ofWisconsin-Madison who participated in the study . For example , burning cellulose produces levoglucosan , which accounts for about 15 percent of the organic carbon in particles wafting from wood and grass fires . This substance does n't degrade in the atmosphere . Combustion of fossil fuels , such as diesel , gasoline , and coal , produces hopanes , a group of hydrocarbons with multiringed structures . By determining the atmospheric concentrations of such chemicals , Schauer and his colleagues could diwy up the blame for Mexico City 's pollution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ downtown area near major traffic arteries and residential , commercial , and light-industrial neighborhoods . Gasoline-burning motor vehicles generated about 47 percent of the light-colored aerosols containing organic carbon collected at the site , while diesel engines produced some 88 percent of the dark-colored aerosols , Schauer and his colleagues report in an upcoming Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics . Pollution was particularly bad during morning rush hour , when traffic moved slowly , if at all , they note . Pollution was lighter at a site about 35 km northeast of the downtown site , in an agricultural area on the city 's fringe . Over the course of a day , motor vehicles were the largest contributors to air pollution . About 31 percent of the organic-carbon aerosols and 82 percent of the dark-colored aerosols came from gasoline-or diesel-powered engines , data suggest . Amounts also varied over time . Gasoline-powered vehicles accounted for 37 percent of the organic-carbon aerosols measured downtown on weekdays but 67 percent of those collected during weekends . Air samples collected during nighttime hours contained an estimated 13 percent fewer diesel emissions . Wood smoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only to vehicle emissions , says Schauer . At times , it accounted for as much as 30 percent of the organic aerosols , he adds . At the rural site , it sometimes accounted for 50 percent of organic aerosols . Variations during the day in the concentrations of wood smoke measured downtown did not correlate with those seen at the rural site , indicating that wood-smoke pollution in the two areas probably came from different sources , says Schauer . Downtown , it may have derived from wood-fueled fires used to cure tiles or adobe bricks . At the rural site , the increased concentrations of nanometer-size , unburned fragments of plant material in smoke samples suggest that the smoke came from brush and grass fires , says Schauer . CHEMICAL EVOLUTION Researchers could n't identify pollution sources for a significant fraction of the organic-carbon aerosols detected during the MILAGRO campaign . Many of those particles were probably secondary organic aerosols ( SOAs ) , which form in the atmosphere as a result of chemical reactions among various pollutants . Sunlight often stimulates such reactions . During the field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from as little as 6 percent of organic-aerosol samples at the downtown site at some times of day to as much as 63 percent at others . One SOA , pinonic acid , forms in a reaction between oxygen and alpha-pinene , a chemical given off by certain species of trees and other plants . Atmospheric concentrations of pinonic acid typically spiked just a few hours after the researchers detected a rise in wood smoke , suggesting that woodfueled fires were the source of this pollution . The MILAGRO data contain clues to many such transformations , says Gaffiney . Observations from aircraft were particularly revealing . Early inthemorning , haze over the city tended to be dark , a sign of diesel exhaust . As the day progressed , the aerosols reacted with other pollutants in the air and became lighter in color , scattering more light than they absorbed . " These reactions are rapid and probably take place within a couple of hours , " Gaffhey notes . MILAGRO and other atmospheric studies provide opportunities to better understand the formation , evolution , and transport of SOAs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that because the thick , high-altitude haze prevented much of the sun 's ultraviolet light from reaching ground level , pollutants there did n't react with each other as quickly as they would have under sunny conditions . So , Gaffhey says , SOAs often did n't form until their ingredients wafted out to the surrounding region , where skies were relatively clear . Such implications , coming from MILAGRO and other recent field studies and lab experiments , are revolutionizing air-quality research , says Neu M. Donahue , an atmospheric chemist at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh . " The study of air pollution has been flipped on its head in the last year , " he notes . In particular , SOAs are turning out to be a much bigger problem than scientists had previously realized . As Alien L. Robinson , also at Carnegie Mellon , puts it , " Pollutants that come out of the tailpipe are n't the only ones you need to worry about . " Experiments by Donahue , Robinson , and their colleagues indicate that current models may drastically underestimate the extent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a 12-cubic-meter , Teflon-coated chamber and zapped it with enough ultraviolet light to simulate radiation exposure on a summer day . After 3 hours , the number of aerosols in the chamber had approximately doubled , says Robinson . The researchers then added what they thought would be enough toluene to again double the SOA count . Toluene is a hydrocarbon of modest molecular weight , used as an octane booster in some fuels , and thought to be an important source of SOAs . As it turned out , aerosol concentrations barely budged . Results were similarly negative when the scientists added other common pollutants , the team noted in the March 2 Science . Contrary to prior belief , the recent experiments suggest that emissions of small hydrocarbon molecules actually account for only 15 percent of SOAs . Instead , the researchers suggest , most SOAs come from the oxidation of long-chain hydrocarbons that scientists had previously assumed would remain inert , says Robinson . When his team incorporated these new processes into computer models that simulate the formation and spread of air pollution , they found a 15- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities . Most such simulations consider the reactions among , at most , a few dozen atmospheric gases and pollutants . However , emissions from tailpipes and smokestacks typically contain hundreds , if not thousands , of hydrocarbons and other compounds . They have " so many different molecules , it 's a soup , " says Robinson . Scientists , he notes , are increasingly recognizing SOAs as " unpleasant surprises . " In fact , SOAs probably account for the majority of pollutants to which people are exposed . Robinson and his colleagues suggest that air-quality regulations may need to be revised to account for the most common SOAs . BIG FOOTPRINTS Megacities , despite their sprawl , occupy a relatively small part of the landscape . Even so , the air masses driven by Earth 's weather systems can carry a megacity 's pollution thousands of kilometers . Some atmospheric pollutants have extremely short lifetimes . Nitrogen oxides , for example , which form as by-products of fossil fuels burned at high temperatures , last only a couple of days before they react with other substances , says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Planck Institute for Chemistry in Mainz , Germany . Ozone , on the other hand , persists in the atmosphere for an average of 25 days and can waft across oceans . Because wind spreads air pollution , a region 's weather patterns dictate whether its megacities are aggressive exporters of bad air . Butler and his colleagues have used computer models to simulate how pollutants with various atmospheric lifetimes would spread from 30 large urban areas , including 20 megacities , throughout the world . Although pollution concentrations vary among the megacities , the researchers assumed that each urban area emitted a total of 1 kilogram of pollutant per second . The researchers also tracked whether the simulated pollutants rose to high altitudes or remained near ground level . On average , about 5.5 percent of a pollutant that lasts for 10 days in the atmosphere would remain at altitudes below 1 km and travel more than 1,000 km from Mexico City , the team found . Eventually , such substances could show up at concentrations exceeding 10 nanograms per cubic meter across an area of more than 1.2 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I31 ? 6 6 y itself , but it 's a small reach compared with that of pollution plumes from most other megacities , Butler and his colleagues report in the July 26 Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics . The simulation 's biggest exporters of bad air were cities at middle and high latitudes , where weather systems less frequently lift pollution to high altitudes , says Butler . Relative to its amount of emissions , the worst long-distance polluter was Moscow . More than 34 percent of a pollutant with a 10-day lifetime would travel more than 1,000 km from that city . Over time , such a pollutant could be found at concentrations of 10 ng/m3 or higher across more than 11.1 million km2 , an area larger than all of Europe . Long-lasting pollutants would eventually spread to cover the entire Northern Hemisphere , Butler notes . These include carbon monoxide , for example , which lasts about 60 days . Substances that last months or years , such as methane , would travel farther and diffuse worldwide . Results of such simulations , as well as data from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple fact that , as Gaffhey says , " We have one globe , and it has one atmosphere . " Sidebar SPREADING THE RISK - Computer simulations of conditions on March 18 , 2006 , show carbon monoxide generated in Mexico City spreading over the Gulf of Mexico and toward the United States . Red denotes the highest concentrations of the gas . Sidebar HAZY HAZARD - Winds carry pollutants from Mexico City into neighboring rural regions , blocking sunlight and decreasing visibility . Sidebar " We have one globe and it has one atmosphere . " - JEFFREY S. GAFFNEY , UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS , LITTLE ROCK <p>                     