@@389957

Headnote WITH ITS EMPIRE EXPANDING , THE SEARCH GIANT CAN HAVE AN UNPRECEDENTED BREADTH OF KNOWLEDGE ABOUT YOU . CAN WE TRUST IT WITH SO MUCH DATA ? BY SCOTT SPANBAUER FROM SEARCH TO e-mail , from calendars to spreadsheets and text documents , more and more of what PC users read and create flows through one firm : Google . Google 's pending purchase of online advertising giant DoubleClick ( the deal awaited Federal Trade Commission approval as we went to press ) will give it access to yet more information : the Web browsing histories collected by millions of DoubleClick cookies . Combine that data with what Google already knows through its homegrown services-Google Apps , Gmail , Google Calendar , Google Maps , Google Desktop , and many others-and the company has the potential to know more about you than any one entity ever has . ( see the chart , " What Google Knows About You , " on page 20 . ) The question is , can you trust Google with all that information about you ? And even if you trust Google @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all that information-government agencies , hackers , and rival businesses , to name a few ? Privacy and security experts say that the risk is significant , even if Google sticks to its famous " Do n't Be Evil " motto . According to Harvard Business School assistant professor and researcher Ben Edelman , companies face many risks when they use online software services such as Google 's , namely ioss of privacy , lack of physical data security , and lack of control over data retention . Who can access your Google-hosted data , and when , and under what circumstances ? Google itself has full access to your files , which are unencrypted . In fact , searching and indexing stored data are essential if Google is to continue serving its contextual advertising . DOUBLECLICK DEAL SHOULD GOOGLE RECEIVE approval for its acquisition of DoubleClick , it could become the single largest custodian of Internet user search and browsing histories , with few legal restrictions on using that data or sharing it with third parties . The Electronic Privacy Information Center filed a complaint with the FTC , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ability of Google to record and profile the activities of Internet users , whether they are personally identifiable or not ( find.pcworld.com/57487 ) . The FTC appears to be taking the matter seriously , requesting additional information from both Google and DoubleClick . The European Union 's privacy agency and the New York State Consumer Protection Board are also concerned about the purchase 's effect on browsing privacy . A Google FAQ page , however , insists that the acquisition , far from endangering privacy , will improve it , and that the company remains committed to respecting users ' privacy preferences ( see the FAQ at find . pcworld.com/57485 ) . Another danger in switching to hosted services like Google Docs and Spreadsheets and Google Calendar is that of losing access to your data . What happens when the office DSL connection goes down ? And how would you make last-minute changes to , say , a critical spreadsheet while you 're flying coast-to-coast ? The recent launch of Googie Gears ( find.pcworld. com/57479 ) , which will let you use online apps from Google and other companies without an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the service likely wo n't become widely available for several months . Until then , your data is off limits when you 're offline . " You 're accepting dramatically increased file management complexity-maybe for good reason-in order to get the benefit of having Google engineers keep everything running for you , " observes Edelman . He says ihat businesses need to consider not only the benefits of outsourcing server management but also the drawbacks of having to keep local versions of documents synchronized with the Google-hosted versions . Despite the uncertainty of Google 's plans for your personal data , the company itself is probably the least of your worries . Instead , warns Edelman , hackers or your business 's competitors could try to infiltrate your Google accounts via forged documents or other illegal methods . WARRANT SEARCH THE GOVERNMENT , TOO , might like to see what 's in your Gmail inbox and your Docs and Spreadsheets files , including when you created , accessed , or deleted the data . Since you identify yourself whenever you sign in io your account , Google could use logs for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ISP logs , to help confirm that it really was you who updated that spreadsheet or wrote that e-mail . Google must comply with search warrants and subpoenas in civil or criminal cases that target your data , just as you would if you stored your data on your own servers . The difference , however , is that Google has no obligation to inform you that it has received such a warrant and has turned over your files to the authorities . " You lose both factual and legal control over your documents if you use an online service like Google , " says former Department of Justice computer crime unit head Mark Rasch , current managing director of technology for forensic consulting firm FTI in Washington , D.C. " Google Apps makes the situation even worse , " Rasch adds , explaining : " This is not just communications , it 's all my documents and spreadsheets that are subject to subpoena , search warrant , or civil discovery . The hard part is that Google is under no legal obligation to notify me , and in particular kinds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notifying me . " Being left in the dark about these types of searches can also result in serious liabilities should your files contain sensitive client data and communications . " Let 's say I 'm a lawyer , and I 've got privileged information that I store using a Gmail account , " Rasch continues . " The government seizes that Gmail account and reads my files . Under the law , I must assert the attorneyclient privilege , or I have waived it , " he explains . In short , if Google chooses not to inform you of such searches , you have waived that privilege . Only strong encryption-a technology Google currently does not support-offers real privacy protection for documents kept online , according to Rasch . Harvard 's Edelman recommends using Google services just for specific business documents in which collaboration among geographically dispersed teams is unusually important . " I would n't move my whole business onto Google Apps , " he counsels . Google Apps and similar Web services certainly have appeal for many small and medium-size businesses . When San Francisco 's SFBay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interoffice communications , scheduling , and calendaring system , CIO Andrew Johnson considered " a slew " of products , including Microsoft Exchange and other systems that he would have to install and maintain in-house . He selected Google Apps Premier Edition ( the ad-free commercial version of Google Apps ) because of Google 's good reputation and his staffs familiarity with Gmail . Also , the Google services free the practice from setting up a significant IT structure . " We do n't want to spend the time tracking down server issues , maintaining servers , and paying up-front costs , " Johnson says . So far , SFBay has had a positive experience with Google Apps , which it uses for such tools as a shared phone-call log that receptionists , nurses , and physicians can view and update . Though core features are still being rolled out , Johnson has configured SFBay 's Google Apps account to comply with the privacy rules of the Department of Health and Human Services 's Health Insurance Portability and Accountability ( HIPAA ) regulations . " We 're taking it in little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FILES GOGGLE 'S ONLINE TROVE of sensitive personal and business data is proving attractive to law enforcement agencies , a fact not lost on the company : Last year it successfully warded off a Department of Justice subpoena demanding millions of search queries . ( This request , the company countered , was excessive and an invasion of user privacy . ) The search giant also recently announced that it would begin deleting IP address information-which can be used to identify users-from its logs after 18 months . However , these steps may not be enough to reassure the most security-conscious users of Google applications . " Even if you trust the service to do the right thing with the data , which I tend to do in the case of Google , " says Lauren Weinstein , cofounder of People for Internet Responsibility , " it does n't mean that someone wo n't come along and make demands for access to that data that would n't occur if the data was on your own machine . " Weinstein worries that if companies such as Google do n't take a stronger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislators , judges , and federal government agencies , may feel obliged to step in with solutions that could hamper all online services . " Not being evil is good , but it 's not good enough , " Weinstein says . " What you really need to do is not only not be evii , but you 've got to try to keep other people from doing evil with your magic . And that 's a harder step to take . " Sidebar " You lose both factual and legal control over your documents if you use an online service like Google . ' Sidebar " You 've got to try to keep other people from doing evil with your magic . And that 's a harder step to take . ' <p>                     