@@388540

Headnote Our prehistoric ancestors journeyed out of Africa on contested roads // It was the most momentous immigration ever , a population realignment that marked a startling departure for our species , Homo sapiens . After emerging in eastern Africa close to 200,000 years ago , anatomically modern people stayed on one continent for roughly 140,000 years before spreading out in force around the world . Then , from 40,000 to 35,000 years ago , our forerunners advanced into areas stretching from what is now France to southeastern Asia and Australia . For the past century , scientists have tried to retrace the intercontinental paths followed by ancient human pioneers and to reconstruct what happened when these intrepid travelers encountered other humanlike species , such as Neandertals , or Homo neanderthalensis . Neandertals originated in Europe around 130,000 years ago , having evolved from ancestors who had already lived there for hundreds of thousands of years . Researchers fiercely debate how H. sapiens came to dominate . Some propose that modern people drove related species to extinction and replaced them , thanks to mental and social advantages . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kin as intellectual equals and assimilated into their cultures before genetically overpowering them with larger populations . A third idea , known as multiregional evolution , posits that modern humans evolved simultaneously in Africa , Asia , and Europe through periodic population movements and interbreeding . From this minority perspective , modern people originated as early as 2 million years ago , not 200,000 years ago . Two new studies , both published in the Jan. 12 Science , inject new elements into the **32;6222;TOOLONG dispute . One investigation focuses on the South African " Hofmeyr " skull , recently dated to 36,000 years ago . The investigators conclude that modern humans emigrated from sub-Saharan Africa in the late Stone Age and produced European and western Asian populations that made rapid cultural strides . A second paper describes evidence for the presence of modern H. sapiens in western Russia more than 40,000 years ago . That would have been several thousand years before their spread across the rest of Europe . The authors of both studies suspect that modern humans advanced speedily out of Africa in various directions , out competing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The new discoveries ... reinforce the argument that the break between the Neandertals anil modern humans is a sharp one , " says archaeologist John F. Hoffecker of the University of Colorado at Boulder . Archaeologist Joao Zilhao of the University of Bristol in England contests that conclusion . He says that Hoffecker and other scientists have twisted the new findings to accommodate their preconceived notion that modern humans swarmed out of Africa , wiped out and replaced the Neandertals more than 30,000 years ago , and spread a uniquely advanced culture . More likely , in Zilhaos view , these species interbred , and their two complex cultures intermingled . " The replacement model has become an obstacle to modern-human-origins research , " he says . SOUTHERN LINK In 1952 , archaeologists working in a dry river channel near the town of Hofmeyr , South Africa , unearthed a partial H. sapiens skull , filled with hardened sediment . They tried to obtain a radiocarbon age for a piece of the fossil , but it was unsuitable for such measurement . A team led by anthropologist Frederick E. Grine of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different approach to gauge the Hofmeyr skull 's age . After measuring the rate of decay of radioactive material in the sediment packed into the skull , the researchers concluded that the specimen dates to about 36,000 years ago , a time when modern humans were leaving Africa in droves . In a series of anatomical comparisons , Grine and his coworkers have also found that the Hofmeyr skull looks more like European H. sapiens skulls from 30,000 to 20,000 years ago than like the skulls of Africans , Asians , or Europeans from the past few centuries . Moreover , the Hofmeyr skull 's relatively long head and flat face contrasts with Neandertals ' shorter heads and sloping faces , the researchers say . Grine 's data fit a scenario in which " 36,000 years ago , modern human populations of sub-Saharan Africa and Europe shared a very recent common ancestor , one that likely expanded from eastern Africa 60,000 years ago , " remarks anthropologist Ted Goebel of Texas A &M; University in College Station . Migrating groups of modern humans spread out in separate directions , Goebel asserts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : others forged east into Asia , reaching Australia by around 50,000 years ago . Populations represented by the Hofmeyr skull then waited awhile before heading north . They needed to become capable of surviving Europe 's cold , dry climate and dealing with Neandertals , in Goebel 's view . DNA studies suggest that sets of genes carried by the first modern humans spread into Europe and western Asia by 45,000 years ago . After " a short period of interaction , " modern humans " northern thrust led to the Neandertals ' demise , in Goebel 's view . Recent advances in radiocarbon dating show that the overlap of modern humans with Neandertals in Europe lasted only 1,000 to 2,000 years , according to archaeologist Paul Mellars of the University of Cambridge in England . Incoming H. sapiens populations were better equipped and better organized to deal with severe cold than resident Neandertals were , Mellars argues in the Feb. 23 , 2006 Nature . " This could have delivered the coup de grce to the Neandertals in many parts of western and central Europe , " Mellars says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he envisions a far different evolutionary scenario than Grilles team does . For now , Zilhao says , 36,000 years represents a minimum estimate of how long ago sediment clogged the South African fossil . The skull 's large proportions and thick bones suggest that that it could be up to 100,000 years old , he notes . Only measurements of the decay of radioactive uranium in the skull itself-which have yet to be conducted-can narrow down its age , in his opinion . If the age estimate made by Grille and his colleagues holds up , then fossil evidence not mentioned in their report challenges their notion of southern Africans moving into Europe and setting off cultural fireworks , Zilhao says . Those fossil finds suggest that the Hofmeyr individual belonged to a group that arrived in southern Africa long after other modern humans had settled there . The group then stayed put rather than relocating to Europe , Zilhao speculates . For instance , the new data reveal an anatomical gulf between the Hofmeyr individual and present-day hunter-gatherers in South Africa . In the same vein , other researchers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fossils at Border Cave , a 70,000-year-old South African site . The Hofmeyr skull also differs in many respects from the skulls of H. sapiens previously discovered at two 100,000-year-old sites in Israel , further cementing its status as an African latecomer , Zilhao says . Most researchers regard the Israeli fossils as evidence of an early human migration from eastern Africa that never approached the scale of later population thrusts . " These facts should lead to the conclusion that the Hormeyr fossil documents a migration of early modern Europeans into subSaharan Africa between 40,000 and 30,000 years ago , " Zilhao concludes . He proposes that large numbers of modern humans , nurtured in the bounty of Africa 's tropical savannas , entered Europe around 40,000 years ago and encountered relatively small numbers of Neandertals . Europe 's harsh glacial conditions slowed Neandertal population growth , but Neandertals ' mental and cultural capabilities matched those of H. sapiens , in Zilhao 's view . The two species then interbred , producing offspring with an unusual mosaic of skeletal traits , Zilhao says . Within a few thousand years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , erasing all traces of the smaller population 's DNA . Anthropologist Erik Trinkaus of Washington University in St. Louis concurs . Fossil evidence indicates that , after leaving eastern Africa , the earliest modern humans interbred with other Homo species that they encountered , Trinkaus holds . This phenomenon would have occurred most often in geographically dead-end regions , including southern Africa and western Europe , where various immigrant populations accumulated . This would explain why the Hofmeyr skull exhibits not only modern-human traits but also so-called primitive characteristics , such as a brow ridge and large cheek teeth , Trinkaus says . Similarly , a 40,000-year-old H. sapiens skull found in Romania 2 years ago contains a mix of modern-human and Neandertal features . Trinkaus and his colleagues describe the skull in the Jan. 23 Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . He mentions that other finds , such as a 25,000-year-old skeleton of a youth found in Portugal , also include a montage of H. sapiens and Neandertal traits suggestive of interbreeding . " Far more-complex population interactions occurred as modern humans dispersed into southern Africa and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . EASTERN PIONEERS Researchers have long focused on western Europe as a destination for modern humans leaving Africa . But Colorado 's Hoffecker says that new evidence puts H. sapiens in what 's now southern Russia between 45,000 and 42,000 years ago , a few millennia prior to any incursions into the rest of Europe . In his view , the Russian discoveries underscore unique cultural advances achieved by modern humans but not by Neandertals . This idea serves as a linchpin of the replacement model of human evolution . Hoffecker and an international team of coworkers base this conclusion on work at ancient sites clustered near the town of Kostenki , about 250 miles south of Moscow . Russian investigators first discovered Stone Age material at Kostenki in 1872 . Twenty-one prehistoric locations have now been identified there . Hoffecker 's group dated the oldest Kostenki occupations by radiocarbon measurements of burned wood and assessments of the decay of radioactive substances in the soil . Also , artifacts in these deposits lie just beneath ash that was created in a massive volcanic eruption dated elsewhere in Europe to 40,000 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ researchers uncovered tools and other objects that they consider remnants of a unique late Stone Age culture . Modern humans probably fashioned all the artifacts discovered so far , Hoffecker says . Remains include bone points and narrow , sharpened stone implements , which might have been used to carve bone . The team also found a piece of carved ivory that might represent a person 's head , and shells with holes punched in them . Much of the stone used for tools came from areas about 100 miles from Kostenki , the scientists hold . They say that shells at Kostenki were probably imported from the Black Sea , more than 300 miles away . Some artifacts found below the ancient ash consist of relatively simple stone tools typical of those used by H. sapiens and Neandertals more than 50,000 years ago . Such artifacts , along with the bones of reindeer and other large animals , also turn up in Kostenki sediment from about 30,000 years ago . Hoffeeker regards these finds as modern-human tools for butchering game after hunting expeditions . Similar prehistoric implements have been unearthed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ H. sapiens could have survived the brutal cold , he contends . Moreover , two teeth uncovered among Kostenki 's oldest artifacts appear to have come from modern humans , Hoflecker adds . Hoffeeker suspects that modern humans who arrived at Kostenki more than 40,000 years ago came from further east , perhaps central Asia . H. sapiens emigrating to southern Russia at that time probably avoided any extensive dealings with Neandertals that already inhahited the only direct route north from the Near East . Wherever Kostenki 's ancient residents came from , Goehel agrees that they were " a pioneering group of modern humans . " SITE FIGHT Efforts to portray Stone Age Kostenki as the exclusive preserve of modern humans-apparentry because they wielded cultural advances that allowed them to adapt to a harsh locale avoided by Neandertals-rankle other researchers . " No one has a realistic idea of which biological group . Homo sapiens or Neandertals , was responsible for the Kostenki material , " Trinkaus says . Since modern humans and Neandertals made comparable tools beginning around 40,000 years ago , only the discovery of substantial skeletal remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he asserts . The two teeth found at Kostenki could have come from either species , in his opinion . Anthropologist John Hawks of the University of Wisconsin-Madison suggests on his blog ( http : **26;6256;TOOLONG ) that people and Neandertals simultaneously inhabited Kostenki more than 40,000 years ago . Basic stone tools found at the Russian sites resemble those already attributed to central European Neandertals , whereas other ancient-Kostenki finds have more in common with European H. sapiens material , he says . In contrast , Zilhao suspects that Neandertals monopolized Kostenki at first . The oldest remains uncovered by Hoffecker 's group " represent a Russian example of the northward extension of the Neandertal range , " he says . Neandertal sites in England , France , and Poland contain artifacts similar to those that Hoffecker attributes to modern humans at Kostenki , Xilhao contends . These Neandertal finds include small , sharpened stone blades , decorated hone tools , and hone ornaments that apparently held symbolic significance tor their makers . After hosting Neandertals for a few thousand years , Kostenki shows no sign of occupation between 36,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , stone and bone implements like those made by European modern humans began to appear . This pattern fits with his view that Neandertals and modern humans developed comparably complex cultures , with Neandertals eventually getting absorbed by larger H. sapiens populations . To make a long , ancient story short , the Hofmeyr skull and the Kostenki remains wo n't resolve quarrels over how modern humans ; spread from Africa to all corners of the world . But they may encourage scientific clashes along some intriguing new routes . Sidebar DIGGING THE PAST - Workers excavate deep Into a site near the Russian village of Kostenki , where recent discoveries may have come from modern humans who reached the area more than 40,000 years ago . Sidebar PREHISTORIC PIECES - Newly recovered Kostenki artifacts include stone and bone objects , most shown in two views . The triple array ( top center ) shows a chunk of carved ivory that may be a representation of a human head , portrayed here from three different angles . Sidebar MOSAIC MUG - A Stone Age skull found in a Romanian cave contains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a relatively flat face-that some researchers regard as the product of interbreeding between Neandertals and modern humans . // <p>                     