@@405425

Sandra Bullock has loads of screen appeal . Now if she could just find a good vehicle for it . If Hollywood were to crown a king and queen of nice movie stars , Sandra Bullock would be on a throne next to Tom Hanks . She 's been a headliner since the mid-1990s ( she turns 45 in July ) without incurring the hatred or envy of the town 's rapier-tongued gossips . Apparently she is kind to children , dogs and the little people on the set . Onscreen , Bullock personifies the wholesome , working-class common sense of the ideal friend or girlfriend . From her first hits , Speed and While You Were Sleeping , she knew how to get laughs and produce tears with equal , unforced agility . And with Julia Roberts ' four-year break from starring roles ( until this spring 's Duplicity ) , Bullock is the one enduring star actress of her age . All this stokes a rooting interest in film folk and audiences alike . They just wish she were in better movies . You could count @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thumb . Her two early hits , plus A Time to Kill and the sinfully enjoyable Miss Congeniality , would just about exhaust the list . Even adding the very debatable large-ensemble Crash would n't give her a high batting average , considering her subpar romantic comedies ( Two Weeks Notice ) , dramas ( The Lake House ) and female-bonding weepies ( Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood ) . Yet every year or so , Bullock goes back in front of the camera , trying to prove there 's a place in movies for a star actress with a light , sure touch . And each time , her fans show up , hoping this will be the film that is as winning as they know she can be . The Proposal is n't it -- too predictable and schematic by half -- but it indicates what a good Sandra Bullock film might be . She plays Margaret Tate , the top-dog editor at a Manhattan publishing company who 's so hard , you could skate on her . Margaret routinely humiliates all her co-workers , especially her male assistant , Andrew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awful job because he wants to be promoted to an editor 's job . Fat chance . But now Margaret , a Canadian , is threatened with deportation unless she gets married to a U.S. citizen ... say , her male assistant . Strictly business : quick wedding , quicker divorce , promotion accomplished . Deal ? The movie plot of a successful career woman and her male secretary was actually a Hollywood staple in the ' 30s ( Man Wanted ) and ' 40s ( Take a Letter , Darling ) , long before the setup was common in American business . Here , the underling role allows Andrew to direct the kind of barbs at Margaret that all secretaries wish they could say with impunity to their bosses . ( For her to be sweet , he says , " is going to require that you stop snacking on children when they dream . " ) The Proposal also employs the antique device of the warring couple obliged to act like lovers . Margaret and Andrew have to meet his parents back home in Alaska and sell the pretense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smiles and private grimaces . Having created Margaret as a termagant , screenwriter Pete Chiarelli and director Anne Fletcher put her through a film-length rehab of tough love . You just know that her early nastiness will require a public confession and that if she mentions she ca n't swim , she will get embarrassingly wet . But through all the creaky scaffolding , one can catch glimpses of the fine comedy this could have been -- if only the characters were n't cardboard , the plot not a course in corrective behavior . Reynolds has a gentle , manly appeal , and Bullock , when Margaret cracks into humanity , lets her charm radiate like a lighthouse beam over a sea of sludge . So Bullock faces two big challenges . She 's a star actress at a bad time for the breed ( a recent Forbes study showed that Hollywood 's 10 top-earning actors were all men ) , and her gifts of subtle endearment just are n't needed in movies that force their stars into Manichaean opposition . Make that three problems : the rise of younger actresses like Reese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ built their own constituencies with hit movies and are now more likely than Bullock to be offered the few good romantic-comedy scripts that get written these days . Being liked is great , but Hollywood loves nothing more than a solid movie that proves a star personality can again be box-office gold . PULLQUOTE With each new film , she tries to prove there 's a place in modern movies for a star actress with a light , sure touch                     