@@411418

It 's time to change the Catholic Church 's strict rules against eucharistic sharing with non-Catholic Christians , argues Meinrad Scherer-Emunds . Photograph // AFEW YEARS AGO , MY WIFE AND I INVITED HER PARENTS to join us for Mass at our new parish . We had been happy to find that the parish we had recently moved into was an extraordinarily vibrant community widely known both for its diversity and for its rich liturgies . Shortly after we had settled into our pew , my Lutheran father-in-law poked me and pointed to the inside cover of the missalette he had started to read . " Well , that 's a fine how-doyou-do , " he grumbled as he showed me the boldfaced " Guidelines for Receiving Communion " that spelled out the letter of the ( canon ) law : " It is a consequence of the sad divisions in Christianity that we can not extend to non-Catholic Christians ) a general invitation to receive Communion . . . . Reception of the Eucharist by Christians not fully united with us would imply a oneness which does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pray . " The Catholic Church 's strict rules against non-Catholics receiving the Eucharist in Catholic liturgies-and its even stricter rules against Catholics receiving Communion in nonCatholic liturgies-have been a source of great irritation , frustration , offense , and pain both for the many Catholics who have family members from other Christian churches and in Catholics ' ecumenical relations with these churches . The printed guidelines in the missalette are just the least of it . Consider the following real-life examples : Over the past couple of years , several heads of state  --  including President Bill Clinton and Britain 's Tony Blair  --  made headlines for various entanglements with Catholic Communion regulations . When the Irish President Mary McAleese , a devout Catholic , received Communion in the Anglican Cathedral in Dublin two years ago , Irish bishops blasted her publicly . The Archbishop of Dublin said it was a " sham " for Catholics to take Protestant Communion , implying that all Protestant Communion services were a sham . Not a few Catholic priests during Mass on the high feasts of Christmas and Easter make a special point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not welcome at the Lord 's table . Some presiders are so concerned about potentially " illicit " communers that , even during funeral services and wedding celebrations , they issue stern warnings from the pulpit whenever they know that family members from other Christian denominations are present . When it was time for Communion during the installation Mass for a Catholic bishop in Massachusetts , ushers were posted to guard the front pews to make sure the Episcopalian , Lutheran , Baptist , and other Protestant " honored guests " stayed in their place . THE CATHOLIC CHURCH 'S GENERAL PROHIBITION OF EUCHAristic sharing with Protestants is , of course , most acutely felt within the many mixed marriages today . According to a recent survey , close to 40 percent of all post-Vatican II Catholics are married to non-Catholics . Like Ray Temmerman , a Catholic who with his Anglican wife is active in the international Association of Interchurch Families , many mixed married couples wonder : " We are told that in marriage we become one flesh . ' We are equally told that unless we eat of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his blood , we have no life in us . This one ' that God has created then wonders : Where is the one ' to worship , to take and eat the Body of Christ , to take and drink his Blood ? . . . How many more Sundays must that one ' whom God has joined together be put asunder ? " It is true that in recent years the Catholic Church has made some cautious , limited steps toward opening up eucharistic sharing in the context of mixed marriages . A 1993 directory of the Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity specifically recognized marriages between baptized Catholics and non-Catholics as instances of the " grave and pressing need " required by canon law for exceptional admission to Communion . And guidelines issued since then by the Archbishop of Brisbane , Australia ; the German bishops ; and the South African Bishops ' Conference have made pastoral provisions that , under certain conditions , allow non-Catholic spouses to receive Catholic Communion on a regular basis . However , in most parts of the Catholic world , including the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any and all requests of mixed married couples to receive Catholic Communion together . Furthermore , Catholics officially are still categorically forbidden from going to Communion in Protestant churches . FEW CATHOLICS KNOW THAT IN THE VARIOUS POST-VATICAN fI ecumenical dialogues between Catholics and Protestams a significant consensus has been reached on the theology of the Eucharist . The " sticking point " in the Catholic denial of eucharistic sharing is not , as many mistakenly assume , any substantial disagreement regarding the Real Presence but the official Catholic view that Protestant ministers have a " defect " in their ordination because of a Reformation-era break in the apostolic succession . The ecumenical dialogue with Protestant churches is currently stalled because of an unwillingness by the Catholic Church to act on some of the proposed ways to make a mutual recognition of ordination possible . The main argument of the defenders of the restrictive Catholic practice is that a more open Communion would be dishonest , because it would imply a church unity not yet realized . Common worship and eucharistic sharing , the Second Vatican Council 's Decree on Ecumenism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " which is why it is ruled out when done " generally and indiscriminately . " But the ecumenism decree also says that eucharistic sharing advances unity and that " the gaining of a needed grace sometimes commends " such sharing . Pope John Paul II , in his 1995 encyclical on ecumenism , Ut Unum Sint , notes as " a source of joy . . . that Catholic ministers are able , in certain particular cases , to administer the sacrament of the Eucharist . . . to Christians who are not in full communion with the Catholic Church . " Thus the Catholic Church already recognizes that there are exceptions to this rule . In fact , even though it has no full unity with the Orthodox Churches either , it welcomes Orthodox Christians to the eucharistic table because their ordinations are not seen as " defective . " ( Ironically , in this case , the Orthodox Church is generally more cautious and unwilling to proceed . ) As difficulties continue on an official level , many Catholics and non-Catholics have , of course , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ E. Marty has called the " quiet smuggling of Communion elements . " Many says he has " communed Catholic cardinals and been offered the sacraments by them , not covertly , but also , inevitably , not as a joyful public sign of realized common life in the Body of Christ . " According to several sources , even Pope John Paul II has on different occasions intentionally communed Protestant church leaders and ambassadors . Author Father Joseph Girzone says a Catholic archbishop has told him that the pope did so during a Mass in his private chapel with Lutheran bishops not long ago . Girzone says he intends to follow the pope 's " good example . " CERTAINLY , FOLLOWING THE POPE 'S EXAMPLE-AND ONE 'S own conscience-and participating in eucharistic sharing with other churches remains a widespread , valid , and honorable option for Christians today . But the larger question remains : Why on earth should Catholics even worry so much about whether other baptized Christians might sneak a piece of our Lord 's Body and Blood from us ? Do we really believe that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If we truly believe that the Eucharist is the source and summit of our faith lives , would n't we want to make that special " needed grace " as widely available as possible rather than looking for ways to restrict access to it ? Recalling the meal at Emmaus , the Rev. John Muddiman , a member of the Anglican-Roman Catholic International Commission , recently asked in a letter to the Tablet , " What assurance did the risen Christ have that Cleopas and his companion had the right beliefs and were in good standing before he celebrated the Eucharist for them ? After all , they doubted even his Resurrection . But their simple invitation to stay and eat ' was sufficient for divine grace to comply . " Considering Christ 's example , it seems to me that the Catholic Church should work harder to find ways to remove the scandal of division at the banquet of life . How much more appropriate than the guidelines cited above sounds the concise , positively worded invitation that is printed on the bulletins of one of the two parishes my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communion with us today if you are a baptized Christian who believes Christ is present in the sacrament and forgives your sins . " Of course , as you might have guessed , this is not our Catholic but our Lutheran parish . Author Affiliation By MEINRAD SCHERER-EMUNDS , managing editor of U. S. CATHOLIC . // <p>                     