@@405436

The traffic-jammed town surrounding one of America 's biggest malls is being turned into a pedestrian-friendly community . Is this the city of the future ? . ? There 's something deeply wrong with Tysons Corner . For starters , Virginia 's bustling commercial district -- the 12th biggest employment center in the nation -- has more parking spaces than jobs or residents . What was a quaint intersection of two country roads 50 years ago is now a two-tiered interchange with 10 lanes of traffic-choked hell ; try to cross it on foot , and you 're taking your life into your hands . Located about 14 miles west of downtown Washington , the nearly 1,700-acre area is home to fortresses of unfriendly buildings surrounded by oceans of parking lots , as well as single-story car dealerships , strip malls , fast-food joints , highways and a big toll road . Pedestrians are personae non gratae here . What few sidewalks exist often abruptly end . The overgrown office park -- which sprang up around Tysons Corner Center , the ninth largest indoor mall in the U.S. -- has become the opposite of a bedroom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only 17,000 live here . " Every morning , 110,000 cars arrive , and they all leave at 5 , " says Clark Tyler , a former federal transportation official and the chairman of a task force whose ambitious goal is to help transform Tysons into a full-fledged city -- where people live and work and play 24 hours a day . The blueprint , which has been four years in the making and calls for a dense , walkable green city , is a model of public-private partnership and the largest such undertaking in the country . The implications of this redevelopment project stretch far beyond Fairfax County , as suburbs and exurbs across the country look for ways to repair the damage from five decades of outward , rather than upward , expansion . There are scores of so-called edge cities that have popped up near urban centers , suburbs on steroids that often grew around a giant mall -- like King of Prussia , Pa. ( outside Philadelphia ) , and Schaumburg , Ill . ( Chicago ) . " If Tysons can be retrofitted , then there 's great hope for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an associate professor of architecture at the City College of New York and a co-author of Retrofitting Suburbia . The impetus for unsprawling Tysons is a 23-mile extension of the Metro line that will connect Washington proper to Dulles International Airport , with four stops in Tysons along the way . The U.S. Department of Transportation agreed in March to cut a $900 million check for the rail line . But a simple park-and-ride project this is not . To help more people live closer to their jobs , the proposed land-use plan , which the county is expected to adopt in October , calls for adding as much as six times the number of existing housing units , bringing the total to 50,000 . And to encourage the use of mass transit , the plan envisions a Tysons Corner where 95% of its land will be within half a mile of a train station or within 600 ft. of shuttle routes designed to ferry passengers to Metro stops and neighboring suburbs . Money from an increase on the Dulles toll road and special tax districts will help Uncle Sam pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools , police stations and storm-water management systems will likely come from the county , property owners and developers -- who will be asked to pay extra for the privilege of helping Tysons build toward a goal of doubling or even tripling its density . Whoa -- triple the density ? Is n't the goal to ease traffic , not to add to it ? What can be hardest for people to wrap their minds around is that to undo sprawl -- and the traffic and smog and environmental waste that come with it -- we might have to build a lot more on top of it . Right now , nearly half the land in Tysons is either roadway or parking . The new incarnation will be less car- and more people-oriented . So instead of there being stores and offices set back from the road , with parking in between , new mixed-use buildings will hug the sidewalk , with retail on the first floor to accommodate passersby . Buildings will be squeezed together , Manhattan-style . " The new plan ? It 's basically known as urbanism , " says Fairfax County planning commissioner Walter Alcorn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ version of slum clearance , with parking lots and strip malls getting razed and superblocks -- long stretches uninterrupted by cross streets -- getting chopped up to create short , walkable city blocks . But whereas slum clearance was enforced by local governments , which used and in some cases abused eminent domain to reinvent neighborhoods , the Tysons retrofit almost entirely depends on 150 or so private landowners . ( Aside from a fire station , a school and a few public watersheds , Tysons has almost no public land . Like most other places in Fairfax County , Tysons is unincorporated and is overseen at the county level . ) The government wo n't mandate these changes . Rather , property owners will apply individually to increase the scale or density of their holdings , to tear down or add to what is already standing , and work together to hammer out a grid of streets to replace the maddening squiggles of private , dead-end roads -- a grid that Alcorn says is as important as the Metrorail in battling congestion . If all that sounds like a tremendous amount of faith in the private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plum location between Washington and Dulles , the major highways cutting through it -- has made it endlessly marketable to businesses despite the suburban gridlock . Unlike abandoned subdivisions and flailing inner cities , Tysons thrives ( hence the traffic ) . The Hilton Corp . plans to move its headquarters here from Beverly Hills , Calif . Volkswagen and Gannett already call Tysons home . Striking a Balance Property owners big and small have been drooling over the development possibilities . For instance , the Georgelas Group is planning to scrap the car dealership and other low-rise buildings sitting on the 20 or so acres it owns in Tysons to create a mixed-use development near a soon-to-be-built train station . Aaron Georgelas , the group 's managing partner , is happy to donate land to the street grid , since the county will allow him to build higher because of it . He also knows that tearing down revenue-generating buildings to put up new ones -- even if they 're three times as large -- is a gamble , particularly in the current economic climate . " You very well could be handing that property over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McLean , Va. , and other single-family enclaves near Tysons are more risk-averse . Members of the 95-year-old McLean Citizens Association ( MCA ) say they genuinely support Tysons ' growth and realize its inevitability -- but where , they ask , will the proposed 85,000 new residents play soccer , go to school or seek police protection ? " We do n't want to see it grow faster than the infrastructure to take care of it , " says MCA president Rob Jackson . The task force agrees and wants the county to build a tit-for-tat system into the redevelopment plan to ensure that private development moves in lockstep with the public amenities needed to support it . The other fear : that Metrorail or not , more people will equal more car traffic . Urban-design experts like Williamson insist that adding homes reduces traffic , as long as things like mass transit , supermarkets and dry cleaners are within walking distance . " It 's not so much about how many people have cars , " she says . " It 's about how they use them . " But in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Massachusetts , released a traffic study based on the land-use plan and concluded that despite the mass-transit options , the proposed influx of residents , plus an expected 100,000 new jobs , will result in more congestion . " Maybe , " responds task-force chairman Tyler . " But it will have a lot less traffic than if Tysons keeps developing the way it is . " The plan does n't call for narrowing major traffic arteries -- a futile endeavor that Tyler likens to " unfrying an egg "  - -  but it does n't call for widening them either . Creating bike lanes and crosswalks will help make the area less inhospitable to nondrivers . But what happens if Tysons does n't bulk up enough to wipe out the sprawl ? That wo n't happen , says Sharon Bulova , chairwoman of the Fairfax County board of supervisors . Enough landowners have already detailed their visions and are simply waiting for the official go-ahead in October to start submitting rezoning applications . And if the economy slows down the redevelopment ? " Then it waits , " says Bulova . " You do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's a new city . This transformation will happen over 30 , 40 , 50 years . " After all , it took developers 45 years to make Tysons this big of a mess . It 's going to take them some time to fix it . PULLQUOTE ' You do n't adopt a new plan and , boom , there 's a new city . This transformation will happen over 30 , 40 , 50 years . '  - -  SHARON BULOVA , CHAIRWOMAN OF FAIRFAX COUNTY SUPERVISORS BOARD BOX CONGESTION Some 120,000 people work in Tysons Corner , Va. , but only 17,000 live there . To transform this hotbed of suburban gridlock into a green , walkable city , a soon-to-be-adopted plan -- as envisioned by our artist -- calls for as much as tripling the current square footage by expanding upward , with the tallest buildings located next to four new train stations , which should be completed by 2013 HOUSING To help turn this overgrown office park into a real city , Tysons ' redevelopment task force wants to add as much as six times the number of existing housing units -- bringing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they work . Key challenges include getting private landowners to create a grid of streets and ensuring that development does n't outpace the infrastructure to support the proposed 85,000 new residents RECREATION Tysons wants to be a truly livable city where people not only work but also play . That 's why the land-use plan calls for nearly a tenth of the city 's 1,700 acres to be turned into parks and other public spaces . Developers who want to build would help foot the bill for community projects                     