@@390978

1 You know that if you have high cholesterol , you 're at greater risk of having a heart attack . Now add another threat : When researchers at Boston 's Brigham and Women 's Hospital analyzed the health histories of nearly 28,000 women , they found that the higher a woman 's cholesterol level , the greater her chance of having a stroke , even if she was otherwise healthy and had no family history of heart disease . 2 Think you 're too young ? Middle-aged people are at risk , too . And women are even more vulnerable than men : In a recent survey at UCLA , females ages 45 to 54 were twice as likely as males to say they 'd had a stroke . Why the difference ? During midlife , both blood pressure and cholesterol tend to rise more rapidly in women than in men , researchers speculate . 3 Alert ! Women are also more likely than men to report unusual stroke symptoms , a study from Michigan State University has found . This means that even if a woman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right diagnosis in time to receive the clot-busting drug tPA and other lifesaving treatments . Both sexes usually suffer such traditional stroke symptoms as sudden numbness , weakness , confusion , loss of balance , trouble seeing , or difficulty speaking . But more women than men describe non-classic symptoms , including loss of consciousness or fainting , sudden breathing troubles , a fall , and a seizure . Call 911 if you experience any of these symptoms , and be sure the medical personnel know that the problem came on quickly , says Julia Gargano , who headed the study . For tPA to work , you must start treatment within three hours of the onset of symptoms . TO GET YOUR HUSBAND ON THE EXERCISE BIKE ... Tell him about a recent study at the University of California , Berkeley . Researchers found that women who sniffed a chemical in men 's sweat experienced greater sexual arousal . Their heart rates sped up , their breathing increased , and they were in a better mood . Easier to Swallow Than Electrolysis In the " ca n't hurt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excess facial hair , try drinking two cups of spearmint tea a day . In a small Turkish study , women who did this for five days had a significant drop in levels of circulating testosterone , a male hormone that can lead to heavy hair growth . To make the tea the way the researchers did , pour 1 cup boiling water over 1 heaping teaspoon dried spearmint leaves ; steep for 5 to 10 minutes . Note : You might want to offer your husband a different beverage . Four or more cups of spearmint tea a day can lower a man 's sex drive due to the drop in his testosterone levels . Online Drug Danger Last winter , a number of people who ordered drugs through Internet pharmacies received an antipsychotic drug called haloperidol instead of the medication they 'd requested . As a result , several patients ended up in the ER with breathing difficulties . Then in May , the FDA issued a warning about a run of counterfeit drugs sold online : In some cases , people who had ordered the weight-loss drug Xenical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarming , at least one patient got a different diet drug altogether . To help protect yourself , use online pharmacies that are members of the PharmacyChecker.com Verification Program . And when you receive your order , you can check a pill 's appearance at Drugs.com ( click on Drug Image Search ) . This is n't foolproof  --  some counterfeits are indistinguishable from the real thing  --  but you may be able to spot a poor copy . The FDA has more safety tips at fda.gov/buyonline . AT LAST EASING JAW PAIN  --  NO DENTIST REQUIRED Treatment for temporomandibular joint disorder  --  problems with the muscles and joint that control jaw movement  --  can be as challenging as the ailment itself . ( Even the name is a challenge : Once known as TMJ disoarder , it is now called TMD . ) Dental appliances and surgery can be costly and may not work . But a low-tech approach combining biofeedback ( to learn control of muscle tension ) and cognitive-behavioral therapy ( for guidance on relaxation techniques , stress management , and coping with pain ) can provide relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dallas , TMD patients who underwent a six-session training program in these two therapies reported significantly less pain a year later and made fewer visits to the doctor for jaw problems than control patients who received only usual dental care . YOU MAY LOSE BONE STRENGTH if you diet without exercising . In a study at Washington University , dieters who dropped weight simply by cutting calories lost 2.2 percent of bone density in two areas prone to fractures , the spine and hips . To help yourself , work out  --  and get enough calcium : A study at Rutgers found that if premenopausal women take in the recommended 1,000 mg a day , they can lose weight without losing bone . <p>                     