@@417080

His decade-long swath of conquest and butchery , the author contends , earned him a place as one of the true monsters of history . // An Islamic miniature of " lskander " on his horse Bucephalus from 1550 bears more of a resemblance to a Mongol khan than Alexander III , king of Macedon . Given the number of people Alexander killed , however , his personification as a ruthless Mongol conqueror is perhaps appropriate . // To the modern visitor , Thebes-the present-day community is built atop the ancient-is a pleasant , if little visited , Greek provincial town . Any farmer immediately feels at home among the surrounding rolling plains of what was once Boeotia . The mountains in the distance rise to provide watershed ; the scorching summer heat ensures bountiful vegetables and fruits ; the soil is heavy and black in its fertility . Climate , agriculture and terrain instantly explain the prominent place of ancient Thebes in Greek history-the site of an important Mycenaean citadel ( still unexcavated beneath the modern streets and shops ) , the seven-gated city of myth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later the critical fulcrum in the classic balance of power between Athens and Sparta , finally rising ascendant under Epaminondas in the late 4th century BC . What is usually forgotten about this rich history of Thebes is that the city came to an abrupt end in September 335 BC when Alexander III , newly crowned king of Macedon , destroyed the birthplace of Heracles-the people , the buildings , the farms-everything and everybody vanished in a matter of days . Alexander leveled the polis when Thebes chose not to join his puppet league of Greek states and instead opted for independence from Macedon on false rumors of Alexanders demise . Our ancient sources , Arrian , Plutarch and Diodorus , agree that Alexander butchered more than 6,000 Theban men , women and children in the streets of the city . The rest-more than 30,000 in number-were sold into slavery , with the profits invested in preparations for his upcoming campaign to " liberate " the Greek cities of Asia Minor from the " oppressive " Persian yoke . Arrian editorialized that the wholesale destruction of Thebes was a novel event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horror , as the houses and walls themselves were ra/ed and the land parceled out to neighboring communities that had joined in on the slaughter . The poet Pindar 's residence was one of the few dwellings saved , the story went . The demolition was an act of sheer state-sponsored terror , and by any proper definition a fair example of what we would now call ethnic cleansing . To mask his own culpability in the genocide , Alexander unloosed jealous Boeotian neighbors to run amok in the city . Like Serbians , Bosnians and Croatians , Boeotians had long nursed private grudges and old ethnic hatreds , and so made useful murderers for Alexander to employ once his army stormed Thebes and quashed formal resistance . Diodorus adds that " Greeks were mercilessly slain by Greeks , relatives were butchered by their own relatives , houses plundered , and children and women and aged persons who fled into the temples were torn from sanctuary and subjected to outrage without limit . " He adds , " Every corner of the city was piled high with corpses . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy initiatives-was no aberration but simply a foretaste of the entire Alexandrian approach to aggrandizement so successful later in Asia : the ultimatum of surrender , the preference of lethal force to negotiation , the subsequent obliteration of the enemy , the inevitable murder of women and children and razing of house and home , the dire warning to do the same to other would-be insurrectionists . Always , though , Alexander resorted to mythic flair and the dramatic to mask the barbarity . The sparing of the poet Pindar 's house to emphasize his Hellenism and the employment of Greek hirelings to spread or even disguise personal culpability were all part of Alexanders feigned reluctance to murder the innocent . To understand Alexander the Great , then , is to appreciate the 21-year-olds decision in September 335 to erase from the collective memory of Greece an entire city-in many ways the most illustrious polis in Hellenic history . The savagery at the end of Alexander 's life is well chronicled , but it is important to keep in mind that well before his decline into mysticism , drink and gratuitous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the very beginning of his royal tenure . Scholars are , of course , correct to shy away from blindly applying modern sensibilities to the ancient world . We should not find in history simplistic melodrama , rather than tragedy , by rounding up villains and heroes on whom to pass easy judgments , often as assuagement of our own moral dilemmas and anxieties in the present . Yet human experience has moral constants across time and space that are common to all cultures and can not be explained away ; by any fair measure Alexanders inaugural Theban holocaust puts his murder in league with ethnic obliterations of our own era-Adolf Hitler 's wartime retaliatory annihilation of occupied communities , Hafez Assad 's erasure of wayward Syrian villages , or Saddam Husseins gassing and butchery of Iraqi Kurds-all government-sponsored murder , passed off through propaganda and disinformation as the regrettable but inevitable wages of conflict . Who , then , was Alexander " the Great " ? The facts , though not the assessment , of his decade-long swath through Asia are generally beyond dispute . Upon ascension of the Macedonian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and military force eliminated all dynastic rivals and secessionary monarchs within two years . He ended for good the old idea of politically autonomous Greek city-states , leveling Thebes as a warning to idealistic , nostalgic statesmen like Demosthenes of Athens , and then invaded Asia Minor in 334 . After the victories at the Granicus ( 334 ) and Issus ( 333 ) , everything west of the Euphrates was his for the taking . The brutal conquest of Tyre and Gaza and the acquisition of Egypt itself cemented his southern flank . And after his victory at Gaugamela ( September 30 , 331 ) , the easteni satrapies and client states of Persia were without protection from Alexander 's onslaught . After a further five years of brutal subjugation of indigenous tribes and nomads in eastern Iran , Afghanistan and Bactria , he marched east of the Indus and defeated the Indian rajah Porus at the Hydaspes , marking the eastern limit of his global campaigning . Within a decade he had destroyed the Persian empire , brought Greeks 3,000 miles to the east , spread a veneer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machine in the hands of his seasoned marshals , dour realists eager to carve up his spoils . In 323 BC , Alexander died at age 33 , an alcoholic , weakened by malaria and old battle wounds , and very likely poisoned by his increasingly terrified associates . His immediate legacy ? Not much . To his contemporaries , Alexander in the years after his death was , to be frank , little more than an ingenious boy and impetuous frontline fighter who had run wild for a decade and left a rich source of booty for wiser and older men like Seleucus , Antipater , Antigonus and Ptolemy to haggle over and divy up . The Greeks on the mainland rejoiced at his death . Alexanders half-educated infatuation with Eastern mysticism and playacting at divinity failed to impress King Philip Us old guard of Macedonian veterans , who finally tired of the antics of this rather dangerous alcoholic . Indeed , not until the reign of the first Roman emperor , Augustus , three centuries later , was Philips son seen in his now-familiar role of Alexander Magnus . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world conqueror were obvious . Historians of the Roman Age , their sources traceable in a convoluted train back to contemporaries of Alexander himself , present both a " good " and " bad " Alexander-either an Achilles come alive whose youthful exuberance and piety brought Hellenism at last to its proper limits , or a megalomaniacal , drunken and indulgent thug , who butchered almost everyone who resisted him before turning on his father 's friends and compatriots , the very men whose loyalty and genius had created him in the first place . That debate continues today . // Alexander , shown on a white horse , throws himself into the Battle of the Hydaspes in May 326 BC with typical death-defying abandon , in The Defeat of Porus by Alexander the Great , by Franois-Louis Joseph Watteau . His slaughter of 20,000 Indians-the bulk of which typically occurred while following up the rout of their army-was relatively modest for him . // Alexander , shown on a white horse , throws himself into the Battle of the Hydaspes in May 326 BC with typical death-defying abandon , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joseph Watteau . His slaughter of 20,000 Indians-the bulk of which typically occurred while following up the rout of their army-was relatively modest for him . // Alexander himself claimed that his mission eastward was both Hellenic and divine : He was ( 1 ) to free the Asiatic Greeks from Persian satraps ; ( 2 ) to provide the muscle for the lofty ideal of Panhellenism by uniting the squabbling Greek poleis into a national federation on the mainland ; and ( 3 ) to punish the Persians , like some avenging divinity , for Xerxes ' invasion of Greece and the Persian firing of the Athenian acropolis . Alexander accomplished all three ostensible goals through undeniable military genius and gratuitous slaughter . But his real purpose was largely the quest for personal glory and theft on a continental rather than merely a provincial scale . In the place of an eroding imperial Achaemenid kleptocracy in Asia , he left behind fragmented but exploitive Greek monarchies , whose military dynamism was devoted mostly to enriching a tiny elite . More recent assessments have slowly evolved from 19th-century adulation to modernist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgments in contemporary biographies hinge on how one approaches the unavoidable topic of murder and slaughter so abundant in all our ancient sources . If the historian believes that killing the innocent and not-so-innocent on a vast scale in war is unfortunate but the inevitable cargo of territorial aggrandizement , political unification and " civilization , " then Alexander is a legendary figure who had the guts to overlook the bothersome details of the lives of nonentities in the pursuit of a higher , often metaphysical , agenda . German scholars in the pre-Nazi era-Johann Droysen , Hans Delbrck and Ulrich Wilcken-wrote hagiographies , whether influenced by the salutary effects of contemporary Prussian nationalism on German unification ( Alexander as Otto von Bismarck ) or true to the German tendency to appreciate conquest and military skill ( Alexander as Frederick the Great ) . Their iron man Alexander , then , is a gifted realist ahead of his times who salvaged what was left of Hellenism from lesser , squabbling city-states and restored that Greek legacy to its proper destiny as a superior cultural force in the world . Indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of warfare , Alexander provided a moral excellence-a Homeric gallantry-to the lucky men who followed him . In contrast , the doyen of Alexandrian studies , Sir W.W. Tarn , Grafted his Alexander as an idealistic Victorian , who rightfully shouldered the colonial burden in spreading a humanizing civilization to the East , fueled by a revolutionary gospel that Tarn called " The Brotherhood of Man . " Tarn-like Plutarch , who had earlier written a treatise " On the Virtue of Alexander " - saw the young king inaugurating civilization 's first communitarian effort at uniting the religions , races and cultures of the world under an all-knowing benevolent guidance . In Tarn 's hands , the forced mass weddings of Iranian girls and Macedonian soldiers , the foundations of Greek colonies far to the east , the inclusion of Persian bureaucrats into the Macedonian government , the king 's marriage to foreign princesses and the creation of a monotheistic philosopher-monarch , who dressed and often acted Eastern , became proof of Alexander 's sincerity in creating a world culture and government . Tarn 's Alexander-as-prophet dies hard . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greek government . Even as late as 1989 , N.G.L. Hammond could wax in his The Macedonian State , " Alexander 's ideas on race , nationalism , intermarriage , and religion are , or should be , an inspiration to us today ; and the fact that he put them all into effect in a span of thirteen years fills one with hope of what a man of genius may be able to do in our contemporary world . " Most contemporary classical scholars have been less charitable . For Ernst Badian , who brought a much-needed skepticism , if not cynicism , to our ancient literary sources , Alexander is a shrewd , ruthless plotter of immense talent , whose self-interest and singular drive for personal power always elucidate his otherwise apparently inexplicable behavior . Alexanders 13 years are hardly ones of " hope , " but rather a moral object lesson for governments on how not to rule . Peter Green agrees that Alexander was a coldblooded Machiavellian killer but is mystified why critics alternately need to hate or deify the man when his achievement is simply Hellenic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan , drink , love , hate and plot to a degree unmatched by contemporaries and thus achieved what every Greek desired , a Homeric immortality that is beyond simple good and evil . The most cynical-and gifted-of all historians of Alexander the Great has been an Australian , A.B . Bosworth , who brilliantly ignores Alexander 's legendary feats of endurance , military skill and personal magnetism to remind us always how his daily toll of human lives was adding up . // A 5th-century Armenian biography shows Alexander riding with officers of his Companion Cavalry . Alexander took a grisly toll of his own officers and men , executing hundreds without warning or legal trial . // Too often we moderns have forgotten Bosworth 's warnings and instead continue to glorify Alexander 's conquest . Yet to do so is either to neglect or to underappreciate the sheer cost in human lives of Alexander 's reign . We must forget the colorful anecdotes about Alexander 's smug retorts to Greek philosophers or his occasional sparing of a Persian on his knees to focus instead on the nameless thousands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his murdering falls into five categories : the sheer carnage he wrought on the battlefield in a constant and unnecessary war of aggrandizement ; the routine murder of defenders and civilians in sieges ; the slaughtering of tribes and villagers during years of policing and guerrilla warfare ; the often-forgotten human costs of his megalomaniacal , unnecessary and often crazed adventures ; and the more mundane casual extermination of rivals , friends , family and strangers . By the 4th century BC , it is true , more men were dying in all theaters of war . The limitations of traditional Greek infantry had become obvious to military leaders like Alexanders father , Philip II of Macedon . In the aftermath of the Peloponnesian War , the Greek city-states were no longer willing or able to allow conflict to be decided by pitched battle between phalanxes of heavy infantry , when capital and manpower were available to conduct sieges , man fleets and hire mercenary skirmishers . The results were that battle casualties-heretofore in the hundreds , perhaps occasionally reaching a few thousand-rose to unprecedented levels , as warfare expanded throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hampered by the agrarian parochialism of the city-states . More men now fought more often , more widely and in more deadly fashion . Philip II saw the advantage of total war and combined old ideas of the Greek phalanx with new approaches in weapons and tactics designed to wage war both continuously and far abroad . The result was the appearance of a veritable military machine , a complex body of professional hired killers arranged as pikemen , light infantry , missile troops and light and heavy cavalry . Macedonian military dynamism grew out of a complete repudiation of Greek yeomanry , a rejection not only of big shields , short spears and hoplite snobbery but a repugnance for the ideology that the battlefield should reinforce agrarian egalitarianism itself . This army Alexander inherited , and with it the idea that war meant not the defeat of the enemy , the return of the dead , the construction of a trophy and the settlement of existing disputes but rather the annihilation of all combatants and the destruction of the culture itself that had dared to field such opposition to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and destruction of the defeated enemy ensured battle casualties unimaginable just a few decades earlier . At the Battle of the Granicus ( May 334 BC ) , Alexander destroyed the Persian army outright , surrounded trapped Greek mercenaries and massacred them all-except 2,000 whom he sent back in chains to Macedon as a warning to other recalcitrant Greeks . Sources disagree over the precise casualty figures , but Alexander may have exterminated between 15,000 and 18,000 Greeks after the battle was essentially won-killing more Hellenes in a single day than the entire number that had fallen to the Persians at Marathon , Thermopylae , Salamis and Plataea combined . In his first battle to liberate the Greeks , it turned out that Alexander had killed more of them than all the Persian kings combined in more than a century and a half of trans-Aegean campaigning . Perhaps as many as 20,000 Persians fell as well at the Granicus-casualty figures themselves far higher than in any single hoplite battle in two centuries of warfare on the mainland . It is critical here to remember that Alexander himself-unlike the old hoplite generals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from their men-dressed ostentatiously , galloped at the front , plunged into the melee at the most dangerous moments and led his men in riding down the survivors , leaving the legacy of a battle commander who enjoyed killing , a modern Achilles who measured his worth by his own skill in personally spearing , stabbing or unhorsing as many of the enemy elite as he could get his hands on . The next year at Issus , against the grand army of Darius III himself , the cumulative totals of battle dead reached new magnitudes . Perhaps another 20,000 Greek mercenaries fell , and anywhere from 50,000 to 100,000 Persian recruits were dead by the end of the day . This was Western warfare taken to new heights of extermination , the Greek genius for tactics , logistics , technology and discipline shorn of ethical restraint . In the space of a year , Alexander had killed more Greeks in two engagements than had fallen in the entire history of pitched battle among the city-states-and he was only beginning . His subsequent victory at Gaugamela ( September 30 , 331 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not believe inflated casualty figures of over a quarter million . A few thousand more Greek mercenaries also fell . Most of the enemy were no doubt trampled or speared in the rout , given Alexanders novel practice of pursuit until exhaustion . There is no need to argue over the morality of such astronomical casualties-Xerxes , after all , had butchered Greeks in his invasion of 480-until we realize that all these battles were precipitated by Alexander alone and were integral to his systematic destruction of the Persian empire . At his fourth and last major battle victory , over the Indian prince Porus at the Hydaspes River ( 326 BC ) - which military historians have trumpeted as one of the finest examples of tactical excellence in the history of warfare-Alexander killed about 20,000 of the enemy . Very conservative figures suggest that in the space of just eight years Alexander the Great had slain well over 200,000 men in pitched battle alone , more than 40,000 of them Greeks . Thus , before we marvel at the tactical genius of Alexander the Great , we must acknowledge that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drilling , endless campaigning , considerable experience in pitched battles-and ultimately its ability and desire to shatter the enemy , break its formation and then annihilate the unarmed and fleeing . Alexander 's true military legacy was not tactical genius as much as the idea that constant campaigning requires the murder of all the enemy , Greek or Persian-his logic being that the more men he killed now the less he would face on the inevitable battlefield to come . In between these formal battles , Alexander stormed a host of both Greek and Persian cities . Exact figures of the dead , as in the case of battlefield casualties , are disputed , but reasonable inferences-given the additional populations of women , children and the aged-hint that far more were slain than all the combatants in his four formal battles put together . As a rule of thumb , we should assume that Alexander systematically stormed all cities in his path , beginning in Asia Minor , proceeding to the Syrian coast , then into the eastern satrapies of Persia and ending with the carnage of Indian communities in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assume a quarter million town and city residents were slaughtered between 334 and 324 , most of them civilian defenders who unfortunately lived in the path of Alexanders trek east . The most notorious and well-documented carnage , however , was at Tyre and Gaza . After seven months of heroic defense , Tyre fell on July 29 , 332 BC . We have no exact record of how many were lost in the city 's defense , but our ancient sources more or less agree that on the city 's final day of existence roughly 7,000 to 8,000 residents were butchered in the streets . Two thousand surviving males were then crucified as a lesson of the futility of resistance to Alexander the Great and his quest for a " Brotherhood of Man . " Perhaps anywhere from 20,000 to 30,000 women and children were enslaved . Tyre , like Thebes before , ceased to exist as a community . // An illustration from a 15th-century French history shows Alexander beheading and torturing various victims . Local revolts in Bactria led him to exterminate entire communities-8,000 in Cyropolis alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mallian tribes in the lower Punjab . Most of their villages were razed and their populations were butchered en masse. // Gaza , farther south on the Syrian coast , was next . After a two-month siege Alexander let his troops murder the city 's inhabitants at will . All males were exterminated ; perhaps 10,000 Persians and other Asiatics died . All captured women and children , numbering in the untold thousands , were sold into slavery . Alexander ordered Batis , the governor of Gaza , bound , his ankles pierced with thongs , and then had him dragged around the city , Achilles-style , until the tortured victim expired . Pitched battles and monthlong sieges are merely the more dramatic events that capture the imagination of military historians , eager to appreciate the lethality of the Macedonian phalanx and siege apparatus , or to honor the personal leadership of Alexander on the battlefield . For most of the decade , Alexander fought in obscurity in the East , systematically burning villages , murdering local elites and razing strongholds , what the encomiast Maj. Gen. J.F.C. Fuller once called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dramatic pitched battles against the Persians and Indians , and the storming of dozens of cities and military garrisons , Alexander waged a relentless and mostly forgotten dirty war of attrition against the nomadic and tribal peoples of what are now Afghanistan , Iran and the Punjab . The list of decimated peoples is nearly endless , but a small sampling can give some idea of the sheer number of tribes that were either pacified or exterminated . To the south of Susa the mountain villages of the Uxii of the Zagros Mountains were systematically sacked and looted , and the inhabitants were killed or displaced ( 331 BC ) . At the so-called Susian Gates , a gorge near the Fahlian River in western Iran , Alexander slaughtered the entire force of the satrap Ariobarzanes ( 331 ) ; only a handful of survivors escaped down the mountain . It took Alexander five days to hunt down and conquer the Mardi tribe of eastern Iran , who were then incorporated into Alexanders empire and forced to provide men , horses and hostages ( 331 ) . In Bactria Alexander began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An expatriate community of Greeks , the so-called Branchidae , were wiped out to a man . Then it was the turn of the Sacans of Sogdiana , whose forces were extinguished and territory ravaged . Convinced that the rich villages of the Zervashan Valley to the south had aided the rebellions in Sogdiana , in 329 he stormed their fortresses and executed all the defenders he found-8,000 alone were killed in the capture of Cyropolis . The revolts in Bactria and Sogdiana ( 329-28 ) were little more than two years of uninterrupted fighting , looting and executing . Yet with Alexander 's approach into India ( 327-26 ) the real barbarity begins . He massacred all the defenders along the Choes River in Bajaur . After promising the surrounded Assaceni their lives upon capitulation , he executed all their hired soldiers who surrendered . Their other strongholds at Ora and Aornus were likewise stormed , and we should imagine that the garrisons were put to death . The best example of Alexanders policy toward autonomous tribes and villagers in his path is that of the Mallians of the lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilian refugees were butchered-a word that is hard not to overuse-in the flight into the desert , prompting even Alexander apologist Tarn to confess the'campaign s " dreadful record of mere slaughter . " On his westward passage through the Gedrosian Desert in 325 , when his own men were not dying , Alexander destroyed the Oreitae . Arrian casually remarks that Alexanders lieutenant Leonnatus killed 6,000 of them in one engagement , and famine further depopulated the territory of the Oreitae . Any idea of the exact human costs for the subjugation of Bactria , Iran and India are of course impossible , but we should keep in mind that many of these villages and provincial strongholds were the homes of thousands , and after the arrival of Alexander , most of their communities were destroyed and their male defenders were either killed , enslaved or recruited . So much for Tarn 's idea that Zeno , the founder of Stoic philosophy , was inspired by Alexander when he formulated his " vision of a world in which all men should be .. . citizens of one State without the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in harmony with the Common Law immanent in the Universe , and united in one social life not by compulsion but only by their own willing consent or ... by Love . " Alexander was just as lethal outside of formal battle . On many occasions , his sheer recklessness and megalomania had disastrous consequences for friend and foe alike . Two examples stand out : the sacking and conflagration of Persepolis and the ill-starred crossing of the Gedrosian Desert . After the Persian capital was handed over in submission to Alexander , he allowed his Macedonians an entire day of plunder and killing . Diodorus says they slaughtered anyone they met , pillaged the houses even of the common people , carried off the women and sold into slavery any who survived the day of gratuitous killing . Plutarch , however , remarks that " there was much slaughter of the prisoners who were taken . " And Curtius adds that many city residents preferred either to jump off the walls with their wives and children or to torch their households and families rather than be gutted in the streets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the imperial treasury was carted off-few precious metals have ever been found in Persepolis by modern excavators-and the enormous palace torched amid a mass orgy of drunken debauchery . Fires probably spread beyond the palace and for a time left the capital uninhabitable . Documentary sources chronicle the immense loot gathered-120,000 talents by most accounts , the material bounty requiring 10,000 pairs of mules and 5,000 camels to carry away-but do not mention precise figures of the human cost . If Persepolis was capital of an empire of several million , and its population in the hundreds of thousands , we should imagine once again deaths in the thousands during the initial killing , subsequent enslavement and final deportations and dispersals . Even Alexanders own soldiers could pay for his often poorly planned and manic projects . Here one thinks immediately of his ill-fated idea of crossing the Gedrosian Desert , his trek in late summer of 325 BC along the northern coast of the Indian Ocean from the delta of the Indus River to the Persian Gulf . All ancient sources give lurid accounts of the suffering and death on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alexander embarked with any army of at least 30,000 combatants , followed by a lengthy train of thousands of women and children . Arrian , Diodorus , Plutarch and Strabo speak of frightful losses to thirst , exhaustion and sickness , and mention tens of thousands left dead . Even if modern scholars are gullible in citing casualties between 50,000 and 100,000 dead , it is nevertheless clear that in a few weeks Alexander caused more deaths among his own troops than occurred in a decade of losses to Persian and Indian soldiers . Why ? There were other , safer corridors of passage between Iran and India . Only a token force was needed to march along the route to secure supply depots for Nearchus and his fleet , which was cruising off the coast . The most plausible explanation for leading a huge army through such inhospitable lands was the sheer challenge that it offered to Alexander . There is ancient support for the idea that Alexander sacrificed thousands of his own men in the pursuit of personal glory and adventure . His admiral Nearchus wrote that Alexander was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Semiramis and Cyrus the Great , who had both led armies through the same wasteland . While the bulk of his infantry may have survived the ordeal , it is clear that thousands of camp followers died in the sand . Almost every indigenous tribe in Alexander 's path was subdued by force ; their territory was ravaged and plundered , leaving them in worse straits than the invading army itself . // General Philotas , shown in a 19th-century French steel engraving , was tortured and stoned to death in September 330 BC for refusing to report on possible dissension against Alexander , who then ordered Parmenion put to death for the " crime " of being Philotas " father . // Finally , there is the matter of executions . Alexander reacted to suspicions of disloyalty with instant death sentences , and it is no exaggeration that an entire generation of Macedonian noblemen was executed by the alcoholic king they served , the murders increasing with the paranoia and dementia of his last years . What is striking about his execution of friends and associates is the long record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the young king . Besides the well-known Macedonians , there are a host of lesser-known bureaucrats who were summarily killed on suspicions of disloyalty , incompetence or intrigue . More repugnant still is Alexander 's sometimes personal intervention in the torture and execution of his adversaries , occasions where his genius was directed to novel manners of torture . We begin with recognizing the likelihood that Philip II , Alexander 's father , was assassinated by a cabal , perhaps involving Olympias and Alexander himself-his discarded wife and half-Macedonian son-who were to be nonentities among the dozens of wives ( seven at the king 's death ) , concubines , legitimate and illegitimate sons during the expected long reign of Philip . Upon succession , Alexander had murdered at his father 's funeral Arrhabaeus and Heromenes , the sons of the Macedonian noble Aeropus , along with a few other high-ranking and thus suspicious members of the elite . Then almost every prominent Macedonian who was not immediately aligned with Alexander was murdered-Amyntas son of Perdiccas , the general Attalus and his relatives , Philip 's last wife Cleopatra and her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he ordered the murder of Alexander Lyncestis , his first supporter in his struggle for succession . The mock trial and subsequent torture and stoning of Philotas ( September 330 BC ) are well known . Far from being a conspirator , Philotas , who had shared command of the Macedonian cavalry and fought heroically in all Alexanders major campaigns , was guilty of little more than arrogance and failure to pass on gossip about possible dissension against the king . Unfortunately , he was loyal to his father Parmenion , the famous old general who anchored the Macedonian left wing , and whose bravery had saved Alexander on more than one occasion . Thus soon after Philotas ' gruesome death , the veteran Parmenion was murdered as well , his head sent to Alexander as proof that the bastion of the old-guard Macedonian elite , who had created his army and ensured his succession , was now gone . Seventy-year-old Parmenion had lost all his sons in Alexander 's grand enterprise-Nicanor and Hector in campaigning , Philotas now tortured and stoned-and he finally paid for his loyalty to Alexander @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were killed outright . There is the case of Cleitus , the so-called " Black Cleitus " who had rescued Alexander at the Granicus when the king 's helmet was split asunder and he was about to be dispatched by the enemy . The king speared and killed Cleitus during a drunken argument at a banquet . After a number of young Macedonian pages were executed by stoning for suspicion of sedition ( 327 ) , Alexander executed the philosopher Callisthenes , nephew of Aristotle , who had objected to the king 's practice of proskynesis , or having all kneel before him in Eastern fashion . And after emerging from the Gedrosian Desert , Alexander went on a seven-day binge of drink and revelry , culminating in a series of further execution decrees . The generals Cleander and Sitacles-and perhaps later Agathon and Heracon-and 600 of their troops were killed without warning or legal trial , purportedly on charges of either malfeasance or insubordination , but more likely because of their involvement in carrying out Alexander 's order to execute the popular Parmenion-a move that had not gone down well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of expiation . In short , without evidence or trial , Alexander decimated an entire corps of 6,000 men , lining up and killing one out of every 10 . Alexanders role in and his manner of execution are also revealing . The king personally observed the torture of Philotas , ordered the stoning of suspected conspirators , crucified thousands of captives and occasionally murdered or tortured victims himself . Persian and Iranian officials were frequently executed on the slightest of pretexts . The Brahmin priests and elites in India were especially sought out amid the general carnage of Alexanders reign of terror in the Punjab-so much again for his tolerance of religious diversity and interest in Eastern mysticism . Alexander the Great was no philosopher-king , not even a serious colonizer or administrator , and surely not a wellmeaning emissary of Hellenism . Instead , he was an energetic , savvy post-adolescent who inherited a frighteningly murderous army and the loyal cadre of shrewd and experienced battle administrators who knew how to run it . Classically educated and endowed with natural brilliance and little fear , he had a keen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the battlefield-and thousands of volatile paid killers eager solely for booty and adventure . Otherwise , his career is what we might expect of a reckless and selfish man in his 20s , who could drink , travel , kill and fight when and where he wished until his body gave out and his terrorized subordinates at last could take no more . The Hellenistic Age ( 323-146 BC ) that Alexander inaugurated and shaped has become a popular era of scholarly inquiry . Classicists cite with approval its multiculturalism , the exotic literature of Alexandria and the bizarre manifestations of art and culture that grew up to the east-all dividends of Alexanders introduction of Hellenic culture beyond the Aegean . They also point to the economic stimulus of flooding the Greek world with the previously untapped gold and silver of the imperial Persian treasuries . Others might argue that such art and literature-much of it unoriginal and ornate-were simply the products of imperial patronage , not civic or community interests . Moreover , the material conditions of the Hellenistic world reveal a nightmare of political oppression and widening economic inequality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alexander , after all , ended for good the idea of an independent city-state ; in his wake , farmland was increasingly given over to a tiny elite , even as the countryside gradually emptied of yeomen , who fled taxation either to enlist as mercenaries or find entitlements in the cities . In place of councils , yeomen hoplites and a voting citizenry , Alexander 's Hellenism meant elite kings , autocrats and landless peasants ; militiamen gave way to paid mercenaries , and war consumed capital and manpower at rates unimaginable a few decades earlier . The old idea of the man of politics separate from the religious leader was now lost , as the notion of an Eastern divinity on the throne became the norm-with all the accustomed megalomania , gratuitous slaughter and oppression that we associate with theocratic states . If anything , Alexander diluted and then undermined the best of what Hellenism had promised for politics and religion . But these assessments are more disagreements over taste and values . In the last analysis , both critics and true believers must find common ground among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portraiture of the Apollonian youth , ignore the quasi-Homeric descriptions of the bright-eyed student of Aristotle on the hunt with the Iliad tucked under his bed . Disregard too the master of the unruly Bucephalus , the silly stories about the Gordian knot and the parting of the waves . Instead , simply concentrate on the dead . For in the last analysis , like Hitler , Josef Stalin and Mao Tse-Tung , the acclamation of Great General , of Great Engineer and Scientist , of Great City Founder and National Planner inevitably fades before the more appropriate title of Great Killer . Alexander 's decade-long swath to the Indus resulted in death and displacement for millions and the enslavement of thousands more , earning him rightly a place amid the worst monsters history has to offer , a killer in sheer numbers of corpses as accomplished as Pol Pot himself . In the end , the legacy of this drunken brawler is one of murder , ethnic cleansing and genocide , and we would do well to remember his dead-always the dead . Sidebar Alexander could fight , kill , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plot to a degree unmatched by contemporaries , achieving a Homeric immortality that is beyond good and evil . Sidebar In his ill-fated crossing of the Gedrosian Desert in late summer of 325 BC , Alexanber caused more deaths among his own troops than occurred in a decade of losses to Persian and Indian soldiers . // <p>                     