@@406420

They came , they saw , they set up their easels : colonizing the Hamptons has always appealed to visual artists . EDITED BY SARAH MEDFORD WHEN TERRIE SULTAN arrived a year ago as the new director of the Parrish Art Museum , in Southampton , New York , she reacted the way many first-timers do to the surrounding cultural scene . She was " absolutely shocked , " she says , by the exhaustive list of painters , sculptors and photographers who make their homes on the eastern end of Long Island . " I knew it was a great community for artists , but I had no idea of its depth and breadth . " Photograph : Anne in a Striped Dress ( 1967 ) , by Southampton resident Fairfield Porter . <br> Photograph : The parrish art museum , southampton , ny/gift of the estate of fairfield porter Since 1870 , when the Long Island Rail Road extended its line from New York City to Southampton ( it eventually stretched as far east as Montauk ) , artists of all persuasions have found it salubrious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm fields of the Hamptons . Right behind the first wave came Samuel L. Parrish , a Harvard-educated Quaker from Philadelphia , who in 1898 founded the Art Museum at Southampton in the fashionable village where he summered . He seeded his new institution , which was renamed the Parrish in 1954 , with Italian Renaissance drawings and reproductions of classical sculpture he 'd acquired in Europe ; plaster casts of the Parthenon frieze still encircle the auditorium of the museum on Jobs Lane . Photograph : Elaine and Willem de Kooning in Willem 's improvised studio on the dealer Leo Castelli 's porch , 1953 . The couple lived in Springs and East Hampton . Supported by enlightened patrons , the Parrish , now led by the formidable Sultan , thrives . Its latest venture is a Web site entitled East End Stories ( artists.parrishart.org ) that is part reference , part community outreach and part teaching tool : it 's a Who 's Who guide to the artists of Long Island 's South Fork , designed to deliver the local art scene to a global audience . A quick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Venetian gondola , in which the landscapist , who summered in East Hampton on and off from 1879 to 1922 when he was n't sketching in the Rockies , floated across Hook Pond . Views of Robert Motherwell 's East Hampton home and studio , designed by architect Pierre Chareau in 1945 , are here ; so is the painter Mary Heilmann with her Sears , Roebuck kit house , bought in Bridgehampton back in 1995 . Explaining her love of the place , she says , " I look out the window here and see two acres of farmland , lots of green , other colors , sunsets . " Artists ' profiles include examples of their work , lists of friends , personal snapshots and even maps detailing where inspiration might have been gathered . An interactive section allows viewers to add their own memories and observations . Photograph : Jasper Johns , 1962 . When the Parrish eventually relocates to a new home in Water Mill designed by Swiss architects Herzog &; de Meuron , it will be able to show a broader representation of artists who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alice Aycock to Wilfrid Zogbaum and Joe Zucker . But until then , the talent is ready and waiting at East End Stories . From April 19 to June 21 , the Parrish will exhibit " Mixed Greens : Artists Choose Artists on the East End , " a contemporary invitational show . 25 Jobs Lane ; 631-283-2118 ; parrishart.org . Photograph : Painter Mary Heilmann , part-time Bridge &shy; hamptonite since 1995 . Show-and-Tell on the East End : What 's On This Summer BRIDGEHAMPTON CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL Classical and contemporary music are in the mix during this concert series ( July 29-August 23 )  --  even Broadway star Kelli O'Hara gets in on the act on August 14. 2429 Montauk Highway , Bridgehampton ; 212-741-9403 ; bcmf.org . DAN to nine permanent light sculptures by Flavin . Corwith Avenue , Bridgehampton ; 212-293-5518 ; diaart.org . EAST HAMPTON ANTIQUES SHOW Sixty dealers fill four spacious tents on the grounds of the 17th-century Mulford Farm , offering furniture , fine and decorative art , and jewelry for sale ( July 10-12 ) . 10 James Lane , East Hampton ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Art of Fashion in the Hamptons " debuts at this historic cultural center ( gala and preview on the 14th ) . 158 Main Street , East Hampton ; 631-324-0806 ; guildhall.org . LONGHOUSE RESERVE Textile designer Jack Lenor Larsen 's sixteen-acre sculpture garden reopens on April 25 with additions by Gonzalo Fonseca , Eric Fischl and Mia Westerlund Roosen  --  alongside daffodils by Mother Nature . 133 Hands Creek Road , East Hampton ; 631-329-3568 ; longhouse.org . WATERMILL CENTER Lectures , open rehearsals and guided tours at stage director Robert Wilson 's arts center take place throughout the summer , punctuated by the annual benefit on July 25. 39 Water Mill Towd Road , Water Mill ; 631-726-4628 ; watermillcenter.org . CHRISSCHMICKER GETTING THE HANG OF IT Art collectors often wind up with a new appreciation for what they own after sitting down with interior designer Richard Mishaan . When hired to refurnish a house or an apartment , the Colombian-born New Yorker will sift through art accumulated here and there and pull out , if not plums , then pieces that suddenly seem much more interesting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art , furniture and objects . Take a lesson from Modern Luxury ( Monacelli ; $50 ) , Mishaan 's delightful first book . S.M. Photograph : a dining room by richard mishaan has the casual and flexible look of a salon . The Art Institute Spreads Its Wings The Art Institute of Chicago has expanded a number of times since opening its Beaux-Arts building on Michigan Avenue in 1893 , and its Modern Wing  --  debuting this month , with a crisp design by Renzo Piano  --  not only gives the museum much-needed exhibition space but also endows the institution with an utterly up-to-date presence . Thanks to a gargantuan aluminum brise-soleil ( a sophisticated sun baffle ) floating above its roof and a swooping footbridge that connects the building to art-studded Millennium Park , the Modern Wing enhances the Art Institute 's identity both architecturally and civically , announcing in a fresh way its importance as a player on the city 's cultural scene . Surrounding a soaring atrium , public spaces in the 264,000-square-foot building will house the permanent collections of 20th-century and contemporary painting and sculpture , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an education center , a restaurant , a bookstore and a sculpture terrace . When the wing opens , on the 16th , visitors will be able to appreciate anew the museum 's riches , alongside the loan exhibition " Cy Twombly : The Natural World , Selected Works 2000-2007 . " As director James Cuno observes , " The Modern Wing brings the museum into the present and the future while retaining ties to our past . " artic.edu . THOMAS CONNORS Photograph : Renzo Piano 's new Modern Wing at the Art Institute of Chicago . Parting Words Whether or not your parents are Pat Buckley and William F. Buckley Jr. , it 's wrenching to say goodbye . And since their son , Christopher Buckley , is himself not just a wry best-selling author of fiction and nonfiction ( and an Oedipal Obama endorser ) but also an only child , he took their deaths , which occurred within twelve months of each other , in 2007 and 2008 , very hard . Then he decided to write a book . Photograph : Pat Buckley and William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mum and Pup : A Memoir ( Twelve ; $24.99 ) is emphatically as billed : occasionally about family life but mostly a sad , intermittently angry and ambivalent chronicle of illness , decline and bereavement . The author seems to have liked American conservatism 's golden couple , who shimmered from Manhattan to Gstaad , far less than he loved them . They achieved their prominence ( Bill Buckley was founder of the National Review ) in part through wit , intelligence , sharp-elbowed charisma and a hardworking social life , and Christopher got to be both observer and participant in this glamorous " pageant , " as he calls it . It was , the book makes clear in wonderful detail , great fun  --  except when it was n't . When Mum embarrassed " Christo , " when Pup humiliated him , when a mishmash of addictions rendered the gregarious couple a heartbreaking burden . Suicide was contemplated by at least one . This is not necessarily the book Christopher Buckley was meant to write . But it 's the one he had to , and that gives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beauties  --  and a beast ? New York 's Metropolitan Museum of Art celebrates Kate , Veruschka , Dovima , Twiggy and more supermodels turned style icons in the Costume Institute 's spring show , " The Model as Muse : Embodying Fashion , " opening on the 6th . As for the beast ... " Francis Bacon : A Centenary Retrospective " ( May 20-August 16 ) makes its only U.S. stop at the Met , presenting seventy stormy , startling canvases by the Dublin-born British painter and timed for the 100th anniversary of his birth , in 1909. metmuseum.org . Photograph : Veruschka , 1968 . Photograph : Bacon 's Portrait of Isabel Rawsthorne ( 1966 ) . MUSIC Country-music duo Sugarland ( below ) , which netted two trophies at this year 's Grammy Awards , joins Tony Bennett , Bonnie Raitt , Jakob Dylan and others to kick off the second and final weekend of the fortieth annual New Orleans Jazz &; Heritage Festival ( April 30-May 3 ) . nojazzfest.com. 5/21 Cutting-edge video art gets its close-up at the Loop Barcelona festival and fair , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the 21st. loop-barcelona.com . SCULPTURE Visit the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art 's new " gallery without a ceiling "  --  the 14,400-square-foot Rooftop Garden , showing sculpture from the museum 's collection  --  opening on the 10th. sfmoma.org . THEATER Top ticket : Jude Law plays the great Dane in Donmar Warehouse 's fresh production of Hamlet , from the 29th , at Wyndham 's Theatre , in London . donmarwestend.com . BLOOMS Do n't miss the Royal Horticultural Society 's 2009 Chelsea Flower Show , in London ( May 19-23 ) . It 's like Fashion Week for flower fanatics . rhs.org.uk . C.S. DANCE The spring season of American Ballet Theatre launches in Manhattan on the 18th , but leap now for tickets to the world premiere of an all-new production of Prokofiev 's On the Dnieper , choreographed by red-hot artist in residence Alexei Ratmansky ( June 1 ) . abt.org.                     