@@408123

Could the end of combat be near ? New technologies will help make war faster and safer for combatants . They may even make war unnecessary . // Imagine wars with relatively little death and destruction . Imagine soldiers equipped with technologies designed to minimize contact , or avoid it altogether . Imagine speedy communications that quicken the pace of military deployment and response before situations become critical . Imagine revolutionary materials that allow for perfect camouflage , or superhuman strength , or healing powers . In the next 10 years , these and other technological innovations will make military actions faster and safer , and with far less bloodshed and damage , resulting in greater personal , national , and international security . Thoughts about the future of war are strongly influenced by science-fiction images crafted by popular movies : walking robots toting machine guns , tanks that look like steel elephants , and hovering craft with the agility of hawks . In these future scenarios , war is as bloody as ever , but now it is automated , often making things worse rather than better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an endless supply of weaponry is sure to pack theaters-but they lack vision . Onscreen mayhem and destruction blind viewers to the realities of technology , limit intelligent conversation about the future of combat , and rein in the imagination . The mass-market view of uncontrolled and uncontrollable chaos is hardly inevitable . To the contrary , trends indicate that warfare is becoming quicker with fewer deaths and less physical ruin . In the real world , military missions concentrate on objectives that minimize casualties . With each challenge to national security , U.S. armed forces are increasingly able to respond swiftly and effectively due to technological developments in computers , sensors , automated controls , advanced vehicles , and nonlethal weapons . Not that we want war to be more acceptable as a social institution . Another worldwide war might indeed threaten civilization by destroying populations , habitats , and even the entire biosphere . Such scenarios leave the future of humanity , and indeed all species , in doubt . Yet the wars most likely to be fought will be local ones that need not be catastrophic but must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threats to their security , both at home and abroad . September 11 , 2001 , showed Americans are not immune from the world 's cruelties . While the United States continues its posture of deterrence , it will acquire the capabilities to respond to armed challenges at every level , including terrorism , guerrilla war , and mob and gang violence , and wherever they may arise . In April 2003 , Battelle convened a panel of 15 defense experts to identify the most innovative technologies for national security and defense from now to 2012 . " We will see a transformation of American security and defense over the next 10 years , " said Charles Wilhelm , a retired Marine Corps general who leads Battelle 's homeland security research and development . " As a result of September 11 , the traditional boundaries between military forces abroad and protection of our own country have blurred . Innovative technologies are clearly needed which will give us more security at home and abroad . " 10 Technologies Changing Armed Conflict 1 . Information and Intelligence Management In another 10 years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy to use that commanders will have all the information they need precisely when and where they need it . This will effectively create " knowledge warriors , " uniformed and nonuniformed intelligence experts with the knowledge to win or prevent war with few or no casualties . Advanced integrated sensors and reliable networks will provide enormous amounts of real-time information about security threats . Software programs relying on expert systems will integrate vast amounts of data and information into patterns and displays that allow commanders to make quick and effective decisions . These technologies will take advantage of rapid progress being made in sensors , data routing , data mining , high-speed computing , expert systems , and displays . Out in the field , first responders will have highly accurate and current intelligence at their fingertips and will be effective in combat beyond current capabilities . Photograph Joint Biological Point Detection System under development by Battelle and others to detect biological agents in battlefield environments . The Future Warrior , equipped for battle in 2025 . The helmet includes visual , thermal , and acoustic sensors and will provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suit uses mechanically active polymers and nanostructures to simulate and augment human muscle action . // 2 . Advanced Energy Sources Today 's defense forces are limited in speed , range , and endurance by traditional energy sources-almost like a tank on a short electrical cord . New energy sources , however , will appear over the next decade as engineers develop a new generation of alternative energy and batteries . Fuel cells will likely be available by 2012 in large sizes for tanks and small sizes for soldiers . Hydrogen cartridges with at least 10 times the energy den- sity and life of a battery will provide the power source for the soldiers ' fuel cells . Soldiers will be able to stay in the field longer , with longer-lasting communications capabilities . Innovative energy sources for vehicles and equipment will permit the necessary mobility , range , and endurance required by the fast-moving security missions of the future . In a broader context , the development of hydrogen from natural gas , coal , and other domestic sources for fuel cells and advanced engines will ensure national security by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Security personnel observe the effects of an explosive device designed to stun kidnappers and terrorists . The test is being conducted at Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque , New Mexico . Sniffing out gas attacks . Researcher Doug Adkins observes the performance of SnifferSTAR , a device intended to detect airborne blister agents and nerve gases , at Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque , New Mexico . // 3 . Nonlethal Weapons In police actions as well as military campaigns , the goal for security officers is to subdue combatants with as little violence as possible . This is especially true for any confrontations involving civilians . Research is under way today to produce an arsenal of new weapons that temporarily incapacitate rather than wound or kill . They include bullets that hit but do not penetrate human targets , similar to guns that shoot beanbags or paint balls ; shocking devices similar to cattle prods ; and sound waves that subdue opponents by knocking them down . In addition , technicians are developing weapons of greatly increased accuracy in order to minimize physical damage to unintended targets . The intent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply destroy . 4 . Advanced Detection and Tracking Systems Security at U.S. borders and transportation centers has improved greatly and will improve even more . Look for noninvasive biological , chemical , and weapon detectors as reliable and easy to use as X rays or metal detectors . We will see integrated sensors and detectors at airports , for example , which will identify illegal drugs and potential weapons of terrorism as quickly as a Geiger counter picks up radiation . " Early detection of biological weapons is absolutely critical to the success of American security in the years to come , and it 's an area where much R &D; is being done , " says Steve Kelly , senior vice president and general manager of Battelle 's Defense Systems . Once they are identified , there is a need to accurately track potentially dangerous objects . Today , optical scanners , bar codes , and computers provide excellent tracking in commercial markets . By 2012 , we will see a new generation of tracking with radio frequency identification tags , homing devices , cameras , and global positioning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threatening materials . 5 . Universal Inoculation Much fear exists today that bacteria and viruses may be used for terrorism or combat against the United States . Biological weapons were central issues in recent Middle Eastern conflicts . A key protective measure against biological threats of the future will be universal inoculation . One or a small number of inoculations-shots , pills , drops , and other forms of preventive medications-will protect large numbers of people from multiple pathogens . By 2012 , a more thorough understanding of the genetics behind disease will enable us to guard people 's good health against dozens of bacteria and viruses . 6 . The Global Cyber Net Communications and information are the lifeblood of security . Today we enjoy a worldwide Web , which is open but unsecured and vulnerable to all kinds of attacks . In the future , we will have a global cyber net that is faster and better protected than today . As the capacity of cybertraffic increases by a hundredfold or even a thousandfold , a distributed architecture will provide redundancy and an organic self-healing network that will significantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an attack occurs . Software will be able to detect routing problems that could signify an attack , and sensors would be able to detect and correct problems , perhaps even before they happen . Software will also have embedded safety features inside of the code rather than just surrounding it for further protection . Future Internet protection architectures will grow more pervasive and more secure as the need for civilian security and secrecy multiplies . Other advances such as high-capacity laser links will occur in wireless and optical communications , freeing end-users from the physical limitations of cable and fiber . These technologies will be less susceptible to interference and more stringently guarded by electronic firewalls. 7 . Individual Warning Devices Beyond warning and protecting the general public , a need exists to provide individual warning and protection . Individuals want to be alerted to exposure to potentially dangerous chemicals and hazardous substances . In addition to chemical and biological detection systems for battlefields , inexpensive sensors will be available to people worried about exposure to unhealthy air , water , and food . The need for individual warning devices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple tests at home to assure them that the food they eat , the water they drink , and the air they breathe is safe . The interests of combat defense , homeland security , and consumer safety will converge to meet this need . Military warning sensors emphasize accuracy and speed . For example , today 's sensors can identify specific toxins in the battlefield in four minutes or less in some cases . These sensors are very sophisticated ; some are also very large-the size of a refrigerator . Technology has made the task of identifying hazards much quicker , but the equipment is still very expensive . Individuals at home or in the office will want such equipment to be smaller , cheaper , and quicker-about the size and cost of a smoke or carbon dioxide detector . In the battlefield , soldiers worry about all kinds of toxins , but there are comparatively few environmental hazards for families to worry about in the home . Airborne threats include some viruses , bacteria , and strains of toxic mold , while waterborne hazards include cryptosporidium , a spore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deaths . Public buildings like hotels , office buildings , and theaters can boast toxins of near battlefield proportions . Sensors exist to detect anthrax and other biological weapons , but relatively few other hazards . Chances are good that the average person will not encounter these in the home . Of greater concern will be threats from spoiled hamburger or luncheon meat ; sensors will exist to check the contamination level of food in the fridge and warn potential diners of any danger . Photograph Seeing through walls . Czech customs inspectors and international border agents use acoustic inspection devices to identify contents within sealed containers . // 8 . Rapid Deployment And Mobility Increasingly , military campaigns and defensive responses will become faster and more agile . The quick war in Iraq shows that the ability to deploy troops to strike quickly and effectively is a key element of success . Military forces will increase the speed of preparing and conducting operations thanks to faster vehicles of all types-airplanes , ships , tanks - and improved communications systems and new methods of logistics management that will get them where they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detection will give homeland security personnel more time to prepare in the event of a terrorist attack-and more time to prevent it . If a terrorist attack were to occur , rapid response would limit harm . Before the 2003 Iraq War , it took six to eight months to amass all the logistics and gear it takes to go to war ; emerging technologies will reduce that time by a third . Once soldiers arrive at a battle site , they will be able to move faster than they were in Iraq , where it was often necessary to stop and refuel gas tanks or recharge batteries and other power sources . Energy and power will be reliable and available for longer periods of time . 9 . Safe Buildings The anthrax attack in the Washington , D.C. , area in October 2001 alerted the country to the extraordinary health threat to buildings and the people inside them . Heating , cooling , and ventilation systems of office buildings , public places , and homes were not designed to protect people from biological and chemical threats to their health . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and automated response mechanisms will significantly improve the quality of both indoor air and water . Filters will be supplemented by other means of detecting and killing harmful bacteria and viruses . Clean air and clean water devices will be deployed in private homes as well as government office buildings and public places , such as airports , stores , and theaters. 10 . Advanced Multifunctional Materials Strides in material science and engineering will greatly improve what soldiers wear and use on the battlefield . Advances in textiles will allow clothing to better camouflage , protect , and even monitor soldiers ' health . Color-changing fibers will advance-and individualize-camouflage capability . Advanced lightweight composites will improve body armor protection and save lives . Remote physiological status monitoring will allow commanders to know the exact physical status of soldiers . We may even see technologies that will increase personal power-almost to superhero levels . Scientists are developing uniforms with sophisticated camouflaging that will make a soldier nearly invisible , soft clothing that can become a rigid cast when a soldier breaks a leg , and paper-light chainmail made of molecular materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and multifunctional ; for example , eyeglasses for security personnel could use wireless systems for instant information and communication . Most of the technologies reported here are just around the corner and will be in place within the next two decades . The purpose of these technologies is to create a safer world , one where conflict may be avoided and casualties kept to a minimum . Sidebar " Look for noninvasive biological , chemical , and weapon detectors as reliable and easy to use as X rays or metal detectors . " Sidebar FEEDBACK : Send your comments about this article to letters@wfs.org . Photograph Author Affiliation About the Author Stephen M. Millett , thought leader and futurist with Battelle , is co-author of A Manager 's Guide to Technology Forecasting and Strategy Analysis Methods . E-mail milletts@battelle.org. // <p>                     