@@411415

In the matter of Mary Magdalene HAVING READ AND THEN REREAD " WHO FRAMED MARY Magdalene ? " by Heidi Schlumpf ( April ) , I am left quite disappointed . A great opportunity for building up the church was lost to gender-bashing and sex-biased scholarship . I expect better of U.S. CATHOLIC . The sole use of women scholars for source materials and quotes is as deplorable as would be the sole use of men . To suggest that Christian scripture feeds the notion that " women are either madonnas or whores " detracts from strong women of the scriptures who are neither : Phoebe , Lydia , and Anna to name a few of many . The topic is an important one to all Christians . However , the presentation is divisive and alienates . Rather than building women up , it makes them out as victims . Rather than educating men , it bashes . The end product is that we all lose and a great opportunity is wasted . Father C. Gregory Jones , CS.V . Carbondale , Ill . Absolutely outstanding ! It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has come out ! I believe that the restoration of the women of the early church to their appropriate places of honor , respect , and power will bring about the much needed healing in our church and our world . Debbie DeLong Visalia , Calif I am very happy that a national magazine gives Saint Mary Magdalene her due in the April issue . At the same time , I was disappointed the writer gave so much credit to FutureChurch and Call to Action , as if the movement to remember Mary Magdalene started with these groups just two years ago . As Schlumpf must know , the biblical scholars have tried their best-at least since 1965-to present Mary Magdalene as a true witness to and evangelist of Christ 's Resurrection . In addition , the liturgical catechesis from Rome-as reflected in the 1975 sacramentary-lists her as apostle , with not a single word about her being a repentant sinner . James Beiersdorfer Sun City Center , Fla . Schlumpf s article reminded me of a story our professor of dogmatic theology told the class in the late 1940s when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Grand Seminaire in Montreal had written a book that demonstrated that , although in the Western church since the time of Gregory the Great , Mary Magdalene was identified with the public sinner who washed the feet of Jesus in the house of the Pharisee , this was not supported by any biblical evidence and was contrary to the tradition of the Eastern churches , which did not consider her a sinner but " the myrrh-bearing woman , equal to the apostles " because she was the first one to bring the good news of Christ 's Resurrection . The Vatican rewarded his scholarship by ordering him to withdraw the book from circulation and forbidding him ever to teach scripture again . His advice to the Montreal students : " Gentlemen , if you ever have an uncontrollable urge to write a book , write a novel . . . in English . Because if you write in French , as I did , you will immediately be suspected of heresy . " Father Edmond Bliven Portland , Ore . Sharing in the Crucifixion Like Robert J. Batastini ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt extremely uncomfortable playing the part of the crowd in the Passion narrative on Palm Sunday . Unlike him , however , I feel that there is a good theological purpose served by this practice . Since Christ died for our sins , everyone who has sinned is as responsible for his death as those who stood in the crowd on that day and called for his death . In shouting " Crucify him ! " we are reminded that , however much we would like to picture ourselves standing steadfastly by Jesus to the end , there have been times when , like those in the crowd , we have chosen an easier path that led to sin . The words force us to confront our own real guilt in Jesus ' Crucifixion . After the drama highlights our undoing , its second troubling line , " Let his blood be upon us and on our children , " reveals the means of our redemption . As Christians , we recognize the saving value of Christ 's blood ; we are members of the throng who have washed their garments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original intent of the crowd is turned on its head , from an acceptance of guilt to acceptance of salvation . Perhaps viewing the drama in this light will help build more prayerful participation in a part of the liturgy that is otherwise difficult . Deborah H. Eater Levittown , Pa . I read the article " Crucify him ! " with interest , because the reading of the Passion narrative is very important to me . At the beginning of the article , I felt the author was articulating the reasons for my discomfort at reading the crowd part during the liturgy . Then I stopped and thought some more and changed my thinking . I do dislike reading those hateful words , " Crucify him ! " and feel totally wrong saying them . But then it occurred to me that to the extent that I do sin in everyday life , I am saying those words . I should use the recollection of this revulsion at saying the words to make me more determined to behave so that those words do not belong to me . To my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent to which they do . Linda Oliver Bolivar , Tenn . I am a 77-year-old convert from Judaism to Catholicism and I have anguished for years over the words " Crucify him . " I have always thought it counterproductive psychologically and have had feelings that it could perpetuate anti-Semitism . I wept with relief when I read your article . Ruth Goldboss Highland Park , Ill . In the flesh I would like to comment on the article " Do n't give up suffering for Lent " by Sister Yolanda Tarango , C.C.V.I. ( March ) . The statue of Jesus is heartbreaking , but I think it 's important for us to look at it . He suffered for us , and we should not forget it . We need to feel a bit uncomfortable when we see how sad he was and how much he suffered . Lent is a good time to reflect on our lives and how we can act and be more like Jesus . In our church the crucifix is covered in gold . I never liked the idea of hiding Jesus ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jesus can be too happy about it either . After I read this article , saw the picture , and then went to my church and looked at the gold crucifix , it was more disturbing than before . Our church is planning a renovation and I 'm going to suggest to Father that we have a flesh-colored Jesus on the cross-one that looks real and is shedding his blood . We need to be reminded . Shirley M. Noel Northbridge , Mass . Word power I was pleased to read the poem " Redemption " by Sherry Elmer ( February ) . It reads beautifully on the page and becomes a living redemption when read aloud . Words live when they are spoken , and Elmer chose words that resonate through the flesh and bones of the body . I would like to thank Elmer for walking us so close to the earth . Ellen Kort Appleton , Wis . Redemption is not a subject many people discuss these days , and a poem that so dearly gives a metaphor for hope is needed . Indeed , much that can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We need more poetry ! Lenore McComas Coberly Madison , Wis . Anger held hostage I enjoyed Heidi Schlumpf s article " Unsettled in the Holy Land : A travel advisory to Jubilee Year pilgrims " ( January ) about our trip to Israel last summer . Several of the speakers we heard brought up the need for forgiveness : That there can never be peace in the Middle East until people are willing to let go of the past and begin to forgive each other . It seems as though whenever the peace accords begin to look promising , someone tries to prevent them from coming to fruition , because they are like the elder brother of the prodigal son , and wo n't let go of anger . I 'm sure that injustice exists on both sides , but what we were presented with were glaring examples of violations of human rights . Rebecca R. Fleming Colorado Springs , Colo . Ethical dilemmas I have read with great interest Kevin Clarke 's article " Unnatural Selection : How biotechnology is redesigning humanity " ( January ) . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by present biotechnology and of the moral guidelines presented by the Catholic Church . Father Kevin Fitzgerald , S.J. in the U.S. and a Franciscan priest and I at the Laboratory for Human Genetics in Spain are in the same boat . We are devoted to research in order to prevent malformations and human defects of genetic ethology . The problems we encounter are the same , and , of course , we share the answers the church gives . Father Vitalino Aller , C.M.F. Madrid , Spain Kevin Clarke stated that stem cells are currently obtained only from an aborted fetus . But , when our baby was born , we donated the cord blood to be used in stem-cell research . Cord blood is a valuable resource that usually gets discarded . More parents should be made aware of this procedure and how to donate their child 's cord blood . Jeremy Weidig Battle Creek , Mich . <p>                     