@@409101

With over 1,000 vessels down the ways since 1983 , and 21 models to choose from , adding the new Rivanna 56 CMY to Jefferson 's popular line of spacious cockput motor yachts was mere child 's play . Photograph Photograph Photograph // The tanks were full and the wind was howling down the Severn River near Annapolis , Md. as Scott Pullem , Jefferson Yachts ' vice president of sales and marketing , pointed the Rivanna 56 CMY upriver into the wind and advanced the throttles . Along with Paul Lippincott , president of The Yacht Group in Stevensville , Md. , where this boat would go after our test ride to Annapolis for the U.S. Powerboat Show recorded average top speeds of 24 knots , " Scott Pullem said . " When they cruised , they ran at about 21 knots . That was with full tanks , but no owner 's complement . " Scrolling down through the menu screen on the Caterpillar electronic control screen , we checked the load factors at wide open throttle , and found that we were not even drawing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ load onboard and the standard four-blade manganese bronze props . But we all recognized that the readings would change once the cavernous storage compartments and lockers below are filled with the " owner 's complement , " a naval architect 's euphemism for all the personal gear you simply must have in order to live aboard comfortably . Jefferson 's Rivanna 56 is one of four in a series of semi-custom , contemporary motoryachts that ranges from 48 to 60 feet in length , all of which are available in aft cabin or cockpit motoryacht configurations . The 56 continues Jefferson 's 16-year relationship with Hershine , one of the most respected yards in Taiwan , a relationship that has blossomed to include 21 different models in five different lines ( including an upand-coming pilothouse design ) , and over 1,000 vessels down the way since they began working together in 1983 . The naval architects and engineers at Hershine are well known for taking great care in the construction of their yachts , for incorporating state-of-the-art materials in solidly-built yachts , and for layouts with gracious amounts of living area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hydrodynamic research was conducted at the University of British Columbia 's BC Research tank-testing facility on scale models to optimize performance through strake use and placement , center of gravity placement , trim attitude , and more . Jefferson 's relationship with BC Research extends back to the days when Jack Harris worked with them on their second generation of yachts back in the mid-1980 's , the years when they moved from semi-displacement to planing hulls . Rivanna yachts represent the company 's third generation of hulls to take advantage of newer , more powerful diesels and lower-weight , highintegrity hulls for increased performance . Photograph CONTEMPORARY CRUISER : Running at cruising speed ( above ) , the Rivanna 56 CMY shows off Its advanced hydrodynamics . The spacious salon ( top , right ) is a golden-hued room with a view . The flying bridge ( middle , left ) can seat a crowd and store tons of gear Buried wood accents the large lower helm console ( middle , right ) . The master stateroom is a luxurious hideaway for owners ( below , right ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and matching of densegrained , golden teak , which is lavishly used in the manufacture of built-in furniture , vertical panels , bulkheads , doors , and cabinets . The finish on our test vessel was the deepest gloss I 've ever seen , so perfect it mirrored nearby objects . Along with the careful joinerwork , it would satisfy the most picky owner . Custome satisfaction " Our interior modules are first-fitted right in the boat , then lifted out and transported to a dust-free , downdraft paint booth , " said Pullem " After they 're coated with six to 12 coats of finish , and allowed to dry thoroughly , they 're put back in the boat and fitted like fine furniture . " That 's just the way they like to do things . The company is actually over 30 years old , and has always been based in Jeffersonville , Ind . Currently , they are building most of their models in Taiwan , but their International series of yachts and their Marlago series of performance fishing vessels are produced in Indiana . Pullem started with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ student working a summer job . He can attest first-hand to the fact that they all take great pride in their work , and value highly the large , loyal customer base that regularly returns for their Midwestern values , for the next step up the ladder of yacht ownership . And they will do everything in their power to keep their owners satisfied . " We offer specialized decor customization for each individual buyer , so that there are no two Jefferson Yachts alike inside , " Pullem said . " We try to offer some flexibility for modification of the standard floor plans , but we 've been doing this long enough to tell customers when their ideas will work and when they wo n't . Their diesel engine offerings aim to please , as well , so that owners can make the best match with service in their favorite cruising or local waters . You can order the Rivanna 56 CMY with a pair of 300- or 450-hp Cummins , twin 430- or 480-hp Volvos , a brace of Cats in four outputs ranging from 325 to 660 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's yachts have a reputation for being solid , beefy , able to take what the sea can dish out , which is why companies like VIP Charters have ordered them time and again for owners who want to keep a boat in charter for periods substantially longer than the typical five years . I have personally had the pleasure of chartering one of VIP 's 46 Marquessa aft cabins models for a week , and can vouch for the construction that saw us comfortably through a week of pounding seas . The hull , deck , cabin , and flying bridge are all solid hand-laid fiberglass , with a vinylester skincoat and Interlux Interprotect for osmotic-resistant barriers below the water , and polyester resins elsewhere as consistent with best yacht construction practices . End-grain Baltek balsa core is laminated in the decks to minimize weight , and to maximize stiffness and strength . Hull girders , ribs , and rails are all molded fiberglass for long life . The exterior shines due to a high-gloss NPG-ISO gelcoat finish , although Pullem indicated that about 90 percent of their owners want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Spacious living Jefferson 's interior designers have a huge amount of space to work with in the salon and staterooms , even after you subtract space for shoulder-wide walkways on the sidedecks . Set forward and to starboard , the lower helm station is large enough to house a complete set of duplicate electronics and instruments , yet it still seems small in the grand scale of the salon . Accordingly , the chairs and sofas can be oversized , deep and plush . The galleys can be large enough to house optional home-style appliances such as trash compactors , full size refrigerators and freezers , and dishwashers . If you prize experience , value performance , and appreciate top notch craftsmanship when you see it , check out the Rivanna series from Jefferson . The next one coming down the ways could be just what you 're looking for . // Jefferson Rivanna 56 GMY // <p>                     