@@399193

Beneath her strong , certain tones speaking about her mother 's annulment , it 's easy to imagine Dana Newby as a vulnerable teenager watching her mother " clear off the dining room table , bringing out boxes of papers .... Late at night , I saw her sitting there at the table , crying . " Years later , her mother would say that the annulment , for a marriage that lasted 18 months , " was the most degrading , time-consuming , useless thing she 'd ever been through . " Newby later left Catholicism , admitting she never stopped associating the church with those childhood feelings that " you made my mother cry . " Patricia Voelker , however , speaks movingly of her experience of being able to participate in the sacraments after her husband received an annulment of his previous marriage . " I looked forward to it with all the joy of a little girl waiting for my First Holy Communion . " Whether divorced Catholics have experienced the annulment process as a healing and reconciling-though difficult-step in making right their relationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an unnecessary , painful , and humiliating example of the church 's legalism , some Catholics have wondered if annulment is enough . Might the church , which celebrated their marriage with a wedding service , also provide a ritual to mark the end of a marriage and the transition from marriage back to singleness ? The immediate obstacle the suggestion of such a ritual encounters would be the church 's discomfort in conducting a ritual to mark an event-divorce-it firmly teaches against . The Catholic Church believes that no power on Earth-except death-can dissolve a marriage . But the church does not ignore the fact that marriages break down , and the annulment process seeks to establish the reasons the marriage failed and whether certain key elements in the relationship were missing from the beginning . In the face of divorce , the church has found a way to temper its absolute teaching on the permanence of marriage with the reality of Catholics ' lives . Another obstacle would be the nature of the ritual itself . The wedding ceremony begins a couple 's participation in the sacrament of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ritual as a sacramental celebration . At the same time , Catholicism does have many nonsacramental rituals , such as the commissioning of eucharistic ministers . IN THE YEARS after Christianity began , mainstream Judaism gradually recognized that divorce laws were due for reform . After the exile from Israel in 70 A.D. rabbis humanized the practices Jesus had known , clarifying that men could n't divorce without cause and guaranteeing compensation to divorced women . Later Jewish leaders in many countries also banned polygamy , which elevated the status of wives . Modern Judaism is n't perfect ; it 's still the man 's prerogative to give a divorce , and although women are allowed to request one , there is little obligation for a man to free his wife . Many women are " chained " by husbands demanding money or simply refusing to give a divorce . Women whose husbands are missing or otherwise unable to grant a divorce can rarely remarry . Yet Jewish leaders are learning from Christianity as well . Rabbis have become more willing to look to the spirit of the law to grant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annulment solution in situations where a divorce is impossible . Still , with thousands of years of experience , there are a few healing lessons Judaism offers to Catholics who also find themselves moving into a new era . The central Jewish concept in the area of divorce is shalom bayit . Though the words are foreign , this essential teaching may seem familiar to Catholics . Shalom bayit ( literally , " peace in the home " ) means going to extremes to effect a reconciliation . The Talmud , listing deeds for which we are rewarded in the next life , includes honoring parents and " bringing peace between a man and his wife . " Counseling may be a modern innovation , but rabbis have long acted as therapists when a couple seeks divorce . They have also added layers of complexity so divorce wo n't be used frivolously . In the spirit of Malachi , the first spiritual task is to build shalom bayit . But this is tempered with a responsibility for the physical and psychological well-being of the family . Because we deal with imperfect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holiness by acknowledging the end of a marriage where God is no longer present . Rabbi Goldie Milgrom , ordained by the liberal Reconstructionist movement , sees herself as an " appointed midwife " for the " disentwining " of souls . She assists couples in removing " the holiness which sanctified them as for each other alone " and tries to restore their sense of mission as single people . In Christian traditions , leaders are accepting the responsibility to facilitate divorce when necessary . Lutheran Bishop Margot Kaessman of Hannover , Germany recently issued a statement that said , " Ignoring divorce and remarriage , defining children from a second marriage as illegitimate is not an acceptable Christian attitude .... Such an attitude places the law be fore the gospel . " Kaessman calls for leaders to counsel and create ritual-both public and private-to acknowledge the failures of individual Christians while affirming their continuing place in the community of believers . Sister Mary C. Boys , S.N.J.M. , a professor of practical theology at Union Theological Seminary and a leader in Jewish-Christian dialogue , supports that goal , saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide a means to ritualize the ending of a marriage . " JUDAISM TRIES to enact that ritual within the community where the couple has lived . The marriage began in public , and it ends there as well . Though the ritual is discreet , at least three adult men must be present ( liberal movements , like Reform and Conservative , also accept women as witnesses ) to make the divorce officially a public matter . When a couple marries in Judaism , the man places a ring on the woman 's finger and consecrates her " according to the laws of Moses and Israel . " So , too , at the end of the marriage , she is " deconsecrated " according to the laws that made them one . The ceremony is short and simple , with both spouses participating . The tribunal does n't perform the divorce but watches it , lending testimony to the end of marriage . Within Catholicism , too , Boys sees a real need for " a means to ritualize the ending of a marriage . " But many believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals will only be free to make the same mistakes . The system of annulment can help individuals revisit the circumstances of their marriage . For Tina Robbins ( not her real name ) , the annulment experience forced her " to look honestly and openly at the situation and to recognize some things she had managed to bury . " PRIESTS ARE increasingly willing to admit that a marriage is over . Most wo n't try to force an impossible reconciliation , even if children are involved . Some even counsel civil divorce , for financial reasons or to secure custody and visitation . But beyond civil divorce and annul. ment , they have no final step to offer to liberate the partners . Once a Jewish divorce is complete , individuals are welcomed as whole people with the same license to seek a soulmate as any other single person . Milgrom likens marriage to the multicolored , intricately woven havdallah candle used for the ceremony of separation after the Sabbath . Performing divorce ceremonies , she has " the image of unbraiding a havdallah candle in my mind . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unbound and the individuality of each strand restored . " Rabbis and synagogues recognize the finality of religious divorce , extending pastoral care to divorced Jews of all ages , including those with children . In recent years , Catholic churches have begun offering support groups and singles ' events including divorced people , but unless participants have had an annulment , their remarriage ca n't be sanctioned . Judaism considers both marriage and divorce to be religious events . " If anything , " Milgrom says , " the civil divorce rituals entangle and exacerbate warring souls . " A religious divorce , on the other hand , " done consciously with depth , kindness , and passion , accelerates ... a healthy transition . " Despite a wide range of belief and practice within Judaism , authorities of all movements emphasize the importance of divorce as a transformative ritual . " You get married in a religious ceremony , " says Rabbi Sharon L. Sobel , executive director of the Canadian Council for Reform Judaism in Toronto . " This is a way to sanctify the end of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orthodox movements have always required a divorce ceremony . The Reform movement originally abolished this requirement , but recently many , like Sobel , have come to support the older view . A Catholic divorce ceremony-like ceremonies in other faiths-would acknowledge the couple 's pure intentions , affirm that children were conceived in sacramentality and love , and that the failure was limited to a specific set of circumstances . Freeing spouses to remarry in their faith sends the message that the divorce is not a blemish on their soul . Just as Judaism 's teachings on marriage have evolved since Jesus ' lifetime , Catholicism , too , can learn to temper Jesus ' teaching on the sanctity of marriage with its usual compassion for individuals and families . I 'll leave that discussion to Catholic clergy and laypeople , with the hope that the learning wo n't stop here . Both Judaism and Christianity teach that God 's desire is for us to live by the Commandments . Surely , Jesus ' intention was not to create an unlivable covenant but to enrich the lives of his followers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but up , empowering Catholics to learn from others and heal the harmful teachings of their past . USC Author Affiliation JENNIFER PAQUETTE Author Affiliation JENNIFER PAQUETTE is a freelance writer living in Toronto . // <p>                     