@@383077

In the Ecuadorian Rainforest , Chevron is Charged as a Major Polluter Photograph Eleven-year-old Darwin Guerra ( left ) and the petroleum-laced pond near Ms home outside the Ecuadorian village of San Carlos . The family 's fish farm had to be abandoned . // In a courtroom crawling with conga ants and abuzz with mosquitoes , BricenoCastillowaited his turn . Standing near a black , putrid-smelling mud puddle the 70-year-old peasant farmer watched the judge talk . Then he watched the lawyers talk . When it was his turn , he told how , 35 years ago , he came here to the Ecuadorian rainforest , whacked out a space and planted good crops . Then the oil companies came , he said , and left a mess that killed everything . Castillo and his dead crops are part of a billion-dollar environmental lawsuit against Chevron'Corporation , whose predecessor company , Texaco Petroleum Company ( known as Texpet ) , first drilled for oil in Ecuador in 1967 , setting off a boom . that has contaminated rivers and streams , killed plants and animals , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Amazon River network , according to activists . Located at the world 's sweltering midriff , Ecuador , a grindingly poor , politically unstable country , has 13 million people and proven oil reserves of 4.4 billion barrels , the 26th largest in the world.Ecuador 's Oriente region covers 38,000 square miles of one of the world 's most ecologically diverse rainforests . THE OIL RUSH Texpet started an oil boom that became what some call the worst oil-related ecological problem on the planet . Across once-pristine rainforest , sloppy extraction and poor regulation have left open , unlined pits gurgling with black sludge . Methane pipes belch fire and contaminants . Processing plants spew gases , unchecked by temperature or contamination controls . Some rivers and streams are coated with a rainbow sheen , and people forced to drink from them scoop away the oil to get the " good water " it covers . The human fallout , documented by activists , attorneys , nonprofit groups and reporters , is staggeringly heartwrenching : Children born with fused fingers and deformed eyes ; teenagers with tumors ; amputated limbs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. lawyers representing some 30,000 Amazonian jungle dwellers sued Texaco ( which merged with Chevron Corporation in 2001 ) , charging that it dumped 18 billion gallons of " produced water , " a toxic byproduct of oil extraction , into rivers and streams people used for bathing , drinking and cooking . Saying it would enforce any judgments against the company , a U.S. federal court kicked the case to Ecuador in 2003 , where it wound up in a sweaty , low-slung jungle oil town named Lago Agrio ( also known as Nueva Loja ) , a chaotic place with a reputation for housing Colombian rebels , drug runners and kidnappers . For months in jungle isolation , the case has sleepily inched along as courts inspect oil wells ; scientists examine soil and water samples and lawyers argue over epidemiological data . Along the way each side refines its pitch . Chevron says Texaco , which was a minority partner in a government-controlled consortium from 1962 to 1992 , used industry-accepted practices at the time , and has seen no solid evidence proving health risks associated with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was released from liability by the Ecuadorian government , which in 1995 approved a $40 million remediation program . Rodrigo Ferez , Texpet 's former general manager , told me the figure plaintiffs say they want-$6 billion-is arbitrary , the result of an off-the-cuff assessment by a consultant . Plaintiffs say the liability release signed by the Ecuadorian government was obtained fraudulently . They accuse Texaco of cutting corners by injecting produced water into streams rather than back into the ground , and of passing substandard oil infrastructure to its successor , PetroEcuador , the state oil firm . Like many U.S.-based environmental suits , science is key , with each side spinning statistics . Plaintiffs trumpet a study published in the Journal of Epidemiology that found , among other things , that children under 15 were three times more likely to contract leukemia in places near Texaco operations than in other Amazonian provinces . But the study concluded the data " can not lead to a causal inference , " a qualification Chevron has taken and run with . Observers say the case inched along in that way until October @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an international human rights body of having improper ties to the Ecuadorian military that could be putting the case and the lives of their legal team in danger . MILITARY MIGHT The Trans-Ecuadorian pipeline carries crude from the country 's eastern rainforests to the Balao terminal in the port town of Esmeraldas . Paralleling a main highway , it crosses scraggly jungle farms , banana trees and African palms , muddy streams and the front yards of wooden shacks dotted with bony donkeys and cattle . Nearly half of Ecuador oil leaves Esmeraldas for the U.S. , which increasingly'seesthe strategic importance of diversifying from Middle Eastern supplies . Grindingly poor , in debt and well off Americans ' radar screens , Ecuador fits the bill . As the New York Times ' Peter Maas has pointed out , in an oil-hungry world where " expediency is the rule , " every barrel not taken from environmentally sensitive areas in the U.S. will come from nations such as Nigeria , Burma and Ecuador-poor , developing and outside the Middle East . Barrels that leave the Alaskan artic unscathed , in other words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and animal life , untapped human cultures and ethno-botanical knowledge . In Ecuador , four major companies hold rights to 24 million acres of land , and the government plans to open more rainforest areas , according to Aiossa Soltani of Amazon Watch , a California-based activist group supporting the plaintiffs . Rising indigenous opposition has stalled some development , but a legal win against Chevron could set big precedents . " This is as much about the future as it is past wrongdoing , " Soltani says . " If we hold them accountable , then we raise the bar for future projects . " Last November , plaintiff groups asked the Organization of American States ( OAS ) to protect the lives of four lawyers and an activist in their employ . The petition claims : a skillful robbery of a law office in which only material that seemed relevant to the case was stolen ; a threatening phone call to the lead plaintiffs ' lawyer ; and a man identifying himself as a member of a military unit with known links to Chevron appearing at the home of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say the nine-year-old daughter of an Ecuadorian social activist who is heavily involved in the case was the recent victim of an attempted kidnapping . In December , an OAS commission requested that the Ecuadorian Government " adopt necessary measures to guarantee the life and the physical safety of Alejandro Ponce ViI lacis , Ermel Chvez , Pablo Fajardo and Luis Yanza . " The plaintiffs are pointing to Chevron 's links to an Ecuadorian Special Forces Group known as Rayo 24 ( Lightning 24 ) . " Since the beginning of the judicial process , Chevron lawyers and executives have received support , protection , and personal security from members of Ecuador 's armed forces , " the OAS petition states . " It is a known fact that Chevron lawyers and executives continually house themselves with the confines of military installations of the Special Forces Group " Rayo 24 " in the city of Nueva Loja ... where the trial itself is taking place . " That connection became a hot spot last October , when an Ecuadorian judge cancelled an October 19 inspection of an oil well known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tribe , whose numbers have been decimated as a result of oil exploration . According to copies of the documents , the head of military intelligence for Rayo 24 submitted a report to the court the day before saying COFAN indigenous groups posed a risk for Chevron operatives . Only moments later , Chevron attorneys submitted a written request that the inspection be postponed . It is the timing of that filing that plaintiffs say proves Chevron knew of the report beforehand . A FAIR TRIAL ? American Steven Donziger is a linebacker-sized attorney and former news reporter who shuttles between Manhattan and Ecuador to advise the plantiffs ' legal team . He seems to be a bridge between the indigenous groups and a Pennsylvania firm that has been funding them . I asked him why he was making an issue of this . " We want a fair trial . But when a party to the trial has a private security contract with the Ecuadorian military , it raises concerns as to whether there is manipulation on the part of Chevron , " he says . Donziger also says that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies spy on Ecuadorian citizens under the color of law . Jeff Moore , Chevron 's spokesperson , says company lawyers prepared the Quanta request based on media reports that COFAN members were planning to be at the inspection . He also noted that Chevron was in no way trying to block the inspection , stressing that Chevron had originally requested it . Moore said his company has never tried to hide the fact that its lawyers live on the military base . He said the military 's protection is a must , and he confirmed that Chevron has a private security contract , but he could not discuss it for security reasons . " I am aware of 13 people working for companies in the Oriente who have been kidnapped since August of 1999 , and two have died , " Moore told me . " That is the reason we take security so seriously . " Moore adds that early on in the process the plaintiff 's legal counsel asked Chevron if its personnel could join the company 's " convoy movements to and from the inspection locations for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " without hesitation . " Moore also told me that he personally called a nonprofit group 's representative who was hosting North American guests on an oil well inspection to give them a " heads-up " when the company heard rumors there had been a kidnapping in Lago Agrio the night before . IS IT ECUADORIAN POLITICS AS USUAL ? Will the spying allegations and Chevron 's military ties help sway the outcome of a billion-dollar environmental case that 's one of the last pegs against petroleum 's push into one of the world 's most important ecological hot spots ? So far , these connections have made some waves . In November , Hina Jilani , the UN secretary General 's Special Representative on Human Rights Defenders , wrote to the Ecuadorian government demanding a full accounting of the alleged acts and the government 's response . In California , Amazon Watch turned up the pressure . The group sent a letter to Chevron CEO David O'Reilly . " To clarify , we are not accusing Chevron or any of its employees of prompting these unfortunate events , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way these events transpired seem to raise serious questions about possible links between Chevron and elements in the Ecuadorian armed forces who may be involved in these events . " Ecuador is a political carnival whose institutional lunacy taints everything here . The country has had seven presidents in 10 years . During my three-week stay in November , newspapers wrote that President Alfredo Palacio ( who took over in April after indigenous protesters forced his predecessor , Lucio Gutierrez , out of office and into asylum in Brazil ) had for the 11th time in a matter of months replaced members of Ecuador 's version of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . Another story was a political scandal involving ranking police and military officials caught raiding the bank accounts of a recently deceased financier ( whose body that week was exhumed to verify its identity , a grotesquely swollen corpse , surrounded by gawking onlookers ) . Perhaps the most important , and predictable , political current : rising indigenous anger at oil companies . In August , as they 've done before , native protesters wanting a bigger share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shutdown of the country 's oil infrastructure , all the while demanding the expulsion of U.S.-based Occidental Petroleum for alleged contract violations . The effect has been chilling . A consortium led by Houston-based Burlington Resources , for example , has a contract with the government to explore a vast block of rainforests , but is holding back due to intense opposition by the Achuar tribe , which holds the title to the territory . " If you look at the government 's map of the Ecuadorian Amazon , 80 percent is intended to be set aside for oil exploration , " says Soltani of Amazon Watch . " Part of the reason oil companies have not been bidding on much of it is indigenous opposition and the lawsuit . They are seeing there are big risks for potentially marginal returns . " Land rights are complicated in this part of the Amazon . Indigenous tribes hold title to territorial lands but the government owns the subsoil rights , which it leases to foreign companies . Some make the legal argument that international conventions signed by Ecuador grant indigenous groups rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Chevron 's military links may turn out to be a bigger deal outside Ecuador . Neither the Rayo 24 contract , nor the kidnapping and intimidation claims , have made dents in the local press . One reason for the lack of interest may be that intimidation and death threats are par for the course here . Not surprisingly , Ecuadorians are not fazed to hear about army links with oil firms either . Earlier this year , a lawsuit forced the Ecuadorian Ministry of Defense to release security contracts it had with all oil companies operating in-the country . One , dated April 2001 between Oxy and the Ministry of Defense , required Ecuadorian soldiers to carry out " counterintelligence operations " to prevent sabotage of oil facilities . ( Oxy requested and was given a revised contract in 2004 that did not include references to counterintelligence and made other demands in keeping with the company 's human rights policy , a spokesperson told me . ) Some contracts dictated that armed military units control " undocumented persons " in hundreds of square miles of jungle , where few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry them . Photograph Ecuadorian Indians demonstrate against Chevron in the Amazonian torn ofLago Agrio . The sign at right reads , " Texaco Never Again . " // Perhaps one reason for the lack of public outrage is that the military is respected by many Ecuadorians . Alexandra Alper , an American who for two years worked for an anti-mining newspaper in Ecuador , explains , " Historically , the military in Ecuador has been seen as a big safeguard for the will and wellbeing of the people , ousting several unpopular regimes . " However , Alexandra Almeida of Accion Ecology in Quito tells me that she has interviewed people who say they have suffered at the hands of state forces that were serving oil companies . In one case , she claims , a farmer who opposed oil companies had his fingers cut off . THE BIG PICTURE In November , news came that Chevron lobbyists in Washington were pushing to attach the case to Ecuador 's Free Trade Agreement . Jeff Moore said Chevron thinks the U.S. should be made aware that Ecuador does not adhere to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Developed v. Developing , First v. Third . From Ecuadorian oil fields to Peruvian gold mines , that helps explain South America 's map of environmental battles . As countries from China to the U.S. eye these vast and largely untapped lodes , some South American governments ( including Bolivia and oil-rich Venezuela ) are turning left , pushed by populist sentiment and a weariness of U.S.-backed policies that opened resources to privatization and are blamed for economic chaos in the late 1990s . Just as the Achuar have kept Burlington at bay , poor protesters in Bolivia have pushed out France-based multinational firm Bechtel . The list is long , but the threads are common : a hatred of globalized systems that activists believe would let an oil company hijack U.S. trade accords to win out over dirt-poor people it nearly killed in the first place . Critics say that countries like Ecuador , which owes billions , are forced by international lending institutions , The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) , to use oil revenues to pay off debt instead of helping poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ copy of the World Bank 's 2003 Structural Adjustment Program Loan . The deal made Ecuador pay " bondholders 70 percent of the revenue received from any spike in the price of oil , while another 20 percent of the oil windfall is set aside for " contingencies " ( i.e. , later payments to bondholders ) . Activists in the U.S. continue to bite at Chevron 's heels . In October they accused officials of not reporting the trial in securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) and shareholder reports . Supporters of the case are aligning themselves with Chevron shareholders and are pushing for a clarification of the company 's legacy . <p>                     