@@426172

Genes that help determine what goes right or wrong in pregnancy also enabled early mammals to switch from laying eggs to bearing live young . // One hundred eighty million years ago , a small , hairy animal resembling a shrew or a vole evolved a new way to care for her developing offspring . Instead of laying eggs and incubating them in an uncertain outside world , she retained her embryos and allowed them to develop inside her body . Her evolutionary invention earns her the name ancestral therian , the common ancestor of all placental and marsupial mammals . Her innovation ranks with such evolutionary breakthroughs as the development of feathers in dinosaurs and the emergence of aquatic animals onto the land . The ancestral therian is generally thought to have descended from a creature that had evolved the ability to delay laying her eggs . This still earlier animal could retain her developing eggs in her oviducts , while she chose the best time and place to lay them . The initial advantages of the added internal incubation would have been substantial . The mother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ site . Her offspring would have gained a major protective advantage against drastic weather changes and other instabilities . And internal embryonic development would have freed the mother from most of the restrictions of sitting on the nest . The shift in reproductive strategy begun by the ancestral therian was accompanied by a series of changes in the structure and physiology of the female reproductive system-as well as by radical changes in the way the organism 's descendants would live and reproduce . Until the ancestral therian , nearly all animals developed from externally deposited eggs or , in the simplest organisms , from budding directly off the parent . Egg-laying , in fact , was an amazingly successful method of reproducing , which led amphibians , fishes , and reptiles to dominate the world 's ecosystems . The reproductive strategies of egg-layers were relatively simple , too : Organisms could lay millions of eggs , gambling that at least a handful would survive . Or they could lay only a few , doting on each one in the hopes that all would thrive . The female reproductive tract in egg-laying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shaped like a runnel , which captures the unfertilized eggs after they are released from the ovary . The funnel-shaped section is followed by the oviduct , a muscular tube where the egg is covered with albumin , surrounded by membranes , and , in some organisms , encased in a hard shell . Farther downstream , beyond the shell-producing region , a short terminal segment opens into the cloaca , through which the eggs are laid . ( Live birth has also evolved in some fishes , lizards , and snakes , but in those groups , where it occurs , the egg is not coated in a hard shell , and it receives no extra nourishment from the mother . ) The reproductive system of the therians ( marsupial and placental mammals ) is a complex variation on the egg-layer 's basic tubular structure . In therians the muscular tube differentiated into the uterus and the vagina . The inner lining of the uterus developed into a highly complex tissue called the endometrium , which was able to grow and mature in response to hormones . It was supplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various specialized glands that provide nutrients to the developing embryo . Finally , the placenta , which transfers nutrients directly from the mother to the fetus , evolved from membranes of the egg , which had enabled it to " breathe . " Many of the latest insights about the origins and natural history of the uterus and related reproductive organs come from the burgeoning field of molecular evolutionary and developmental biology . Such techniques as gene sequencing , the intentional creation of specific mutations in laboratory animals , and genetic labeling make it clear that certain genes , primarily the ones known as master developmental control genes , have repeatedly shaped the evolution of animal bodies , from the transition of fins to limbs to the origins of the female reproductive tract . But more , the genes that play a role in embryonic development are also active in the adult . They are closely connected with the implantation of the fertilized egg and with the formation of the placenta . They are even implicated in diseases such as endometriosis and in cancers of the various reproductive organs . Understanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable light on disease as well as on complications of pregnancy . Until recently , the genetic mechanisms underlying the evolution of live birth , the embryo 's development inside the mother 's body , remained elusive . In the effort to understand those mechanisms , evolutionary and developmental biologists took a particular interest in one class of genes , the so-called homeotic , or Hox , genes , also known as the master developmental control genes . Hox genes were discovered through the study of the fruit fly ( Drosophila melanogaster ) . Soon after the discovery , geneticists began to look for Hox genes in other species . And remarkably , it soon became apparent that Hox genes occur in all animals , from the relatively simple to the most complex . Hoxrelated genes have even been discovered in plants and fungi . The broad range of life-forms that harbor the same , or closely related , genes suggests they originated before plants and animals diverged , and possibly even before the evolution of multicellular organisms in the Precambrian era , some 640 million years ago . Hox genes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arranged in space and time , so that body cavities become organized , tissues differentiated , and organs formed , all in their proper places and in proper sequence . Hox genes determine the placement and timing for the embryonic development of insect antennae , thoraxes , and wings ; worm segments ; fish fins and vertebrae ; even the arms and legs of human embryos . The recognition of the central role of Hox genes in shaping the basic body plan along the long body axis of so many organisms is one of the most important discoveries in evolutionary and developmental biology in recent years see " The Origins of Form , " by Sean B. Carroll , November 2005 . There is , of course , a downside to exerting such potent control on normal development . What happens when mutations occur in the control gene itself ? The classic example of the effect was first described in 1915 , a mutant fruit fly with two pairs of wings . It is now known that the cause of the doubled wings was a mutation in a Hox gene called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fruit fly into the second thoracic segment , leading to the second pair of wings . A second mutation , this one in a Hox gene called antennapedia , gives rise to a particularly gruesome result , transforming antennae into legs . Those two examples of mutations may seem to suggest that Hox genes direct cells to become a particular body part . What they really do , though , is demarcate positions in the embryo where the cells will develop into a particular body part . If a particular Hox gene is turned on , it activates other genes that control cell difFerentiation locally . Thus a Hox gene can be characterized as a kind of master architect that operates indirectly , through subordinate control genes . Why would Hox genes become the focus of research on the evolution of such a relatively " new " organ as the uterus-new , at least , when compared with the age of the Hox genes themselves , at least 640 million years ? The answer grew serendipitously out of a discovery made in the late 1990s , when biologists were investigating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their study , the biologists had devised a line of mutant mice that were missing certain Hox genes . Then , unexpectedly , they discovered a direct link between Hox genes and reproduction . The female mutant mice , lacking genes known as HoxA-10 and HoxA-11 , were infertile . Yet the eggs of the mutant mice were viable and could implant into a normal surrogate mother ; they simply failed to implant into the uterus of a mutant mouse . The observation eventually led to the experimental demonstration that some Hox genes function in new ways in shaping female reproduction in therians , both in the embryonic development of the reproductive organs and in the operation of those organs in the adult . Specifically , it has been shown that HoxA-9 is active in the region that will become the fallopian tubes ; HoxA-10 is active in the upper uterus ; HoxA-11 in the lower uterus ; and HoxA-13 in the vagina see illustrations on this page and opposite page . Moreover , in addition to being active in the vagina , HoxA-13 plays a vital role in the formation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mice missing the HoxA-13 gene die in utero . Because " higher " mammals are the only animals with a uterus , those four HoxA genes must have acquired their role in reproduction after the marsupial and placental mammals diverged from the monotremes , or egg-laying mammals . ( The only living monotremes are the platypuses and the echidnas . ) That is not to say that Hox genes play no role in the reproductive systems of other animals . But whatever that role may be , it predates the specialized role Hox genes have developed in therian mammals . There the genes have evolved to do something truly unique : they establish the receptivity of the uterus to implantation by the developing embryo . The emergence of an important new function for some very old genes suggests that the genes themselves may have been subject to fairly rapid evolution by natural selection . But what kind of evidence could show that Hox-gene evolution was taking place at about the same time as the uterus was differentiating and the internal development of the embryo was appearing ? Natural , or Darwinian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adapted to their environments preferentially survive and reproduce . How Darwinian selection has acted on genes in the distant past can not be read directly in the fossil record . The DNA of living organisms , however , preserves a living record of how and when genes changed . DNA is made up of four chemical building blocks called nucleotides ; they are designated by the first letter of their chemical names : A , C , G , and T. The nucleotides in turn combine in " words " of three letters-ACT , ACG , GCT , and so forth , 4 x 4 x 4 , or sixty-four possible words in all-to code for the formation of twenty distinct amino acids , the stuff of which protein is made . And protein does the major work of the cell . Two main kinds of mutation , or changes in the spelling of a DNA word , can take place . Sixty-one words , matched with twenty amino acids ( the other three words act as " stop " signals ) , implies that some of the DNA words , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amino acid . So if a mutation causes ACT to become ACG , the amino acid is left unchanged-and the mutation is called a silent substitution . But if a mutation , say ACT to GCT , leads to the code for a different amino acid , the mutation is called a replacement substitution . Molecular biologists are more likely to detect silent substitutions in living organisms , because changes in the amino-acid makeup of a protein are usually deleterious , and selected against . Sickle-cell anemia , for instance , results from a single amino-acid replacement in hemoglobin , the major protein component of red blood cells . That single change causes red blood cells to be stiff and pointed instead of soft and round , decreasing their ability to carry oxygen and thus causing the disease . In rare instances , however , replacement substitutions are advantageous and selected for , a process called positive selection . One of the first examples of positive selection was identified in genes that code for the immune system . Replacement substitutions in those'genes are often advantageous because they provide new ways to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research , then , was straightforward . We wanted to determine whether the Hox genes that are essential for uterine function and embryo implantation were undergoing positive selection in the ancestral therian during the evolution of the uterus , allowing the internal development of the embryo to evolve . To do so , we sequenced Hox genes from placental and marsupial mammals , from the platypus and the echidna , and from amphibians , fishes , and reptiles . When we studied all the patterns of amino-acid replacement and silent substitution , we discovered several replacements that all placental and marsupial mammals share . No other animals , however , have those same replacements . The evolutionary tree relating the mammalian species that share the amino-acid replacements dates back to the ancestral therian , 180 million years ago . We then calculated that the number of replacement substitutions must have been significantly greater than the number of silent substitutions in the ancestral therian . In other words , there was a burst of positive selection in the relevant Hox genes . Then , after that initial burst of change , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marsupial mammals are now evolving at the same rate as they are in other animals . To our knowledge , this example is the first in which the origin of a novel body part has been linked to the adaptive evolution of developmental control genes . How did positive Darwinian selection on Hox genes lead to the evolution of the uterus ? That question is only beginning to be explored . Nevertheless , important clues to the answer may emerge from the study of additional ways that Hox genes become active , notably in the menstrual cycle of mature adult females , as well as in pregnancy . HoxA-10 and HoxA-11 , for instance , promote the maturation of the endometrium , or uterine lining , in ways that are reasonably well understood . At birth , the uterus , unlike most other organs , is relatively undeveloped . During puberty , though , the blood concentrations of the sex steroids estrogen and progesterone increase , stimulating the HoxA-10 and HoxA-11 genes in the uterine tissue to direct the maturation of the endometrium . HoxA-11 , for instance , determines how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proportions of sex steroids throughout the menstrual cycle . The gene also regulates how the endometrial cells respond during the implantation of a fertilized egg-or , more accurately , during the implantation of the pre-embryo . ( The fertilized egg begins cell division even before the onset of pregnancy . ) Implantation of the pre-embryo in the uterine wall is a highly invasive process , akin to attack by a parasite . The outer embryonic cells , known as the trophoblast , bore into the wall of the uterus , secreting enzymes that dissolve away barriers to the maternal blood vessels . The properly matured endometrium both enables this invasion and acts as a shield for the mother , preventing it from going too far . The trophoblast eventually forms the placenta , through which the embryo proper receives dissolved nutrients and is cleansed of waste . The process does not stop there : hormones produced by the placenta mimic maternal hormones and cause the mother 's blood pressure and sugar to rise and arteries to dilate , increasing the flow of nutrition to the growing fetus . In response to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack any other invader , but in a normal pregnancy the embryo is tolerated , even appeased in its quest for nutrients . On the surface of the matured endometrium are a half-dozen " sticky " proteins , which enable the pre-embryo to become attached . Recent investigations show that HoxA-10 is responsible for turning on the production of one of those proteins . And the HoxA-10 and HoxA-11 genes turn down the immune system in the uterus at the time of implantation , enabling the pre-embryo to invade without retaliation . Hox genes that fail to function properly can also cause diseases of the female reproductive system . Endometriosis , for instance , is the growth of endometrial tissue on parts of the body other than the uterus-typically in cells that form the surfaces of the ovaries , intestine , and bladder . The abnormal tissue growth strikes about one woman in ten , and it causes pain , irregular bleeding , and infertility . The cause of the infertility that accompanies endometriosis is not known , but HoxA-10 and HoxA-11 fail to respond to sex steroids in the uterine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cancers that are made up of cells resembling the cells that occur in the fallopian tubes , the uterus , or the vagina . Those cancers arise , respectively , from overactive HoxA-9 , HoxA-10 and HoxA-11 , or HoxA-13 genes in the ovary . Evolutionary and clinical studies may have different goals and begin from different perspectives , but the cross-fertilization of the two disciplines offers great hope that both perspectives will benefit-in particular , that a means will be found to conquer such scourges . Meanwhile , the scientific picture of how the uterus , implantation , and internal embryonic development evolved is just beginning to emerge . Once the way was paved by the evolution of a precursor animal that retained its eggs and did not coat them with a hard shell , HoxA-10 and HoxA-11 apparently took on novel roles to support the development of embryos inside the mother 's body . The initial changes may have involved thickening the tissue in the uterus and increasing the number of blood vessels serving it , creating a safe and well-oxygenated environment . Soon thereafter , the embryo developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HoxA-13 was specifically involved in the formation of the blood vessels of the umbilical cord . Those changes in early development were followed by further refinements . The attachment of the placenta to the wall of the uterus became more invasive , and it and the embryo began secreting hormones to extract more resources from the mother . To cope with these demands , Hox genes continued to adapt , giving the mother the ability to suppress her immune system without allowing the placenta to invade too far . The changes took place incredibly rapidly , perhaps in as few as 3 million years . But their effects can be seen in mammals the world around . Sidebar Khalil Younes , Electronic Uterus , 2005 Sidebar Female reproductive tract of p/acenta/ mammals , such as the human one shown here , has a greatly enlarged uterus compared to the uteruses of marsupials ( see diagram on opposite page ) . The color coding in the diagram shows the approximate region where various Hox genes are expressed . Sidebar Form of the female reproductive system ranges widely among various animals , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The color-coding in each diagram indicates where specific Hox genes are active , according to the key in the diagram on the opposite page . Amphibians , for instance , have many ovaries connected by relatively long oviducts , for the hundreds of eggs deposited each time they reproduce . Birds have just one functional ovary ; their oviduct equips the egg with a hard , calcium-rich shell . Monotremes have short oviducts and lay soft-shelled eggs ; the platypus has only one functional ovary , the echidna has two . Marsupials produce no egg shell ; instead , their developing young receive nutrients in modified oviducts . The animals are also unusual in having two uteruses . Each of them , though , is smaller than the one in placental mammals , because their young develop internally for only a few weeks before taking up residence in the pouch . Sidebar Once an organism evolved that retained its eggs , old genes took on novel roles to support the development of embryos inside the mother 's body . Sidebar Five-inch-long Eomaia scansoria ( Eomaia is Greek for " dawn mother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago , is reconstructed from a fossil discovered in Liaoning Province , China . Eomaia is an evolutionary descendant of the ancestral therian , and the earliest known representative of the lineage that eventually led to placental mammals . The painting was made by Mark A. KHngler of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History . // <p>                     