@@419406

CHANCES ARE you have never heard of the National Council on Bible Curriculum in Public Schools or its textbook , The Bible in History and Literature . But if you are a member of a school board , you may be hearing about it soon . Over 1,000 schools in 308 school districts in 36 states from Alaska to Florida currently utilize the curriculum , and over 175,000 students have taken courses based on it , according to the NCBCPS Web site ( www.bibleinschools.net ) . It 's not a huge number , but it 's on the increase , says president and founder Elizabeth Ridenour . Seven years ago , only 71 school districts were using the curriculum . The NCBCPS has not listed the schools using the curriculum so its geographic impact is difficult to measure . Over a fifth of the schools are in Texas and Louisiana , and it 's likely most of the others are in the rural south and midwest . The NCBCPS 's list of advisers reads like a Who 's Who list of religious , social and political conservatives . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. Senate , and two of Time magazine 's " 25 Most Influential Evangelicals " - Joyce Meyer and David Barton . The group has been endorsed by Family Research Council president Tony Perkins , the Eagle Forum , Focus on the Family and a host of similar groups and figures . The NCBCPS uses such organizations to advertise , and then looks to grassroots supporters to push the curriculum in their school districts . That 's what happened this past spring in Odessa , Texas , where the NCBCPS registered 6,000 signatures in support of the cause . The debate there drew attention from the national media . One of the people voicing concern was David Newman , an English professor at Odessa College and father of a 12-year-old student . Newman is Jewish , and he told the Dallas Morning News that his daughter already was occasionally made uncomfortable with questions from classmates . " They 'll ask her why " your people " killed Jesus . Or if she knows that Jesus is her savior . ... I do n't think it 's hate . It 's just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if a pronounced Christian viewpoint is taught in the class . " The school board unanimously approved offering a Bible course , reportedly receiving a standing ovation from the audience . The board has apparently not finalized its choice of curriculum . Many in the city advocate using NCBCPS materials . Courts have ruled clearly that teaching the Bible in a nonsectarian manner is legal and appropriate in public schools , and the NCBCPS insists that its course is indeed nonsectarian . " The program is concerned with education rather than indoctrination of students , " says the Web site . " The central approach of the class is simply to study the Bible as a foundation document of society , and that approach is altogether appropriate in a comprehensive program of secular education . " Ryan Valentine of the Texas Freedom Network takes a different view : " Academic study of the Bible in a history or literature course is perfectly acceptable , " he says , " but this curriculum represents a blatant attempt to turn a public school class into a Sunday school class . Even that may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pass muster in most churches I know . " The curriculum does make occasional efforts to be evenhanded . It nowhere urges students to become Christians . A separate CD offers perspectives from multiple religious traditions . Some pedagogical components are quite helpful , such as map exercises , reading comprehension questions , quizzes and recommendations of classic musical works inspired by biblical stories . Creative activities include preparing foods that are traditionally associated with Passover and writing a monologue describing Jonah 's inner feelings . The book is well illustrated and parts of it are visually appealing . Nevertheless , the curriculum does present a distinct theological perspective . Discussions of science are based on nonscientific literature , Jesus is presented as the fulfillment of " Old Testament " prophecy , and archaeological findings are cited as evidence of Bible 's complete historical accuracy . Almost an entire unit of the curriculum is devoted to depicting the U.S. as a historically Christian nation , with the strong implication that it should reclaim that purported heritage . The Protestant Bible is the course 's norm , and the Bibles of Judaism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The first page highlights the King James Version as " the legal and educational foundation of America . " Christian theological claims are sometimes explicitly affirmed and a Christian audience presupposed , as in statements like : " The tabernacle of the Old Testament was a " shadow of things in heaven/ Hebrews 8:1-5 tells us that the real Tabernacle is in heaven . This is where Jesus himself is our high priest ( Heb. 8:2 ) . " THERE ARE occasional surprises : the book does not insist that Job was written by its namesake , and it even presents a brief overview of the synoptic problem . But it generally advocates traditional views of biblical authorship , early datings of biblical books and the historicity of biblical reports . Students are asked to describe the impact of Noah 's flood on world history . The Exodus is confidently dated to 1446 BCE , with no other views represented . An inscription is cited as confirmation of the accuracy of the Tower of Babel story . Stories of miracles and divine intervention are portrayed as historically accurate - an approach that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the courts have explicitly ruled out for public school settings . // The curriculum 's appeal to archaeological materials aptly illustrate its emphases and its shortcomings . A summary statement cites a claim by a " respected scholar , Dr. J. O. Kinnaman , " that " of the hundreds of thousands of artifacts found by the archaeologists , not one has ever been discovered that contradicts or denies one word , phrase , clause or sentence of the Bible , but always confirms and verifies the facts of the Biblical record . " J. O. Kiimamaii is not a name well known in contemporary academic circles . He has argued ( in Diggers for Facts : The Bible in Light of Archaeology ) that Jesus and Paul visited Great Britain , that Joseph of Arimathea was Jesus ' uncle and dominated the tin industry of Wales , and that he himself personally saw Jesus ' school records in India . According to an article by Stephen Mehler , director of research at the Kinnaman Foundation , Kinnaman reported finding a secret entrance into the Great Pyramid of Giza , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He also claimed that the pyramid was 35,000 years old and was used in antiquity to transmit radio messages to the Grand Canyon . Kinnaman might not be the best figure on which to base material for a public school textbook . The book 's treatment of the Dead Sea scrolls is equally problematic . Most scholars will be startled to learn that the " scrolls contain definite references to the New Testament and , more importantly , to Jesus of Nazareth " ; that fragments of New Testament books were found in the Dead Sea caves ; that one scroll mentions the crucifixion of Jesus ; and that some Jews at Qumran accepted Jesus as the Messiah . They will be even more puzzled by claims that the Dead Sea scrolls prove that the Hebrew text underlying modern translations " was identical with the original text as given to the writers by God and inspired by Him . " In light of such claims , it is perhaps not surprising to encounter these study questions on the scrolls : " Describe the impact of this discovery on those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Determine the evidence from the Dead Sea scrolls confirming the claims of Jesus as the Bible describes him . " In discussing 5scientific issues the book argues that biblical writers accurately described the global water system and wind patterns . The claims are based primarily on a book by evangelist Grant R. Jeffrey , The Signature of God ( Frontier Research Publications , 2002 ) . The cover of at least some editions of this book proclaims it as " Documented Evidence That Proves Beyond Doubt the Bible Is the Inspired Word of God . " In several instances , the curriculum advises teachers to use resources from the Creation Evidence Museum in Glen Rose , Texas , an organization that believes in a six-day creation , a 6,000-year-old earth , and the simultaneous existence of humans and dinosaurs . The material also presents an urban legend as scientific fact . Students are told to " note in particular the interesting story of the sun standing still " in the book of Joshua . " There is documented research through NASA that two days were indeed unaccounted for in time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " A Web site is provided for an article titled " The Sun Stood Still " about the alleged NASA discovery . The " Ask an Astrophysicist " section of the Web site of NASA 's Goddard Space Flight Center dismisses this story , and folklorist Jan Harold Brunand has documented the evolution of the legend . Much of the course appears to be designed to persuade students and teachers that America is a distinctively Christian nation-an agenda publicly embraced by many of the NCBCPS 's advisers and endorsers . One need not even open the book to find this agenda . The cover is decorated with a photograph of the Declaration of Independence and an American flag . The title pages of most units depict similar images . A consideration of the Ten Commandments draws students ' attention to the possibility of instituting biblical law in America . A unit titled " The Bible in History " relies heavily on the thought of David Barton , founder and president of Wall-Builders , an organization based in Aledo , Texas , that argues against the separation of church and state . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hired him to stump for President Bush at churches in 2004 . Even something as seemingly innocuous as a dictionary recommendation reflects a theological agenda . The book recommends the 1828 edition of Noah Webster 's American Dictionary of the English Language and provides contact information for its publisher , the Foundation for American Christian Education ( FACE ) . A visit to FACE 's Web site reveals that this edition contains " the greatest number of biblical definitions given in any reference volume . " An advertisement there reads , " This dictionary is needed to Restore an American Christian Education in the Home , Church , and School . " Perhaps most shocking of all , however , is the way the curriculum reproduces nearly verbatim lines , paragraphs and even pages from its sources . Though it occasionally notes its sources , nowhere does it explicitly acknowledge that it quotes them directly . In addition , many passages are virtually identical to ones in uncited sources . In one unit alone , 20 pages are almost identical to uncited online materials . All in all , the wording @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the book-is identical or nearly identical to the wording of other publications . The NCBCPS wants to reach many more school districts . Ridenour has recently announced efforts to expand the use of the curriculum . It may be coming to a school district near you . Sidebar A far-right " Bible history " course is making its way into public schools . Author Affiliation Mark A. Chancey teaches biblical studies at Southern Methodist University . His book Greco-Roman Culture and the Galilee of esuswill be published this fall by Cambridge University Press . Chancey 's report on the NCBCPS is available online at tfn.org. // <p>                     