@@369303

For two solid years , Dr. Perry Molinoff and his colleagues methodically tinkered with a couple of molecules they had identified the old-fashioned way  --  by testing tens of thousands of compounds on cultures of growing cells . Among other things , they adjusted certain structural features to reduce the chance that the molecules would cause gastric distress and to increase the likelihood that they would cross over the blood-brain barrier . And all the while , they checked and rechecked to make sure that during this biochemical shuffling they did not lose the key property that made these particular molecules potentially so valuable : their ability to block the activity of gamma secretase , an enzyme thought to play a critical role in the development of Alzheimer 's disease . <P> Out of more than 100,000 candidates in the initial screen , says Molinoff , head of neuroscience drug discovery at Bristol-Myers Squibb , only two were deemed promising enough to continue working on . That was in 1996 . Now , thanks to the efforts of nearly 40 scientists  --  some at Bristol-Myers ' Wallingford , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based in La Jolla , Calif.  --  the number of compounds derived from these two templates has expanded to more than a thousand . <P> Last year one of these highly refined derivatives became the first so-called secretase inhibitor to enter clinical trials with Alzheimer 's patients , and others seem sure to follow . In fact , not just Bristol-Myers Squibb but also Amgen , Elan Pharmaceuticals , Eli Lilly , Merck and SmithKline Beecham are racing to develop similar compounds . The reason ? Over the past five years , an explosion of insights into the genetics of Alzheimer 's has bolstered confidence that gamma secretase and a related enzyme called beta secretase are not innocent bystanders but rather are intimately involved in the disease process . <P> The rapidity with which this new class of drugs has emerged is nothing short of stunning . Of course , until the clinical trials now under way render a verdict , no one knows whether any of these novel compounds will turn into a pharmaceutical Cinderella , but at least the possibility is there . " Compared with what Alzheimer 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago , it 's night and day , " says Dale Schenk , vice president of neurobiology at Elan Pharmaceuticals in South San Francisco . " Finally we have moved out of the laboratory and into the clinic . " <P> Alzheimer 's disease , many experts are all but convinced , starts with the abnormal buildup of a protein known as beta amyloid . The chief constituent of the scarlike plaques found in the brain of Alzheimer 's patients , beta amyloid is made by nerve cells when beta and gamma secretase execute a one-two snip that cuts a larger precursor protein into a shorter fragment . Sometimes the fragment is 40 units long , sometimes 42 . The slightly longer variant , scientists have found , is directly toxic to nerve cells . Among other things , it appears to stimulate the release of oxygen free radicals , thereby setting off in the brain a destructive biochemical cascade .                     