@@399851

" AND NO BIRDS SING " Carson , shown here on an Audubon bird-watching outing , was a trained scientist ; she eloquently documented how insecticides were silencing the songbirds. // As we commemorate the 40th anniversary of Rachel Carson 's Silent Spring , Carson 's legacy still inspires women around the world to fight corporate polluters , protect their children , and advocate for their own health . The women 's environmental-health movement is organizing globally around four strategic areas : * 1 ) lobby for government commitments to and implementation of international regulations on environmental standards , such as the Persistent Organic Pollutants Treaty ( POPS ) ; * 2 ) fight for passage of and adherence to Right to Know laws globally , nationally , and locally that ensure communities are informed about what chemicals are being deposited in their backyards , allowing for pressure on companies to comply with federal and statewide regulations ; * 3 ) advocate for the Precautionary Principle , which holds that governments and corporations should take measures to protect public health and the environment where substantial damage is threatened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harm ; and * 4 ) propel environmentally savvy women into public office and leadership of environmental organizations , to link the work already being done at the grassroots level to real political leverage . We will not be silent . FORTY YEARS AGO , A QUIET woman inspired a revolution that today , despite having swept every nation , remains far from victory . On September 27 , 1962 , Rachel Carson published Silent Spring and founded the modern environmental movement . Seldom does a book generate such controversy , produce such profound and numerous public policy results , or bring about so much new activity in a social movement . But Silent Spring was no ordinary book . Its message resonated with a public increasingly concerned with the environment and its effect on human health . It also caught the attention of leading political figures who were not afraid to confront corporate America . Following World War II , the United States embarked on a love affair with chemicals . We celebrated the many applications of plastics and synthetic compounds and wondered how agriculture could have thrived without pesticides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Business had a lot to celebrate and more to champion , as wartime technologies were converted to domestic applications , requiring significant government financial and political support . Silent Spring begins with the parable of a mythical town that awakens one spring to silence , its birds , insects , and other wildlife felled by the damage of chemical pollution . When The New Yorker first published excerpts from it in the summer of 1962 , just before the book 's release , no one was prepared for the response . Carson had converted years of painstaking research on the biological effects of widespread spraying of insecticides , pesticides , and herbicides into a clarion call for control . Her attack on the dominant scientific standards of the day and on the chemical industry captured the attention of the world . Silent Spring led to significant environmental regulations in the United States . It precipitated congressional investigations , presidential directives , 1972 legislation banning DDT , new regulations for clean air and water , and the formation of the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) in 1970 . Carson 's work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human health and tapped into the public 's distrust of political and corporate power , calling for greater accountability . It also engaged women as a new constituency for the environment . After the book 's publication , women all over the country wrote letters to editors , voicing concern about environmental issues as varied as fluorides and nuclear fallout . A new environmentally minded public opened the door for wider mobilizations . This growing constituency for environmental-health issues led Interior Secretary Morris Udall and President John E Kennedy to form a commission to study chemical applications . This gave credibility to the book , against denunciations from within government agencies , paving the way for wide regulatory reforms . ELOQUENT SCIENTIST Carson was an unlikely candidate for public attention and controversy , according to her biographer Linda Lear . She was a reserved woman , with a quiet demeanor and a fragile physical presence that stood in stark contrast to her intellect and courage . She had a difficult childhood in many ways and did not have an easy time building social networks in high school or in college , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her talents demanded . Throughout her career , Carson struggled to support her family in return . At Pennsylvania College for Women , now Chatham College , in Pittsburgh , she combined her talent for writing with her love of science and nature . She graduated magna cum laude in 1929 with a major in zoology . She was able to continue her studies long enough to earn a master 's degree in zoology at Johns Hopkins . After that , she taught zoology and spent summers studying at the Marine Biological Laboratories in Woods Hole , MA . In 1937 she started full-time work as an aquatic biologist at the Bureau of Fisheries , eventually becoming editor-in-chief of all its publications . Her work at the bureau gave her insight into government procedures . It also led her to write about the sea , first in articles , and later in two books : Under the Sea- Wind and The Sea Around Us , winner of a National Book Award . These brought Carson her reputation and public acclaim , allowing her to leave her job for full-time research and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short-lived , however . When Carson published Silent Spring at 55 , she was dying from breast cancer . Her book alerted the world to the dangers of the toxic chemicals that may have caused her disease . As Carson battled both cancer and the radiation treatments that were poisoning her body , she steeled herself for the onslaught that would follow publication of her book . Chemical trade associations and individual companies attacked her with a barrage of criticism , laden with sexist imagery and language . Led by chemical manufacturers Monsanto , American Cyanamid , and Veliscol , corporate scientists tried to discredit the validity of her research , the " emotional ism " of her interpretations , and the book 's suggested remedies , which the industry viewed as threatening to its business . To discredit Carson and her work , the pesticide industry spent more than $250,000 , equivalent to well over a million dollars today . Monsanto , one of the largest producers of DDT , immediately denounced Carson , saying she wrote not " as a scientist but rather a fanatic defender of the cult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hysterical . Her concern for the environment was questioned because she was a " spinster " who had no children to be worried about . Carson 's spirit did n't falter . She met with members of the special panel of the President 's Science Advisory Committee and testified before Congress . She reacted to the government 's release of its own report on pesticides by testifying before Congress about the need for a government agency to monitor pesticides and other toxic chemicals . Then , she returned home to Maryland for her final months-the cancer had spread through her body . Carson died on April 14 , 1964 , at 56 , never knowing to what extent her work would be vindicated or glimpsing its long-term impact . CARSON 'S LEGACY " It is the public that is being asked to assume the risks that insect controllers calculate , " Carson wrote . " The public must decide whether it wishes to continue on the present road , and it can do so only when in full possession of the facts . " Simultaneously calling for a public 's " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precede profit , Carson 's prescriptions are at the core of today 's environmental advocacy and of the women 's environmental  --  health movement . While there is not just one woman 's perspective on the environment-biologically , ideologically , politicallywomen 's traditional role as caregivers and their very bodies make them markers of environmental crises , as health problems arise from increased contamination of self , community , and home . Women often are the first to detect problems , the first to be affected by new technologies and policies that have an impact on health , food supplies , access to water , and land erosion . As a result , they have been actively informing themselves about complex scientific issues in order to make personal decisions about health and environmental contamination . INDIVIDUAL CHOICE , COLLECTIVE ACTION At the same time women have understood that individual choice will not transform the underlying causes of widespread environmental contamination . They have been organizing for more than a century to address environmental-health issues . In many cases , women at the forefront of the environmental movement have had to learn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and political frameworks and disciplines . After World War IT , women began moving into scientific fields in greater numbers , including into naturalresource management and toxicology . Women like Carson shaped the research agenda influencing the next stages of the environmental movement . After the publication of Silent Spring and drawing upon the 1960s ' wide public distrust of government and corporate power , the environmental movement expanded its ranks . New local and national environmental organizations were formed throughout the United States and Europe , as peace and environmental activists began to mobilize against the international chemical companies and the nuclear industry . The links between environmentalism , peace , consumption , and international policy were firmly established . By the 1970s tough and courageous women around the country were alerting their communities to the health effects of toxic waste sites and industrial production facilities , driven by the certainty that their children were in danger whether or not regulations were in place . These facilities were typically in communities with little political or economic power and large numbers of racial minorities . Think of Lois Gibbs , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dump site in New York ; the women of " cancer alley , " an 80-mile toxic corridor of industrial pollution through some of the poorest and mostly African-American areas along the Mississippi River ; and the women of Long Island , NY , who focused attention on the apparent epidemic of breast cancer in their communities . This nascent women 's environmental-health movement is not only a domestic one . By the early 1990s , women around the world were working together to influence government policies , recognizing that environmental problems know no national boundaries . Today this community-based organizing is Rachel Carson 's legacy . Our activism works toward her kind of Spring . Photograph WORKING AT HOME : With the financial success of her book The Sea Around Us , Carson was able to purchase the binocular microscope she had always wanted . Author Affiliation Ellen Dorsey is director of the Rachel Carson Institute at Chatham College , where Marie Thormodsgard is an undergraduate . // <p>                     