@@391015

THE FIRST HALF-CENTURY OF SPACE EXPLORATION WAS STUNNING , FROM SPUTNIK TO MOONWALKS TO INTERPLANETARY PROBES . THE NEXT 50 YEARS PROMISE EVEN MORE AWE-INSPIRING MILESTONES : LIFE-SEEKING ROVERS , A LUNAR BASE AND THE ULTIMATE OFF-EARTH ADVENTURE  --  A COLONY ON MARS . The first man-made object in orbit did n't look like much . An aluminum sphere about 2 ft. across , it was filled with pressurized nitrogen and carried two small transmitters that beamed wavering radio signals to the planet below . On day 22 , the batteries ran out and the satellite fell silent . A few weeks later , the craft most likely vaporized as it plunged back to Earth . To Americans at the height of the Cold War , the Soviet Union 's launch of Sputnik 1 on Oct. 4 , 1957 , came as a shock  --  and a spur . The competition that would inevitably be known as the space race was on . Small orbs carrying transmitters were soon followed by larger ones carrying men . And , within a mere dozen years , human beings left footprints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after a handful of lunar missions , we lowered our sights . For the past 35 years , manned spaceflight has been limited to low Earth orbit . " Part of the problem is that , in the big picture , Apollo was premature , " Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin says . " It was a spurt of progress artificially stimulated by the race to beat the Russians . " Today , with the Cold War long over and cooperation with Russia an everyday event in space , we are making bold plans again : private space missions , a lunar base and , ultimately , the long haul to Mars . And with those big ambitions come big questions : What is the proper balance between manned and unmanned exploration ? Is long-term spaceflight too risky for humans ? Is it worth the cost ? For this special issue , POPULAR MECHANICS commemorates the first 50 years of spaceflight by looking ahead to the next 50 . It will be in these coming decades  --  within the lifetime of most of us now living  --  that human beings make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  JAMES B. MEIGS , EDITOR-IN-CHIEF HOW WE 'LL LIVE ON THE MOON A FORMER SHUTTLE ASTRONAUT EXPLAINS WHAT LIFE WILL BE LIKE ON NASA 'S FUTURE LUNAR BASE . BY THOMAS D. JONES " Hardscrabble " was what future president Ulysses S. Grant named his ramshackle homestead on the pre-Civil War Missouri frontier . That might be an apt title for NASA 's planned lunar outpost , for its residents will find the moon a harsh place to settle . Survival will depend on their ability to evade micrometeoroids , extract oxygen from rocks and even , like Grant , grow wheat . The space agency announced its strategy to return to the moon last December . Instead of emulating the series of six Apollo landings , it chose as its initial goal the establishment of a single lunar outpost . Using the new crew exploration vehicle , Orion , NASA plans to send four astronauts to the moon as early as 2020 ( " Mission : Moon , " March ' ' 07 ) . Eventually , four-man crews will rotate home every six months . Their goal will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and practice for an eventual leap to Mars . The moon , says NASA , is the place to get our spacesuited hands dirty . " The lunar base is part of an overall plan that has legs , that makes sense , " says Wendell Mendell , chief of the Office of Lunar and Planetary Exploration at Johnson Space Center . " We 're moving the human species out into the solar system . " Choosing a Homestead THE APOLLO LANDINGS from 1969 to 1972 were restricted by fuel limitations to destinations fairly close to the lunar equator . This time , NASA is drawn to the practical and scientific attractions of the lunar poles . Temperature is one factor : At the poles , the sun 's slanting rays produce a moderate daylight range of minus 22 to minus 58 F , compared to the equatorial high of 270 F. But the real advantage of the poles is access to resources . Near the south pole , for example , some high crater rims are bathed in nearly constant sunshine . Sun-tracking solar arrays placed there would provide steady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brief periods of darkness . An even more valuable resource may lie in the craters ' depths . Spacecraft data suggest they could harbor hundreds of millions of metric tons of water ice , accumulated from billions of years of comet impacts . Using a simple electric heater , robot ice miners could free water for drinking and agriculture . Electrolysis could break it down further , supplying oxygen for breathing and hydrogen fuel for moon-to-Earth transportation . The Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter , to be launched late next year , will search for ice just beneath the moon 's surface . Another mission , the Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite , will crash a spacecraft into one of the lunar poles in early 2009 and analyze the debris plume for water and other chemical compounds . If the moon proves to be dry , which ground-based radar suggests , oxygen can still be pried out of lunar volcanic rock . Combining hydrogen gas brought from Earth with the mineral ilmenite , then heating the mixture to 1652 F , produces iron , titanium dioxide and water . Other chemical processes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and electricity . Lawrence Taylor , director of the Planetary Geosciences Institute at the University of Tennessee , is developing a magnetic " vacuum " hose , designed to suck lunar dirt into a dumptruck or pipeline leading to an oxygen extraction plant . At first , the power for these industrial processes would come from lightweight solar arrays . A compact nuclear reactor , tucked safely into a shallow crater away from living quarters , might be needed later . The south pole is also attractive scientifically . It lies within the South Pole-Aitken Basin , the largest impact crater in the solar system . This 7.5-mile-deep , 1500-mile-wide depression , gouged out by a titanic asteroid or comet impact , should harbor bedrock excavated from deep within the lunar crust . Mike Duke , a retired NASA scientist , suspects that it also holds samples of impact melts  --  igneous rocks formed from the collision 's molten splash . Examining those rocks would open a window into the moon 's ancient history . Living on a Hostile Moon HOW WILL RESIDENTS COPE WITH the hazards littering this airless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like those on the International Space Station ( ISS ) , or perhaps inflate living spaces made of a tough , Kevlar-like fabric . For protection from cosmic rays and micrometeoroids , the pioneers could bury their habitats in trenches or heap lunar soil over them . With no atmosphere or magnetic field to shield them , as on Earth or Mars , lunar explorers will need to retreat to these shelters during a solar flare 's deadly shower of charged protons . A lucky find might be a lava cave to insulate the living quarters . Exploring the surface will require a better spacesuit than the one I used as an astronaut to help assemble the ISS in 2001 . That suit was too stiff at the waist for easy walking or bending , and its fiberglass torso and bulky life-support backpack made it top-heavy . The old Apollo suits would n't cut it , either : The gloves were clumsy , even painful after prolonged use , and the suits so stiff in the waist and knees that crews found it nearly impossible to reach for a rock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International , a private firm in Houston , has spent hundreds of hours in prototype spacesuits , working out the kinks . " The moon suit is a work in progress , " Eppler says , but " compared to Apollo 's , it will have more flexibility for walking , bending and grabbing stuff off the ground , and be much more intuitive to work in . " Lighter electronics and improved life-support systems should keep the weight between 150 and 200 pounds , just 25 to 35 pounds in lunar one-sixth gravity . Future explorers will also need an improved version of the Apollo lunar rover , which two astronauts could drive about 40 miles before its silver-zinc batteries were exhausted . A new model might use solar rechargeable batteries , or electricity from hydrogen-oxygen fuel cells . Both spacesuits and machines will have to cope with lunar dust : gritty , sharp-edged , and murder on seals and bearings . Engineers hope to use electromagnetic filters and shielding systems to prevent dust from working into critical components . Taylor is also developing a microwave-powered paving machine capable of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or roads . To minimize the number of costly cargo shipments , the outpost will need efficient recycling technology . Wastewater , including urine , will be returned to a drinkable state using systems soon to be tested on the ISS . Carbon dioxide will be removed from the atmosphere using a catalytic scrubber that recovers some oxygen . But a lunar greenhouse will offer the biggest benefit . A few plants have been grown experimentally on the ISS , but never on a scale large enough to produce usable oxygen or food . The moon 's steady polar sunlight would be ideal for greenhouse agriculture . Chris Brown , a plant biology professor at North Carolina State University , leads a group that has been experimenting with ways to grow lunar-ready white potatoes , soybeans and wheat . " Plants doing photosynthesis are fundamental to life on Earth , " Brown says . " That same system should enable us to colonize other worlds . " The brightly lit greenhouse at the U.S. Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station is popular with those wintering over in Antarctica , providing humidity , fresh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greenhouse , coupled with radio and TV contact with Earth , might be just the tonic for lunar pioneers living a quarter-million miles from home . Big Plans , Tight Budgets CONGRESS HAS ENDORSED NASA 'S lunar goals , but has not provided much money to get the effort moving . The space station and Orion have taken priority over research for outpost technology , space agriculture , advanced life support , nuclear power , rovers and the crucial robot precursors . There 's also no guarantee that Congress will approve NASA 's big-ticket hardware : the Ares V heavy cargo rocket and the Orion lunar lander . Funding may well prove the biggest hurdle . " We know how to explore the moon , " says geologist and Apollo 17 astronaut Harrison H. Schmitt . " In fact , we are far , far better prepared to explore this nearby body ... than were Lewis and Clark as they planned to head west into the new Louisiana Territory . We must go back . " THE NEW LUNAR BASE Moderate temperatures , nearly perpetual sunshine , flat landing areas and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situated within the solar system 's largest impact crater  --  an ideal location for a lunar homestead , down near the moon 's south pole . NASA hopes to send the first pioneers there by 2020 . HABITAT : Living quarters sit high on the crater rim so that power-generating solar cell arrays are in constant sunlight . Inflatable modules  --  light and easy to transport  --  could be coupled with a fabric that hardens in the area 's abundant UV light . Another option : Bury structures in regolith  --  the moon 's powdery rock surface  --  to protect pioneers from potentially deadly solar flares and to equalize internal and external pressure on walls . OBSERVATION AREA : Separated from the base 's transmissions , and shielded from Earth 's radio noise , this site holds optical and radio telescopes used to search for extrasolar planets , as well as an ultraviolet telescope that uses the moon 's rotation to survey for planets like Earth . Photograph : LUNAR LANDER MINES : At about $25,000 per pound , lunar shipping costs force the outpost to mine and manufacture much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extract oxygen from ice crystals deposited by comets or asteroids . Strip-mined regolith yields nitrogen for farming , calcium for cement and hydrogen-free silicon to make glass and ceramics structurally superior to any made on Earth . The soil also holds titanium , iron and aluminum . Photograph : HABITAT LANDING ZONE : To protect the outpost from dust kicked up during takeoffs and landings , the pad sits at a lower elevation . The lunar lander shuttles passengers to and from the orbiting transfer vehicle .  --  BY JANCY LANGLEY Photograph : MINES Photograph : OBSERVATION . AREA . TOM WOLFE AUTHOR , THE RIGHT STUFF The purpose of the space program is not to maintain superiority in space but to build a bridge to the stars before the sun dies . Homo loquax ( man speaking ) or Homo sapiens ( rational man ) is the only thoughtful creature in the universe , so far as we know . If he does n't build himself that bridge to escape across , all is lost . BURT RUTAN DESIGNER OF SPACESHIPONE The next 15 years will see thousands of people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SS2 system might fly 100,000 people by 2024 . If it is shown to be highly profitable , perhaps we will see 20,000 people traveling to orbit by 2035 , and then thousands to the moon by 2050 . If we make a courageous decision , like the program we kicked off for Apollo , we will see our grandchildren in outposts on other planets . MICHAEL GRIFFIN NASA ADMINISTRATOR On the moon , we 're going to have opportunities for numerous scientific advancements , everything from large radio telescopes to cosmic-ray detectors . But we 're also going to learn how to live and work on the surface of another planet before going to Mars . We need to do that . The first time you go to Mars , you 're going to be away from home for three years . Our maximum experience on another planet has been three days on the surface of the moon . We should walk before we run . THEY , ROBOTS UMANNED SPACECRAFT WILL CONTINUE TO GRAB THE DATA , IF NOT THE SPOTLIGHT . BY DAVID NOLAND Between the International Space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orion crew exploration vehicle , manned missions gobble up most of NASA 's budget . But lesser-known robotic missions produce the majority of the science  --  and unmanned probes can be sexy , too . Witness Hubble 's panoramic images of star birth and Cassini 's spectacular documentation of Saturn and its moons . Here are five spacecraft that will continue this vital work  --  plumbing the secrets of creation , exploring the corners of the solar system and even , perhaps , finding life on other worlds . 1 NEW HORIZONS Launched last year toward Pluto at a record-setting 36,000 mph  --  and boosted by a gravity-assist " slingshot " from Jupiter in February  --  New Horizons will fly by the dwarf planet in 2015 . After conducting the first in-depth study of Pluto and its moons , it will be on to the Kuiper belt  --  a band of icy debris at the edge of the solar system . 2 JAMES WEBB SPACE TELESCOPE In 2013 , a French Ariane rocket will launch the $4.5 billion next-generation eye in the sky , which has an 18-segment primary mirror seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a point 940,000 miles above the Earth 's night side , it will look for the first galaxies created after the big bang . 3 KEPLER Planned for launch in June 2008 , Kepler 's wide-angle photometric telescope will monitor 100,000 nearby stars over a period of four to six years , searching for small , Earth-like extrasolar planets that might harbor life . 4 LUNAR RECONNAISSANCE ORBITER Next year 's launch will propel the probe into orbit just 30 miles above the moon , where it will generate a 3D map of surface features , search for water ice , measure radiation and otherwise lay the groundwork for a lunar base . 5 PHOENIX After it touches down next May near the arctic circle on Mars , Phoenix 's robotic arms will dig 3-ft. - deep trenches , excavating ice and soil for analysis in its two on-board laboratories . SURVIVING LIFE ON MARS THE RED PLANET WILL POSE EXTREME CHALLENGES TO FUTURE EXPLORERS . HERE 'S WHAT THEY CAN EXPECT . BY CARL ZIMMER It 's your first hike on Mars , and so far things seem to be going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pictures of what looks remarkably like a mat of microbes . Eager to make scientific history , you suit up and head to the canyon rim with your fellow astronauts . To get a closer look , you start rappelling down the canyon wall . The sky is a beautiful shade of peach . Life is good . Photograph : Mars may never feel like home , but technology is already being planned to make astronauts comfortable there . In this illustration , CG models of potential habitat pods and greenhouses meld with panoramic photos from actual Mars rovers . And then there is a strange rush , a low pop . A hidden pocket of water shoots out , freezing into crystals as it sprays you . " You 're covered with ice . That 's bad , " says John Rummel , NASA 's senior scientist for astrobiology , who offers this cautionary scenario . Ice can shut down a spacesuit 's cooling system . " It may be dirty ice that came with rocks , " Rummel adds . They could crack open your faceplate , causing your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in mud , and you ca n't get up . And if there 's something alive on Mars , you 're covered with it . " No one said going to Mars would be a vacation . It might , however , be a full-time job , if all goes according to plan . In 2004 , President Bush announced a new space exploration policy , a key goal of which is to extend human presence across the solar system by sending astronauts to Mars . Though a first step will be to gain experience with a lunar base , the red planet will pose challenges to astronauts unlike those anywhere else . Mars is 250 million miles from Earth at the farthest point in the planets ' orbits . Sheer distance makes unpredictable weather , unexpected illness and even homesickness potentially deadly problems . Residents of the future Mars base wo n't be able to count on a rescue mission . A Long Way From Home JUST GETTING TO MARS will require a grueling five-month trip , under the best-case orbital scenario ( " Roadmap to Mars , " Dec. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cabin fever and potential bone loss , the astronauts will have to land safely in an environment that , despite robotic rovers , we still do n't fully understand . Mars has a thin atmosphere , made up mainly of nitrogen and carbon dioxide , but satellites have offered only crude estimates of its density . " How do you know when to deploy a parachute when the density of the atmosphere is only partially known ? " asks David Beaty , NASA 's Mars program science manager at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California . And many other crucial details  --  such as the velocities of winds that gust along various layers of the atmosphere  --  are still a mystery . Dust storms can cloak nearly the entire planet , and can last for three months . " They tend to happen at the same time each year , " Beaty says , " but they do n't always turn into enormous storms . We do n't understand why and we ca n't predict it . " The ideal landing site will be a place where astronauts can learn a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible risk  --  in other words , a location that 's flat , safe and geologically interesting . Some areas around the future base might be designated for human exploration and others for rovers only  --  not just to protect astronauts from Mars but to protect Mars from astronauts , as well . Each explorer will carry trillions of microbes belonging to a thousand different species , and could spread them across the Martian landscape . This would jeopardize one of the chief goals of the entire mission : to look for signs of life . Mars started out as a much warmer , wetter planet that may have had an abundant supply of organisms . But as the Martian environment became harsher , any life on Mars must have either become extinct or retreated to refuges such as underground hydrothermal systems . " You would n't want to introduce Earth life into those spots , " Rummel says . " When you envision people going to Mars , you do n't want them to contaminate things they 're supposed to study . " Rovers can have microbes " baked out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't  --  and , Rummel says , " The best spacesuits we have are fairly leaky . " Pushing Physical Limits MARS WILL POSE HAZARDS to the health of astronauts far beyond those encountered on any previous mission . Even the dust on Mars is more dangerous than that found on the moon . Scientists suspect it contains particularly nasty compounds  --  arsenic and hexavalent chromium  --  that could burn skin and eyes on contact . Photograph : Wheat plants provide oxygen for scientist Nigel Packham during a 15-day regenerative life-support-systems test at Johnson Space Center . And though the thin atmosphere on Mars blocks much of the radiation from space , which means that a solar flare wo n't be as much of a concern there as on the moon , it blocks less radiation than Earth 's atmosphere . " A person who goes there for 18 months could have somewhere between a 1 and 2 percent chance of dying early from cancer , " says Frank Cucinotta , the radiation health officer at NASA 's Johnson Space Center . And he adds , " We 're worried about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much as four times higher . " The crew 's flight surgeon will need to keep tabs on astronauts to catch medical problems as early as possible . Rather than drawing blood , he or she might be able to take a tiny sample of each crew member 's cells and measure the activity of genes inside them , looking for changes in the genetic pathways associated with pathogens and with general fitness . Photograph : Astronaut Dave Williams performs a telementored arthroscopy simulation that may one day provide a template for emergency surgical care in space . But the distance between Earth and Mars means that if a crisis does arise , whether it 's an ordinary broken leg or an exotic dustborne illness , the astronauts will have to cope with it on their own . " As soon as you kick out of Earth orbit and head for Mars , it 's physically impossible to get back in less than two years , " says Robert Zubrin , the president of the Mars Society , an organization that promotes manned missions to the planet . " That 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advice would take 44 minutes . Ultimately , a flight surgeon may have to rely on robotic assistance . " Even the best surgeon in the world ca n't do every operation , " says Ken Kamler , a surgeon who has worked with NASA on developing remote medicine and a member of POPULAR MECHANICS 's editorial advisory board . Kamler envisions a flight surgeon sending a full-body CT scan of an injured astronaut back to Earth . There , a doctor would review the diagnosis and send a program of the appropriate operation to Mars , where a surgical robot would carry out the procedure . Eighteen months , the length of projected outpost missions , could put astronauts under severe mental stress as well . Psychologists are trying to understand the potential effects by studying astronauts aboard the International Space Station and scientists who are stranded for months in Antarctica . But the isolation on Mars may be far more potent than in either of those locations , according to Nick Kanas , a professor of psychiatry at the University of California , San Francisco . Kanas has studied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ station . They sometimes feel depressed and irritable , but they get a great deal of solace from talking to their families and  --  perhaps surprisingly  --  simply from looking at Earth as it looms outside the station 's windows . These luxuries will not exist on Mars . " No one has ever experienced the Earth as a dot in space , " Kanas says . " It may have a profound effect on the astronauts , making them feel really cut off . " Kanas does n't think NASA should rule out the possibility that an astronaut will become suicidal . Planning for Risks SCIENTISTS CONSIDER these challenges big , but not insurmountable . One way to reduce the risks is to understand them more precisely ; unmanned spacecraft can be a powerful tool for filling in gaps in knowledge . Phoenix will land on the northern pole of Mars in 2008 , and dig for conclusive evidence of water ice . The following year , the Mars Science Laboratory  --  a rover twice as long and three times as heavy as the current rovers , Spirit and Opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than ever before . It will also test NASA 's capability to land a large , heavy payload on the planet 's surface . Another way to scale down the risks inherent in a Mars mission is to spend considerable time selecting and preparing the best possible crew . Ideal astronauts for long-haul missions may be slightly older , with a stable mental health record , and introverted enough to perform well without a lot of social interaction . They should also be mellow enough to adapt to shifting goals , contingencies and changes of plan . Mars astronauts need to be in excellent physical shape as well  --  but even the healthiest crew member can get a tooth abscess or appendicitis . " Does that mean we should remove all astronauts ' teeth before they go ? " says Alain Berinstain , director of Space Astronomy and Planetary Exploration at the Canadian Space Agency . " Should all nonessential body parts be removed ? Those are questions that should be asked . " Astronauts " most basic needs will pose huge logistical challenges on Mars : Supplies , food , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mission , yet every extra pound of payload requires fuel to lift it into space . Dan Bursch , who shares the U.S. spaceflight endurance record of 196 days in orbit , predicts one of the biggest challenges will be simply fixing broken equipment . " There were many times on the space station when we did n't have the right spare part on board and had to wait for the shuttle , " he says . " Even though the engineers do a great job at trying to guess what parts you 'll need , that 's a huge issue . " The Mars Society 's Zubrin proposes sending several unmanned spacecraft to Mars before the first manned mission , hauling supplies the astronauts will need . To generate power for the long term , he favors a small nuclear reactor . Berinstain and his colleagues at the Canadian Space Agency are developing greenhouses that astronauts could use to grow crops . Instead of tons of food , they could just bring seeds . Meanwhile , other researchers are working on different technologies that will make a Mars mission easier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past summer on an Arctic island testing a spacesuit designed for life on Mars . It is lighter than the spacesuits used for zero-gravity missions , and also better able to seal out dust . Despite the many formidable risks , Bursch does n't believe that danger , ultimately , will decide the fate of missions to Mars . " I do n't think there 's an equation you can plug and chug to say the risk for going outside is not worth it today , " he says . And the potential benefits of the mission  --  revolutionary things like discovering new life forms and extending humanity 's reach to another planet  --  will make some people set those risks aside , Bursch predicts . " I do n't think you 'll ever have a problem finding volunteers to go on a mission from which they may not come back . " PETER DIAMANDIS CHAIRMAN , X PRIZE FOUNDATION Privately financed human lunar research outposts ; fundamental breakthroughs in propulsion ; one-way missions to Mars ; trillion-dollar asteroid mineral claims ; nanotechnology-enabled single-stage-to-orbit spacecraft ; first births in space ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ snapshot of what the next 50 years have in store for us . While the stage will have been set by the world 's government space programs , these breakthroughs will not come through the incremental funding of government space agencies , but through the same economic forces that opened the Americas and the American West . BUZZ ALDRIN APOLLO 11 ASTRONAUT Long-term , I see robotics prevailing on the moon . With the total vacuum and the radiation , it 's a more challenging environment for humans than Mars . Humans will pass through occasionally for maintenance and updating the base , or for entertainment , but I do n't see any need for a permanent human presence there . The most important decision we 'll have to make about space travel is whether to commit to a permanent human presence on Mars . Without it , we 'll never be a true space-faring people . THE PRIVATE SPACE RACE As NASA plods on with mammoth long-term programs , nimble , innovative space entrepreneurs are gearing up to meet ambitious short-range goals . Fueled by interest in space tourism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2010 , the private " New Space " industry is finally looking like the real thing . Here are five companies that have gotten hardware off the ground . BY DAVID NOLAND Photograph : SPACESHIPTWO Photograph : GENESIS II SALLY RIDE FIRST AMERICAN WOMAN IN SPACE Astronauts will remain the explorers , the pioneers  --  the first to go back to the moon and on to Mars . But I think it 's really important to make space available to as many people as we can . It 's going to take a while before we have the ability to launch people for less than $20 million a ticket . But that day is coming . BORIS NAYDENOV ZERO-G INSTRUCTOR , GAGARIN COSMONAUT TRAINING CENTER Establishing orbital laboratories around the Earth is just the first step . Humans have the opportunity to explore the moon , Mars and other planets . But for that we need to unite our efforts . The more countries that are interested in the peaceful exploration of space , the quicker mankind will develop new worlds . SIR ARTHUR C. CLARKE AUTHOR , 2001 : A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be experiencing suborbital flights aboard privately funded vehicles , built by a new generation of engineer/entrepreneurs with an unstoppable passion for space . It wo n't be too long before bright young men and women set their eyes on careers in Earth orbit and say : " I want to work 200 kilometers from home  --  straight up ! " ON THE WEB For a podcast on the next 50 years in space and more expert predictions , go to **32;6114;TOOLONG . <p>                     