@@375490

Have we got anyone in this country that 's not us ? " That 's the question vexing Paul Bremer  --  veteran American diplomat , head of the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq and current occupant of the world 's toughest job  --  as he convenes a morning meeting inside the dusty , sprawling Baghdad palace that serves as his office and home . As is usually the case , Bremer has a crisis on his hands . An explosion at a mosque in the city of Fallujah last week killed 10 Iraqis , including the mosque 's imam . U.S. soldiers who surveyed the scene say the blast was probably caused by explosives stored inside the building , but locals in Fallujah , a hotbed of anti-American militancy , are accusing the U.S. of bombing the mosque by helicopter or plane . " I 'd like to get a third party in there to take a look , " Bremer says . " It 's one thing to say we did n't do it but quite another to get someone else to say it happened on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with one small problem : finding a third party . An aide suggests dispatching troops from Singapore deployed in Iraq to the site , but they do n't have bomb-damage-assessment experience . Someone else brings up the U.N . ' s antimine unit . " The Mozambicans , " Bremer ventures , referring to a group of mine-clearing specialists from Mozambique . " Are they working for us ? " The idea is discussed for a few more minutes before Bremer moves on . Like so many problems in the new Iraq , this is one the U.S. , for the moment , has little choice but to leave unresolved . <P> Three months after the fall of Baghdad , a grim fact of life for Bremer as well as his 600-member civilian staff and the 146,000 American soldiers is that they are still struggling to police Iraq 's streets , restore electricity , fix the economy , rebuild schools , monitor local elections and nudge the country toward democracy  --  all while waging a counterinsurgency campaign against an increasingly brazen assortment of militants who have killed more than 30 U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's not going well . In Baghdad recent attacks on infrastructure targets left the power and water systems in worse shape than they were in a month ago ; it is a testament to the slowness of the U.S. 's rebuilding efforts so far that the traffic lights have just begun to come back on . The enthusiasm Iraqis initially showed the occupiers has largely expired , replaced by disappointment and a growing belief that everyday life was better under Saddam Hussein . " At least we had power and security , " says Uday Abdul al-Wahab , 30 , a shop owner in Baghdad . " Democracy is not feeding us. "                     