@@366205

A chill mist hung over southern Chechnya late last week , bringing fresh misery to masses of refugees huddled in muddy camps and to many thousands of Russian troops hunkered down in jerry-built bunkers . But the vaporous air lent aid and comfort to the ghostlike Chechen guerrillas , who are successfully using stealth and guile to turn the tide of the war . <P> At least for now . Over the past two weeks , the rebels ' hit-and-run tactics have managed to check the Russians ' juggernaut offensive , inflicting politically humiliating attacks on Russia 's superior forces and politically damaging body counts . Even if Russia has regained control of the battlefield , the guerrillas have melted away to plot new surprises . Acting President Vladimir Putin 's confident prediction of imminent victory  --  and his triumphal glide to the presidency in March  --  is slipping toward the Chechen quagmire . <P> Until a few weeks ago , when Russian troops reached the outskirts of the provincial capital of Grozny , Chechen fighters had been strangely inactive . Moscow 's generals attributed their unhindered progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around Christmas at the outskirts of the capital  --  where the besieging forces have remained ever since , pulverizing the city but making little progress  --  Moscow put an optimistic gloss on the situation . Through the tame media , Putin declared that everything was proceeding according to plan . Russian forces have made a " breakthrough " in the campaign , reported Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev . The defenders of Grozny are disorganized and panicking , the Russian command announced . <P> In fact , the Chechens were just biding their time . Last week guerrillas came out of nowhere to raid three important towns . Creeping into Argun , mixing with local residents , attackers assaulted Russian troops occupying buildings in the town square , killing 10 or 20 before ferocious return fire drove them off . In Shali , hundreds of rebels brazenly encircled the Russian military commandant , demanding he hand over his troops ' weapons and clear out . The Chechens blocked a base on the edge of the town , so when Russian armor tried to deploy in support of their comrades at headquarters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Russians hit back with ground-to-ground missiles , and dozens of people were killed  --  raiders , according to the Russians ; civilians , according to local residents . <P> The embarrassing raids caught Moscow off guard and forced commanders to shift troops besieging Grozny to the new threat . If the rebels ' purpose was to shake Russian confidence , they succeeded . " It 's not clear where they came from , " said Major General Sergei Makarov , commander on the eastern front . " They just popped up among the civilians . " General Victor Kazantsev blamed his troops ' " tenderheartedness " and " groundless trust " in Chechen civilians . The response from Moscow made it clear that the top brass had been stung . Defense Minister Sergeyev sniffed that the attacks were " perfidious. "                     