@@418482

Information technologies are toppling traditional hierarchical business-management systems . The new model for twenty-first-century management will be extra-preneurship - virtual networks based on collaboration and self-actualization that will add value to all current and future jobs . THE FUTURIST 'S Lifestyles Editor describes what this shift will mean for individuals , corporations , and the world economy . Photograph // As information technologies proliferate , a new social technology is rapidly supplanting vertically integrated industrial-era bureaucracies . My colleague Gregg Edwards and call it extra-preneurship . Its basics were first described in 1931 by U.S. economist Ronald Coase , who argued that the vertically organized bureaucracy is not the most-productive form of organization possible in the free market . Coase reasoned that a consortium of independent , specialized producers of components and services should routinely be expected to generate superior output at lower costs than a self-sufficient enterprise . But 70 years ago , because communication was so slow and shipping so unreliable , it was too risky and expensive to successfully contract out important in-house functions . As a result , the inefficiencies of vertical integration were embraced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern transportation have combined to dramatically reduce both transaction costs and outsourcing risks . As a result , traditional hierarchical bureaucracies are rapidly transforming themselves into virtually integrated , collaborative **27;3165;TOOLONG . Extra-preneurship is the new social technology for postindustrial enterprises . It is widely expected to replace the traditional , monolithic , self-sufficient , industrial-era bureaucracy-in both private and public sectors-over the next 10 to 15 years . Encompassing the principles of outsourcing , extra-preneurship will eventually allow individual employees to create economic value and improve economic performance , achieving self-actualization through communities of practice by opening up collaboration among workers in all walks of life . Outsourcing Challenges WorkforceS Outsourcing , made easy because of faster communication technologies , is unquestionably a revolutionary development . The World Wide Web provides an integrating infostructure for the global marketplace that promises to catalyze dramatic , long-term economic changes throughout the workplaces of the world . Because human resources constitute 65% to 75% of average business operating costs in Europe and North America , there will be enormous pressure for labor-intensive information work to migrate from high-labor-cost to low-laborcost countries . Moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single , global electronic marketplace for information products and services will gradually drive all labor markets around the world to pay comparable wages for comparable work . Photograph // Outsourcing has quickly become a fundamental assumption not only of most MBA programs , but also of most long-range scenarios for the future of business , including those published recently by the Global Futures Forum , by the RAND Corporation for the U.S. Labor Department , and by MIT organizational theorist Thomas W. Malone . These scenarios generally agree that the disaggregation of big , integrated , industrial-era businesses will continue until networked extrapreneurships become the normative form of large enterprise worldwide . They also assume that the future economy will be global . However , there is little to be found in these long-range scenarios on the future emergence of any new class of highvalue-adding , middle-income employment to replace the millions of jobs being eliminated by automation , info-mation , and global competition . While management philosophers envision a future where all capable people will thrive in a workplace filled with infinite opportunities for individual self-actualization , labor economists and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as outsourcing arose spontaneously in the marketplace in response to new competitive and technological realities , an entirely new way for ordinary employees to create economic value has recently appeared in the marketplace , promising even greater potential to improve economic performance than outsourcing . It 's called open sourcing . Outsourcing is merely changing the structure of enterprise . Open sourcing will change the culture of enterprise . Information ConBtipation Computers are clearly very good at allowing us to share information , but most organizations are n't . In a recent Korn/Ferry International survey of managers in 10 high-tech firms , only 25% of respondents said that knowledge is ever reused across the company and only 10% said they had access to lessons learned elsewhere in the company . Many studies have confirmed that such " information constipation " is common to all large organizations , and it was long assumed that this phenomenon arose naturally out of employees ' self-serving competitiveness . But the experience of firms that have made formal efforts to manage their intellectual capital suggests that the problem arises primarily from a desire to restrict information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporate knowledge-sharing policies . Behavioral scientists routinely divide workplace culture into two personality types : Type-A personalities are primarily motivated by extrinsic rewards such as status , power , and money , while Type-B employees are motivated by such intrinsic worklife rewards as personal growth , collegiality , professional integrity , and peer recognition . Over the decades , workplace surveys have found that the great majority of managers in large organizations reflect Type-A personalities . There is , as yet , no data linking insecure control-freak Type-B managers as a class to constricted inhouse information flow . There is , however , clear evidence that Type-B employees , who make up more than 75% of the workforce , rely heavily on collegial knowledge sharing to do their jobs well . In his 1999 book Smart Business , Harvard professor Jim Botkin showed that highly productive knowledge workers in all fields maintain communities of practice-collegial networks of past and present co-workers , classmates , instructors , customers , and suppliers . These worker-bee Type B 's use their colleagues as a readily available , trustworthy source of technical-professional information , guidance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice have typically been informal . But the unexpectedly successful open-source software movement has provided ordinary rank-and-file workers in every profession with a model for establishing their own online communities of practice . The world 's largest community of practice is the collaborative online network at sourceforge.net that develops and improves Linux open-source software . With more than 300,000 registered members working on more than 10,000 projects , the opensource community has demonstrated the enormous productive capacity of a self-policing , volunteer meritocracy based on peer collaboration and intrinsic rewards . The open-source model is quickly being adopted to generate productive innovations in a growing number of fields . What 's more , John Seely Brown , former director of Xerox PARC ( PaIo Alto Research Center ) , echoes the judgment of many experienced in workplace technology when he asserts that a new family of online groupware tools ( physical technologies ) is about to supercharge the way communities of practice ( social technologies ) solve problems , answer questions , and push forward the frontiers of knowledge . New groupware tools such as peer-to-peer file sharing , instant messaging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quickly establishing online open-knowledge and open-innovation systems to mobilize information and practitioners on any topic , project , or problem in any field of operation . But how many encyclopedias full of new knowledge will we need to create in the future ? The answer is millions . An Avalanche of Innovation While the dot-corn bubble has begun to fade from memory , the mass-market innovations introduced during the technology boom of the late 1990s provided convincing evidence that the computer really is a revolutionary technology that will ultimately transform daily life and work in unpredictable ways . Now people are wondering what the next revolutionary technology is going to be . The next techno-economic revolution will almost certainly not be driven by a single dominant technology like the steam engine or the computer . Rather , the coming decades will witness an avalanche of scientific discoveries , technical breakthroughs , and real-world applications throughout the workplace , the marketplace , and our lives . Techno-futurist Ray Kurzweil calls this moment in time not just a " revolution " but a " singularity " in the history of humankind . Whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we will discover new complexities and subtleties in every new frontier we explore . For every new technology we put in place and for every new regulation enacted , there will be new questions to answer , new problems to solve , and new linkages to understand . All of this will create new fields of study , new multidisciplinary professions , and hybrid technical specialties in the workplace , plus a demand for more new technology . This future will call for a workplace in which everyone must be attuned to the consequences of innovation , and where rank-and-file workers must be encouraged to share their experiences and insights with their peers both inside and outside their firms . Only in an environment of open collaboration can we possibly expect to constructively assimilate pervasive innovation and change without disastrous consequences . Furthermore , with open collaboration , ordinary workers will be able to add incomparable value to their own work , thus earning compensation well above what the global market pays their counterparts for comparable work elsewhere in the world . The result will be participatory R &D,; tapping the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Share In all hierarchical , compartmentalized institutions , " need to know " is traditionally the standard rule governing information distribution : Each employee is given the information to do his or her job , nothing less-and nothing more . Until recent years , management practice has strongly discouraged unauthorized transmission of information even among different branches , divisions , or departments of a single firm or agency . Typically , only a handful of senior executives ever get to see a comprehensive picture of the entire enterprise . Clearly , encouraging employees to directly share experience-based knowledge or performance data with their co-workers will be a dramatic departure from long-standing management practices . And the idea that employees should be permitted to share in-house experience with their counterparts in other organizations , including competitors , would be rejected out-of-hand by every corporate counsel on six continents . In fact , the widespread adoption of open-source communities of practice would be highly problematic if it were not for the fact that an openknowledge movement is rapidly spreading throughout the institutional world . The U.S. government , for example , is taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freely available to the public , and the Public Library of Science has already begun to publish peer-reviewed research findings in its free scientific journals . MIT has begun to post its entire curricula free of charge over the Internet . In the business world , corporate openness is being coerced by regulatory reforms in direct response to massive malfeasance by executives in a still-broadening list of industries . A similar openness is beginning to establish itself among pharmaceutical industries , where failure to publish negative drug trial results have led to embarrassing and costly disclosures , and in the health-care profession , where the spread of standard diagnostic and treatment protocols based on widely shared practitioner experience is dramatically improving hospital performance . An unexpected manifestation of institutional openness has been the adoption of open innovation by a growing number of corporate R &D; operations . During the Industrial Age , in-house research was seen as crucial to competitiveness . The superior quality and quantity of research conducted at great industrial laboratories such as Bell , IBM , GE , and DuPont conveyed so much tangible competitive advantage and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the firms ' " crown jewels . " But , as Harvard 's Henry Chesbrough describes in his 2003 book Open Innovation , the success of Cisco , Nokia , Genentech , and other firms that have prospered largely by purchasing or licensing technologies developed by others is leading major firms in many other industries to do the same . Over the past century , Procter &; Gamble 's formidable array of market-dominating products has been entirely the creation of its in-house R &D; laboratories . But , in 2003 , 10% of its new products were created outside of the company , and P &G; intends to buy or license 50% of its innovations from outside sources within five years . Info-preneurship Trans-institutional collegiality is scarcely limited to academics , professionals , and corporate R &D.; As industrial products such as automobiles , appliances , and aircraft incorporate increasingly sophisticated specialized features , manufacturing processes must involve growing numbers of specialized suppliers . Lockheed-Martin 's $200 billion contract with the U.S. Department of Defense to build the Joint Strike Fighter , a new generation of stealth aircraft , involves 80 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom rely heavily on groupware to collaborate with each other and with the 75-member Aeronautics Tech Group , who are coordinating the project with the four U.S. armed services , the UK Defense Ministry , and eight other allied militaries . In work environments like this , behavioral scientists expect project teams made up of multiple disciplines from multiple employers to become the primary work group , bound together by common goals and common rewards . Some employment experts also believe that teams who become particularly adept at turning out generically valuable information products ( such as resource allocation algorithms ) will collectively leave their salaried positions and form new information service enterprises . A number of such info-preneurships are expected to spin themselves off from their employers in the coming decade . This movement will be in direct response to a rising marketplace demand for the powerful but scarce productivity-enhancing competencies of math modelers and statisticians from small- and medium-sized enterprises that could otherwise never afford to employ such skills as salaried in-house staff . The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that a million new jobs in mathematics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Jobs such as these inspire the apostles of free agentry . But such high-value information services will make up less than 5% of the new jobs created in the current decade , amounting to just 2.5% of the total U.S. workforce by 2012 . The entire professional , scientific , and technicalbusiness services sector-slated to add a total of 1.86 million new positions-is the brightest feature of the current 10-year U.S. employment forecast , but it clearly does not represent a rising tide that will lift all the boats . Photograph // The prototype social technology whose success has helped to inspire the general spread of open collaboration-the open-source software movement-remains in a league by itself . In North America alone , an estimated 1.1 million software developers report that they voluntarily spend some of their on-job time working on one or more open-source projects . While these programmers charge no one for their services , they are nonetheless compensated for their time , since many ( probably most ) of them work on open-source projects during their hours of salaried employment for a corporation or government agency , often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question remains unanswered : Why do more than one million programmers voluntarily contribute their professional time and skill-and in some cases , jeopardize their jobs-to help develop open-source software for which they will never receive any tangible compensation ? Economic decision theory tells us that either the opensource software process must involve less effort on the part of the employee or that the employee must be receiving some form of intangible reward . This is , of course , what behavioral scientists say about Type-B employees : They are substantially motivated by the intrinsic rewards of personal growth , peer recognition and collegiality , professional mastery , and integrity . Workplace Collaboration for All Three primary factors explain the absence of open knowledge-sharing networks among blue-collar and gray-collar ( skilled technical and service ) workers . 1 . Lack of Internet access . Many rank-and-file employees-bus and taxi drivers , janitors , assembly-line workers-have no on-the-job Internet access . This circumstance will change dramatically over the next five years as telephone service is merged into the Internet and every cellular phone becomes a Web-enabled terminal . Internet access will be mobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machinists , and insurance claims adjusters , wherever they may be . 2 . Apparent lack of technical knowledge . Jobs performed by ordinary production and service workers are neither high tech nor involved in knowledge work . But the knowledge-management movement of the 1990s established that all enterprises are based primarily on organization-specific knowledge , including the work practices , databases , and experience-based know-how of their employees . By mobilizing their employee know-how , firms such as Holcim , the world 's largest cement maker , and Highland Supply Corp. , the principal producer of packaging for U.S. florists , have dramatically increased the market share and profitability of their distinctly non-high-tech businesses . And now that the rapid rise of extra-preneurship has made transorganizational collaboration a necessity , the management default policy for in-house information has shifted from " need to know " to " need to share . " 3 . Lack of free time on the job . While rank-and-file workers may be motivated by intrinsic rewards , they are much less likely to have discretionary , on-the-job time to devote to uncompensated work . Moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , shrinking benefits , and the loss of job security-have combined to reduce workers ' loyalty and their propensity to give their time and creative energies to employers . Many managers have come to regard labor primarily as a cost to be eliminated rather than an asset to be nurtured , and they are not likely to invest in providing rank-and-file workers with Internet access or empower them to participate in online communities of practice . And , of course , there are currently no such online collaborations for the vast majority of rank-and-file workers to join . But if U.S. front-line employees are not given the opportunity to mobilize their job-specific , experience-based intellectual capital to improve the productivity and the quality of their output , they will have lost any hope of outperforming their global competitors . And so will their employers . Research by the National Science Foundation has shown that the average return on investment from new-product R &D; is 15% , while the investment return from new-process R &D; is 25% . New-product R &D,; on which U.S. corporations spend most of their research budgets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R &D; is crucial to maintaining and expanding market share for existing products . Moreover , in his research into R &D; efficiency , Eric von Hippel at the Wharton School found that outsiders such as software engineers and management analysts have difficulty in designing process improvements because , in order to fully understand the sticky details of an operation , they must dwell in the context of the system user for a prolonged period . Employees , of course , already dwell in the context of their own jobs and are intimately familiar with those sticky details . Online collaborative networks for rank-and-file workers will almost certainly have to be sponsored and operated by large institutions with a nationwide presence . Three institutions would be well suited to such a task : 1 . Trade and industrial association networks would be especially beneficial for industries with a large number of small firms that have no resources to spend on R &D.; 2 . Labor unions have the standing to promote employer adoption of worker-initiated productivity-enhancing process innovations and the concomitant wage increases . 3 . Employment agencies such as Kelly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systems to permit the millions of workers they handle to continuously upgrade or change their skills to meet labor and market demands . These agencies could also train and equip their workers to share workplace experiences and develop productivity enhancing practices for common operations or using common types of equipment . Once such collaborative rank-and-file networks are in use , equipment manufacturers and service providers could also tap them for help in improving their products . Researchers and consultants could also use the networks to conduct studies on a wide range of workplace issues . Most importantly , workers could speed up their mastery of new equipment and fabrication materials , as well as solve common logistics problems . Once employee collaborations become well established , firms will increasingly contract with them for evaluations of competing types of equipment or software or to help redesign production processes and facilities . Eventually , as both labor and management concentrate on improving their own components of enterprise , growing numbers of enterprises are likely to contract out their production operations to their own rank-and-file employees . Freed of costly management overhead , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the global marketplace . The outsourcing of production would be the logical competencies . The infotech-based transformation of enterprise would be complete . Photograph Author Affiliation About the Author David Pearce Snyder is the lifestyles editor of THE FUTURIST and principal partner of The Snyder Family Enterprise , a futures consultancy . He served as chief of information systems for the U.S. Internal Revenue Service . His address is 8628 Garfield Street , Bethesda , Maryland 20817 . Telephone 301-530-5807 ; e-mail david@the-futurist.com ; Web site www.the-futurist.com . His last article for THE FUTURIST was " Five Meta-Trends Changing the World " ( July-August 2004 ) . // <p>                     