@@371892

If you were looking to disappear , the Afghan province of Helmand would be the place to do it . Hundreds of miles of desert , hills and mountains are interrupted only by the occasional huddle of mud-brick houses . The remote village of Musa Qal'eh in Helmand is still Taliban country . When Kandahar fell last month , as many as 1,500 Taliban fighters and their leaders are thought to have passed through the village . One of them may have been Mullah Mohammed Omar , the former ruler of Afghanistan and America 's second-most-wanted man . <P> Last week there were other visitors . Five four-wheel-drive vehicles carrying about 20 U.S. special-forces soldiers raced through Musa Qal'eh with U.S. helicopters and fighter-bombers overhead . Accompanying them was a band of Afghan fighters and the governor of Helmand , Haji Shir Mohammed . The convoy was on its way to the nearby town of Baghran to meet an aged , white-bearded tribal leader named Rais , better known as " the Baghran "  --  the most powerful warlord in the area and a possible link to Omar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impatiently following the glacial negotiations meant to secure the surrender of Taliban fighters around Baghran . Rais , who fought hard for the Taliban , said last week he was willing to surrender to the new U.S.-backed Afghan government . What got the U.S. especially interested were intelligence reports that it was Rais who had chaperoned Omar on his escape from Kandahar . Rais denies those reports . On Saturday , Governor Shir told TIME that in meetings with U.S. special forces , Rais had " confirmed the absence " from the area of both Omar and Osama bin Laden but agreed to help in the search . The Americans spent three days in Baghran , seized heavy weapons and ammunition , but made no arrests . The protracted surrender talks appeared to have let Omar slip away yet again . People in Baghran were saying he might be next door in Oruzgon province . <P> After weeks of fast triumphs , the war has drifted into a frustrating endgame , a double manhunt for Omar and Osama . Every day seems to bring a new theory about bin Laden 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Hiding out along one side or the other of the Afghan border with Pakistan ? Safe in Chechnya , Iran or even Saudi Arabia ? The Pentagon has tabled plans to send additional U.S. troops to hunt in the mountains of Tora Bora . And there was never a chance that Pakistan would want the U.S. to deploy the troops necessary to seal off its 1,510-mile border with Afghanistan . Doing that , says a U.S. intelligence official , " would have taken hundreds of thousands of people holding hands . " <P> The war is in a lower gear . You could hear the new tone last week from Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld . " Look at the difficulty the United States of America has tracking down the ten-most-wanted criminals , " he said . " There are people who have been on those lists for years and years . "                     