@@412628

In the upcoming race , " Bush and his advisors clearly have their eyes on a larger political objective : nothing less than an electoral realignment and virtual one-party control of government . . . . " // THE 2004 presidential election may prove of major historical importance , perhaps an election for the ages . Pres. George W. Bush has launched his reelection bid amid a flurry of international and domestic initiatives intended to consolidate the Republican hold on all levels of government , smother his competition by preempting Democratic issues , and , ultimately , realign the American electorate and eliminate vestiges of Democratic rule . Seldom has a presidential election evoked such intense early discussion , much of it centered on one historical analogue . Rarely , too , has an incumbent been so focused on learning from the past . The question is : Can Bush avoid his father 's fate ? Pres. George H.W. Bush 's reelection defeat by Bill Clinton in 1992 proved that nothing in politics is certain . Flush with victory over Iraq in 1991 , with his party trumpeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cold War , the elder Bush enjoyed spectacularly high approval ratings . Fighting the " wimp factor , " maligning " this vision thing , " while vaguely touting " a New World Order , " Bush committed two fatal mistakes : appearing disinterested and disconnected from domestic concerns and miscalculating the splintering effects of H. Ross Perot 's third-party candidacy . Clinton , admonished by advisor James Carville ( " It 's the economy , stupid " ) , campaigned relentlessly on national affairs and succeeded in reminding voters that Americans expect presidents to deliver more than military victories . Now , 12 years later , Bush , transfixed by his father 's failures , faces many of the same circumstances : another military victory over Iraq , high approval ratings , a stagnant economy , rising unemployment , huge Federal deficits , a health care system in disarray , cultural issues fanning rancorous elements among more conservative members in his party , and ratcheting partisan rhetoric . Yet , much else is different , and historical similarities before and after 1992 beckon attention . Presidential election campaigns , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primary and general election seasons , have evolved into a peipetual process , commencing almost immediately after a presidential election and segmented into at least four distinct phases . The first phase of campaign 2004 concluded in the autumn of 2003 following congressional adjournment , the close of the Supreme Court session , and the President 's African sojourn . By then , the issues for the upcoming election largely had been identified . Bush had established a record on which to stand for reelection . The Democratic challengers had declared themselves , prepared to move into the second stage , the primary season , to be followed by a respite ( third stage ) before the party conventions and the opening of the final , or general election , phase of the campaign . // Throughout the consolidation process , Bush , unlike his father at a similar point in 1991 , forcefully asserted himself and successfully controlled the momentum and direction of national politics , with the clear intent of strengthening built-in advantages , holding the party base , attracting moderates , preempting Democrats , and gaining the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought to rally the faithful and assuage the moderates ' concerns , while minimizing potential openings for Democratic opponents and blocking dissenting Republican defections . While intently focused on avoiding the Republican mistakes of 1992 , Bush and his advisors clearly have their eyes on a larger political objective : nothing less than an electoral realignment and virtual one-party control of government , further paving the way for the elimination of any remnants of 20th-century liberalism and its most offending domestic policy expressions in the Franklin Roosevelt and Lyndon Johnson presidencies . Seldom has incumbency been so robustly and effectively leveraged . The power of the presidency has magnified Bush 's personality , campaign prowess , and political skills posilively . Arguing that he is a verbally challenged intellectual lightweight , Bush detractors questioned his competence and underestimated his political skills . He has proven remarkably effective on the stump , influencing the outcomes in several critical 2002 congressional races , and , time and again , ably maneuvering situations to his advantage and keeping the Democrats off guard . As the polls reveal , the son is a much more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Republican Party is waging two campaigns simultaneously : One ( the high road , to project and defend the legitimacy of the presidency ) will be taken by Bush himself , and a second ( low road , to consolidate and expand GOP gains ) is directed by Karl Rove and the Republican National Committee , using the full arsenal of political firepower . Bush 's high road campaign includes both foreign and domestic objectives . To bolster his position among world leaders and regain lost credibility , he has expanded his personal participation in foreign affairs through hands-on involvement in seeking a resolution of the Arab-Israeli conflict , his victories in the UN security Council on the reconstruction of Iraq , and his personal diplomatic sojourns to Poland , Russia , France , Africa , and Mexico . To attract moderates ' support , Bush has borrowed a page from Clinton 's 1996 playbook. just as Clinton co-opted Republicans by " ending welfare as we know it , " balancing the budget , and placing more police on the streets , Bush temporarily abandoned party orthodoxy and co-opted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor , orchestrating congressional compromises on prescription drug benefits through Medicare , and initiating a $15,000,000,000 program to combat AIDS globally . Meanwhile , Bush surrogates and Republican operatives are building a national political machine and exerting partisan pressures on an unprecedented scale , touching every corner of the country . Reapportionment battles in Texas and Colorado were coordinated by GOP leadership in Washington , led by Rove , who calls most of the political shots inside the White House , with controversial assistance from Attorney General John Ashcroft 's justice Department . Inside the nation 's capital , Republicans have taken dead aim on the Federal bureaucracy and the " regulatory state , " which House Majority Leader Tom DeLay of Texas characterized as an unaccountable " leviathan that has run amok . " Lobbyists also have come under fire from DeLay and Sen. Rick Santorum ( R.-Pa. ) , who have demanded an end to the practice of lobbyists trying to maintain good relations with both parties . " If you play in our revolution , " promises DeLay , " you have to live by our rules . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survey , still enjoy a slight ( 33 to 30% ) edge over Republicans in registered voters , and , as we know , in the 2000 election , more Americans combined preferred Al Gore and Ralph Nader to Bush . just as in 1992 , when Perot siphoned away votes from the elder Bush , Nader drew away enough voters from Gore to hand Bush his fragile , Courtanointed Electoral College victory . Changes occurring since 2001 , however , have shifted the electoral calculus in Bush 's favor . Congressional reapportionment will add Republican seats in the House and net Bush a gain of seven electoral votes in those states he carried in 2000 . Additionally , the Republicans enjoyed substantial state and local gains in the 2002 elections , especially in the Sun Belt , which quickly is becoming the Republicans ' version of the " Solid South . " GOP gains in the Senate also are likely . The female vote Bush 's advantage is bolstered by polls showing that voters strongly prefer Republicans in the area of national defense . Bush also benefits from one unexpected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decades opposed Republican warmongering , have become more nervous than men about terrorism and national security . A Gallup survey noted a 21-point " fear gap " between the sexes . Moreover , 61% of the women surveyed in a Pew poll view the war in Iraq favorably . Although a majority of women still support Democrats on domestic issues ( the economy , healthcare , prescription drug legislation , elderly benefits ) , a notable upswing has occurred in women 's support for homeland security initiatives . As U.S. News &; World Report editor Gloria Borger suggested , Bush may carry the soccer moms in 2004 . Bush 's principal advantage emanates from his influence as wartime commander in chief , which under a doctrine of preemptive warfare against terrorism seems likely to continue indefinitely . As head of state , he is the star attraction of patriotic theatrics at ceremonies honoring national achievements . In 1992 , the elder Bush played the patriotism card by celebrating the American flag , assailing those who would desecrate it , and virtually claiming the flag as a Republican campaign symbol . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in on a combat jet and landing on the deck of a carrier to greet returning troops . Meanwhile , the politics of terrorism have taken hold in America since 9/11 . Similar to the Cold War mindset practiced until the fall of the Soviet Union , the questions have become : Which is the tougher party on terrorism ? Whom do you find more credible in the war against terrorism ? Do you feel safer today ? The Administration has labored mightily to spin military victories in Afghanistan and Iraq as Republican accomplishments , achieved in spite of leftist protesters , French , German , Russian , and UN opposition , and scattered Democratic dissent . Bush skillfully has backed Democrats into a corner in which honest policy disputes come across as unpatriotic , or even " treason , " as recklessly implied in attorney Anne Coulter 's Slander : Liberal lies About the American Right . To assure reelection and avoid his father 's fate , Bush must demonstrate the same verve on reinvigorating the economy as he has on national security . In the eyes of orthodox Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breaking his promise not to increase taxes ( " Read my lips . . . " ) . George W. Bush appears to have absorbed that lesson-to the point of obsession . Like the little boy with the hammer who thinks all things can be fixed with a little pounding , Bush appears to believe that most , if not all , economic problems can be solved with tax cuts . In May , 2003 , in accordance with a time-table set by the President , Congress passed a $350,000,000,000 tax cut , lowering rates and reducing taxes on dividends and capital gains . Sen. Mark Dayton ( D.-Minn. ) described the bill as a " shameful looting of the Treasuiy by the rich and powerful to line the pockets of the upper class . " Republicans criticize , but do not refute , studies showing that by far the greatest benefits of the tax bill would go to the wealthy , who tend to have the most dividends and capital gains . Rep. Bill Thomas ( R.-Calif. ) , chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , maintains this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican objective is to let American taxpayers keep their money . In securing the tax cut , Bush exercised old-fashioned political muscle , enforcing Republican party loyalty before compromising in a timely manner . When House and Senate Republicans disagreed , Bush called them to the White House and " knocked heads . " Appealing to party solidarity , he demanded adherence to his timetable and an end to squabbling over details . Bush dealt exclusively with Republicans and ignored Democrats ' concerns . The GOP strategy is to extend indefinitely the temporary provisions of the 2003 bill to make it into a one trillion dollar tax cut package , rather than $350,000,000,000 as mandated . Bush will argue that opposition to permanent cuts is tantamount to supporting the largest tax increase in history . If the tax cuts harm rather than help the economy , no one is to blame but Bush and the Republicans . Bush embarks on the campaign trail boasting two tax cuts at a time when government is amassing record deficits , thus signaling a dramatic and historic change in conservative thinking . Dating to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ running up deficits , which usually exacerbate inflation and raise interest rates , thus creating all sorts of difficulties . Perot 's 1992 presidential campaign was predicated almost entirely on the issue of reducing Federal deficits , and House Speaker Newt Gingrich 's 1994 " Contract with America " called for a Constitutional Amendment requiring a balanced budget . Now , rather suddenly , conservatives have decided that shortfalls no longer are evil . Bruce Bartlett , a Treasury official during the elder Bush 's Administration , admits that Republicans ' former zeal for balanced budgets was mainly a strategy for reducing government spending . " Republicans , " he said , " had a hard time explaining why spending is bad , so they seized on the deficit as a proxy . " Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan criticizes cutting taxes without offsetting spending reductions . Bush counters that the tax cuts will stimulate investment and promote economic growth , eventually erasing the deficit . What could go wrong ? Virtually all signs currently point towards sweeping Republican victories in 2004 , but , as we learned in 1992 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for all of the advantages gained since 9/11 , Bush is vulnerable on a number of fronts . Domestically , the President 's fixation on tax cuts to the detriment of other means of economic stimulation and job creation may , in the end , rebound to bite the Republicans where they sit . They can expect reverberations from shifting substantial burdens onto state and local governments and from extravagant run-ups in the Federal deficit at the same time government services are being cut . Slashing taxes on dividends and capital gains , moreover , signals to Americans that this Administration values investment over jobs by taxing work through payroll tariffs at a higher rate than dividends or capital gains . A falling dollar , increases in negative balance of payments , accelerating deficits , higher unemployment levels , and extended economic sluggishness could hand the Democrats many of the same advantages that Clinton enjoyed in 1992 . By the same logic , if the economy turns , unemployment declines , stock valuations increase , and productivity surges , Bush almost certainly is assured reelection . Bush 's greatest unspoken fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like Perot in 1992 and 1996 , capture the center-right and moderate voters or that a Democratic centrist reinvigorates the issues successful for Clinton in 1992 and 1996 and that carried the popular vote for Gore in 2000 . Bush betrays little concern about the future , however . Indeed , his regime conducts the affairs of state as though they enjoyed a 10,000,000-vote election majority-punishing enemies , purging the party , questioning the opposition 's legitimacy-although fending off Democratic challengers and holding together diverse elements within his own party could grow more difficult as the next phases of the campaign unfold . Claims of executive privilege , unparalleled exercises in the denial of civil liberties , and the use of secret , military tribunals to try citizens of other countries for threats against the U.S. have fostered suspicion and uncertainty , created a libertarian backlash , and even brought some steadfast Republicans to question the Administration and its motives . When , for example , Ashcroft invoked executive privilege to avert a congressional subpoena , Rep. Dan Burton ( R.-Ind. ) , chairman of the House Committee on Government Reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 've got a dictatorial president and a justice Department that does not want Congress involved . . . . Your guy 's acting like he 's king . " Bush 's attempts to gain the center without losing the right also have triggered stress points within the Cabinet . Prodded by senior political advisors , Bush dismissed his economic consultancy , led by Treasury secretary Paul O'Neill , and accepted the resignations of Press secretary Ari Fleischer and Environmental Protection Agency Director Christine Whitman . To date , Bush has proved remarkably effective at maintaining party discipline . he has taken to the stump early and often , using the power and regalia of the presidency to resonate patriotic fervor and promote his policy-making . When Sens . Olympia Snowe ( R.-Maine ) and John Voinovich ( R.-Ohio ) blocked Bush 's larger tax plan , insisting that the deficit could not tolerate a cut larger than $350,000,000,000 , the President made a highly publicized visit to Ohio , apparently for the purpose of snubbing Voinovich in his own backyard and to make clear that he tolerates nothing less than full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1992 when Patrick Buchanan challenged Bush 's father , sparks from the " culture wars " could ignite simmering right wing resentments and bring them to the forefront of the 2004 campaign , and thus embolden and unify Bush critics . The elephant in the room , of course , is the right wing 's principal objective of overturning Roe v. Wade . For that purpose , conservatives expect Bush to replace retiring Supreme Court justices with reliable conservatives . The issue was rekindled in the summer of 2003 over the Court 's bitterly argued six-three decision in Lawrence v. Texas , which declared the Texas Sodomy Law unconstitutional . Such a law , justice Anthony Kennedy maintained , " demeans the lives of homosexual persons . " Conservatives decried the " judicial activism " and " arrogance " of the Court . Santorum warned that striking down the Texas law opened the way to legalize adultery , bigamy , polygamy , incest , or , as he said , " the right to anything . " Justice Antonin Scalia 's dissent in Lawrence enjoined the issue . The decision , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the current social order . . . " effectively decreeing " the end of all morals legislation . " The Texas opinion , according to Scalia , is a clear signal " that the Court has taken sides in the culture war . " It remains to be seen if Ralph Reed , former director of the Christian Coalition and now a White House operative , can hold the evangelical elements , preventing the fragile Bush coalition from imploding over the issue . On the international front , Bush , unlike other wartime presidents , has declined the advice and guidance of the congressional opposition and brought no members of the Democratic party into prominent positions in his national security policy group . Franklin Roosevelt , by comparison , recruited two Republican stalwarts : Henry Stimson as secretary of War and Frank Knox as secretary of the Navy . Bill Clinton persuaded Sen. William Cohen ( R.-Maine ) to serve as secretary of Defense . The Bush White House clearly intends that military victories in Afghanistan and Iraq translate into Republican/Bush victories . The downside of such partisan tactics is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it has . Investigations into the causus belli for U.S. intervention in Iraq could prove embarrassing . No weapons of mass destruction have been found , so the Bush Administration 's rationale for invading Iraq was without foundation . Conservatives and neoconservatives are satisfied , however , that the war ended a tyrannical regime , which in itself is sufficient justification . Bush 's task will be to persuade the moderates and centrists as well . The Administration also is vulnerable because of its astonishing lack of foresight in planning the postwar reconstruction of Iraq . During the second presidential debate in the 2000 election campaign , Bush criticized Clinton 's policies in Somalia and the Balkans , stating , " I do n't think our troops ought to be used for what 's called nation-building . " Forced to accept the necessity of such duties , Bush realizes that the longer U.S. involvement in Iraq continues and the more casualties mount , the more susceptible he is to Democratic criticism . With all this said , one wonders if the fragmented , disarrayed Democrats are capable of coalescing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they lack the killer instinct and the stomach for demonizing opponents or turning elections into holy crusades . Democrats , however , may have no choice except to attack . And when they do , they must be prepared with not only questions , but some answers , or at least clear indications of what Democrats would have done differently . Sidebar " In securing the tax cut , Bush exercised old-fashioned political muscle , enforcing Republican party loyalty before compromising in a timely manner . " Sidebar " Virtually all signs currently point towards sweeping Republican victories in 2004 , but , as we learned in 1992 , strange things can happen in presidential politics . " Author Affiliation James W. Hilty , professor of history at Temple University , Philadelphia , Pa. , is author of Robert Kennedy : Brother Protector . // <p>                     