@@364159

Jerry Zovko was muscle for hire , and he plied his trade , private security , in a place that for Americans is perhaps the most dangerous in the world . Zovko joined the Army in 1992 , serving in the 82nd Airborne Division and qualifying for the Ranger corps . After tours of duty in Bosnia and Kuwait , he left the Army in 2001 and worked as a bodyguard for executives in Dubai . But Zovko , friends say , still yearned for adventure and the chance to make a difference in the world . As an employee of Blackwater USA , a private company hired by the Pentagon to provide security for nonmilitary personnel in Iraq , Zovko recently returned to a war zone : Iraq 's Sunni triangle , home to Saddam Hussein loyalists and those who do their killing . Fallujah , a city of about 300,000 , is the hotbed of this bandit country , and it was there that Zovko , 32 , was passing through with three colleagues on the morning of March 31 . Like Zovko , all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 48 ; and Michael Teague , 38  --  had served in elite fighting units in the U.S. military . If Zovko thought he was risking his life , he did not let on to his family in Willoughby , Ohio . " He made all of us believe , " says his aunt Marija , " that what he was doing had to be done . " But no amount of training or experience would enable him to survive what was coming . <P> On Wednesday morning , Zovko and his team set out in two SUVs on Highway 10 , a four-lane strip that runs through Fallujah . Shortly before the vehicles arrived in town , according to eyewitness accounts , a small group of men in masks detonated a small explosive device , clearing the streets and prompting shopkeepers to shutter their doors . The attack , locals later said , was hardly a surprise : insurgents reportedly set up ambush points around the city , waiting to assault any foreigners who might venture in . As the Blackwater vehicles made their way down the divided road , according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off and opened fire with assault rifles . An eyewitness says the assailants threw two grenades at the SUVs . Three of the Blackwater employees apparently died instantly ; another was badly wounded , only to be beaten to death with bricks by a mob that gathered at the scene . As horrific as the killings were , what happened next would soon be televised around the world , forcing the U.S. military commanders to plan retaliation and bringing Americans face to face with demons that , one year into a war that has cost the lives of more than 600 American soldiers , the U.S. has failed to exorcise.                     