@@388879

Headnote A passionate gardener transforms an abandoned property in British Columbia into an expansive edible landscape . Framed by a border of coastal rain forest , Arran Stephens ' Vancouver garden manages to bring nature 's dueling personalities-one wild , the other cultivated-together in a single landscape . Eight stone terraces planted with a rowdy mix of vegetables , fruit , and flowers rise up a hillside that peeks out over the waters of the Georgia Strait . At the middle edge of the hill , four giant sequoias , a row of weeping birch , and rhododendrons stand watch over a fishpond popular with herons . And in summer , kiwi vines and grapes clamber over a long arched arbor that shades a path to the kitchen garden . When Stephens and his family first saw the garden five years ago , it bore a closer resemblance to forestland . " The previous owner had abandoned the property seven years earlier , and more than 150 quick-growing alders had sprouted up like weeds . Some were over 40 feet tall , " he says . " And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , brambles , imported ivy , and clematis . " The challenge of battling 2 acres of weeds was intimidating , but the appeal of a property with sunny southwestern exposure , plenty of space , and privacy was impossible to resist . War on Weeds " My first job was to try to gain control over the most pernicious weeds and overgrowth , " says Stephens , who is the founder and CEO of Nature 's Path , North America 's largest producer of organic breakfast foods . He started by cutting all of the alder into firewood . With the bones of the landscape revealed , he then began the process of removing entrenched invasive weeds . The biggest foes proved to be horsetail ( Equisetum arvense ) and field bindweed ( Convolvulus arvensis ) , perennials that thrive in heavy , poor soils and quickly regrow from small pieces of root . Determined not to use pesticides or herbicides , Stephens instead relied on persistence . Tackling one area at a time , he and a small group of helpers dug down 2 feet and carefully removed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up on an organic berry farm , Stephens learned from his father , Rupert , to " always leave the soil better than you found it . " This lesson turned out to be key in managing the garden 's weed problem . After digging out the weeds , Stephens topped each area with a rich mixture of topsoil and mushroom compost . " As the soil improved , we finally got control of the horsetail , " he says . " But it took two years of slogging . " Compost Cure The weed-removal process revealed another problem : The property 's previous owners had scraped away topsoil in certain parts of the yard , leaving hardpan that would n't even yield to a pickax . Rather than engage in a physical struggle with the rock-hard earth , Stephens turned to a more passive , and effective , approach . He spread compost 1 feet deep right over the hardpan and planted it with vegetables and flowers . The compost softened and enriched the soil , attracted earthworms , and turned unproductive earth into an abundant garden in the space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of my garden time composting , " Stephens says . " None of the plant matter from our property or kitchen goes to the dump . " The foundation of the garden 's increasingly healthy soil is a compost system composed of three 5-by-5-by-5-foot bins that turn out nearly a ton of compost every 45 days during the spring , summer , and fall . In a secluded corner of the yard , there is also a pile of " mean and nasty things " that break down slowly , like evergreen leaves , cones , and rose branches . Stephens uses compost in all of his gardens and rounds out the soil-building regimen by spreading glacial dust - an organic amendment that adds trace minerals to the soil - and mulching with grass clippings and leaves in fall . Edible Eden " What you put into the soil you get out in the quality of your food , " Stephens says about the principles that inform his business as well as his garden . The attention the garden 's soil receives is evident in the thriving edibles that are tucked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twine through flowerbeds , blueberries ripen alongside perennials , and eggplants grow amid rosebushes . A collection of raspberries - including a few heirloom varieties that Stephens ' grandfather brought to Canada from England - produce fruit from June to October . A small orchard of apples , cherries , plums , apricots , pears , mulberries , and figs replaced the alders cut down . " There is no reason why a vegetable garden should not be a thing of beauty , " Stephens says . " So I 've always included flowers interplanted with vegetables and am particularly fond of marigolds , nasturtiums , foxgloves , alliums , and columbine . " He enclosed the formal vegetable garden with a living fence of espaliered fruit trees , which blossom in spring , produce fruit in late summer , and turn a lovely russet red in fall . Mixing up flowers , fruit , and vegetables adds an element of surprise and delight , Stephens says . " And it confuses the bugs . " The artful blend of plants , both edible and ornamental , also discreetly blurs the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within . " My objective with the garden was to organically restore and enhance its natural beauty with flowering shrubs , trees , and perennials that would blossom throughout the growing season , " Stephens explains . His carefully considered plantings of native wildflowers , shrubs , and trees at the margins of the property ease the cultivated landscape into the serene backdrop of the Pacific Spirit Regional Park - a protected sliver of land populated with towering sitka spruce , red cedar , and hemlock that were part of a once vast rain forest . Garden Time Managing the garden requires equal parts passion and practicality from Stephens . In summer , he often finds himself out past 10 P.M. , planting , weeding , and composting until it is too dark to see . " I do n't go to a gym , " he jokes . " I garden . " Mulch is his biggest helper . It retains moisture in the garden 's soil , adds a steady stream of organic matter , and reduces weeds . A drip irrigation system saves time and conserves water , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pest and disease problems to a minimum . " This garden is a demanding mistress , and as a chief executive of a very busy company , I sometimes come home a little tired , " he admits . " But the moment I walk into our enchanted garden , my energy level rises and all fatigue drops away . I feel a subtle spiritual connection to nature in the garden . It is a sacred place . " Sidebar Berry good : Stephens grew up on an organic berry farm and has blueberries in his garden today . Whether he 's tending turnips ( far left ) or roses ( near left ) , he enjoys a hands-on connection to nature . MASTER 'S TIP Stephens outsmarts birds looking for ripe strawberries by planting a white alpine variety that bears fragrant , sweet berries that remain white even when they are ready for picking . NEWBIE HINT " Stay on top of weeds while they are small , " recommends Stephens . He relies on a stirrup hoe-a special tool that minimizes soil disturbance by slicing off the roots of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under control . Sidebar Mix and match : Stephens believes a diverse garden is a healthy one . So he interplants fast-growing annuals like nasturtiums ( top ) and cosmos ( far left ) in his kitchen garden to lure beneficial insects , while the pond and surrounding ornamental beds ( above ) attract a wide range of local birds and wildlife . Fruitful flavors : Growing tasty treats , including figs ( above ) and blueberries ( top ) for his family motivates Stephens , pictured here with daughter Gurdeep and granddaughters Diya and baby Isha . Compost from the three-bin compost system ( right ) is the secret behind the garden 's exceptionally flavorful and nutritious produce . " A true garden delights the eye , the nose , the tongue &; the soul . " - Arran Stephens Sidebar Make Quick Compost Hot composting can quickly recycle all of the leaves , grass clippings , and plant matter a garden produces . Here 's how Arran Stephens makes quick work out of a big job . Use grass clippings . The high nitrogen content in grass quickly heats up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and kills weed seeds . If your pile gets slimy or smells like ammonia , cut back on the grass and mix in dry leaves or other " brown " materials . Add a scoop of finished compost . Worms , along with bacteria and other microorganisms that live in finished compost , help speed the decomposition of a fresh pile . Aerate often . Stephens plunges a Wingdiggera compost-aerating tool- into the pile every few days to lift and aerate the material . Use nearly finished compost . Make room for more compost in your bins by spreading compost that has n't completely broken down onto the garden and allowing soil bacteria to finish the job . <p>                     