@@419630

A Connecticut artist spins holiday magic by blending decorative traditions with treasured childhood memories Photograph // Cut from a roll of kraft paper , a doll chain of dancing maidens and their dapper suitors twirls around the tree . Artist Jennifer Byrne Paganelli 's whimsical ways with old things connect her and others to elements from childood . ACCESS SORIES THROUGHOUT : SIS BOOM . FOR RESOURCES . SEE ADDRESS INDEX . ARTISTRY When Jennifer Byrne Paganelli sets out for a flea market , rarely is she looking for something specific . " I just let things happen , " says the Wilton , Conn. , artist and mother of two . The same could be said for Sis Boom , her home accessories and children 's clothing business , which grew out of doing what she loves best-assembling found trinkets that speak to her heart . She began crafting only six years ago , but her creations so enchanted friends that she started selling them . " My designs are rooted in the things I handled as a child , " says Jennifer . " The materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cutout , elicit a memory from everyone who sees them . " Five years after Jennifer , her husband , Peter , and their two children , Matthew and Katie , moved from New York City to Connecticut , they renovated their 1950s ranch-style house , opening up the floor plan to include a soaring studio with skylights . Here , in her sun-soaked atelier , Jennifer 's reclamation endeavors take shape , with three or four projects in the works at all times . Occasionally Jennifer hosts " ladies ' night out " in the Sis Boom headquarters , a quiet getaway where her friends feel pampered , indulged , and in touch with their creative side . " Their husbands do n't know they 're actually shopping ! " jokes Jennifer . Photograph Photograph Photograph Opposite page : Christmas traditions old and new are cherished at the Paganellis ' . Vintage trunks decoupaged in a reproduction paper only come out at Christmastime ; inside them lies a dizzying collection of heirloom ornaments . This page , clockwise from top : The living room glows from the jewel tones of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dress form is clad in holiday finery . Scenes of the season decorate an old trunk . A chain of dancing maidens , dressed in paper-lace doilies . One-of-a-kind stockings  --  crafted and hung with care-wait to be filled . Photograph Opposite page : Christmas traditions old and new are cherished at the Paganellis ' . Vintage trunks decoupaged in a reproduction paper only come out at Christmastime ; inside them lies a dizzying collection of heirloom ornaments . This page , clockwise from top : The living room glows from the jewel tones of a wreath encrusted in vintage glass ornaments . A wire dress form is clad in holiday finery . Scenes of the season decorate an old trunk . A chain of dancing maidens , dressed in paper-lace doilies . One-of-a-kind stockings  --  crafted and hung with care-wait to be filled . Photograph Opposite page : Christmas traditions old and new are cherished at the Paganellis ' . Vintage trunks decoupaged in a reproduction paper only come out at Christmastime ; inside them lies a dizzying collection of heirloom ornaments . This page , clockwise from top : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wreath encrusted in vintage glass ornaments . A wire dress form is clad in holiday finery . Scenes of the season decorate an old trunk . A chain of dancing maidens , dressed in paper-lace doilies . One-of-a-kind stockings  --  crafted and hung with care-wait to be filled . Photograph Opposite page : Christmas traditions old and new are cherished at the Paganellis ' . Vintage trunks decoupaged in a reproduction paper only come out at Christmastime ; inside them lies a dizzying collection of heirloom ornaments . This page , clockwise from top : The living room glows from the jewel tones of a wreath encrusted in vintage glass ornaments . A wire dress form is clad in holiday finery . Scenes of the season decorate an old trunk . A chain of dancing maidens , dressed in paper-lace doilies . One-of-a-kind stockings  --  crafted and hung with care-wait to be filled . Photograph Opposite page : Decoupaged cardboard cones dangle from the dining-room chandelier . On Christmas day , the vessels may be filled with sweet treats or a note from Santa . This page , clockwise from top @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the artist goes to her studio first thing every morning . " I look at what I 've worked on the day before , or I just sift through the boxes of culled trinkets for inspiration , " she says . " Inevitably , a new idea will light . " Sis Boom Blooms , a twist on an old button bouquet Jennifer found at a flea market , are some of the artist 's most popular creations . Hundreds of decorated straight pins go into each headed ornament . Plastic containers help keep the sequins , buttons , beads , and jewels sorted and orderly . Glass ornaments that are broken en route or by accident are never thrown away . Jennifer crushes them under a sheet of plastic , then embellishes picture and chalkboard frames with the glass glitter . Reclaimed bits of linens and lace are organized in baskets , wicker hampers , and fabric-covered boxes-each container holds the makings of magic . Photograph Opposite page : Decoupaged cardboard cones dangle from the dining-room chandelier . On Christmas day , the vessels may be filled with sweet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clockwise from top right : Lured to her den of whimsy and wonder , the artist goes to her studio first thing every morning . " I look at what I 've worked on the day before , or I just sift through the boxes of culled trinkets for inspiration , " she says . " Inevitably , a new idea will light . " Sis Boom Blooms , a twist on an old button bouquet Jennifer found at a flea market , are some of the artist 's most popular creations . Hundreds of decorated straight pins go into each headed ornament . Plastic containers help keep the sequins , buttons , beads , and jewels sorted and orderly . Glass ornaments that are broken en route or by accident are never thrown away . Jennifer crushes them under a sheet of plastic , then embellishes picture and chalkboard frames with the glass glitter . Reclaimed bits of linens and lace are organized in baskets , wicker hampers , and fabric-covered boxes-each container holds the makings of magic . Photograph Opposite page : Decoupaged cardboard cones dangle from the dining-room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filled with sweet treats or a note from Santa . This page , clockwise from top right : Lured to her den of whimsy and wonder , the artist goes to her studio first thing every morning . " I look at what I 've worked on the day before , or I just sift through the boxes of culled trinkets for inspiration , " she says . " Inevitably , a new idea will light . " Sis Boom Blooms , a twist on an old button bouquet Jennifer found at a flea market , are some of the artist 's most popular creations . Hundreds of decorated straight pins go into each headed ornament . Plastic containers help keep the sequins , buttons , beads , and jewels sorted and orderly . Glass ornaments that are broken en route or by accident are never thrown away . Jennifer crushes them under a sheet of plastic , then embellishes picture and chalkboard frames with the glass glitter . Reclaimed bits of linens and lace are organized in baskets , wicker hampers , and fabric-covered boxes-each container holds the makings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more lyrical and restrained decorating sensibility , " There 's a kind of poetry to the different forms in the room , including the pillows , " she says . " Good fabrics , like the crisp , contrasting toiles I 'm drawn to , rarely need more than a simple flourish or piping . " Photograph Jennifer 's bedroom reveals a less-whimsical , more lyrical and restrained decorating sensibility , " There 's a kind of poetry to the different forms in the room , including the pillows , " she says . " Good fabrics , like the crisp , contrasting toiles I 'm drawn to , rarely need more than a simple flourish or piping . " Photograph This page : Whether as stripes , florals , or familiar retro patterns , shades of pink envelop this season 's pretted parcels . Opposite page : In these ribbons , as in giving , it 's the thought that counts . SEE SHOPPING GUIDE FOR DETAILS Photograph This page : Whether as stripes , florals , or familiar retro patterns , shades of pink envelop this season 's pretted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in giving , it 's the thought that counts . SEE SHOPPING GUIDE FOR DETAILS Photograph Opposite page , clockwise from top : Dish out diminutive PARTY FAVORS from an elegant serving vessel , like this grape-textured milk-glass compote ; tiny scalloped name tags hang on silver elastic strings , A wired spray of grapefruit-colored BUTTONS decorates a citrus-inspired package , A newborn girl 's first present includes a HAND-PAINTED BOX that will grace her dresser , a beaded keepsake gift tag , and a picot-edge ribbon that someday may adorn a ponytail . Give new purpose to any number of discarded trinkets-buttons , beads , bows , or orphaned ornaments-by using them as EMBELLISHMENTS on your holiday pack . ages . This page , clockwise from right : Personalize pretty gift boxes with beautiful ribbon and charms . A FRUIT BOUQUET , created from vintage , new , and recycled finds , tops a special gift . Good things come in small packages like this handmade candy container , which SPARKLES with mica . Photograph Opposite page , clockwise from top : Dish out diminutive PARTY FAVORS from an elegant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scalloped name tags hang on silver elastic strings , A wired spray of grapefruit-colored BUTTONS decorates a citrus-inspired package , A newborn girl 's first present includes a HAND-PAINTED BOX that will grace her dresser , a beaded keepsake gift tag , and a picot-edge ribbon that someday may adorn a ponytail . Give new purpose to any number of discarded trinkets-buttons , beads , bows , or orphaned ornaments-by using them as EMBELLISHMENTS on your holiday pack . ages . This page , clockwise from right : Personalize pretty gift boxes with beautiful ribbon and charms . A FRUIT BOUQUET , created from vintage , new , and recycled finds , tops a special gift . Good things come in small packages like this handmade candy container , which SPARKLES with mica. // <p>                     