@@416700

Asteroids , comets , and moons , oh my ! // For many centuries the inventory of our celestial neighborhood was quite stable . It included the Sun , the stars , the planets , a handful of planetary moons , and the comets . Even the addition of a planet or two to the roster did n't change the basic organization of the system . But on New Year 's Day , 1801 , a new category arose : the asteroids , so named a year later by the English astronomer Sir William Herschel , the discoverer of Uranus . During the next two centuries , the family album of the solar system became crammed with the data , photographs , and life histories of asteroids , as astronomers located vast numbers of these vagabonds , identified their home turf , assessed their ingredients , estimated their sizes , mapped their shapes , calculated their orbits , and crash-landed probes on them . Some investigators have suggested that the asteroids are kinfolk to comets , and possibly even to planetary moons . And at this very moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones that may be planning an uninvited visit . To understand the small objects in our solar system , one should look first at the big ones , specifically the planets . A curious fact about the planets is captured in a relatively straightforward mathematical rule proposed in 1766 by a German astronomer named Johann Daniel Titius . A few years later , Titius 's colleague Johann Elert Bode , giving no credit to Titius , began to spread the word about the rule , and to this day it 's often called the Titius-Bode law or even , erasing Titius 's contribution altogether , Bode 's law . This handy-dandy formula yielded pretty good approximations of the distances between the planets and the Sun , at least for the ones known in Titius 's time : Mercury , Venus , Earth , Mars , Jupiter , and Saturn . Herschel 's discovery of Uranus , in 1781 , in an orbit that matched the expectations of the Titius-Bode law , lent the formula credibility and spurred astronomers to look around carefully for more planets in the solar system . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embodies some fundamental fact about how solar systems form . Its not quite perfect , though . At least three shortcomings plague it . Problem number 1 : You have to cheat a little to get the right distance for Mercury , by inserting a zero where the formula calls for 1.5 . Problem number 2 : Neptune turns out to be much farther out than the formula predicts , orbiting more or less where a ninth planet would go . Problem number 3 : Pluto , which some people persist in calling the ninth planet ( for our exhibits at the Rose Center for Earth and Space , we think of icy Pluto as the " king of comets " ) , is n't even close to where the Titius-Bode law predicts . In addition , the law would have a planet orbiting in the space between Mars and Jupiter-at about 2.8 astronomical units , or AU , from the Sun ( one AU is the average distance between Earth and the Sun ) . Encouraged by the fact that the newly discovered Uranus orbited at more or less the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighteenth century thought it would be a good idea to check out the zone around 2.8 AU . And sure enough , on that first day of 1801 , the Italian astronomer Giuseppe Piazzi , founder of the Observatory of Palermo , discovered something there . Subsequently that something disappeared into the glare of the Sun , but exactly one year later , with the help of brilliant computations by the German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss , the new object was rediscovered in a different part of the sky . Everybody was excited : a triumph of mathematics and a triumph of telescopes had led to the discovery of a new celestial object . Piazzi himself named it Ceres ( as in " cereal " ) , for the Roman goddess of agriculture , in keeping with the tradition of naming planets after ancient Roman deities . By now , many tens of thousands of asteroids have been catalogued , and they 're still being discovered . Altogether there are probably many more than a million that measure more than half a mile across . As far as anyone can tell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social lives , they did n't have 10,000 friends ; astronomers had to give up on that source of names long ago . So asteroids are now named after actors , painters , philosophers , and playwrights ; cities and countries ; dinosaurs , flowers , seasons , and all manner of miscellany . Even regular people have asteroids named after them . Harriet , Jo-Ann , and Ralph each have one : they are called 1744 Harriet , 2316 Jo-Ann , and 5051 Ralph , with the number indicating the sequence in which each asteroid 's orbit became firmly established . David H. Levy , a Canadian-born amateur astronomer who is the patron saint of comet discoverers but has discovered plenty of asteroids as well , was kind enough to pull an asteroid from his stash and name it after me : 13123 Tyson . Most asteroids are made entirely of rock , though some are entirely metal and some are both ; most inhabit what 's often called the main belt , a zone between Mars and Jupiter . Asteroids are usually described as being formed of material left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never got incorporated into a planet . But that explanation is incomplete at best : some asteroids are pure metal . To account for their metallic composition , it helps once again to begin with the planets-specifically , how they formed . The planets coalesced from a cloud of gas and dust enriched by the scattered remains of element-rich exploding stars . A collapsing cloud forms protoplanets-each a solid blob that gets hot as it accretes more and more material . Two things happen with the larger protoplanets . One , the blob tends to take on the shape of a sphere . Two , its inner heat keeps the protoplanet molten long enough for the heavy stuff-primarily iron , with some nickel and a splash of such metals as cobalt , gold , and platinum mixed in-to sink to the center of the growing mass . Meanwhile , the much more common light stuff-hydrogen , carbon , oxygen , and silicon-floats outward . Geologists ( who never shy away from sesquipedalian words ) call the process " differentiation . " Thus the core of a differentiated planet , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its mantle and crust are mostly rock , and take up a far greater volume than the core . Once it has cooled , if such a planet is then destroyed-say , by smashing into one of its fellow planets-the fragments of both will continue orbiting the Sun in more or less in the same trajectories that the original , intact objects had . Most of those fragments will be rocky , because they come from the thick , outer , rocky layers of the two differentiated objects . A small number will be purely metallic . And that 's exactly what 's observed with real asteroids . Moreover , a hunk of iron could not have formed in the middle of interstellar space , because the iron atoms it 's made of would have been scattered throughout the gas clouds that formed the planets , and gas clouds are mostly hydrogen and helium . To concentrate the iron atoms , a fluid body must first have differentiated . But how do solar system astronomers know that most mainbelt asteroids are rocky ? How do they know anything about asteroids at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or reflectivity . Asteroids do n't emit their own light ; they only absorb and reflect the Sun 's rays . Does 1744 Harriet reflect or absorb infrared light ? What about visible light ? Ultraviolet ? Different materials absorb and reflect the various wavelengths of light differently . If you 're thoroughly familiar with the spectrum of sunlight ( as astrophysicists are ) , and if you carefully observe the spectra of the sunlight reflected from an individual asteroid , you can figure out just how the original sunlight has been influenced and thus identify the materials that make up the asteroid 's surface . And from the material , you can know how much light gets reflected . From that figure , and from the known distance to the mam belt , you can then estimate the asteroid 's size . Ultimately you 're trying to account for how bright an asteroid looks on the sky : it might be really dull and big , or highly reflective and small , or something in between , and you ca n't know the answer simply by looking at how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This method of spectral analysis led initially to a simplified three-way classification scheme , with carbon-rich C-type asteroids , silicate-rich S-type asteroids , and metal-rich M-type asteroids . But more precise measurements have since spawned an alphabet soup of a dozen classes , each identifying an important nuance of the asteroid 's composition , and betraying multiple parent bodies rather than a single mother planet that : had been smashed to smithereens . If you know an asteroid 's composition , you have some confidence that you know its density . Curiously , some measurements of the size of asteroids and their masses yielded densities that were less than that of rock . One logical explanation was that those asteroids were n't solid . What else could be mixed in ? Ice , perhaps ? Not likely . The asteroid belt orbits close enough to the Sun that any ice ( water , ammonia , carbon dioxide-all of whose density falls below than that of rock ) would have evaporated long ago from the Sun 's heat . Perhaps all that 's mixed in is empty space , with rocks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of observational support for that hypothesis appeared in images of the thirty-five-mile-long asteroid Ida , photographed by the space probe Galileo during its flyby on August 28 , 1993 . Half a year later , on February 17 , 1994 , Ann P. Harch , an operations engineer who helped program the Galileo mission 's imaging software , saw a speck about sixty miles from Ida 's center that proved to be a mile-wide , pebble-shaped moon ! Dubbed Dactyl , it was the first satellite ever seen orbiting an asteroid . Are satellites a rare thing ? If an asteroid can have a satellite orbiting it , could it have two or ten or a hundred ? In other words , could some asteroids turn out to be heaps of rocks ? The answer is a resounding Yes . Some astrophysicists would even say that these " rubble piles , " as they are now officially named ( astrophysicists prefer pith over polysyllabic prolixity ) , are probably common . One of the most extreme examples of the type may be Psyche , which measures about 150 miles in overall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From estimates of its overall density , however , its interior may well be more than 70 percent empty space . When you start studying objects that live somewhere other than the main asteroid belt , you 're soon tangling with the rest of the solar system 's vagabonds : Earth-crossing killer asteroids , comets , and myriad planetary moons . Comets are the snowballs of the cosmos . Usually no more than a couple of miles across , they are made up of a mixture of frozen gases , frozen water , dust , and miscellaneous particles . In fact , they may simply be asteroids with a cloak of ice that never fully evaporated . The question of whether a given fragment is an asteroid or a comet might boil down to where it formed and where it 's been . Before Newton published his Principia in 1687 , no one had any idea that comets lived and traveled among the planets , making their rounds in and out of the solar system in highly elongated orbits . Icy fragments that formed in the far reaches of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , remain shrouded in ice . If they are found on a characteristic elongated path toward the Sun , they will show a rarefied but visible trail of water vapor and other volatile gases when the comet swings inside the orbit of Jupiter . Eventually , after enough visits ( could be hundreds or even thousands ) to the inner solar system , such a comet can lose all its ice , ending up as bare rock . Indeed , some , if not all , the asteroids whose orbits cross that of Earth may be " spent " comets , whose solid core remains to haunt us . Then there are the meteorites , flying cosmic fragments that land on Earth see " Bolts from Beyond , " by Donald Goldsmith , September 2003 . The fact that , like asteroids , meteorites are mostly rock and occasionally metal suggests strongly that the asteroid belt is their country of origin . As planetary astronomers studied the asteroids in increasing numbers , it became clear that not all of their orbits stick to the main asteroid belt . As Hollywood loves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) might collide with Earth . But that eventuality was not accepted as fact until 1963 , when the astrogeologist Eugene M. Shoemaker conclusively demonstrated that Arizona 's vast Barringer Meteorite Crater , dropforged some 50,000 years ago , could have resulted only from a meteorite impact , not from volcanism . Shoemaker 's finding triggered a new wave of curiosity about the possibility of an intersection between the Earth 's orbit and the orbits of the asteroids . In the 1990s , space agencies began tracking near Earth objects , or NEOs-comets and asteroids whose orbits , as NASA politely puts it , " allow them to enter the Earth 's neighborhood . " This past March , NASA announced the discovery of a mansion-size asteroid only three days before it passed within 26,500 miles of Earth-the closest approach ever recorded . As with the vast majority of NEOs , though , it posed no danger whatsoever . The planet Jupiter plays a mighty role in the lives of the more distant asteroids and their brethren . A gravitational balancing act between Jupiter and the Sun has collected families of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sixty degrees behind it , each making an equilateral triangle with Jupiter and the Sun . ( If you do the geometry , it places the asteroids 5.2 AU from both Jupiter and the Sun . ) These trapped bodies are known as the Trojan asteroids . Once an asteroid drifts into either of those regions , it 's hard for it to get out . Jupiter also deflects plenty of comets that are headed Earth 's way . Most comets live in the Kuiper Belt , beginning with , and extending far beyond , the orbit of Pluto . But any comet daring enough to pass close to Jupiter gets flung out in a new direction . Were it not for Jupiter guarding the moat , Earth would be pummeled by comets far more often than it is . In fact , the Oort Cloud-a vast population of comets that is the most distant part of the Sun 's gravitational embrace-is widely thought to be made up of Kuiper Belt comets that Jupiter flung hither and yon . Pluto and the newfound objects Quaoar and Sedna each orbit in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oort Cloud comets extend halfway to the nearest stars . What about the planetary moons ? Some of them look like captured asteroids , such as Phobos and Deimos , the small , dim , potato-shaped moons of Mars . But there are also the several icy moons of Jupiter . Should those be classified as comets ? And Pluto 's moon Charon is not much smaller than Pluto itself , and both of them are icy , so perhaps they could be regarded as a double comet . I 'm sure Pluto would n't mind that one either . Spacecraft have explored only twelve comets and asteroids so far . The first to orbit one was the carsize robotic U.S. craft NEAR Shoemaker ( NEAR is the clever acronym of " near earth asteroid rendezvous " ) , which visited the nearby asteroid Eros just before Valentine 's Day ( cute , eh ? ) in 2001 . It touched down at just four miles an hour and , instruments intact , unexpectedly continued to send back data for two weeks after landing , enabling planetary geologists to say with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object rather than a rubble pile . This past January 2 another small spacecraft , Stardust , flew through the coma , or dust cloud , surrounding the nucleus of Comet Wild 2 so that it could capture a swarm of minuscule particles in its aerogel collector grid . The goal of the mission is , quite simply , to find out what kinds of space dust are out there , and to collect the particles without damaging them , NASA is using a wacky and wonderful substance called aerogel-the closest thing to a ghost that 's ever been invented . It 's a dried-out , spongelike tangle of silicon that 's 99.8 percent thin air . When a particle slams into it at hypersonic speeds , the particle bores its way in and gradually conies to a stop , intact . If you tried to catch the same dust grain with a catcher 's mitt , it would slam against the surface of the mitt and vaporize . The European Space Agency , too , is exploring comets and asteroids . Its Rosetta spacecraft , launched on March 2 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the former will orbit a single comet for a year , thereby amassing more information at close range than has ever been gathered before . Altogether , the mission will last eleven years and will also take in a couple of asteroids in the main belt . Each of these missions seeks to gather highly specific information . At the same time , each morsel of information can have far-reaching implications-about the formation and evolution of the solar system , about the kinds of objects that populate it , about the possibility that organic molecules were transferred to Earth during impacts , or about the size or shape or solidity of NEOs . Deep understanding comes not from how well you describe an object , but from how that object connects with the larger body of acquired knowledge and its moving frontier . For the solar system , that moving frontier is the search for other solar systems . What astronomers want next is a thorough comparison between our planets and vagabonds and their counterparts in a distant solar system . Only in that way will we know whether we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sidebar Eros , three views : In February 2001 , twenty-one-mile long Eros became the first asteroid to be explored by a spacecraft , NEAR Shoemaker . Each view is a composite , assembled from images made before the spacecraft touched down . Sidebar Asteroid 243 Ida , thirty-five miles long , and its mile-wide roundish moon , Dactyl-the first satellite to be discovered orbiting an asteroid Sidebar If Jupiter was n't guarding the moat , the Earth would be pummeled by comets far more often than it is . Author Affiliation Astrophysicist NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON is the Frederick P. Rose Director of the Hayden Planetarium in New York City . He is currently finishing work as host and narrator of a four-part PBS NOVA miniseries on cosmic origins , which will air this fall . // <p>                     