@@391956

IN THE SUMMER OF 1973 sunflowers appeared in my father 's vegetable garden . They seemed to sprout overnight in a few rows he had lent that year to new neighbors from California . Only six years old at the time , I was at first put off by these garish plants . Such strange and vibrant flowers seemed out of place among the respectable beans , peppers , spinach , and other vegetables we had always grown . Gradually , however , the brilliance of the sunflowers won me over . Their fiery halos relieved the green monotone that by late summer ruled the garden . I marveled at birds that clung upside down to the shaggy , gold disks , wings fluttering , looting the seeds . Sunflowers defined flowers for me that summer and changed my view of the world . Flowers have a way of doing that . They began changing the way the world looked almost as soon as they appeared on Earth about 130 million years ago , during the Cretaceous period . That 's relatively recent in geologic time : If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flowering plants would exist for only the last 90 seconds . But once they took firm root about 100 million years ago , they swiftly diversified in an explosion of varieties that established most of the flowering plant families of the modern world . Today flowering plant species outnumber by twenty to one those of ferns and cone-bearing trees , or conifers , which had thrived for 200 million years before the first bloom appeared . As a food source flowering plants provide us and the rest of the animal world with the nourishment that is fundamental to our existence . In the words of Walter Judd , a botanist at the University of Florida , " If it were n't for flowering plants , we humans would n't be here . " From oaks and palms to wildflowers and water lilies , across the miles of cornfields and citrus orchards to my father 's garden , flowering plants have come to rule the worlds of botany and agriculture . They also reign over an ethereal realm sought by artists , poets , and everyday people in search of inspiration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Before flowering plants appeared , " says Dale Russell , a paleontologist with North Carolina State University and the State Museum of Natural Sciences , " the world was like a Japanese garden : peaceful , somber , green ; inhabited by fish , turtles , and dragonflies . After flowering plants , the world became like an English garden , full of bright color and variety , visited by butterflies and honeybees . Flowers of all shapes and colors bloomed among the greenery . " THAT DRAMATIC CHANGE represents one of the great moments in the history of life on the planet . What allowed flowering plants to dominate the world 's flora so quickly ? What was their great innovation ? Botanists call flowering plants angiosperms , from the Greek words for " vessel " and " seed . " Unlike conifers , which produce seeds in open cones , angiosperms enclose their seeds in fruit . Each fruit contains one or more carpels , hollow chambers that protect and nourish the seeds . Slice a tomato in half , for instance , and you 'll find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ angiosperms and one key to the success of this huge plant group , which numbers some 235,000 species . Just when and how did the first flowering plants emerge ? Charles Darwin pondered that question , and paleobotanists are still searching for an answer . Throughout the 1990s discoveries of fossilized flowers in Asia , Australia , Europe , and North America offered important clues . At the same time the field of genetics brought a whole new set of tools to the search . As a result , modern paleobotany has undergone a boom not unlike the Cretaceous flower explosion itself . Now old-style fossil hunters with shovels and microscopes compare notes with molecular biologists using genetic sequencing to trace modern plant families backward to their origins . These two groups of researchers do n't always arrive at the same birthplace , but both camps agree on why the quest is important . " If we have an accurate picture of the evolution of a flowering plant , " says Walter Judd , " then we can know things about its structure and function that will help us answer certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with ? What sorts of pollinators are effective ? " This , he says , takes us toward ever more sensible and productive methods of agriculture , as well as a clearer understanding of the larger process of evolution . Elizabeth Zimmer , a molecular biologist with the Smithsonian Institution , has been rethinking that process in recent years . Zimmer has been working to decipher the genealogy of flowering plants by studying the DNA of today 's species . Her work accelerated in the late 1990s during a federally funded study called Deep Green , developed to foster coordination among scientists studying plant evolution . Zimmer and her colleagues began looking in their shared data for groups of plants with common inherited traits , hoping eventually to identify a common ancestor to all flowering plants . Results to date indicate that the oldest living lineage , reaching back at least 130 million years , is Amborellaceae , a family that includes just one known species , Amborella trichopoda . Often described as a " living fossil , " this small woody plant grows only on New Caledonia , a South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But we do n't have an Amborella from 130 million years ago , so we can only wonder if it looked the same as today 's variety . We do have fossils of other extinct flowering plants , the oldest buried in 130-million-year-old sediments . These fossils give us our only tangible hints of what early flowers looked like , suggesting they were tiny and unadorned , lacking showy petals . These no-frill flowers challenge most notions of what makes a flower a flower . TO SEE WHAT the first primitive angiosperm might have looked like , I flew to England and there met paleobotanist Chris Hill , formerly with London 's Natural History Museum . Hill drove me through rolling countryside to Smokejacks Brickworks , a quarry south of London . Smokejacks is a hundred-foot-deep hole in the ground , as wide as several football fields , that has been offering up a lot more than raw material for bricks . Its rust-colored clays have preserved thousands of fossils from about 130 million years ago . We marched to the bottom of the quarry , got down on our hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a chunk of mudstone . He presented it to me and pointed to an imprint of a tiny stem that terminated in a rudimentary flower . The fossil resembled a single sprout plucked from a head of broccoli . The world 's first flower ? More like a prototype of a flower , said Hill , who made his initial fossil find here in the early 1990s . He officially named it Bevhalstia pebja , words cobbled from the names of his closest colleagues . Through my magnifying glass the Bevhalstia fossil appeared small and straggly , an unremarkable weed I might see growing in the water near the edge of a pond , which is where Hill believes it grew . " Here 's why I think it could be a primitive flowering plant , " said Hill . " Bevhalstia is unique and unassignable to any modern family of plants . So we start by comparing it to what we know . " The stems of some modern aquatic plants share the same branching patterns as Bevhalstia and grow tiny flower buds at the ends of certain branches . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1990 by American paleobotanists Leo Hickey and Dave Taylor . That specimen , a diminutive 120-million-year-old plant from Australia , grew leaves that are neither fernlike nor needlelike . Instead they are inlaid with veins like the leaves of modern flowering plants . More important , Hickey and Taylor 's specimen contains fossilized fruits that once enclosed seeds , something Hill hopes to find associated with Bevhalstia . Both plants lack defined flower petals . Both are more primitive than the magnolia , recently dethroned as the earliest flower , although still considered an ancient lineage . And both , along with a recent find from China known as Archaefructus , have buttressed the idea that the very first flowering plants were simple and inconspicuous . LIKE ALL PIONEERS , early angiosperms got their start on the margins . In a world dominated by conifers and ferns , these botanical newcomers managed to get a toehold in areas of ecological disturbance , such as floodplains and volcanic regions , and adapted quickly to new environments . Fossil evidence leads some botanists to believe that the first flowering plants were herbaceous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latest genetic research , however , indicates that most ancient angiosperm lines included both herbaceous and woody plants . ) Unlike trees , which require years to mature and bear seed , herbaceous angiosperms live , reproduce , and die in short life cycles . This enables them to seed new ground quickly and perhaps allowed them to evolve faster than their competitors , advantages that may have helped give rise to their diversity . While this so-called herbaceous habit might have given them an edge over slow-growing woody plants , the angiosperms ' trump card was the flower . In simple terms , a flower is the reproductive mechanism of an angiosperm . Most flowers have both male and female parts . Reproduction begins when a flower releases pollen , microscopic packets of genetic material , into the air . Eventually these grains come to rest on another flower 's stigma , a tiny pollen receptor . In most cases the stigma sits atop a stalk-like structure called a style that protrudes from the center of a flower . Softened by moisture , the pollen grain releases proteins that chemically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so , the pollen grain germinates and grows a tube down through the style and ovary and into the ovule , where fertilization occurs and a seed begins to grow . Casting pollen to the wind is a hit-or-miss method of reproduction . Although wind pollination suffices for many plant species , direct delivery by insects is far more efficient . Insects doubtless began visiting and pollinating angiosperms as soon as the new plants appeared on Earth some 130 million years ago . But it would be another 30 or 40 million years before flowering plants grabbed the attention of insect pollinators by flaunting flashy petals . " Petals did n't evolve until between 90 and 100 million years ago , " said Else Marie Friis , head of paleobotany at the Swedish Natural History Museum on the outskirts of Stockholm . " Even then , they were very , very small . " A thoughtful woman with short brown hair and intense eyes , Friis oversees what many experts say is the most complete collection of angiosperm fossils gathered in one place . The fragile flowers escaped destruction , oddly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fires that baked them into charcoal . Friis showed me an 80-million-year-old fossil flower no bigger than the period at the end of this sentence . Coated with pure gold for maximum resolution under an electron microscope , it seemed to me hardly a flower . " Many researchers had overlooked these tiny , simple flowers , " she said , " because you can not grasp their diversity without the microscope . " So we squinted through her powerful magnifier and took a figurative walk through a Cretaceous world of tiny and diverse angiosperms . Enlarged hundreds or thousands of times , Friis 's fossilized flowers resemble wrinkled onion bulbs or radishes . Many have kept their tiny petals clamped shut , hiding the carpels within . Others reach wide open in full maturity . Dense bunches of pollen grains cling to each other in gnarled clumps . Sometime between 70 and 100 million years ago the number of flowering plant species on Earth exploded , an event botanists refer to as the " great radiation . " The spark that ignited that explosion , said Friis , was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now a widely accepted notion , " Friis said . In their new finery , once overlooked angiosperms became standouts in the landscape , luring insect pollinators as never before . Reproduction literally took off . Interaction between insects and flowering plants shaped the development of both groups , a process called coevolution . In time flowers evolved arresting colors , alluring fragrances , and special petals that provide landing pads for their insect pollinators . Uppermost in the benefits package for insects is nectar , a nutritious fluid flowers provide as a type of trading commodity in exchange for pollen dispersal . The ancestors of bees , butterflies , and wasps grew dependent on nectar , and in so doing became agents of pollen transport , inadvertently carrying off grains hitched to tiny hairs on their bodies . These insects could pick up and deliver pollen with each visit to new flowers , raising the chances of fertilization . INSECTS WERE N'T THE ONLY obliging species to help transport flowering plants to every corner of the Earth . Dinosaurs , the greatest movers and shakers the world has ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground for angiosperms . They also sowed seeds across the land by way of their digestive tracts . By the time the first flowering plant appeared , plant-eating dinosaurs had been around for a million centuries , all the while living on a diet of ferns , conifers , and other primordial vegetation . Dinosaurs survived for another 65 million years , and some scientists think this was plenty of time for the big reptiles to adapt to a new diet that included angiosperms . " Just before the dinosaurs disappeared , I think a lot of them were chowing down on flowering plants , " says Kirk Johnson of the Denver Museum of Nature &; Science . Johnson has unearthed many fossils between 60 and 70 million years old from sites across the Rocky Mountain region . From them he deduces that hadrosaurs , or duck-billed dinosaurs , subsisted on large angiosperm leaves that had evolved in a warm climatic shift just before the Cretaceous period ended . Referring to sediments that just predate the dinosaur extinction , he said , " I 've only found a few hundred samples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specimens of angiosperms . There 's no doubt the dinosaurs were eating these things . " Early angiosperms were low-growing , a fact that suited some dinosaurs better than others . " Brachiosaurs had long necks like giraffes , so they were poorly equipped for eating the new vegetation , " says Richard Cifelli , a paleontologist with the University of Oklahoma . " On the other hand ceratopsians and duck-billed dinosaurs were real mowing machines . " Behind those mowers angiosperms adapted to freshly cut ground and kept spreading . Dinosaurs disappeared suddenly about 65 million years ago , and another group of animals took their place-the mammals , which greatly profited from the diversity of angiosperm fruits , including grains , nuts , and many vegetables . Flowering plants , in turn , reaped the benefits of seed dispersal by mammals . " It was two kingdoms making a handshake , " says David Dilcher , a paleobotanist with the Florida Museum of Natural History . " I 'll feed you , and you take my genetic material some distance away . " Eventually humans evolved , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our need for sustenance . We in turn have taken certain species like corn and rice and given them unprecedented success , cultivating them in vast fields , pollinating them deliberately , consuming them with gusto . Virtually every nonmeat food we eat starts as a flowering plant , while the meats , milk , and eggs we consume come from livestock fattened on grains-flowering plants . Even the cotton we wear is an angiosperm . Aesthetically , too , angiosperms sustain and enrich our lives . We 've come to value them for their beauty alone , their scents , their companionship in a vase , a pot , on Valentine 's Day . Some flowers speak an ancient language where words fall short . For these more dazzling players-the orchids , the roses , the lilies-the world grows smaller , crisscrossed every day by jet-setting flowers in the cargo holds of commercial transport planes . " We try to deliver flowers anywhere in the world within 24 hours of when they 're cut , " said Jan Lanning , a senior consultant with the Dutch Floricultural Wholesale Board , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business has really globalized . " On my way home from Friis 's lab in Sweden , I had stopped in the Netherlands , the world 's largest exporter of cut flowers . I asked Lanning to try to explain the meaning of his chosen work . He leaned forward with a ready answer . " People have been fascinated by flowers as long as we 've existed . It 's an emotional product . People are attracted to living things . Smell , sight , beauty are all combined in a flower . " He smiled at an arrangement of fragrant lilies on his desk . " Every Monday a florist delivers fresh flowers to this office . It is a necessary luxury . " Later that day in Amsterdam 's Van Gogh Museum I spied a group of admirers crowded before a painting . I made my way there and pressed in among them . Suddenly I was staring at " Sunflowers , " one of van Gogh 's most famous works . In the painting the flowers lean out of a vase , furry and disheveled . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my dad 's garden on a humid summer evening alive with fireflies and the murmur of cicadas . The crowd moved on , and I was alone with " Sunflowers . My quest had come to this unexpected conclusion , an image of the first flower I can remember . Did van Gogh elevate the flower to an art form , or did the flower harness van Gogh 's genius to immortalize itself in oils and brushstrokes ? Flowering plants have conquered more than just the land . They have sent roots deep into our minds and hearts . We know we are passing through their world as through a museum , for they were here long before we arrived and may well remain long after we are gone . MORE ON OUR WEBSITE Pick a flower from page 113 of this article and download it to your computer 's desktop when you visit nationalgeo graphic.com/ngm/0207 . <p>                     