@@389214

Headnote It 's not the Internet that 's killing newspapers . It 's the equity-chasing investors ana their friends at the 100 who have put outsize profits before a free press . // Senate reconfirmation hearings tend to be predictable affairs , marked by polite give-and-take and senatorial grandstanding , but generally free of surprise plot twists . And so it was supposed to go last September 12 , when Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ) chairman Kevin Martin appeared before the Commerce Committee . In March 2005 , following the departure of Michael Powell ( Colin 's son ) , President Bush had named the young Republican lawyer to head the extraordinarily powerful five-person panel that oversees the nation 's media and telecommunications policies . Martin , a boyish-looking 40-year-old who 'd been on the FCC since 2001 , planned to cany on much of his predecessor 's unfinished business , particularly stiffening penalties for on-air indecency and the sweeping deregulation of media ownership rules . But unlike Powell , who was confrontational and contemptuous of his critics , the bland and soft-spoken Martin seemed unlikely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Barbara Boxer ( D-Calif. ) strayed from the script at his reconfirmation hearing . Boxer began by asking Martin about an FCC study , commissioned by Powell , on the impact of media ownership on local news . Unsuspecting , Martin said that it had never been completed . Then , as he watched glumly , Boxer brandished a draft of the study , which had , in fact , been written more than two years earlier , only to be buried by the FCC . The report found that locally owned television stations , on average , presented 5 1/2 minutes more local news per broadcast than stations owned by out-of-town conglomerates . The findings squarely contradicted the claims made by Martin , Powell , and big media companies , who have argued that lifting limits on ownership would improve local news coverage . " Now , this is n't national security , for God 's sakes , " Boxer continued , unable to resist making Martin squirm . " I mean , this is important information . So I do n't understand who deep-sixed this thing . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he 'd look into it . Within a week , a former FCC lawyer claimed that " every last piece " of the report had been ordered destroyed before it was leaked , and a second unreleased study came to light , prompting Boxer to refer the matter to the Fee 's inspector general . The discovery of the missing studies was n't just bad for Martin 's image , it was a blow to his pet project-trying to repeal what 's known as the cross-ownership ban , a 31-year-old FCC rule that prohibits a single company from owning a newspaper and a TV station in the same regional market . Powell had repealed the rule in 2003 amid public outcry , only to have a federal court reinstate it the following year . Last April , Martin told the members of the Newspaper Association of America that he would renew the effort to end this regulatory relic from " the days of disco and leisure suits . " Lifting the ban , he said , " may help to forestall the erosion in local news coverage . " But now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critics had been saying for years-that letting one company dominate a city 's news business actually undermines the quality of the local media that most Americans rely on for their news . The renewed push to consolidate even more of the nation 's newsprint and airwaves comes as the media are in profound transition . Although we are bombarded with a seemingly endless supply of media options-from cable television to blogs to satellite radio-more and more of the actual news and information we consume comes from a handful of giant media companies . ( see " And Then There Were Eight , " page 48 . ) Meanwhile , locally owned outlets are being squeezed out of business or absorbed at an ever faster clip . In the past three decades , two-thirds of newspaper owners and one-third of television owners have shut down . Newspapers are particularly feeling the pinch : Fewer than 300 of the nation 's 1,500 daily papers are still independently owned , and more than half of all markets are dominated by a single paper . The number of newspaper employees has dropped nearly 20 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pundit lamenting the demise of the great American newspaper . The eulogies are also coming from the newspaper executives and investors whose pursuit of phenomenal profits has turned many dailies into shadows of their former selves . They claim that ending the cross-ownership ban will throw a lifeline to foundering papers by allowing them to merge with TV stations and compete with the Internet . In reality , such a move would only fuel the " cutand-gut " strategies that generate short-term value at the expense of the kind of journalism that exposed Watergate , NSA eavesdropping , and countless corrupt politicians . To see how disastrous this could be for the future of news , just take a look at the cities where the PCC has already allowed cross-ownership to get a toehold . Three weeks after Martin 's embarrassing Senate appearance , the FCC held a rare public hearing in Los Angeles , the first of six that Martin had promised before his planned proposal of new ownership rules later this year . He had hoped the event would be a chance to win over skeptics . But it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has bipartisan support from a loose-knit coalition that includes religious conservatives , centrist Democrats , and an array of progressive groups . " The failure to implement these rule changes is not our fault alone , " Martin had told a meeting of newspaper publishers last spring . " The public is not convinced of the need to change these rules , and if you ca n't convince the public , our chances to do that are dim . " Martin assured the more than 500 people who had packed into an auditorium at the University of Southern California that " public input is critical to this process . " Yet once the microphone was opened to the floor , it was obvious that he did n't like what he heard . " There were about 100 people who spoke , " recalled Jonathan Adelstein , one of two Democrats on the PCC , " and I 'd say 99 of them spoke out against media consolidation while one spoke out in favor of it . And I thought that was great , because that 's just about the breakdown of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after speaker pounded the FCC 's cozy relationship with the companies it 's supposed to regulate , Martin slumped in his seat , head in hands . By the time his staff rescued him to attend another event , he looked like a man who wished he 'd never gotten out of bed . Martin had made the mistake of kicking off his final deregulatory push in Los Angeles . Having witnessed the havoc the Chicago-based Tribune Co. had wreaked upon the Los Angeles Times during the past six years , Angelenos were familiar with what can happen when an out-of-town company tries to control the local media . Tribune Co. is the nation 's second-largest newspaper owner ( behind Gannett ) - and is , more importantly , the only corporation to own both a newspaper and a television station in the three largest markets in the United States-Chicago , New York City , and Los Angeles . ( The Chicago arrangement is grandfathered ; the FCC has granted Tribune temporary waivers to cross-own properties in the other cities . ) The company acquired the Los Angeles Times , along with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hartford Courant , when it purchased Times Mirror Co. for $8.3 billion in 2000 . Its executives proclaimed that the deal would make Tribune " the premier multimedia company in America . " They marched into Los Angeles prepared to merge news production at the Times and the WB network affiliate ktla , folding another city into their " convergence media " model , in which journalistic and corporate " synergies " between newspapers , TV stations , and websites reduce inefficiency and maximize profits . The paper 's employees and readers soon discovered that this jargon was code for old-fashioned downsizing . The Los Angeles Times had long been known for its extensive local coverage as well as national and international reporting on a par with the New York Times and the Washington Post . Indeed , it won six Pulitzers in 2004 , before Tribune started slashing its domestic and international bureaus-just as world events and Southern California 's booming immigrant population made their reporting more necessary than ever . By 2006 , Tribune had eliminated one-fourth of the editorial staff , trimmed the news section , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 335,000 subscribers in the process . ( See " Reckless Disregard , " page 46 . ) The Times " critics also charge that the leaner publication lost touch with local issues and its civic mission . " A succession of publishers and editors who do n't know an Amber Alert from a SigAlert " - warnings to look for kidnapped children and massive tie-ups on L.A. freeways , respectively- " have been parachuted in to run the Times , " wrote Harry B. Chandler , a former Times executive whose family owned the paper for nearly 120 years , in an oped last November . " The paper needs executives who understand the area . Providing great editorial coverage and civic leadership for this , the largest , most complicated urban space in the world , are tasks unsuited to outsiders whose tour of duty in the Southland may not outlast the Santa Anas . " When convergence failed to produce a windfall , and Tribune Co. stock dropped almost 35 percent in three years , shareholdersincluding many members of the Chandler clan-revolted . Last fall , Tribune put its entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ David Geffen or another benevolent mogul would acquire the Times ( at press time , sharks including Rupert Murdoch were also circling ) . The auction also added to suspicions that Tribune had been , as one Hartford Courant writer put it , " bleeding its local properties to keep the corporate mother ship in Chicago above water . " If Tribune 's record in Los Angeles should give pause to advocates of consolidation , so too should its stranglehold on its hometown media market , where its holdings include the Chicago Tribune ; " superstation " CW affiliate WGN-TV ; WGN , the region 's top AM radio station ; CLTV , the only local cable news station ; Chicago magazine ; the top online entertainment guide ; the most popular Spanish-language daily ; a tabloid aimed at readers 18 to 34 ; and the Chicago Cubs . Tribune Co. ' s presence is so powerful that locals referto Chicago as " Trib Town " ; the Wall Street Journal observed that the company has become " synonymous with the part of the world in which its audience lives . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managers and editors , it echoes through the company 's news outlets , giving it extraordinary influence in setting the local political and cultural agenda . Independent and locally owned news outlets often take their cues from Tribune . As Steve Edwards , host of a popular local affairs program on public radio station WBEZ , told me : " If the Tribune decides something was a major story and runs front-page coverage and repeated editorials on it , you would hear that story topping many local newscasts ; you would hear other reporters doing more coverage of that issue .... There 's no question there would be a ripple effect . " Or , as a Chicago media critic puts it , " Tribune is the 800-pound gorilla . " The company also has the power to relegate a story to obscurity merely by ignoring it . Mayor Richard M. Daley , who has himself enjoyed nearly unchecked power in the city for almost two decades , acknowledged this when Tribune Co. all but ignored his favorite team , the Chicago White Sox , during its march to the 2005 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " he asked . " I mean , give me a break . They own the Cubs , they own WGN Radio and TV and CLTV . Come on . You think you are going to get any publicity for the White Sox ? You ca n't . Let 's be realistic . " And Tribune 's ability to decide what becomes news goes far beyond baseball . In 2000 , for instance , the Chicago Housing Authority announced the city 's largest planning initiative since the urban renewal programs of the 1950s , proposing a 10-year , $1.6 billion scheme to demolish 18,000 units of public housing , forcing thousands of families into the private market . Local and federal agencies iniplemented the massive , controversial plan without significant public input , not even from public housing residents . The project was ripe for investigation , yet Tribune 's management did n't take issue with it , and the Chicago Tribune and its media siblings barely took notice . Almost 50 " special reports " are listed on the newspaper 's website , yet not one concerns public housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blind spot concerning issues affecting black Chicagoans , says local author and activist Jamie Kalven . " What about coverage of segregation ? Or poverty ? " he asks . " You ca n't make up for that with a special report . " But is it truly possible for a company-no matter how large-to dominate a local market in the digital age ? According to Tribune Co. executives , the company 's editorial decisions have limited impact in Chicago because consumers there have an infinite number of additional news sources . " In an environment where people 's choices for obtaining information have radically multiplied , there is no risk of one voice dominating the marketplace of ideas , " Jack Fuller , then-president of Tribune 's publishing division , told the Senate Commerce Committee in 2001 . " Today in clamorous cities such as Los Angeles , Chicago , and New York , it is frankly a challenge for any voice-no matter how booming-to get itself heard . " Yet Tribune has told a different story to investors . Speaking to shareholders in 2005 , President and CEO Dennis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " for Chicagoans reached 6.4 million people , or more than 90 percent of the market . THIS IS EXACTLY THE KIND OF imbalance the FCC had sought to prevent when it passed the 1975 newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership ban , and it 's why Tribune Co. has long sought to roll back the rule . The company spent billions acquiring properties that are only temporarily exempt from being found in violation of the ban-unless the FCC changes the rules first . Between 1998 and 2005 , it spent $1.1 million on lobbying and more than $380,000 on political contributions , trying to convince lawmakers that its business model proved the rule unnecessary . This strategy seemed brilliant when President Bush put Michael Powell in charge of the FCC in 2001 , giving him a mandate to clear away the agency 's regulatory underbrush . Powell , after all , had famously quipped that he did not know what " the public interest " meant . " The night after I was sworn in , I waited for a visit from the angel of the public interest , " he told a crowd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the commission . " I waited all night , but she did not come . And , in fact , five months into this job , I still have had no divine awakening and no one has issued me my public interest crystal ball . " Breaking with precedent , Powell announced that the burden of proof no longer rested on the opponents of ownership limits , suggesting that most regulations were unnecessary unless it was otherwise demonstrated . In June 2003 , he led a 3-2 party-line vote to relax cross-ownership restrictions . ( The commission also voted to significantly loosen television ownership caps . ) The decision was made in spite of the 3 million public comments that had flooded into the FCC , the overwhelming majority of them opposing deregulation . " Seldom have I seen a regulatory agency cave in so completely to the big economic interests , " said Senator Byron Dorgan ( D-N.D . ) . Trent Lott , his Republican colleague from Mississippi , stated simply , " This is a mistake . " Powell may have been deaf to the public interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals blocked his order , finding that although the FCC had the right to ease cross-ownership laws , it had not shown sufficient justification to do so . It was a stunning blow to Powell , who announced his resignation nine months later , walking through the revolving door into a job at a media and telecommunications investment firm . But repealing the ban still remains a holy grail for media companies , and the newspaper industry 's bumpy entrance into the digital age has provided them with a new rationale . Consolidation , they claim , is necessary to save newspapers , which otherwise ca n't compete in the new economy . In fact , falling circulation numbers and sinking stock prices notwithstanding , corporate executives ' cries of impending poverty are exaggerated . Newspaper chains routinely generate profit levels that most companies would kill for . ExxonMobil topped the Fortune 500 list for 2005 , reporting 11 percent profit margins , while the average profit for the entire list was 5.9 percent . That year , the top 13 publicly traded newspaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 most financially successful chains , Gannett , McClatchy , and E.W. Scripps , earned around 25 percent margins . The Tribune Co. ' s newspaper division earned 20 percent , as did the beleaguered Los Angeles Times . And this during a year that analysts lamented as " the industry 's worst " since the 2001 recession . What newspaper executives do not exaggerate is the pressure they get from investment analysts and large shareholders , who demand extraordinary , constantly growing profit margins and punish companies that fail to achieve them . But the newspaper chains themselves are partly responsible for setting unrealistic expectations . During the ' ' 70s and ' ' 80s , Gannett developed what would become a popular formula for making papers more profitable : Buy up a local newspaper , crush the competition , jack up ad rates , downsize the editorial staff ( and , if required , break the union ) , then watch earnings soar . The cut-and-gut approach does not treat newspaper ownership as a public service , but rather as an investment in a commodity like any other . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sag or shareholders get antsy . Last spring , the Knight Ridder chain succumbed to pressure from its largest private investor and sold off its entire lineup of 32 papers to the McClatchy Co. for more than $4 billion . McClatchy then made a healthy profit flipping 12 of its new titles , including the well-respected Philadelphia Inquirer and San Jose Mercury News . Then , in December , McClatchy reaped a $160 million tax write-off by selling its " underperforming " marquee paper , the Minneapolis StarTribune . The buyer , a private equity firm , had no experience running a newspaper . " They 're buying cash flow and tax benefits , " an analyst told the New York Times . " It 's not the sort of religious commitment that you hope to get from newspaper owners . " Obviously , the newspaper business is changing . The Internet has made it harder to sustain high profit margins , not because readers are abandoning news but because publishers have not yet figured out how to make more money from their websites . Until now , papers sustained themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . With online readers refusing to pay for what they read and web ads generating pennies on the dollar , the old model is collapsing . As Jay R. Smith , president of Cox Newspapers , told Editor &; Publisher , newspapers are " finding whole new pockets of audiences for which they get no credit , " clocking record-breaking readership figures if online traffic is included . But online advertising will account for just 6 percent of newspapers ' $50 billion in ad revenues in 2007 , the Newspaper Association of America predicts . What 's really at risk here is not the future of newspapers but of the news itself . While our democratic culture could survive the loss of the daily paper as we know it , it would be endangered without the kinds of reporting that it provides . It 's the journalism , not the newsprint , that matters . Even in the online era , more than 60 percent of Americans say they read a local newspaper daily or several times a week . And with good reason : Few of the cable channels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original news and information . Cable networks do virtually no local reporting of their own , and while bloggers do a good job exposing journalistic lapses , they generally are n't doing the muckraking , beat reporting , and pavement pounding that generate news . ( See " A Blogger Says : Save the MSM ! " page 50 . ) As the 3rd Circuit Court stated in its opinion upholding the cross-ownership ban , the Internet " may be useful for finding restaurant reviews and concert schedules , " but it does not offer " the type of " news and public affairs programming ' ' " that public policies should promote . FCC HEAD KEVIN MARTIN has suggested that " newspaper-owned television stations provide more news and public affairs programming and also appear to provide higher quality programming , " echoing the findings of a 2003 study by the Project for Excellence in Journalism . However , the study did not examine what happens to the quality of newspapers after they merge with television stations . From what I 've seen of these hybrid operations , the results are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks inside Tribune Co. ' s famous Chicago office tower interviewing reporters and editors for a book about a local heat wave , but found that everyone wanted to talk instead about " corporate synergies " and " cross-platform production . " The company had just started to require its newspaper staff to report breaking stories on its cable news station , CLTV . Many reporters were anxious about the new arrangement , which meant more work without more pay , and less time to do their regular jobs . They were n't comforted when managers announced that they were remodeling the newsroom to put a television studio directly outside the editor-inchief s door . These reporters recognized that technology was changing their industry , and most were eager to learn new digital skills and make the occasional TV appearance . Their main concern was that as " content providers , " they were losing time for reporting , thinking , and writing-the essential ingredients of their craft-forcing them to churn out increasingly dumbeddown articles . It did n't help that their bosses had abandoned even a rhetorical commitment to newspaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the editor of a newspaper , " Editor-in-Chief Howard Tyner told the American Journalism Review in 1998 , " I am the manager of a content company . " Tyner 's predecessor , James Squires , had already observed this shift . " Journalism , particularly newspaper journalism , has no real place in the company 's future , " he wrote after leaving the paper . " No one ever uses the word . The company bills itself as an " information and entertainment " conglomerate and hopes that newspapers will become a smaller factor in its total business . " Media General , a newspaper and television chain in the Southeast , became a leader in convergence journalism due to its long-standing ownership of the Tampa Tribune and NBC affiliate WFLA . In 2002,1 spent a week at its Tampa News Center , a cutting-edge facility where the newspaper , television , and web departments shared an editorial " Superdesk " that looked like the bridge of the starship Enterprise . Although the Tampa market is considerably smaller than Chicago 's or Los Angeles ' ' , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sophisticated and innovative convergence complexes , drawing visits from media executives eager to see the future of 21stcentury news production . Editors and reporters at the News Center were trained to constantly look for ways to make stories overlap in as many outlets as possible . Every day , print , TV , and online editors held a 15-minute " convergence meeting " to discuss shared projects . And every month , the company 's multimedia manager compiled a report that listed successful overlap and praised " overt acts of convergence . " While the Superdesk enabled editors to do more with less , some Tampa Tribune reporters were finding themselves juggling competing demands . I shadowed several print journalists who were pulled away from their desks to do short spots and longer stories for television . While one was waiting to tape a shot , I asked her how she felt about the added work . " Well , " she began , " the good part is that it 's fun , it 's different , it 's difficult , and it 's interesting for me . It 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks ago I did TV every day for two weeks . And every day-when you spend 40 minutes writing the script , 20 minutes putting on makeup , 20 to 30 minutes taping , and then taking the makeup off-it takes , like , two hours to do the job . That 's two hours-a quarter of my day-and that does n't help my reporting . " As their job descriptions required them to be more telegenic , some reporters feared that the norms of TV news production-short stories , soft features , celebrity journalismwere creeping into the print side . These concerns reveal the vicious cycle that drives the newspaper business today : Slashing editorial content and standards may be a recipe for quick revenue , but it does n't retain readers . However , doing the meaningful , quality reporting that print and online readers expect is expensive . And so each new round of convergence , downsizing , or outsourcing further erodes the product , paving the way for yet another round . As Los Angeles Times columnist Tim Rutten commented last fall , " A newspaper that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; a newspaper that thinks only of its bottom line has a business that is n't worth saving . " He knew what he was writing about : In October 2005 , as its circulation plummeted , the Times announced that it would attempt to regain readers by running shorter articles and more celebrity stories . THIS IS THE CHOICE that Kevin Martin , the Tribune Co. , and other advocates of continued media deregulation seem to be offering : We must destroy our newspapers in order to save them . It does n't have to be this way . Citizens , communities , and even a few media executives are beginning to make intriguing suggestions about how to reverse the course of radical deregulation and replenish the nation 's supply of local media outlets . Frank Blethen , whose family has owned and published the Seattle Times since 1896 , has been advocating newspaper ownership caps that would discourage chain journalism and create new opportunities for locally controlled dailies . Grassroots organizations in several states , including California and Illinois , are calling for the FCC to put teeth back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recalling the ' ' 60s boom of free-spirited FM radio , are asking why radio and TV stations should not be required to air original programming on the 1,000-plus new channels they will get on the digital spectrum . Meanwhile , the FCC says it will continue to hold public hearings on the future of America 's media . The question is how closely Martin will be listening . Last November , he quietly commissioned his staff and a few select contractors to complete new studies on media ownership , which will presumably bolster the rule changes he unveils . Whatever happens next , the stakes could n't be higher . As Michael Copps , the other Democrat on the FCC , observed at October 's hearing in Los Angeles , " We 're back at square one . It 's all up for grabs . " Sidebar At risk is n't the future of newspapers but the news itself . It 's the journalism , not the newsprint , that matters . Sidebar reckless disregard Dean Baquet on the gutting of the Los Angeles Times Dean Baquet could not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job as national editor of the New York Times to become the second in command at the Los Angeles Times in 2000 . Lured by the paper 's well-regarded new editor , John Carroll , Baquet also admired what seemed a true commitment by the paper 's new parent corporation , the Chicago-based Tribune Co. , to oomphing the Times ' national profile . But six years later , Baquet , like Carroll before him , resigned rather than cut mission-critical staff to boost shareholder return . At first it seemed Carroll and Baquet would preside over a real renaissance . The Los Angeles Times was already the fourth-biggest paper in the United States , and they upped its wattage considerably , adding bigname bylines like Kevin Sack and Sam Howe Verhovek . During their tenure , the Times won 13 Pulitzers , more than any other paper but the New York Times . Operating profits were exceptional ( for any sort of business ) at 20 percent . So why is Baquet or , for that matter , Carroll or publisher Jeff Johnson no longer overseeing the paper ? When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deliver the returns promised investors , it demanded ever deepening rounds of cuts from its various properties . " Wall Street is incredibly shortsighted , " says veteran newspaper analyst John Morton . " It does n't care what happens to a company 10 years out . It only cares what happens next quarter , which is unfortunate for papers like the Los Angeles Times . " Sidebar Instead of recognizing that the Times eclipsed the Chicago Tribune as the company 's marquee franchise , Tribune executives flogged it in a fashion that even Joan Crawford would have found excessive . Though Carroll eliminated more than 200 jobs during his five-year reign , the company that Joseph Medill built wanted more . By 2005 , Carroll had had enough , and left for Harvard . With Baquet 's ascension to top editor-the first African American to hold such a job at a top-tier daily-things only got worse . Baquet and Johnson , a Tribune lifer , slashed another $10 million in 2005 . Unsatisfied with their returns , investors demanded that Tribune put itself up for sale , and more layoffs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent of its 2000 staff level , and the strain was beginning to show , particularly , says Baquet , in suburban coverage , especially the " O.C. , " where the Times faces stiff competition from the Orange County Register . Last September , a group of Los Angeles power brokers that included the head of the Urban League and former secretary of state Warren Christopher wrote a letter to the Tribune Co. beseeching it to either reinvest in the Times or sell it to a company that would . Soon after , Baquet took the issue public when the Times broke the story that he and Johnson would no longer bend to Chicago 's will . Baquet says he was not opposed to sensible cuts nor , as some have said , to prioritizing resources to the paper 's website . The problem , he says , is " newspapers are in a panic-the cutting is not part of anything . It 's not moving toward anything . It 's not part of a plan . It 's to prop up margins that maybe can not be propped up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and some people at Tribune have said , it 's easy to confuse resources and quality , " Baquet adds . " That 's bullshit . It just is . If you made a list of the finest papers in the country , I promise you there would be a relationship between resources and quality . It 's illogical to assume otherwise , and newspapers that try to convince themselves otherwise are kidding themselves . " But the Tribune Co. did not want to listen to a voice of reason , and by mid-November it had jettisoned both Baquet and Johnson , sending a bleak message to newsrooms across the country . If this could happen to a high-profile paper with such exceptional profit margins , what in God 's name will become of the Richmond Times-Dispatcht And what of the true role of the Los Angeles Times , or any other paper-its central mission of public service ? " We are not a regular business , " notes Baquet . " We insist that the mayor and governor meet us when we want to meet with them . We insist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insist that the president has press conferences . There are n't a lot of companies that can make those kinds of demands of the government or even private business . In return we 're going to act a little bit like a public-service institution . We ca n't pretend we 're like just another private business , because we 're not . We get too many benefits from government and have too much responsibility to act like Microsoft . " - Sridhar Pappu Read Pappu 's full interview with Dean Baquet at motherjones.com/baquet . Sidebar ablogger says : save the MSM ! There 's an intriguing paradox at the heart of the modern trend toward media consolidation , one that my great-grandfather probably would have appreciated . You see , around the turn of the last century Eli Drum was the editor and sole proprietor of the weekly Cerro Cordo Star , and even in tiny Cerro Cordo , Illinois ( pop . 1,000 in its heyday ) , EIi had competition : his archrival , the New Era . In all , rural Piatt County supported nearly a dozen papers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more . That 's a lot of newspapers . Since then , of course , the newspaper industry has consolidated dramatically , a trend that 's accelerated in the past decade . But in practical terms , just the opposite has happened . After all , who cares if there were 15,000 tiny newspapers 100 years ago ? If you were an actual person who lived in the actual town of Cerro Cordo in the actual year 1900 , your only real choice was between two newspapers , each with four pages of boilerplate provided by a big-city daily and four pages printed by a local press , delivered to your doorstep once a week . And that was it . Thirty years ago things were better , but in practice most people still had pretty limited access to news even then : one or two newspapers , three TV networks , and a few national newsmagazines . And today ? The number of independent media companies may be a fraction of what it was 30 or 100 years ago , but for no more than the price of an AOL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . So while there may be half as many American correspondents in Moscow as there were three decades ago , back then I had access to no more than two or three of them . Today I have access to all of them . In practical terms , there 's a far larger assortment of news sources available to me than 30 years ago . As a full-time blogger , I confront this every day . In the course of a single month , on just one blog , I gather-and comment on-news from 10 to 20 American newspapers ; four or five overseas papers ; transcripts of radio shows , TV news , and chat shows ; and at least a dozen magazines . I am awash in news . In a very real sense , this makes blogs a powerful antidote to media consolidation . If you read a few well-chosen blogs daily , you 'll find links and commentary to a far wider variety of news sources than even the best-read news consumer of a mere decade ago . You may not personally read the Wall Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Guardian , but the blogosphere does , and if any one of these publications has something original to say on the news of the day , blogs will compile their insights for you , complete with links to the original sources . However , this is where our initial paradox circles back on its own tail . One of the most valuable things I do as a blogger is read five or six news accounts of the same event and then present to my readers the bits and pieces that illuminate one another ( something the old media almost never does because professional reporters-still hostage to a scoop-based mentality their readers no longer care about-are loath to even admit the existence of their competitors ) . This form of blogging helps mask the reality of media consolidation by searching out different takes on the news , but if consolidation continues apace , eventually even blog aggregation wo n't be able to hide what 's happening . It also highlights why blogs-or " citizen journalism " to its most enthusiastic cheerleaders-will never replace the mainstream media ( a term so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For all the hype over blogosphere triumphs such as the takedown of Dan Rather or the almost instant posting of cell-phone photos of the 2004 tsunami , the plain fact is that very few blogs do sustained original reporting of their own . It 's also why the endless debate over whether blogs are better or worse than the MSM is pointless . In the same way that newspapers excel at broad coverage of breaking news , W excels at images , magazines excel at long analytic pieces , and talk radio excels at ranting screeds , blogs also excel at certain things . Trying to compare them to " journalism " is a mug 's game , like trying to figure out if a beanbag is really a chair . Who cares ? Beanbags are great for certain forms of sitting down and lousy at others . In fact , blogs and the MSM are symbiotic . Blogs at their best improve on MSM reporting both by holding reporters to account and by latching onto complex topics and talking about them in a conversational style that professional reporters just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ die without a steady diet of news reporting from paid professionals . Which leads us to the dirty little secret of newsgathering : Serious , daily , national reporting is overwhelmingly the preserve of a tiny handful of big-city newspapers with large staffs and worldwide bureaus . Of these , the Los Angeles Times is under pressure to downsize by its parent company , as is the Washington Post . Knight Ridder was recently purchased by McClatchy . And every big-metro daily in the country , including the still-independent New York Times , is under relentless pressure from deteriorating circulation , poor demographics , loss of classified ad revenue to the Internet , and the decline of urban department stores-storms that private owners might have weathered but institutional investors have no stomach for . When these dailies succumb , there 's really nothing to replace them . Television news does very little in-depth daily reporting , most radio is hopeless , and blogs simply do n't have the resources . Magazines do some good work but come out only weekly or monthly . So while the raw numbers of media consolidation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it 's the small number of national dailies at the core of today 's MSM that ought to be the biggest cause for concern . And when they go ? For the most part , blogs will go with them . Enjoy them while you can . - Kevin Drum Despite their cries of poverty , newspaper chains earn prouts that most Fortune 500 companies would kill for . Author Affiliation Eric Klinenberg ( " Breaking the News , " page 44 ) is an associate professor of sociology at New York University and a Chicago native who grew up with Tribune Co. properties such as WGN , the Chicago Tribune , and the Cubs . His book Fighting for Air : The Battle to Control America 's Media was published in January . In the same package , Political Animal blogger Kevin Drum weighs in on the blogosphere 's dependence on old-school journalism , and Sridhar Pappu debriefs former Los Angeles Times editor Dean Baquet. // <p>                     