@@368805

Thanks to pop culture , Catholics do n't have a monopoly on nuns . The religious sisterhood has been widely appropriated as a vehicle for the comic , the dramatic and the sublime . Whoopi Goldberg , Susan Sarandon , Sally Field and Audrey Hepburn have all played roles in habits , proving , in the process , that no one looks great in a wimple . But to actually know what God 's call sounds like ; how feminist nuns manage in the still patriarchal post-Vatican II church ; or how liberating it is for some brides of Christ to be untrammeled by children , sex and romantic love  --  none of that is covered in Sister Act 2 . <P> Lucy Kaylin , however , gives careful consideration to just such matters in her absorbing new book , For the Love of God : The Faith and Future of the American Nun ( Morrow ; 239 pages ; $24 ) . Kaylin , the " daughter of a Jewish-born atheist father and a lapsed Lutheran mother who has since turned to Zen Buddhism , " approaches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nuns she interviews are cloistered , emerging only briefly from a shuttered existence . Others live in apartment complexes and work in boardrooms , indistinguishable from their secular counterparts . All seem inclined toward frank discussion of their faith  --  from describing morning prayers as " spiritual Drano " to accepting the likely demise of their vocation as part of God 's plan . A chapter on sex and celibacy depicts enough furtive sexual encounters to satisfy salacious readers . But Kaylin presses beyond the prurient , and one nun 's view of celibacy as deliverance ( from gender stereotypes , makeup and shopping ) is far more provocative . <P> The two most common paths for nuns have been public service or secluded contemplation . Neither seems sustainable as convents become de facto nursing homes , and fewer young women hear  --  or heed  --  the call . For the Love of God is a probing ethnography of an endangered American subculture . <P>  --  By Lise Funderburg                     