@@366007

A key al-Qaeda operative seized in Pakistan recently offered an alarming account of the group 's potential plans to target the U.S. with weapons of mass destruction , senior U.S. security officials tell TIME . Sharif al-Masri , an Egyptian who was captured in late August near Pakistan 's border with Iran and Afghanistan , has told his interrogators of " al-Qaeda 's interest in moving nuclear materials from Europe to either the U.S. or Mexico , " according to a report circulating among U.S. government officials . Masri also said alQaeda has considered plans to " smuggle nuclear materials to Mexico , then operatives would carry material into the U.S. , " according to the report , parts of which were read to TIME . Masri says his family , seeking refuge from al-Qaeda hunters , is now in Iran . <P> Masri 's account , though unproved , has added to already heightened U.S. concerns about Mexico . Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge met publicly with top Mexican officials last week to discuss border security and smuggling rings that could be used to slip al-Qaeda terrorists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visit , U.S. and Mexican intelligence conferred about reports from several al-Qaeda detainees indicating the potential use of Mexico as a staging area " to acquire end- stage chemical , biological , radiological and nuclear material . " U.S. officials have begun to keep a closer eye on heavy-truck traffic across the border . The Mexicans will also focus on flight schools and aviation facilities on their side of the frontier . And another episode has some senior U.S. officials worried : the theft of a crop-duster aircraft south of San Diego , apparently by three men from southern Mexico who assaulted a watchman and then flew off in a southerly direction . Though the theft 's connection to terrorism remains unclear , a senior U.S. law-enforcement official notes that crop dusters can be used to disperse toxic substances . The plane , stolen at night two weeks ago , has not been recovered . <P>  --  By Adam Zagorin , with reporting by Syed Talat Hussain                     