@@408728

Swift , silent and inescapably mundane , the bicycle could be an effective weapon of war . From its military debut during the FrancoPrussian War to the fall of Saigon , the bike has played havoc with conventional orders of battle for more than 100 years . Before gasoline engines appeared , the only alternative to the horse was the bicycle . The first , the celerifere , which appeared in France in 1790 , was merely a wooden horse on wheels , propetted by a rider 's kicks and braked by his heels . Only an acrobat could steer it until 1817 , when Captain Karl von Drais invented the draisienne , with a steerable front wheel . About the same time , an unknown English inventor came up with an iron frame . The popularity of the wheeled contraption grew slowly until a French manufacturer , Pierre Michaux , attached pedals to the front axle in 1855 . Michaux 's velocipede was an overnight success . The further addition of ball bearings to the wheel hubs produced a competition machine , which led to the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as military acceptance of bicycles . Bigger wheels attained higher speeds , and the introduction of light , tension-wired spokes in 1869 made them possible , so riders eventually needed ladders to mount Michaux 's velocipede . The French were the first to actually pedal to war in 1870 , but the wheels of those wood and iron velocipedes were about 4 feet in diameter , making prominent targets of the heavily laden soldiers wobbling about upon them . Although the French military velocipede was a failure , the Italian army endorsed a later version , equipped with brakes , after trials in 1875 . Dispatch riders and even bersaglieri ( elite light infantry ) , averaging 12 miles an hour , reported a breakthrough in military mobility . The bicycle 's principal limitation was its load-bearing capacity . By 1890 , military tricycles , quadricycle machine-gun carriers , and even tandem four-wheelers were being seriously considered , two men pedaling the first with the second four-wheeler in tow . A two-man tandem carried a stretcher between the connected bicycles , while a single-seater featured a sail that relieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Most of these monsters , however , were pedaled straight into museums . During the siege of Paris in 1870-71 , an Englishman named Rowley Turner pedaled his way out of the city on his swift " boneshaker , " although it nearly killed him . The bumpy ride , which traumatized his back and innards , sparked Turner 's interest in improving the two-wheeler . In 1880 , the Tangent and Coventry Company produced a new machine based on his ideas , incorporating rear-wheel drive and modem tangent spokes that provided a degree of shock absorption . Six years later , the Pioneer , the first modem bicycle , emerged . In contrast to its predecessors , the Pioneer 's wheels were equal in size , with the seat midway between and a chain sprocket driving the rear wheel . In 1888 came the revolutionary pneumatic tire from a Scottish veterinarian , John Dunlop . ( Dunlop reportedly inflated a tube of horse bandages around the wheels of his son 's tricycle after this " jolting genny " produced so many juvenile complaints . ) With the basic elements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed only leaders imaginative enough to use it in war . On June 14 , 1897 , Lieutenant James A. Moss led a surgeon and 20 black U.S. Army soldiers on a 1,900 mile trek from Fort Missoula , Mont. , to prove the vehicle 's worth . Averaging 55.9 miles per day for 34 days , Moss ' ' 25th Bicycle Infantry Corps crossed every kind of rock , sand , red clay , marsh , snow and mountain that Wyoming , South Dakota and Nebraska had to offer to reach St. Louis , Mo. , at about one-third the cost of a cavalry march . Traveling in rain and sleet and across frozen and parched land , the cyclists were jeered by townsfolk and Crow Indians alike . Even the Army snubbed Moss , who was sent to Cuba with a nonbicycle unit during the Spanish-American War in 1898 . When rioting broke out in U.S.-occupied Havana during a yellow fever epidemic , Moss proposed a 100-man bicycle company to patrol the streets with " inconceivable rapidity , " but it was never formed . Nevertheless , the bicycle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probicycle when the Boer War erupted in October 1899 . Bicycles were obviously cheaper than horses , but there was no cost comparison when it came to shipping bicyclemounted companies.to the other end of the world , where cavalry horses were dying of disease . " Trust the English , " one South African mused , " to invent a way of traveling while sitting down . " . Raiding Boer horsemen who dismissed bicycle-mounted infantrymen often found themselves caught short on the getaway , especially on smooth terrain . The British adapted bicycles to be ridden along railroads , and the Dursley-Pedersen firm introduced a 15-pound collapsible bicycle that infantrymen could carry in a backpack over rocky terrain and reassemble for speed over passable ground . The Boers themselves employed bicycle-mounted commandos for scouting and dispatch riding throughout the war . Photograph Lieutenant James A. Moss ( left ) and troops of the 25th U.S. Bicycle Infantry Corps prepare to put their new mounts through their paces across five states in June 1897. // The summer of 1914 brought another kind of war . On the night of September 22 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the French main line south of the Marne and crossed 20 miles of enemy-held territory to the St. Mont Pere bridge before dawn . Gliding downhill , the advance party machinegunned French guards in their tents , while the main German force sped over the bridge to scatter posts on the other side . As the pedal-pushing machine-gunners doubletimed their half-dressed prisoners back to German lines , sappers wired the bridge and blew it up , frustrating an impending French attack . Six days later , the French launched a reprisal bicycle raid . As more troopers saddled up without curry combs or grain bags , further inventions , such as three-speed gear systems , helped them chum through the mud . During World War I more than 500,000 bicyclists were engaged in scouting or carrying dispatches , wounded or refugees . Entire brigades clashed as mounted infantry as well . Between wars , armies around the world adopted millions of bicycles , thanks to a price tag that enticed most nations during the Great Depression . At the same time , the development of machine pistols and plastic explosive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's 21 permanent bicycle companies were an-ned with light machine guns during the interwar years . Dutch cyclists protecting Holland 's flat terrain were expected to cover 100 miles a day , and the Red Army developed a wider tire to negotiate swamps , forests and marshes . Specially trained dogs accompanied Soviet bicycle troops , standing guard while they slept and sniffing out danger in dense forests . On the march , dog and cycle moved with equal speed , silence and economy . In Finland , TPP " bicycle battalions met the Russian invaders in 1939 . The Germans assigned one company of bicyclists to each infantry regiment and developed a folding bicycle to drop with paratroopers . They even designed a bicycle-mounted anti-chemical warfare station . Although Germany 's panzers stole the headlines in 1939 , Wehrmacht cyclists followed close behind , with whole platoons of bicycle-mounted troops hanging onto towropes attached to moving vehicles . When the Germans were pinched for petroleum and rubber , the bicycle filled gaps in their motor transport capabilities . And when tanks could not traverse Norwegian woods and mountain paths , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partisans also got away down paths and alleys , until German radiodispatched trucks brought in heavily armed bicyclists to sabotage and ambush their sites . In February 1942 British troops on folding bicycles conquered a German radar site surrounded by 500-foot cliffs near Bruneval , France . At about midnight on February 28 , Major John Sheffield and his cyclists paradropped at the nearest suitable point , eight miles away . From there his group quickly pedaled to the site undetected and split into four teams . The three teams providing cover pedaled deep into German defenses before tripping the alarm . Two of them were able to rejoin the demolition team as it wired the radar station and blew it up , minutes before the Germans drove them out . In the last 600 yards , the paratroopers had to abandon their bicycles and alternately sprint and crawl across rocky terrain toward the sea . There , they linked up with the last group , which was pinned down by machine-gun fire . Attacking in full force , the paras managed to slip grenades into the gunners ' pillboxes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The British suffered 15 casualties . Total mission time since the midnight drop was 2X hours . Japan had 50,000 bicycle troops throughout Asia by the time of the attack on Pearl Harbor , but most of the 35,000 troops who invaded Malaya were not allowed to bring bicycles aboard the ships . Once there , however , they found a plentiful supply . Colonel Masanobu Tsuji , recognizing the bicycle 's ability to provide mobility without hampering the column with the need for spare parts or fuel , organized the looted bikes for the drive on Singapore , ultimately distributing about 500 motor vehicles and 6,000 bicycles to each division . Japanese combat patrols frequently set out with one tank and a dozen to 100 cyclists pedaling alongside . Advancing aggressively through impenetrable jungle , often without artillery support , the Japanese swiftly surrounded Singapore and kept the defenders off-balance with fierce local attacks and cyclists dashing about with firecrackers . Believing himself overwhelmed , Lt. Gen. Arthur E. Percival surrendered Singapore and its 130,000-man British garrison to a force one-third its own strength on February 15 , 1942 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soldiers . Toward the end of World War 11 , mines and hollow-charge rockets provided bicycle troops with manageable anti-tank weapons , As Germany 's fuel-starved trucks and tank , sputtered to a halt , bicycle-mounted tankbusting teams became surprisingly effective " fire brigades " along the crumbling front . In December 1944 , as the U.S. 3rd Armored Division fought its way through Belgium , a particularly hardy Waffen SS bicyclist began practicing hit-and-run tactics against it with his machine pistol . Dashing silently through falling snow , night gloom or a setting sun , the two-wheeled raider chopped down combat patrols and zigzagged away through whatever return fire the startled GIs could muster . The cyclist was finally captured with 22 kills to his credit . American forces brought 60,000 bicycles to Europe in 1944 , twice as many as during World War 1 . Although they officially re , mained humble utility vehicles , bicycles were often appropriated by doughboys and GIs alike during forced marches and patrols . One soldier of the 101st Airborne Division improvised a tricycle for delivering supplies . Bicycles continued to play a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for instance , cyclists defied the modern armies of France and the United States . The French calculated that Viet Minh guerrillas carried an average payload of 200 pounds per bike to sustain their two-month siege of Dien Bien Phu in 1954 . During the later war with the United States , North Vietnamese Army and Viet Cong ( VC ) troops could push along up to 500 pounds of supplies on a reinforced Peugeot bicycle , with bamboo poles extending one handlebar and the brake lever . Using parallel roads and jungle paths , the North Vietnamese kept up a flow of bicycles that eluded aerial bombs , motorized patrols and fortified roadblocks . Roaring airplane motors alerted the cyclists , who scattered before pilots could open fire . Although some generals proposed using commando-bicycle tactics against the VC , U.S. forces did little more than add napalm and Agent Orange to the list of air-deployed weapons that failed to stop bicycles . The VC retaliated with the bicycle bomb . After stuffing its tubular frame with plastic explosives , the terrorist would wire the detonator to the bicycle 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One such bicycle killed 13 people and wounded two dozen others at an outdoor cafe when an 11 - year- old pushed it aside . Surprise has been the bicycle 's primary advantage as a weapon . From the Champs Elysees to the Ho Chi Minh Trail , this modest means of mobility has seen yeoman service with underground and national forces alike . Reliable , cheap and lightweight , it requires only nickels in spare parts yet vastly extends a soldier 's scope of operations . Swift and silent , yet at the same time ubiquitous , it is its own camouflage-and after more than a century , it is still one of the most overlooked weapons in the modern arsenal . <p>                     