@@414726

The convergence of microtechnology and biology will yield astonishing results , ranging from monitors for cell and organ health to new and personal understanding of the brain . Photograph // Microscopic technology has received much attention in the past few years , especially as nanotechnology has entered public consciousness . But vision at the nanotech level is generally limited to electron microscopes operating in a high vacuum , and , for the most part , nanotechnology is experimental and speculative . There are few actual working devices . In contrast , microtechnology describes larger devices , from one micron ( a millionth of a meter ) up to those visible to the naked eye , and there are many electrical , mechanical , and analytic devices already in production . These include electronic devices with computer chips , complex analog circuitry , microlasers , flat displays , and the charge-coupled-device ( CCD ) arrays found in both video and still cameras . The same methods used so successfully in electronics have been adapted for manufacturing microelectromechanical system ( MEMS ) devices . MEMS products include sensors to measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movable micromirrors for switching light signals . Microtechnology benefits enormously from the simple fact that every step in the fabrication and assembly process can be guided by ordinary vision . At the most , one needs only a common light microscope . An emerging method of microtechnology production uses modified ink-jet computer printers . The jets deposit liquids containing polymers or powders of solid materials such as metals and ceramics . The drops form a layer that solidifies by evaporation of the solvent , by chemical reaction , or by laser-beam heating . Complex three-dimensional shapes are built up layer by layer to form a completed array of parts that may be further hardened by heating . Arrays of hollow probes can assemble devices with multiple parts , adding each part simultaneously to an array of partially assembled devices . The probes can pick the parts up by applying a slight vacuum , then deposit them on the growing devices with positive air pressure . Probes equipped with MEMS microgrippers are another possibility for such pick-and-place assembly of microdevices . Microtechnology will move forward like standard technology , primarily by small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and function . Products will become smaller and more numerous and decrease in cost in the same way microelectronics has . When Microtechnology And Biology Meet When reliable devices reach sizes of around 10 microns , they will enter the range of biological design-the " natural " size of typical human cells . Products in this range will effectively merge the biological world with the manufactured world . Most human cells range in size from 10 microns upward , easily visible in considerable detail by a standard light microscope . Cells , of course , are extremely complex molecular factories . But they can also be viewed much more simply as biological parts that function much like manufactured devices . Thus , sensory cells for light , sound , touch , pressure , heat , and chemicals correspond to sensors constructed for the same physical phenomena . Muscle cells correspond to actuators , networks of nerve cells to microprocessors . Various brick- , shingle- , and fiber-shaped cells correspond to similar mechanical counterparts . Collagen and elastin , the reinforcing and elastic fibers of the extracellular matrix , have manufactured versions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have functions similar to cells . Photograph This snowboard jacket incorporates a mobile telephone and an M player into its fabric , so wearers can make phone calls and listen to music on the slopes . This technology , developed by Infineon Technologies and O'Neill Europe , includes a microphone integrated into the collar . Future bioclothes will serve as a seamless interface between the body and the outside world , according to author William Holmes . // Clothes are a prime example of the potential for designing with bioparts . We can create clothes that provide physical protection from cold and harm , and even adjustable physical support . They can monitor the shape , tension , and motion of the body , as well as internal physiological signals . The clothes might contain facilities for communicating with the outside world by sight , sound , touch , and pressure . Such clothes may be designated biostructures-that is , an assembly of bioparts that functions much like biological tissue . As such , these biostructure clothes deserve to be called biodothes . The development of biostructures will proceed incrementally using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ network of sensors woven into cloth are already in use , representing a step toward clothing with the properties of skin . Successive reductions in the size of the bioparts will eventually yield bioclothes that seamlessly serve as a versatile interface between the outside world and the body within . Cells are natural bioparts . There are several hundred kinds of human cells , variously adapted to specific functions . Modified cells can become internal bioparts , taking advantage of the enormous potential built into human cells and their obvious fitness to reside in the human body . Immune cells are the natural prototype ; each cell 's DNA is modified to recognize a single kind of foreign molecule among the millions of possibilities . Sensory neurons are suggestive prototypes for an internal network of bioparts to report conditions within the body . Microtech Solutions We live today with a number of limitations , frustrations , and fears that can be relieved by moving our technology into the microworld , specifically by using cell-sized parts and modified cells as fundamental biological building blocks . Microtech innovations can especially help in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity , and planetary resources . Here are some ways that microtech innovations can improve our lives . * Greater self-sufficiency . The industrial system of developed countries provides nearly all the inhabitants with enormous benefits , but each of us is a part of the gigantic industrial machine , quite helpless without the coordinated actions of millions of others . We have lost the self-sufficiency of the simple hunter-gatherer societies from which we came . The fear of unemployment or , worse , technological obsolescence is never far from our thoughts . If we consciously move steadily toward smaller scale , more localized production , then small groups , families , and individuals can gradually regain control over their economic lives . Photograph Intelligent carpeting uses a self-organizing network of chips to monitor temperature , pressure , and vibrations . Similar biostructures in the future might also include sensors for sound , chemicals , and bacteria , according to William Holmes . // * Better health care . Most of us would like to direct our own health care , confident in the knowledge that we can prevent the diseases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be long , productive , and enjoyable . We can only attain such a goal by stages , gradually developing the ability to monitor the inner workings of our bodies down to the cellular level and intervening locally when problems arise . We will clearly need a network of cell-sized parts within our body to interact with individual cells . The network will probably be composed of our own cells , modified to report problems and apply remedies . * Improving our minds . A personal-observation network within the brain , operating with cell-sized parts - probably modified neurons-could provide us with greater insight into our actions . Individuals with serious deficiencies might gradually remedy them by controlling activities of specific neural circuits , even inducing the growth and connection of new neurons where necessary . * Conserving resources . We are running out of land , clean air , and water . Competition for land and resources leads to economic and political strife and , even worse , to a pessimistic feeling that only drastic restrictions can prevent future catastrophes . Moving our technologies into the microworld will not directly create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to eat , relying on increased crop yields and reduced population growth . However , construction of houses and clothes with embedded microparts can drastically reduce the energy needed for heating , cooling , lighting , and transportation . Next , we will explore in greater detail how the microtechnology approach addresses these fundamental problems . The Self-Sufficient Household Two historic forces are converging on the industrial workplace : robotics and the theories of eighteenth-century political economist Adam Smith . Smith envisioned production broken into small steps that any semiskilled worker could master . For 200 years , these steps have become more defined and more precise as specialized machines have supplanted human motions . Now , computers are repeating history by reducing routine paperwork and decision making to a set of rules , then automating their application . Robots , which replace a worker 's simplified manual operations with a mechanical , flexible machine guided by computer , are beginning now to automate the hand-eye skills of human operators . Incremental improvements in both work-flow precision and robot adaptability will continue , so that fewer industrial workers will be needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and landscape maintenance are subject to the same trends . Even security services will automate by sending video-camera and microphone signals to programs specially designed for detecting suspicious activity . Increasing automation will make it possible to work from home . The speed of electronic communication networks is rapidly nearing the capacity to send visuals as well as sound to nearly every home , digitized and reproduced with excellent fidelity by microphones , earphones , television cameras , and monitors . Sight and sound alone are sufficient for performing many jobs from home . However , controlling mechanical motion from home requires transferring human motions to the workplace and returning touch and force sensations for guidance . Our communication channels will have sufficient capacity to do this , since transmitting tactile sensations and motions of the hands and arms requires less bandwidth than visual signals . Though devices for conveying touch , force , and motion are not as fully developed as those for vision and sound , specialized remote manipulators have been used for many years . To completely replace an onsite manual worker , the manipulators of a remotely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arms in shape , with appropriate touch and force sensors . The home worker will control the robot with tactile gloves that convert finger , hand , and arm motions into digital signals transmitted to the robot , and convert incoming signals into the sensations of force and touch on the hands and arms . The tactile gloves and robots now in production are crude biostructures . As microtechnology improves , tactile gloves will evolve into full bioclothes , while robots for remote manipulation will evolve into devices that reproduce the full range of human movements , and transmit the tactile sensations and forces encountered back to the bioclothes . Such robots will be teleforms , the logical extension of the telephone and television to touch , force , and motion . Working at home will increase greatly as assembly robots become available to the consumer . Assembling products under contract may become a cottage industry . Consumers can also become producers , turning home workshops into small factories for making many products they would otherwise buy . Small robots could do much of the routine work of making furniture , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and other hobbyist or specialist activities taking substantial time and skill . This would enable the home worker to achieve some of the self-sufficiency of earlier times , when each homestead met most of its own material requirements . Microtechnology has further implications for self-sufficient households . Large , human-sized objects can be built from microparts , emulating biology . Biostructures from clothes to furniture to houses can be assembled from a supply of inorganic , organic , and manufactured microparts . These biostructures might include sensors for temperature , light , sound , chemicals , and even bacteria . They could adapt in shape and strength , change color , communicate , report on internal problems , and perhaps even repair themselves . Variations on microprobe arrays could assemble such structures . As always , the path downward will be incremental , increasingly useful functions emerging as the microparts decrease toward cell size . Photograph Inside the neuro-chip . Individual neurons are placed in a nutrient medium ( above the chip 's sensor array ) that keeps the neurons alive and allows reconstruction of nerve tissues . Photograph Inside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medium ( above the chip 's sensor array ) that keeps the neurons alive and allows reconstruction of nerve tissues . // The nearly self-sufficient homestead may seem like an ideal a long time in achieving . Yet the goal is important . The more we can do for ourselves , the more self-confident we will feel . Larger groups-from families to small towns to small countries-will also benefit by a move to small-scale production . A higher degree of local self-sufficiency in smaller and more impoverished countries , especially within culturally distinct regions , could go a long way toward relieving world economic tension . Personalized Health Care Although health and life depend on the coordinated actions of our cells , we are nearly blind and totally clumsy when we need to intervene in the event something goes wrong on the cellular level . We can neither fix nor replace individual cells , and surgical intervention destroys thousands with every stroke of the knife . The natural , safe , effective way to guide health care requires inspection and intervention by objects no larger than single cells . Action at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metastatic cancer , and cardiovascular problems like damaged heart muscle fibers and fatty deposits in small vessels . Such a course of action would also work for many degenerative neurological diseases and mental illnesses that require treating only the affected cells while sparing other neural structures in the brain . Cell care will require constant investigation of conditions within the body in order to guide rational therapy , with the patient , not the physician , as primary observer . Using bioclothes technology , individuals can monitor major physiological processes from the outside-heart activity , respiration , muscle tone , body motion , temperature , and periodically , the contents of the breath and urine . Sonic pulses can obtain information on the shape and motion of interior organs , including the heart . Sensors within the body will monitor the content of blood and tissues , and perhaps details of blood flow . These sensors would report to the bioclothes by radio signal or through wirelike extensions up to the skin . The sensors need not be cell-sized , just small enough so that adjacent tissues are not severely crowded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By far the best candidates are one 's own cells , which are the proper size , have enormous potential from their DNA , and are naturally compatible with the individual 's own immune system . White cells and neurons are both strong candidates for use in a cell-care network , but both would need modification . Modified cells or manufactured bioparts could be guided to the proper tissues within the body by recognizing and attaching to specific molecules on cells in the destination tissue . Sound or short-wavelength radiation could also serve as guides by scanning the tissue with focused beams converging to a small volume , a method used in radiation therapy and surgery . Crossed beams of differing wavelengths could provide more exact specificity . A true cell-care network of bioparts , whether modified cells or manufactured devices , will report interior conditions to its owner visually and verbally , at any level of detail from organ to cells . The network will care for tissues by secreting appropriate biomolecules , removing defective cells , stimulating stem cells to divide , or even replacing defective cells or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells . Bioparts in the tissue would serve as beacons to guide the replacements to the proper location . True guided imagery for health care will at last become possible . We can develop cell care incrementally by starting with skin-cell care of the epidermis and underlying dermis . The mechanical problems of access are much less , since bioparts can be introduced directly through the skin . Skin diseases , scarring , and aging provide plenty of medical and psychological motivation . Toward a New Consciousness The immense complexity of the brain is staggering . Fortunately , the brain 's structure is not sheer chaos , but divided into a large number of connected networks . Cells with similar function are grouped together , recognizable by their shape , pattern of electrical activity , repertoire of signaling molecules ( neurotransmitters ) , and connections to other groups . We have learned the basic functions of some of these regions by magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , but more information comes from the unfortunate victims of brain in juries , strokes , and tumors , whose lost functions are correlated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies using very fine wires to measure the electrical activity of single neurons while the animal performs a simple action . These measurements show the activities of single cells but are necessarily extremely limited in number . Cell care of the brain will require a genuine network of bioparts , probably built with modified neurons . The complex shapes and mechanical entanglement of neurons require cellsized bioparts to prevent disruption and act effectively on the right cells . Eventually , individuals will establish cell-care networks in their brains sufficient to observe their own neural activity in detail , correlating activity with their conscious perceptions of sight , sound , touch , emotions , and muscular actions . The networks will be totally under the control of their owners , communicating with their bioclothes . Insights to be gained include how conscious sensations , motivations , and emotions work together ; the relationship between memory and consciousness ; and the origins of mental diseases , uncontrollable emotions , and powerful compulsions . It will be possible to train the brain by mental action , much like physical exercise strengthens muscles . Neurons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neurotransmitters and receptors in response to their level of activity . When neuron function is well correlated with mental action , one could devise appropriate mental exercises to change groups of neurons to function optimally . Those who are willing can improve selected mental abilities and achieve their personal version of optimal mental health . Psychiatry and neuroscience finally will meet . Insights may be gained on how to attain entirely new mental capabilities hitherto unknown . For example , the primary colors of light are red , green , and blue , and we combine them within the brain to create all our other color perceptions . Discovering how this happens could lead to proposed neuron circuits that would combine the primary colors to create color perceptions never experienced . We may be on the verge of exploring an undiscovered world of consciousness-new colors , new emotions , directly perceiving space in three dimensions , hearing an entire musical piece at one time , and sensations literally inconceivable within the limits of our present neural structures . The daring and curious will explore their own brains , personally directing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as best they can to the rest of the world . Photograph Clothes like this shirt with integrated sensor and communications enable comfortable and reliable monitoring of pulse and body temperature . The information is then relayed to a wristwatch device . // The Microuniverse Awaits Us Humanity continues to place pressure on the earth 's resources . Some pressure comes from those who have barely enough to eat ; however , the growing numbers who eat well still have unquenched desires for living space and " stuff . " Agricultural technology and population constraint can help us cope with the food problem , but microtechology can help with the rest . Bioclothes will communicate with teleforms anywhere on earth , potentially reducing the energy spent for commuting and travel . Closer to home , miniature teleforms will let us create complex microenvironments on small pieces of property . Using bioclothes to project our perceptions and actions into a microteleform , our immediate surroundings can become a microuniverse . Hobbyists already build elaborate miniature environments with working parts , such as miniature railroads covering multiple rooms . These tiny worlds now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build elaborate miniature rooms and whole palaces . Enthusiasts could turn an aquarium into a tropical lagoon filled with tiny but beautiful sea creatures . Given miniature tools , and perhaps miniature robots to help , one can use teleforms to build , work , and play in one 's own environments . A person could even walk in the environment by using extended bioclothes equipped with a floor that moves like a treadmill of constantly changing shape . The user will have the sensation of walking while actually staying in one place . User and teleform will move together , effectively walking on the microenvironment terrain . Even playing sports is possible if the players ' teleforms and bioclothes are responsive enough . These miniature environments could be as natural as the individual wants . One might turn a room or even a box into a livable palace , even sleeping in it ( while actually lying in one 's extended bioclothes ) . In practice , we will have as much psychological space as we want , with huge reserves unused . Sidebar " Eventually , individuals will establish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity in detail . " Sidebar FEEDBACK : Send your comments about this article to letters@wfs.org . Photograph Author Affiliation About the Author William Holmes earned a Ph.D . in biophysics and has advanced training in artificial intelligence . he served on the biochemistry faculty of the Washington University School of Medicine and in the radiation oncology department at the University of Arizona Medical School . The concepts in this article are greatly expanded in his forthcoming book Mind Over Matter : Building a Limitless Future Through Biological Design . His address is 2335 East Seneca Street , Tucson , Arizona 85719 . E-mail Bholmes2@mindspring.com. // <p>                     