@@377312

In the 1990s , the city of Hoeryong , North Korea , bore testament to the privations of life under the country 's Stalinist regime . Untold numbers of locals starved to death during a famine that may have killed some 2 million or more nationwide . But the outlook has brightened considerably for the estimated 100,000 residents , due to the arrival of a force the North Korean government has spent almost 60 years trying to keep out : capitalism . <P> According to interviews with refugees in South Korea and more than a dozen people who routinely slip between China and North Korea , Hoeryong , which is located on the Chinese border in the north of the country , boasts a central market that teems with consumer goods : sacks of rice and corn , boxes of apples , bananas and tangerines . On wooden tables under makeshift awnings , merchants peddle not just pork and fish but also Japanese televisions and VCRs , South Korean cosmetics , fashionable sportswear from China and illegal sex videotapes from western countries . If you know whom to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an outrageous capitalist sin in a country where private property is ideological anathema . " You can buy anything and everything in the market , " says Park , a trader who sells televisions she brings in from China . ( Like all North Koreans that TIME talked to for this story , Park spoke on condition that her real name not be used . ) " Everybody wants to be in business . " <P> That image of entrepreneurialism in flower is very different from the conventional view of a destitute Hermit Kingdom . By most measures , North Korea remains one of the most isolated and desperate outposts on the planet . Most North Koreans earn barely enough to feed their families , and the country is plagued by chronic shortages of everything from food to fuel to electricity . But in recent years modest reforms aimed at liberalizing the economy have helped pry open the country just enough for its people to glimpse the possibilities of a better life . In many parts of the country , North Koreans were already seizing the initiative by going into business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tailor shops and makeshift gasoline stands . Along the borders , people use Chinese-made mobile phones and Chinese cellular networks to arrange trade deals with partners in South Korea and on the mainland . A few citizens even drive their own cars  --  a privilege previously reserved for high-ranking officials . <P> Outside Pyongyang and a few big cities where the lite still live on government rations , the majority of North Koreans in urban centers get almost everything from officially sanctioned markets . " This is exactly what was happening in the Soviet Union in 1989 , " before it collapsed , says Leonid Petrov , a North Korea expert at the Academy of Korean Studies south of Seoul . " Nobody believes in the old socialist ideology anymore  --  they believe in money . "                     