@@368899

The cops in the anti-gang unit in Los Angeles ' Rampart division had a motto : " We intimidate those who intimidate others . " They worked the city 's most violent neighborhoods , met firepower with firepower and succeeded in bringing gang-related crimes down 60% from 1992 to 1999 . But the unit has been roiled by charges that its Dirty Harry tactics went too far , and last week a jury finally called it to account . In the first of what may be a series of trials , three Rampart officers were found guilty of conspiracy to obstruct justice by planting evidence and framing gang members . A fourth was acquitted . The intimidators face two to four years in jail . <P> Following the Rodney King beating in 1991 and charges of investigative bungling and racism in the O.J. Simpson case in 1995 , the Rampart scandal has brought the L.A.P.D. to a new low . Allegations of cops ' dealing drugs , shooting unarmed suspects , planting guns and routinely falsifying police reports have left the force reeling . So far , 100 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police officers are in the works , and the city has been forced to accept a consent decree under which a federal judge will oversee police reforms . Liability suits by those wrongly accused could cost Los Angeles upwards of $100 million . Meanwhile , crime rates are rising again  --  homicides are up 38% in Rampart neighborhoods this year  --  as evidence mounts that officers are scaling back on aggressive policing out of fear of disciplinary charges . <P> " The Rampart scandal has tainted the entire department , " says Richard Drooyan , former chief assistant U.S. attorney in Los Angeles and head of a 190-member commission that released a highly critical report on the L.A.P.D. last Thursday . Drooyan 's report , ordered by the city 's board of police commissioners , found a " fundamental problem of supervision and leadership " in the department . These problems were acute in specialized units like the Rampart anti-gang CRASH ( Community Resources Against Street Hoodlums ) unit , which " developed an independent subculture that embodied a ' war on gangs ' mentality where the ends justified the means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ image of the Los Angeles police has deteriorated . The prosecution was unable to call its star witness , self-confessed corrupt cop Rafael Perez  --  whose tales of his experiences as a member of the Rampart CRASH unit broke open the scandal a year ago  --  because of concerns about his credibility . A former girlfriend accused him of three murders , about which he indicated he would plead the Fifth Amendment on the stand . She later recanted , but the prosecution had to fall back on calling known gang members to testify . Yet the jury chose to believe the testimony of these men , some with long criminal records , over the evidence given by police colleagues of the accused officers . Jury questions to the judge indicated a high degree of skepticism over police witnesses ' repeated lapses of memory , with a juror asking whether this was the infamous " code of silence " practiced by the police .                     