@@414102

The Endometriosis Association states that it is extremely rare for a woman in this day and age to ever need a hysterectomy for endometriosis , no matter how severe . Yet three out of four gynecologists I saw said , " You have already had your children , so if we find that you have extensive endometriosis during laparoscopy , the best option is to perform a hysterectomy . " This was in response to yet undiagnosed severe pelvic pain . The thought of a hysterectomy sent me searching for the cause of the intense pain I was experiencing . All my symptoms seemed to point to endometriosis . Finally , the fourth doctor I visited discussed diagnosis and treatment options with me without mentioning hysterectomy as a " cure . " That was eight years ago and today I am still free of endometriosis . Symptoms of Endometriosis Endometriosis is one of the most common yet misunderstood female diseases . Approximately 15 percent of women between the ages of 20 and 45 years of age are affected with this painful and debilitating disorder . Symptoms can begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ menopause . Dysmenorrhea ( pain with menses ) , dyspareunia ( pain with intercourse ) and infertility may also be present . The pain some women experience can be devastating . Pain worse than childbirth was my only symptom and strangely the pain radiated from my left hip into my back . Many women also experience pain when they have a full bladder or bowel . Some women experience no pain but may have fertility , ovarian or menstrual problems . The symptoms are many and varied from woman to woman . Careful Diagnosis Pelvic examinations by a highly skilled gynecologist may disclose nodules or lesions on the ovaries . Ultrasound tests will only show endometriosis if the ovaries are involved . Laparoscopy is the only diagnostic technique than can clearly determine if endometriosis is present . This surgery , performed under general anesthetic , involves inserting a light-containing telescope through a small incision in the navel and another one or two small incisions along the bikini line for the instruments . A laparoscopy is only as good as the surgeon who performs the exam . Removing all the endometriosis tissue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rid of all suspicious abnormalities . My surgeon was extremely meticulous and I was rid of endometriosis in one surgery . Endometrial tissue can look like tiny blueberries or black spots , white , yellow or red-like cysts varying from tiny bluish or dark brown blisters to large chocolate cysts up to 20 centimeters in diameter . Only biopsy can confirm which tissue is truly endometriosis . It is not uncommon for endometrial cells to grow on the ovaries , fallopian tubes , pelvic ligaments , outer surface of the uterus , bladder , large intestine and the covering of the abdominal cavity . Women are often misdiagnosed with irritable bowel syndrome , bladder infections , appendix attack , " just " PMS or painful cramps . You know your body better than anyone . If you do n't feel good , something is wrong . What Causes Endometriosis Until recently the most predominant theory to explain the cause of endometriosis was that of retrograde menstrual flow . It was believed that blood flowing backward pushed tiny fragments of normal endometrial tissue ( from the lining of the uterus ) up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or pelvic cavity . Here this tissue acts as it would in the uterus in accordance with the monthly menstrual cycle . The blood often can not escape , however , and causes the formation of deposits and severe pain . Our Immune System is the Key Other researchers believe that retrograde menstruation occurs but it is only those women with altered immune function that allows the endometrial tissue to implant on other body areas . In other words , the immune system should not allow the endometrial tissue to survive where it does not belong . Once this abnormal tissue is present , the immune system may mount an antibody response and create inflammation and pain in the region involved . New research points to a glitch in the immune system . Dr. David Redwine , world-renowned expert and director of the Endometriosis Program at St. Charles Medical Center in Bend , Oregon , believes that some women are born with abnormally located endometrial cells and that something goes astray with the immune system , causing the cells to become active . This theory has gained acceptance because endometrial implants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far from the uterus . Dr. Redwine 's Web site , where further information on his technique can be found , is listed at the end of this article . Environmental Pollutants Linked to Endometriosis Convincing evidence has linked organochlorine exposure to the development of endometriosis . Organochlorines are highly persistent and toxic substances like DDT , PCP and dioxins . They are estrogen mimickers , causing an increase in estrogens in the body . Endometriosis is thought to be more common in women who have higher than normal circulating estrogens . Carolyn De Marco , in her book Take Charge of Your Body , states that dioxins are a group of 75 chemicals used to make PVC plastics ( our drinking water runs through pipes made from PVC in our homes ) , solvents , pesticides , refrigerants and in the pulp and paper industry . These same chemicals also persist in the fats of meat and dairy products . Do not use foods packaged in plastic containers or use plastics to store food either . Emphasize whole grains , fresh vegetables and fruits in your diet . Cut down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buy organic foods whenever possible . The EPA estimates that 90 percent of human dioxin exposure is through food , primarily meat and dairy products . It is important to eliminate as many organochlorine-based products as possible from your home to reduce exposure . Women should also refuse to use bleached paper products . This includes toilet paper , sanitary napkins and especially tampons . Look for unbleached feminine hygiene products at your health food store . The Hormone Connection Due to the hormone connection and high estrogen levels medical therapy for endometriosis has concentrated on altering a woman 's hormonal chemistry with drugs . These drugs include Danazol and gonadotropin-releasing hormones ( GnRH ) such as Nafarelin and birth control pills . Sometimes these drugs are successful in controlling the symptoms of endometriosis but not without side effects . Oily skin , acne , decreased breast size , growth of facial hair , weight gain and depression are symptoms . Some cause menopausal symptoms like hot flashes , decreased bone density , vaginal dryness and decreased libido . None of the drugs cures the disease . After the drugs are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to treatment , wherein the body heals itself , is more effective and safer . Stress and the Working Woman Women who are constantly under stress from their job , family pressures and personal expectation are at higher risk for developing endometriosis . When we are under stress we release cortisol , our stress hormone , which in turn causes certain immune factors to be released which may worsen the endometriosis . Hormone levels are also altered when women experience unrelenting stress . Type-A personality types appear to have higher rates of endometriosis . In Tori Hudson 's book , The Women 's Encyclopedia of Natural Medicine , she states that " Baboons who developed endometriosis in captivity were found to have higher stress levels and a decreased ability to react to stress compared to those in the wild , suggesting a stress factor . " Holistic Treatments The mainstay of an endometriosis treatment is a diet that decreases the amount of circulating estrogens in the bloodstream to the point where the endometriosis symptoms subside but not so far as to cause pseudomenopause . A vegetarian diet containing no more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eliminating all dairy products works well . The fat you do eat should come from organically-grown nuts and seeds and their oils . Look in the refrigerator section at your health food store for these high quality oils . Many women get relief by simply removing dairy products . I was one of those people . I had to eliminate all dairy products to obtain maximum relief Dairy products tend to promote the prostaglandins and leukotrienes that cause inflammation and smooth muscle contractions , thereby increasing cramps and pain . Caffeine containing beverages should also be removed from the diet . Nutrient Support Supplementing the diet with vitamins and minerals is essential . A high potency B-complex supplement will help ease symptoms of PMS and balance hormonal states , elevate mood and control fluid retention . Essential fatty acids rich in gamma-linoleic acid or GLA ( borage , black currant , evening primrose oils ) and alpha linolenic acid ( flaxseed , pumpkin seed , walnut oils ) are important in decreasing inflammation , inhibiting pain and strengthening the immune system . GLA may offset the symptoms of prostaglandin production . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selenium , zinc , iodine and potassium are required to support the enzyme reactions in the body . Of all the vitamins , vitamin C is the most important . Vitamin C is known to help the body fight off the effects of environmental toxins , improve immune function and fight the effects of stress . Vitamin E is important for those under stress . It helps normalize progesterone to estradiol levels . Vitamin E also helps reduce inflammation and pain associated with endometriosis . Until the facts are out on dioxins , vitamin A should help combat environmental pollutants . Vitamin A has been shown to strengthen the immune system , especially important when dealing with endometriosis . Herbs Help Too Herbalist Rosemary Slick developed a special endometriosis tea formula to strengthen the liver , which plays an essential role in hormonal regulation . She recommends that women with endometriosis drink three to four cups per day of this tea for four to six months . The most effective herbal treatment for endometriosis acts to reduce estrogen levels and regulate hormonal activity . They work by affecting the liver , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( estradiol ) into a safer form ( estriol ) . I also used the tincture Vitex ( commonly known as chaste tree berry ) , as directed on the bottle , to eliminate my endometriosis . Plant sterols and sterolins are a must for controlling cortisol levels , increasing DHEA and halting inflammatory immune responses . Recent research shows that sterols and sterolins turn pre-cervical cancer cells to normal in three menstrual cycles . Endo(metriosis)-Tea 3 parts dandelion root 3 parts wild yam root 2 parts burdock root 2 parts pau d'arco bark 1 part vitex berries 1 part Oregon grape too 1/2 part dong quai root Sassafras , cinnamon , orange peel and ginger to taste . Combine herbs . Fill a large pot with four cups of cold water . Add four to six tablespoons of the herb mixture . Simmer over low heat for 20 minutes . Strain tea and enjoy . Be Good to Yourself Reducing stress in your life , especially the self-inflicted type , is essential . Working women are the most vulnerable to endometriosis . If you have a laparoscopy to remove endometriosis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be back . Rest , relaxation and knowing when to say " no " are important to your health . Pain Relief Castor oil packs are excellent for controlling pain . Take six pieces of flannel cloth ( an old flannel sheet works well ) soaked in castor oil ( damp but not dripping ) about the size of the area you want to treat . Cover these flannel pieces with a hot water bottle wrapped in a towel . Apply to the lower abdomen for 30 to 45 minutes several times a day . This will not only relieve pain but also improve circulation in the pelvic area . Place the castor-oil  --  soaked flannel in a plastic bag for future use . Just remember to soak it in more castor oil . Endometriosis is an insidious disorder but it can be cured forever if you examine and reduce your stress levels , reduce the environmental toxins you are exposed to and improve your nutrition . I eliminated my endometriosis for good and you can too . ri Recommended reading : Take Charge of Your Body by Carolyn DeMarco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Natural Medicine by Tori Hudson , N.D. Dr. David Redwine , Web site **28;954;TOOLONG Sidebar EARLY WARNING SYMPTOMS OF ENDOMETRIOSIS Sidebar 1 . Menstrual cramps that increase in severity 2 . Intermenstrual pain , usually at mid-month 3 . Painful intercourse or dyspareunia 4 . Infertility of unknown origin 5 . Suspected bladder infection but the test results are negative 6 . Pelvic pain that is all-encompassing 7 . History of ovarian cysts Sidebar NATURAL PROGESTERONE FOR ENDOMETRIOSIS Sidebar High doses of natural progesterone cream have been used successfully as part of a treatment program for endometriosis . Progesterone limits the endometrial tissue build up caused by estrogen . By preventing the monthly release of blood in the endometrial islets , the inflammation that previously flared each month will subside , allowing the healing forces of nature to return these abnormal endometrial tissues to normal . Take high doses ( 40-60 mg daily ) of progesterone cream for day 5-28 ( or whenever your normal cycle ends ) of the menstrual cycle . ( Work in conjunction with your medical doctor when using high doses of any hormone , natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ProgestaCare by Life-Flo Health Care Products . ProgestaCare supplies 20 mg of natural progesterone in a wonderful pump bottle that dispenses exactly the amount you need without the mess of trying to spoon out and measure your cream . Excerpted from What Your Doctor May Not Tell You About Premenopause . Author Affiliation LORNA VANDERHAEGHE A health journalist , she has been researching and writing on the subject of nutritional medicine for over 15 years . She is past editor-in-chief of Healthy Living Guide and Alive magazine . Lorna worked under the direction of Abram Hoffer , M.D. , Ph.D . at the Journal of Orthomolecular Medicine for over five years . She is coauthor of The Immune System Cure , Kensington Books . **27;984;TOOLONG // <p>                     