@@417830

Seminary strategies Headnote At a time when laypeople are expressing new interest in spiritual life , pastoral leadership has been spiraling downward into mediocrity. // FAITHFUL , EFFECTIVE Christian congregations make a difference . They touch people 's lives , address profound questions with insight and wisdom , and offer places where the ingredients of a flourishing life can be discovered and nurtured in relationship to the God of Jesus Christ . What do such congregations look like ? In some ways , they are very different from one another-different in size , in denominational tradition , and in their particular histories , opportunities and burdens . Yet effective congregations have much in common : They are able to articulate a theological vision that links people to God and God 's presence in and for the world . They offer the experience of vital worship , which draws people together into the praise of God . They have profound intergenerational ties , and draw on the past for the sake of the future . Effective churches have a passion for education and formation that is focused on Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prophetic engagement and understand these activities not simply as " doing good , " but as expressions of faithfulness to God . And these congregations connect people 's questions , judgments and struggles with their theological convictions and commitments . Effective congregations share one other feature : wise pastoral leadership . They have had leaders who have helped to cultivate the passions and commitments of congregational life . In turn , such congregations appreciate , support and emphasize the importance of pastoral leaders , for they understand the crucial importance of articulating this theological vision and nourishing it through worship , education and ministries . Over time , profound synergies develop between a vital congregation and its effective pastors , creating an upward spiral in which congregation , pastors and the wider community flourish . Strong congregations cultivate a life together that inspires and requires gifted pastoral leaders , who in turn take risks and pose questions that raise the standards for what is possible and needed for congregational life . We have witnessed this kind of leadership , even in congregations that face daunting sociological challenges . A particularly gifted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glory days were in the past . He challenged members to consider their surrounding neighborhoods and to reclaim a vision of ministry in the city He asked them to think about all of the children of the city as their children . Remarkable things began to happen . Not only did he stir the congregation to thinking about the future instead of the past ; he caused the city to take notice . A strong congregation and an imaginative pastor shaped a vital , effective congregational ministry . So there is much at stake in recruiting , shaping and supporting excellent pastoral leaders . It is imperative that churches identify gifted persons , educate and form them well , and sustain their learning over the course of their ministry . Candidates for pastoral leadership must be persons of character who embody a passionate love of God , sustained learning habits and faithful practice in ministry . There is no substitute for a passionate , learned clergy . Strong congregations can survive mediocre or poor pastoral leadership , at least for a while . But over time , ineffective pastoral leaders weaken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and perpetuate mediocrity . The relationship between congregation and pastor then spirals downward into mutual weakness . We live in a time of much downward spiraling . Yes , every generation thinks there has been a decline from the previous generation . And yes , there has always been a measure of pastoral mediocrity and even incompetence . But there seems to be an increasingly widespread sense that we do not have enough good pastors to sustain congregational ministries at high levels . This sense emerges from data , admittedly controversial , about the kind of people who are now coming-and not coming-to seminary . Does a decline in the number of Phi Beta Kappas going into the ministry reflect a decline in quality ? Does a decline in the social status of the ministry as a profession weaken recruitment ? Such data do not tell us as much as we think they do . After all , a ministry shaped by following Jesus Christ ought always to involve some measure of downward mobility , and a high grade-point average does not automatically translate into pastoral wisdom and effective ministry . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or at least to a crisis of confidence , in the power of the ministry to make a difference . Some of it is anecdotal evidence , such as stories about call committees and bishops who can not find enough talented clergy to replace retiring clergy . Some of it is cultural evidence , such as TV and film portrayals of clergy as moral reprobates or amiable buffoons . Some of the signs point to clerk 's role in the broader culture . Recent studies in several cities suggest a decline in people 's perception of the clergy 's willingness to offer leadership beyond the walls of the church . The sense of decline is difficult to describe sociologically , but is experienced all too often in daily life . Our leaders seem to lack the pastoral imagination necessary for addressing the deep yearnings and challenging issues of the time . A poignant example of this failure is the prison chaplain described in Sister Helen Prejean 's Dead Man Walking . After an inmate on death row confesses details about murders , rapes and a lifetime of crime- " You know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Have any impure thoughts ? Say any obscene words ? " Ironically , this sense of a downward spiral into pastoral mediocrity has been occurring at a time when laypeople are expressing interest in the spiritual life at a new level , and are searching for ways to connect their yearnings with a way of faithful living . This is a time when pastoral leaders have a tremendous opportunity to reclaim the significance of the gospel for daily life . Many of these laypeople are leaders in their own vocations . They are asking profound questions about how they as Christians might better address the challenges they face in their daily life . Yet they do not find enough ministers who are equipped to be , or even interested in being , vital participants in such conversations-and in participating as deeply faithful , learned clergy . WHAT HAS gone wrong ? At least part of the blame must be borne by theological education . Not that seminaries , and the professors and staff that constitute them , are insufficiently committed to the church and congregations . Most faculties and staff share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rather , theological educators have no coherent vision of the difference that clergy with pastoral wisdom and imagination can make in sustaining excellent congregational ministry . We have too often settled for mediocrity in these ways : 1 ) We have adopted relatively passive patterns of recruitment , thus weakening the quality and quantity of persons entering ordained ministry ; 2 ) we have watered down the curricula ; 3 ) we have too often offered " convenience " and the transmission of information instead of stressing sacrifice and the importance of formation ; and 4 ) we have retreated from engaging the deep questions and issues raised by people in diverse vocations . Approximately 30 years ago , a profound shift began . Instead of encouraging their most gifted and talented young people to consider ordained ministry as a vocation , congregations began directing their young people toward business , law or medicine . This weakened the pool of people considering ordained ministry , as well as those who entered . Some extraordinary people have continued to enter ordained ministry-but the overall quality has dropped over time . Theological schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compelling vision of ordained ministry as a vocation , and we have not connected with congregations to encourage them to invite gifted men and women to enter the ministry . Theological schools have compounded the problem by providing those students who do enroll with a weakened education and formation . We have lowered expectations , and have done a poor job of connecting education in the classical disciplines with practical theological reflection focused on nurturing excellence in congregational life . This problem is exacerbated by the tendency of many theological schools to emphasize educational convenience . Students can receive a theological education with less time spent on campus and in study , with less demand on their energy , and with fewer expectations . One advertisement for a seminary bragged that the school made it " easier " for the student to complete his or her education . It seemed an odd advertisement for a demanding vocation that is centered in a call to costly discipleship . Too many theological schools seem to suggest that casual theological education is sufficient for casual ministry . This view fails to acknowledge the damage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools are demanding of their students , and include a provision for residencies , precisely because they ( and we ! ) are acutely aware of the damage that incompetent physicians can do . So also with law schools . Yet churches and seminaries act as if our baseline expectation is an average minister . And we lower the bar of expectations , convincing ourselves that the stakes are not all that high . In the not too distant past , clergy were seen as pivotal spiritual and intellectual leaders , and theological schools were seen as providing vital leadership for congregational ministry and for grappling with broader intellectual and social issues . In several universities , divinity schools were among the most vibrant sources of ideas and sustained engagement . Several decades ago , for example , Duke Divinity School led the way in racially integrating Duke University . During this same period , gifted clergy ranked high among the influential leaders of communities . In recent years , however , the trend has been reversed . Clergy are often the source of embarrassment rather than of wisdom ; theological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellectually . This is occurring despite the fact that theological education has been increasingly shaped by academic standards and goals , and at times even academic self-sufficiency . Furthermore , theological schools have backed off from developing programs of continuing education that would provide sustained intellectual , spiritual and social engagement with the questions and issues being raised by people in diverse vocations . IN RECENT YEARS , many theological schools have begun to recognize these new challenges . They have begun to link their curricula with excellent congregations , and to recruit people for seminary . Through the leadership of the Lilly Foundation , an attempt is being made to reclaim " the culture of the call . " Several schools are undertaking innovative programs in continuing education , while others are offering new models for contextual education . Theological educators are beginning to envision a different ecology and environment for theological education . For too long , the model of theological education was like a relay race . It was presumed that denominations would shape and form people for the ministry , and then send them off to seminary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The seminary would provide those tools , and then send its graduates out into congregations to serve the denomination . Whatever the strengths and weaknesses of this " relay  --  race model , " theological educators have rather belatedly discovered that the model has broken down . The formation of ministerial students in congregations and in the church is no longer taking place . Seminaries must develop new connections with congregations , and see the task of formation and education for ministry as a complex partnership between seminaries and congregations-one that must draw clergy and laity , faculty and students , together on a more regular basis . With this vision in mind , Duke Divinity School is undertaking a major project on reclaiming and nurturing the importance of pastoral wisdom and imagination . " A Program to Form a Learned Clergy " was developed through a yearlong strategic planning process , and has received $10 million in support from the Lilly Endowment . Our effort emphasizes these strategies : 1 ) developing partnerships with 15 " teaching congregations " that will help make connections between excellent congregations , the formation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunities of theological education 2 ) recruiting and supporting a new generation of gifted and talented students for Master of Divinity programs , and nurturing doctoral students who will strengthen teaching in seminaries and divinity schools , especially through stronger links with congregations 3 ) developing faculty leaders who serve as catalysts for reshaping conversations and courses , and who help to think through the institutional strategies necessary for us to address critically important issues across the curriculum 4 ) making the divinity school environment more conducive to conversation , community and worship 5 ) cultivating sustained learning among clergy , laity , faculty and students together The final emphasis , the cultivation of sustained learning , aims to develop a comprehensive program that enables clergy , laity , faculty and students to think about how Christian faith helps shape congregational life and respond to the challenges that laity face in their vocations . We will do this through interrelated local , regional and national initiatives that aim to stir people 's imaginations and enable them to reshape their habits of practicing Christian faith . These strategies are not unique to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategies together into a coherent program . For example , the students selected through the scholarship program will serve as apprentices to the senior pastors of our teaching congregations , and will participate in the sustained learning programs . Faculty leaders and doctoral students will also work with congregations and participate in the programs . Faculty members will work with the divinity fellows and doctoral students , and members of the teaching congregations will be encouraged to participate . We hope this effort will foster a major advance in our theological education , and also nurture important conversations about how best to raise up and sustain the kind of pastoral leadership that makes a difference . We want fewer clergy asking , in response to heartfelt confessions , " Have you had any impure thoughts ? " and more clergy and congregations asking themselves what their ministry would look like if all the children in the community were their children . There is too much at stake to strive for anything less . Author Affiliation L. Gregory Jones is dean of Duke Divinity School . Susan Pendleton Jones is director of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congregations program of this new initiative . They are both ordained United Methodist ministers . // <p>                     