@@416361

Virginia Tries to Duck Responsibility for Protecting Horseshoe Crabs Horseshoe crabs  --  actually more related to spiders than crabs- have gotten along fine , without help from human beings , for 300 million years or so , paleontologists estimate , predating even the dinosaurs . But the twentieth century has been a rough one for the horseshoe crab . It began with their existence being threatened by farmers who used them as fertilizer . That practice subsided long ago , but now horseshoe crabs have a new predator : the commercial fishing industry . Or , more specifically , the commercial fishing industry in Virginia , where overharvesting of the crabs prompted the federal government to take action last year . Not exactly a delectable dish , horseshoe crabs were never prized by the fishing community . But they were recently found to be a highly effective bait for eel and especially conch , a lucrative sea snail that 's a popular cuisine in the Far East . With that discovery came a zealous harvesting of the crabs that , by the late 1990s , was causing severe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Chesapeake Bays . Every May and June , hundreds of thousands of horseshoe crabs gather along the Mid-Atlantic shores for their annual spawning season , laying and fertilizing eggs in the wet sand . Those eggs are vital sources of food for a variety of species , from the endangered loggerhead turtle to as many as a million migrating shorebirds . Gulls , grackles , sandpipers , red knots and ruddy turnstones all stop for a two-week snack in the midst of their 10,000-mile trek from South America to northern Canada  --  " like marathon runners in search of bowls of pasta , " says Perry Plumart , director of government relations for the National Audubon Society . Since the early 1990s , there has been a sharp drop-off in horseshoe crabs and , by consequence , their eggs . The migrating birds that feed off the crabs have been affected as well . In the Delaware Bay area , the crab spawning population dropped from 1.2 million in 1990 to less than 500,000 in 1996 . ( There has been a slight improvement in recent years , thanks to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission ( ASMFC ) , a regional agency with federal powers , which mandated a modest 25 percent cut in horseshoe crab fishing . The plan was supposed to take effect May 1 , 2000 ; indeed , Maryland , Delaware and New Jersey had already put into place ambitious plans to limit horseshoe crab harvesting by then . But one state has balked-the commonwealth of Virginia-which is home to a $10 million conch-export industry , the nation 's largest . Virginia has a comparatively small horseshoe crab population ; fishermen capture the crabs elsewhere and land them in Virginia . Representatives from the fishing industry insist there is no conclusive evidence that their horseshoe crab harvesting has led to the area 's ecological problems . " In our opinion , it was not prudent to go as far as the commission did , " says Rick Robins , export manager for Newport News  --  based Chesapeake Bay Packing . " Virginia is the state that will bear the brunt of these laws . " Robins also maintains that the restrictions are based on bad science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a popular scapegoat for the bird groups , " he grumbles . " Maryland and New Jersey overreacted ; they made concessions for political purposes . " Photograph Horseshoe crabs are an important link in the food chain on the Mid-Atlantic shore , but populations have been declining . A new multi-state agreement to limit the commercial harvest has one important dissenter : the commonwealth of Virginia . // Claiming economic hardship , Virginia refused to go along with the plan , leading to a showdown last year with ASMFC . In the end , the U.S. Secretary of Commerce found the state out of compliance , and the Coast Guard was set to intervene . At the eleventh hour , however , Virginia relented , but not before persuading ASMFC to consider an addendum , approved last April , allowing " transfer quotas . " Somewhat akin to pollution credits , transfer quotas will let one state fall short of the reduction rate if another surpasses it . In other words , if Massachusetts reduces its harvesting by , say , 30 percent , Virginia could lower theirs by only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's fishing community . " It 's a terrible idea , " says Perry Plumart . " We were advocating a 60 to 80 percent cut in landings-25 percent was the very bare minimum . " Moreover , Plumart says , " If you allow Virginia to do that , you are undercutting the other states ' conservation measures . No good can come from it . " Perhaps most importantly , transfer quotas could jeopardize the diversity in the horseshoe crab population . Each estuary along the Atlantic coast has a unique group of horseshoe crabs . " You want to avoid transfer quotas because of the potential for overfishing , " says Tom O'Connell of Maryland 's Department of Natural Resources . " Delaware Bay has a genetically distinct population from the Chesapeake Bay population , and transfer quotas wo n't recognize that . " Because of the long stretches of unbroken sandy shoreline , Delaware Bay has been an ideal spawning ground for horseshoe crabs . It has also made possible a cost-effective method of harvesting for the fishing industry . In fact , " fishing " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; during mating season , they drive semitrailer trucks along the beach and heave the invertebrates in by the thousands . Pregnant females and young crabs are particularly targeted ; they are considered better bait and bring in more money . And since horseshoe crabs require approximately 10 years to reach sexual maturity , there has been a slowdown in the crabs ' birthrate-yet another factor contributing to the declining population . Horseshoe crabs are an important commodity to the medical community as well . Their blue blood contains special cells that kill certain kinds of bacteria . Today , scientists take blood from the crabs and use it to detect bacteria in human blood and intravenous drugs . For horseshoe crabs , the process is painless and nearly all survive the ordeal . ( The previous method of testing contaminants was by injecting rabbits . ) Scientists estimate that thousands of lives are saved every year . So the benefits of preserving these " living fossils " are far-reaching indeed . Conservation efforts over the past few years have had great success , but there 's still the " loophole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the controversy over transfer quotas , many environmentalists are satisfied that enough safeguards are in place to protect the crabs . The use of transfer quotas will still need cooperation from other states , and " no one wants to do it , " says Perry Plumart . But Rick Robins vows to fight on . " For us , there is no alternative , " he says . " We are 100 percent dependent on horseshoe crabs for bait . ' <p>                     