@@417479

PSYCHOLOGY Headnote " The key variables to consider are temperament , age , health , knowledge of the particular act , the nature of the risks involved , one 's previous tolerance for similar risks , the ability to set appropriate objectives , and the flexibility to judge objectively when to change an approach that no longer makes sense . . . . " // WHY WOULD race car driver Dale Earnhardt , nicknamed " The Intimidator " because of his numerous fearless attempts to bump rivals ferociously out of the way , perhaps smashing them into a solid stone wall , be foolish enough during what turned out to be his final NASCAR race to zig-zag around the field at 170 miles an hour , leading to his death in Daytona , Fla. , as the victim of a crash caused by his trying to block a rival competitor on the last lap ? On the surface , there seemed not to be an iota of the natural emotion of fear in his mind and heart concerning the possible dangers of dozens of vehicles vying to squeeze @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendency to avoid being seriously hurt , perhaps killed , seemed to be missing . Moreover , Earnhardt was not properly strapped into his seat , and he refused to wear a specially made head and neck harness that might have saved his life . Surely it was n't money that motivated him to take those risks . He already owned his own racing team , which earned millions of dollars a year . Nor could it have been his need for fame . After all , he had won seven Winston Cup championships . He was unanimously considered by his peers to be the best NASCAR driver ever . In states where car racing is very popular-and there are quite a few-people name their children after him . What could induce that sort of mindlessness in a man who has been described by his friends and family as kind , sensitive , and bright ? What was he trying to prove ? And to whom ? Earnhardt put it this way : " These guys on my team are proud to be champions . They just love being the ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and they want it again . The bonuses and paychecks are just gravy for them . The meat and potatoes are winning on Sunday . " Let 's take a peak at another adventuresome , risky arena-Wall Street . Thousands of us are glued daily to the cable channel MSNBC for financial news or keep in close touch with our stockbrokers in order to follow the value of our investments as they move upward , downward , or not at all . In an up market , the rush of our bodily pulses and the elation of our minds egg us on to " make more of it while the making is good . " The lure of wealth strangles the commonly held healthy notions of prudence and moderation . A powerful , mystical sense of trust develops : The Dow has no place to go but heavenward ! The web of neuronal components that make up the brain appears to be creating a lopsided view of reality . The poisonous mental hormone called " greed " manages to suffocate the logic typically utilized for ordinary problemsolving . A major objective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boasting about their economic successes . This goal becomes not only paramount , but delusional . The compelling desire for greater profits becomes the justification for selecting investment vehicles that are risky ; at times , very risky . Tried-and-true strategies for safety such as dollar-averaging , asset allocation , and laddering are thrown to the wind . With graphs mainly depicting linear lines moving upward , the dizzying bodily rush increases exponentially . Horizontal lines ( and certainly downward slopes ) are completely unacceptable . , " Up " becomes an obsession that blurs any probability that things can change for the worse . Mathematical reality falls prey to delusional faith . What supports the maintenance of that obsession is the recent past , which has " proven " that an occasional blip or even a recession is just a brief prelude to the next linear verticality . The caveat is chanted in cultish form , each member unconditionally supporting the other : " The market always comes back ... in spades ! " Investors point to 1974 and 1987 in an attempt to boost the ego strength of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . // As the curve maintains its downward direction , the hearts of many thump away fiercely with prayers that economically they will not perilously crash . More than a few verbally flagellate themselves for having foolishly risked their capital by investing in a " sure-thing " tip whispered into their ear by a friend of a friend . Trouble often brews between a couple when one mate was clearly warned by the other that their 401(k) should never be jeopardized . Typically , the burning , self-effacing question arises : " How could I have been so ( expletive ) stupid ? " Interestingly , three types of investment portfolios are frequently recommended for investors with different risk tolerances-low , moderate , and high . These investment differences tend to correlate positively with risk  --  taking tolerances in other areas of one 's life . Risk tolerance seems to be a stable personality variable that affects all of us in our daily decisionmaking . Low risk tolerance goes along with worrying , pessimism , fearfulness , and the feeling that one is a loser , always unlucky ( perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live too carefully . They are very uncomfortable with change . Flexibility and resilience are not in their behavioral repertoire . They require structure and safety . They are usually unhappy campers since the unpredictability of life demands the capacity to change attitudes and direction . There is no guarantee of safety , and no structure is flawless . Often , those with low risk tolerance lack the capacity to enjoy themselves . Fun and humor , after all , require a certain inner looseness and the mindset to enjoy unexpected endings . For the risk intolerant , the stress of not knowing what may happen drains the potential delight from any forthcoming event . People with high risk tolerance , on the other hand , feel openly and act freely . They seek change and novelty , and are turned on by living on the edge . Imagine the potential problems encountered in a contractual relationship of two people who have risk tolerances at opposite ends of the spectrum . Obviously , such marriages-whether they are business or romantic-are usually doomed to fail . The effects of group influences on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social psychologists . These scholarly professionals direct their theorizing and research to clarify such questions . It has been shown , for example , that one is more prone to take risks when the group he or she identifies with engages and supports such behavior . The needs to belong and be accepted by peers are strong enough human motivators to impel a person to behave with greater risk in the context of a group than when alone . This is especially true with adolescents and young adults . Risk of commitment Then there 's the risk of personal commitment-marriage , for instance . When infatuation and passion are central , a couple " madly in love " perceives the entire world as a perfect paradise , one that is completely predictable and conquerable . Such fiction soon recedes when both partners realize they must resign themselves to a lifetime of reciprocal commitment and risks : for richer , for poorer ; in sickness and in health . Such risks can not be underestimated , since they are indeed real . Those who quickly jump passionately into a legal marital contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devastated . At the other extreme , some lovers may become so paralyzed with the fear of making a mistake or accepting such heavy responsibilities ( non-risk-takers ) , they find it impossible to commit fully to marriage despite deep romantic feelings for their lover . Too often , these individuals lose the relationship of an attractive , trustworthy person who might have been an ideal mate . We tend to think that only those who put their physical health or life on the line are true risk-takers . That would include those in the military , police , the FBI , CIA , window cleaners atop tall buildings , bungee-jumpers , those on the " Survivor " TV show , etc . How about mountain climbers , sky divers , and rock climbers who hang in space dangling from one tool on a free-hanging icicle ? Or a windsurfer who must dodge sharks and man-of  --  wars ? It might include athletes who play in tough physical contact sports like hockey , football , soccer , and wrestling , or a baseball batter who is facing a ball speeding towards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to physical dangers only would erroneously invalidate those people whose jobs and lifestyles primarily require mental responsibilities such as presidents of nations , the Federal Reserve Board , corporate administrators , etc . Are they risk-free ? The Cuban Missile Crisis , Israeli retaliation for Palestinian terrorism , giving sophisticated military weapons to Taiwan so they may fend off the threats of possible attacks from China , and United Nations soldiers who guard buffer zones between hostile countries around the world are illustrations of the risks all countries routinely take to maintain their security and safety . The obvious truth is this : Since nothing in life is certain or absolutely predictable , living means that we must always take chances . All of us-whether we like it or not ! No particular group of people can be classified as the risk-takers . As suggested previously , risks exist even in the process of seeking fun . Do n't many of us opt to scream our hearts out as we careen up and down a high , curvy roller coaster ? Or when a mammoth Ferris wheel stops and we find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such fearful activities ? Simply , it 's the thrilling courageous feeling of conquering our fear . Show me a human and I 'll show you a risk-taken Are you sure you wo n't be hit by a car when you cross the street ? You may be compulsively vigilant , but how about the careless or drug-ridden driver coming towards you who is crazily racing out of control ? You may confidently select good-looking fruit and produce from the food market bins , but are you absolutely sure they have n't been tainted with some poisonous substance either by a sick employee or a worker in the country of origin ? Are you completely certain you wo n't be mugged while taking a leisurely stroll ? We can go on and on . You may justifiably suggest that there are risks and there are risks , and that is absolutely true . Speaking on the cell phone while driving is much riskier than keeping both hands on the wheel . Washing your fruit prior to eating it reduces the risk of being poisoned . As a senior citizen , playing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a singles match . Once again , we find some risk haunting us one way or another . Psychological factors There are other reasons why risk-takers do what they do . Psychological factors , as usual , are central to understanding their behaviors . Of course , the specifics of what motivates particular people and why they are so motivated vary from person to person . For some , very high risk may represent the strong need to be admired . Lack of self-esteem and meager self-confidence are usually implicated . Such a need often is overpowering , and it is very difficult to satisfy . Over and over again , this type of individual must prove he or she is smart , strong , and worthy . Nothing turns such people on more than the screams and acclamation of their fans . Their need , however , is frequently insatiable . There is no such thing as too much adoration . Since their quickly inflated , sensitive egos sag so easily , continuous evidence of admiration is required . Then there 's the need to feel omnipotent , to exert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control their game . Their great demands are swiftly granted . That power , too , can become insatiable . Many risks are taken purely for the thrill of the chase-kind of an evolutionary concept attractive to those with a biological bent . When the chase becomes extremely dangerous , one can not eliminate the motivational possibility of flirting with death . Toying with it , teasing it , daring it , defying it , and beating it are attractive and intoxicating . Human behavior is complex , though , and the underlying motivations may , in fact , be the opposite of what they appear to be . Risky behavior may be revealing an underlying fear of death . Unconsciously , it may be conceived that the only way of removing the unbearable , scary emotion is to wrestle it to defeat . Earnhardt remarked that he felt " ageless " when he was racing . Risky racing may have satisfied a need to prove that he was " alive , " in control of his life , and completely independent-omnipotent , perhaps . Risk , it has been said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Digging a bit deeper into the psyche may uncover the possibility that it might be the displaced fear of very early traumatic experiences . Still another explanation exists . Extremely risky behavior may simply be an unadulterated death wish . One plays a rough-and-tough game to the hilt with the clear understanding that it will eventually be lost . All of these theoretical explanations , of course , imply that most often people are " unconscious " of the motivations that propel their high risk-taking behavior . Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan briefly said it this way : " Risk is involved in every action . " Given the validity of that assumption , it is important that we all realize there is indeed an art to healthy risk-taking . Ultimately , it is a creative problem-solving task that requires each of us to assess the amount of tolerance we have for a particular situation . The key variables to consider are temperament , age , health , knowledge of the particular act , the nature of the risks involved , one 's previous tolerance for similar risks , the ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objectively when to change an approach that no longer makes sense-that it is time , perhaps , to eliminate some obsolete goals and strategies . When behavioral rigidity and compulsivity set in , and you find it difficult to make a meaningful assessment alone , professional help is advisable . Repeatedly taking lifethreatening risks which have become unmanageable is not unlike alcoholism , drug addiction , gambling , compulsive eating , or any other behavioral problem that has dangerously spiraled . Seek out a mental health worker who is accredited and licensed in that specific area by the state in which you reside . Be careful that the person you are considering has valid credentials , not a false license purchased from a firm which has made a big business of awarding all kinds of degrees by mail . If you are unsure as to whether or not your behavior falls within " normal " limits , professional consultation is the reasonable , appropriate way to put your mind at ease . It can be quite empowering to learn why you have certain desires , impulses , and behavior patterns that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meaningful about changing them if necessary . The perennial nature-nurture question arises again . Are we born to be risk-takers or do we learn to behave that way ? This is not a frivolous query , by any means . Just as we are beginning to gain biological/genetic insights about shyness and other traits we had assumed for a long time to be purely learned , one can never eliminate those possibilities with risk-taking . Perhaps there is some relationship with impulse control . It surely has some connection to temperament . Could it relate in some way to underlying hyperactivity ? Many more hypotheses may be suggested which would make for fascinating scientific investigations , but equally as important is the sensitivity we must all have for the concept that learning and modification of behavior are possible even when there are underlying physical aspects for a particular type of behavior . Shy people can learn to approach a group of strangers without a panic reaction , and hyperactive individuals are capable of altering their behavior by using appropriate modification techniques . It is important to think about this issue as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smoothly through the process of learning how to take healthy risks in life is an art . Briefly , it is comprised of creatively prioritizing and patterning your behavior so that living is less stressful , more pleasant , and worthwhile . Contentment and fun should be important objectives . It is a lifelong effort . The art can be grasped only by those who are willing to invest sufficient time consistently . Are you ? Author Affiliation Ralph Hyatt , Psychology Editor of USA Today , is professor emeritus of psychology , Saint Joseph 's University , Philadelphia , Pa. // <p>                     