@@390601

Headnote Reconciliation education is helping Rwanda to heal . IT IS THE GREATEST STORY OF FORGIVENESS never heard-the untold saga of the church-led reconciUation that has occured since the Rwandan genocide . Many Catholics in the United States are familiar with the basic outlines of the genocide . Between April and June 1994 , the world sat virtually silent while almost a million ethnic Tutsi and moderate Hutu were slaughtered by the Rwandan army , paramilitary groups and ordinary citizens , goaded by an extremist Hutu government . Few Americans know what has happened in Rwanda in the years since the killing ended . A decade of church-led social analysis , Scripture study and examination of conscience has yielded a social miracle and illuminated the boundless power of Christian forgiveness . During the genocide the church 's record was mixed . Despite official Catholic opposition to the ethnic violence , some church leaders were prominent among the killers . Most notorious among the genocidaires , as they are called , was the Rev. Athanase Seromba , who was convicted last year of genocide and extermination by the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the violence , Father Seromba encouraged 2,000 of his Tutsi parishioners to seek refuge within the church , then ordered a bulldozer to demolish the building , crushing all of them inside . The rubble has been left undisturbed as a memorial . Accounts of similar atrocities , committed by a small number of clergy and religious , stand alongside accounts of others ' heroism and self-sacrifice , leaving observers with a mixed impression of the church 's role . Since then , however , the church in Rwanda has rebounded through a process of self-examination and national reconciliation rooted in preparations for the Great Jubilee of the Year 2000 . Working with Catholic Relief Services ( which lost five staff members in the genocide ) , the Rwandan bishops organized a jubilee synod , to involve all levels of the church , in the 20,000 base communities that make up the church in Rwanda . Each one of these groups of 25 families took up the question of the role of ethnicity in the Rwandan genocide . Participants at all levels of the population were encouraged to tell the truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to speak of the unspeakable . A Different Path In 2001 , Archbishop Thadde Ntihinyurwa asked the diocesan justice and peace commissions to begin implementing the synod 's conclusions , chief among them being the necessity of truth-telling , pubUc confession and requests for forgiveness . In this , Rwanda took a different path than South Africa , which had developed a secular Truth and Reconciliation Commission headed by Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu . The secular commission held hearings aimed at airing the truth and recommended amnesty for those who came forward . In Rwanda , the church organized a massive program of Scripture study and reconciliation ministry , led by parish justice and peace commissions . The Diocese of Kibungo asked Thophile Rwemahka , justice and peace coordinator for the Diocese of Kibungo , to work with Catholic Relief Services to train diocesan staff members , key parish leaders and base community animators in community trauma healing , conflict management , Catholic social teaching and human rights . Over the past five years , 3,000 leaders have been trained in the diocese and 20,000 nationwide . After parish peace and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seek out newly released prisoners ( who are typically freed in groups of 40,000 at a time ) to encourage them to confess their crimes and ask forgiveness of survivors . Commission members also lead examinations of conscience within their own base communities and encourage neighbors and friends to come clean about their conduct during the genocide . As I traveled throughout Rwanda interviewing 200 local justice and peace commission members in March , 2006 , I heard the same story in each parish . Men confessed brutal killings and looting . Women admit- ted pointing out Tutsi , turning away frightened neighbors who sought refuge and looting . Each described a moment of moral clarity , experienced while reflecting on Scripture , that compelled them to confess . All reported twice asking for forgiveness : once in public and once in the homes of survivors . Peace and justice commission leaders told stories of supporting killers by accompanying them to survivors ' homes . Most of those petitioned granted forgiveness . Thophile explained that the training also supports the Rwandan judicial policy of trying the ringleaders of the genocide and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the United Nations ' genocide tribunal in Arusha , Tanzania . Ordinary Rwandans who participated in the killings are now ( since 2004 ) tried in local courts called Gacaca ( Ga-CHA-cha ) , whose focus is reconciliation . Forgiving the Unforgivable Some people , like Justin Ndagijimana , have personally forgiven as many as eight others . When asked how many family members he lost in the genocide , Justin could not count the number precisely . He said : " I lost my wife , a child , my dad and my mom , my sisters , my niece and my nephews , my uncles and aunts . I ca n't remember how many ; I think it was around 65 relatives . " Justin was well aware that far more than the eight people who confessed killed his family and looted his property . But he preferred to discuss the eight forgiven , not those who remain cloaked in anonymity . He explained why he forgave the man sitting across from him , Kanchan Baragata : Because Kanchan confessed his crimes , and because the word of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be pardoned , I forgave him . I also felt that it was not his will to kill . It was animal ; it was Satan , who pushed him to kill . Since then we 've become friends . We meet in the bar and share beer . I gave him pardon , but I do not know what the court will decide . I would like the court to set him free , but I ca n't control their decision . Justin conveyed a number of elements of postgenocide forgiveness in his statement . First , Kanchan confessed his crimes , providing details and the names of his accomplices , elements crucial both to survivors ' sense of closure and to bringing other killers to justice . Second , Justin allowed himself to be converted by Scripture . When he paraphrased Matt 6:15 , he confessed that he , too , is a sinner in need of God 's forgiveness ; how he forgives others on earth affects his own salvation . Third , Justin believes Kanchan surrendered his will : to authorities , to the mob of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killers were not architects of the genocide , did not enjoy killing their relatives and are truly remorseful , it is much easier for them to forgive than if one or more of these conditions is not met . Finally , Justin maintains a relationship with the killer . For Justin and many of the others I met in Rwanda , forgiveness is not a one-time Hollywood moment . Tb be sure , there are flashes of intense drama , such as when the words " I forgive you " are first spoken . But a wealth of conversion leads up to the instant of forgiveness and , to be lasting , the forgiveness must be ongoing . If Rwanda is to become a country of Rwandans , rather than Hutu and Tutsi , actions like Justin 's sharing a beer with his family 's killers are essential elements of nation-building . Justice on the Grass Justin 's story is also linked to the local Gacaca courts and the hundreds of thousands of cases that face these local tribunals . Gacaca literally means " justice on the grass . " Gacaca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of great integrity " were elected to administer what typically amounted to a small claims court . Even for criminal offenses , fines and what we now call restorative justice were emphasized over imprisonment . Rwanda 's new government brought the Gacaca courts back in 2004 , after the success of a two-year pilot project , in order to try a backlog of 800,000 cases relating to the 1994 genocide . The judges encourage ordinary Rwandans to confess any crimes they might have committed during the genocide and to ask pardon of survivors publicly . When confessions are not forthcoming , the judges ask neighbors seated on the grass before them to tell what they know : " Where was this person during the genocide ? " " Who knows what happened to the home of this man ? " " Who killed this young woman 's parents ? " Throughout Rwanda , hundreds of women and men trained by C.R.S. have been elected judges . Nationwide , C.R.S.-Rwanda estimates that 80 percent of judges in the Gacaca process are members of a parish justice and peace commission . Each of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two and seven judges . All of them reported that their participation in the training and peacebuilding ministries enhanced their standing in the community as reconcilers and contributed to their election . The judges also noted that the C.R.S. peacebuilding training augmented the government 's training for new Gacaca judges , which includes topics like the history of Gacaca , the various categories of crimes and the importance of impartiality . A handful of genocide survivors have said that the church 's peacemaking efforts and the Gacaca process let the killers off too easily ; those who committed genocide are not truly held accountable for their actions . If the killers say the right words , they are rewarded with light sentences and reintegrated into the community . I felt a moment of sympa- thy for this view when I asked a killer from Kirehe Parish why he beat two little girls to death with a stick " Bad governance , " he replied . It was as if I had inquired why the road from Kigali to Kirehe was in such sorry shape . " Bad governance " - it sounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when repeated like an incantation , could unlock a prison door . The encounter left me wondering about culpability . In a way , everyone we spoke to blamed the former government for the genocide . The government developed the plan and gave the orders . So among a people accustomed to blind obedience , where did public obligations end and personal responsibility begin ? Did n't German soldiers after World War II say " I was just following orders " ? Could n't they have said " bad governance " just as glibly ? I shared my questions with Gloriosa Uwimpuhwe and Joseph Muyango of C.R.S.-Rwanda , both of whom insisted that those who abuse the reconciliation process are a small minority . The Gacaca courts have added momentum to the church 's peacebuilding work , not corrupted it , they argued , noting that the base community process includes careful study of the root causes of genocide . To my surprise , at the end of the visit , the man in Kirehe was the only person whose sincerity I doubted . The 200 others ( and thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspiring counterexample , witnessing through their honesty and courage to the boundless power of Christian forgiveness . Rwanda has endured the unspeakable . Strong faith communities and the imaginative power of Scripture are helping its people to speak at last of these horrors and of the hopes they have for a new nation founded upon reconciliation and soUdarity . It is a story of hope that invites further study and replication among other traumatized peoples . Author Affiliation JEFFRY ODELL KORGEN is secretary of the Roundtable Association of Diocesan Social Action Directors at the National Pastoral Life Center in New York City . His book Solidarity Will Transform the World : Stories of Hope From Catholic Relief Services ( Orbis , 2007 ) includes in-depth interviews with both perpetrators of genocide and the Rwandans who have forgiven them . <p>                     