@@380339

Nothing much happened here in Israel last week , which was something of a surprise to most Israelis , who were expecting big , dramatic , perhaps cataclysmic developments after Prime Minister Ariel Sharon was incapacitated by a massive stroke . Sharon , ever stubborn , lived on , breathing a little , responding reflexively to pokes and proddings from his physicians  --  and so there was no state funeral , no national emotional catharsis , no clear transfer of power . But more important , there was no political confusion or panic . Leadership was quietly assumed by Sharon 's deputy , Ehud Olmert . " Here we are in the midst of a revolution in Israeli politics , " Avi Dichter , former director of Shin Bet , Israel 's domestic security agency , told me . " Our great national leader is crippled  --  and there is no crisis . Power is passed quietly . Our enemies do n't stir . Our stock market barely moves . It says a lot for the strength of our democracy . " <P> Olmert 's elegant and noiseless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of act : a dog that did n't bark in a prohibitively raucous canine nation . His public gestures were tasteful . He refused to sit in Sharon 's seat at the first Cabinet meeting or use Sharon 's office . He gave no interviews , a real departure for a politician who had served as the Prime Minister 's talk-radio pit bull . He traded his famously dreadful orange ties for blue and black stripes . He was not seen smoking one of his beloved cigars . He looked very much the leader . <P> Privately , Olmert , 60 , has acted with dispatch to unite Kadima , the centrist party that Sharon created last year . Shimon Peres , the former Labor Prime Minister whose jump to Kadima had given it credibility , made some tiny noises about taking over but soon accepted the reality of his advanced age ( he is 82 ) and anachronistic left-wing politics and fell into line behind Olmert . The other Kadima heavyweights followed . Minister of Justice Tzipi Livni , 47 , a rising star with the highest poll ratings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Olmert , even though the two had been rivals for Sharon 's favor . " I called Olmert that first night , " Livni told me , " and said , ' Listen , we 're now going to work together . You have my complete support . ' I 've spoken with him every day since . " Olmert apparently told Livni she would become Foreign Minister , as Sharon had promised her , and Deputy Prime Minister in the new Kadima government . One week after Sharon 's incapacitation , Olmert had answered the most important question in Israeli public life : Would Kadima fall apart without his leadership ? It held together , for the moment , and Olmert has passed his first major political test . But there will be far more difficult tests to come .                     