@@389561

Headnote IN JUST A CORNER OF YOUR YARD , YOU CAN CREATE AN OASIS TO RELAX IN AT THE END OF THE DAY . Does your day job keep you away from your garden from sunup to sundown ? Like to entertain friends and family in your backyard ? Then you want a garden that comes to lire after dark . Frogs , birds , and crickets serenade you with their evening songs , Isabella tiger moths flutter by on their nightly pollination foray , and pale flowers reflect the moonlight and scent the air with fragrances only nature can create . Flickering firelight and the soft gurgle of moving water soothe your senses and turn your garden into a personal piece of paradise . You do n't need a complete landscape overhaul or even a big space to make your own evening garden . Pick a small spot in your garden , fill it with plants that shine when the sun does n't , add a few simple accessories , and you 'll have your own haven where you can entertain friends or enjoy a peaceful moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your evening garden have at least one of three qualities : foliage that reflects light , pale flowers that bloom late in the day , or appealing fragrance at night . The best plants-and there are many-have all three qualities . Foliage . Plants with gray or variegated foliage stand out in the soft light of evening , because their muted tones or light margins reflect both candlelight and moonlight . Variegated types of some shrubs , including creeping euonymus , redtwig dogwood , and hydrangea , have striking foliage that will light up your evening garden even when nothing is in bloom . The silvery gray foliage of perennials like false indigo and " Powis Castle " artemisia , and annuals such as licorice plant and dusty miller , help soften the lower layers of the garden and provide a nice transition from bare soil to the bolder leaves of other plants . Flowers . White or cream-colored blossoms reflect moonlight and glow when not subjected to harsh , direct sunlight . Japanese stewartia and , for southern gardeners , Carolina silverbell are trees bearing blossoms that shine in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ garden , " suggests Tony Avent of Plant Delights Nursery , in Raleigh , North Carolina . " Subtle lighting helps accentuate the beautiful branch architecture of these trees , plus it reflects off their cream-colored blossoms . " Bubbly white flowering shrubs like sweetspire and summersweet are at their peak on summer nights , while the delicate white blooms of perennial gaura and fall-blooming anemones extend the garden 's show well into the autumn . Fragrance . Here 's the added dimension to your garden that evening highlights like no other time of day . Certain flowers release their fragrance only at twilight , perfuming the night air and attracting moths to pollinate your garden . Both the perfume and ghostly blooms of angel 's trumpet and jimsonweed make them nighttime showstoppers ( though be forewarned that all parts of these plants are poisonous ) . Tuberoses and Oriental lilies have unmistakable scents-just a few fragrance the entire garden . Flowering tobacco 's aroma is softly sweet and its white flowers are open both in the early morning and at night . To avoid being overwhelmed by so many perfumes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selections with a more subtle aroma . Location Here 's a case where bigger is not better . You want the space to embrace you and feel intimate-a feeling often best achieved in closer quarters . Site your evening garden close to the house so you can stumble out the back door , dinner in hand , and quickly find yourself there . A garden near the house can shield you from neighbors and muffle street noise . For maximum shelter and privacy , set up the area under a pergola or arbor covered in a blooming vine , Avent suggests . If you do n't have one of those structures , you can create privacy with a few strategically positioned fence panels or wooden latticework screens , both of which can also be draped in vines . If your yard permits , locate your evening garden at the end of a softly lit path . This makes the journey a part of the escape from your day-to-day life . Just a few thoughtfully placed stepping stones suffice for making the path clear . " Another factor to consider when deciding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prevailing evening breezes , " Avent notes . " You want to enjoy the fragrance that many night-blooming plants exude , and the best way to do this is to plant them upwind of your seating area . " Take note of airflow before setting up the garden . Appealing Atmosphere The sound of moving water is so relaxing that you 'll want to include at least a simple gurgling fountain in your evening garden . Even better if you have room for a more extensive in-ground water feature . The flash of a white koi , the bright song of a frog , and the reflection of the moon on the water 's surface add more pleasures to your garden . Comfortable seating is a must when relaxation is the goal . Place chairs and chaises around a fire pit or chiminea so you 'll be warm and cozy long into the night . Light a few votive candles and hang wind chimes to tinkle in the night breeze , and your after-dark oasis is ready for you to enjoy . And What of Daylight ? Wondering if your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ setup of your garden create a cool oasis on a hot , sunny day , too . Though it will really shine at twilight , there 's no doubt you 'll find your night spot a welcome retreat just about anytime . Go to OrganicGardening.com to get simple plans for building a bat house , as well as do-it-yourself ideas for creating a night garden , such as building a fire pit and a small fountain . Sidebar Ghosts of things to come : White coneflower , jimsonweed , and false indigo pods decorate this year 's garden and hold seeds for next year 's . Sidebar Nightly Attraction Scientists believe certain plants evolved into night-bloomers to compete for pollinators ' attention . The heavy nocturnal fragrances of jasmine , flowering tobacco , and honeysuckle suggest a thriving population of hawk moths . Night-blooming plants release volatile compounds , which are intercepted by these fast-flying insects ' extremely sensitive antennae . Hovering close to a flower , the moth uncoils its long proboscis and sucks out the lightweight , copious nectar . Flowers that are hawk-moth pollinated are typically light in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pollinators , and have thin , easily extractible nectar . Peak nectar production occurs in the evening , opportunely coinciding with hawk-moth visiting hours . Life after dark : A pergola sheltering a chiminea and a bubbly fountain creates a private sanctuary . Opposite ( from left ) : Jimsonweed blooms fill the night air with fragrance , while false indigo pods rattle in the breeze . Angelonia will flower nonstop in containers . Who 's Up at Night ? Bats : Not only are bats fascinating and entertaining , but they also consume countless mosquitoes and other flying garden pests . Hang a wooden bat box near your garden to encourage them to stay on the job . Moths : Hawk and Isabella tiger moths are common nighttime pollinators found fluttering around light-colored blossoms . Luna and lo moths are much rarer-seeing one of these beauties may be a once-in-a-lifetime occurrence that you can experience only at night . ( Turn to page 29 for more on the luna moth . ) Toads : These terrestrial members of the frog family feast on beetles , slugs , and other garden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the evening garden is a toad 's sticky tongue deftly lapping up a trail of ants . Sidebar NEWBIE HINT Keep prickly plants out of your evening garden . Softly lit areas and painful thorns are not a good mix . MASTER 'S TIP Include yellow-foliaged plants such as " Bowles Golden " sedge . They reflect different light intensities than gray foliage and they shine during the day , too . Picture perfect : " Pee Gee " hydrangeas reflect light from both the moon and a scattering of tabletop candles . Author Affiliation Jessica Walliser , of Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania , is the author of Grow Organic and cohost on Saturday afternoons of The Organic Gardeners on Sirius Satellite Radio 's Lime network ( channel 114 ) . <p>                     