@@380798

Ted Kennedy has n't won yet , but he 's closing in . Last week the Massachusetts Senator gained support from Republican fence sitters , steamrollered adversaries and  --  to the surprise of everyone in Washington  --  steered to the Senate floor a bill that would make citizens of millions of illegal immigrants . His last battle to make it law is with hard-line Republicans in the Senate and House of Representatives , and Kennedy , 74 , is focused on gaining the sole ally who can win that fight . " There 's one negotiation left , and only one , " he said , sitting on a windowsill in a back hallway at the base of the Capitol dome . " The President . " <P> With attention on the ruckus within the G.O.P. over immigration , it was easy to lose sight of the Democrat who has emerged as a playmaker on the issue . Kennedy 's Senate rivals acknowledge that he outmaneuvered them . " He had the votes , " concedes John Cornyn of Texas , a key opponent . Realizing the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulling Kennedy aside last week after a meeting on education , the issue that inspired their first collaboration , in 2001 . " He said , ' We want to try and work this out , ' " says Kennedy . <P> Kennedy 's first major success in the Senate was a 1965 immigration bill that replaced country quotas favoring West Europeans with a policy based on family ties and skills . After efforts at reform in 1986 , 1990 and 2001 , Kennedy saw his latest chance when Bush , at the start of his second term , expressed interest in revolutionizing immigration policy . Before the 2004 election , Kennedy and Republican Senator John McCain agreed to combine competing bills , and last May they came to terms that included a path to citizenship for most illegal immigrants . <P> Kennedy spent the next 10 months building support . In the end , two Senators proved crucial : Democrat Dianne Feinstein of California and Republican Sam Brownback of Kansas . Both faced immigrant-hostile constituents but also pressure from the agriculture industry to legalize a huge portion of its workforce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a modified version of the Kennedy-McCain bill , Kennedy 's and Feinstein 's staffs worked out a path to citizenship for illegal agricultural workers , a deal that would pave the way for unlawful immigrants working other jobs . Where Bush will come down is unknown . The President has supported a guest-worker plan but has not fully embraced the idea of making illegal immigrants citizens . " We 're not exactly there together , but we 've spoken about it , " Kennedy says . Will negotiations be made tougher because their last major collaboration  --  No Child Left Behind  --  has proved a major disappointment to Kennedy ? For this bill , Kennedy delivered Democratic votes in exchange for a promise of funding for education that he feels was not delivered . Kennedy aides say history wo n't get in the way of this deal . To defeat House opponents , it 's Bush 's mouth , not his money , that Kennedy needs .                     