@@391908

Churches have always been at the center of American life . Rigid New England pews played host to town meetings before the Revolution and afterward , and today modern megachurches have become virtual towns unto themselves , complete with swimming pools , cafeterias , and counseling centers . The form of a sanctuary has traditionally followed the functional needs of the congregation , a fact that has made America 's 330,000 churches as diverse and evolving as the religions they serve . " Build the building , but know , for God 's sake , what kind of creatures are going to inhabit it , " Pastor Robert Schuller told a symposium of religious architects at Yale University School of Architecture last month . " You are creating a sacred space for believers who have their traditions and their liturgy . " Schuller should know : He preached from the roof of a snack bar at a drive-in movie theater for some six years before building his own megachurch , the Crystal Cathedral , in Garden Grove , Calif . The size and shape of a church reveal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ churches simple , typically basic white with a steeple and a pitched roof to keep off the snow . The church itself was also a reflection of the early settlers ' faith and lifestyle  --  pious , thrifty , and averse to comforts ( like pew cushions ) that would ill suit " sinners in the hands of an angry God . " That simple design has become one of the most enduring representations of houses of worship . Loosening up . By the mid-19th century , however , evangelical Protestants had abandoned the Puritans ' bleak outlook on life . They put cushions on their pews , carpets on the floors , and stadium seating in their sanctuaries . They drew large crowds in the style of tent revivals and built churches to look and feel more like theaters . The arrangement meant the parishioners often looked down on the minister , a remarkable shift from the implicit power structure of the more traditional congregations . These new congregations also designed buildings and stages to feature musical performances that were central to their lively services . At the same time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , building kitchens to help host them . Cooking facilities were considered irreverent and thus " very controversial at the time , " says Jeanne Kilde , author of the book When Church Became Theatre . But by the turn of the century , in a precursor of what was to come , some churches even featured bowling alleys . By the early 1900s , as evangelicals embraced modernity , Roman Catholic and Episcopal parishes were building more traditional churches . In the increasingly affluent suburbs , they were often heavy stone structures reflecting their European predecessors . Art was central , as were the sculptures adorning the walls . These buildings were n't designed for musical acts , although pipe organs became popular . And stained glass filtered the sunlight . Eventually , the suburbs would also give birth to a uniquely American conception : the megachurch . Pastor Bill Hybels first held nondenominational services in an old movie theater outside Chicago serving fewer than 150 parishioners . In 1981 , after an intense marketing effort , he oversaw construction of one of the nation 's first megachurches , Willow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Churches like Willow Creek are not only a departure in an architectural sense ; they have radically changed the nature of worship . Rather than insulating worshipers from their daily lives by offering a place for solemn reflection , megachurches face those lives head-on , with lights , TV screens , and auditorium seating . De-emphasizing traditional doctrine , they aim to make worship more engaging and entertaining . " They are designed like shopping malls  --  immediately welcoming , " says Michael Crosbie , the editor of Faith and Form , a religious architecture magazine . And like a shopping mall , they can accommodate a day 's worth of activity . The original megachurch , though , is the Catholic cathedral , and in recent years it has experienced a renaissance of its own . There are more than 190 cathedrals in the United States , and more have been built in the past decade  --  three  --  than in the past 30 years . Each of these new structures takes a different approach , reflecting the decision of the Second Vatican Council in the mid-1960s to liberalize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then , Catholic churches have varied greatly in design , from churches in the round to new floor plans with hemispheric layouts . Before construction on the new Catholic cathedral in Houston , architect Kurt Hull spent hours with engineers and diocesan leaders , who called for an Italian Renaissance design . " They are traditional , and their focus is definitely all about the spoken word  --  it 's not about entertainment , " says Hull . " There was no thought of musical performances or JumboTrons . " Indeed , the building , to be dedicated in April , has walls more than a foot thick to mute outside noises and accentuate the interior acoustics . A second new cathedral , Our Lady of the Angels , completed in 2002 in Los Angeles , takes a decidedly modern approach to the Catholic worship space . Built to replace the St. Vibiana Cathedral , damaged in an earthquake , the new cathedral , designed by Spanish architect Jos Rafael Moneo , eschews right angles and resembles a structure by Frank Gehry or Frank Lloyd Wright . While European cathedrals were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a freeway . Worshipers enter on the side of the building through massive cast-bronze doors , rather than through the center of the front . Likewise , Oakland 's Cathedral of Christ the Light , slated for completion next year , has an almond-shaped floor plan , along with futuristic wall panels of aluminum and laminated glass . Urban sanctuaries . Before the 1950s , the public 's conception of a sacred space was far more unified than it is today , when the presence of the divine can be found not just in a cathedral but in a storefront in Harlem . Storefronts have been a staple of black and Hispanic ministries , which have seized on abandoned urban commercial space to provide local residents with a place to pray and share music and meals . They are sacred spaces found , rather than sacred spaces constructed to a purpose . And they are a uniquely American invention . The Puritans surely would have cringed at these storefronts , just as they would have been scandalized by the bust of Darth Vader that adorns a tower of the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designs is a renewed interest in the architecture of religious spaces , and an increase in professionals who specialize in creating them . In the coming years , some architects predict that multidenominational churches  --  churches within churches  --  will come into vogue . Already , booming congregations around Detroit have been forced to share church space ; a Korean Presbyterian and a First United Methodist church have done so near Chicago ; and the Vietnamese Crossover Baptist Mission and the North Dallas Baptist Church have held simultaneous services in different rooms of the same church . Still other architects see a return to sanctuaries inside the home . The Emerging Church movement , for example , harks back to the roots of the Christian faith with prayer meetings that focus on just a dozen or so worshipers . " The Shakers worshiped from inside the home , as did early Christians , " says Crosbie . With some parishioners overwhelmed by the impersonal nature of large churches , he says , new structures might just return to the simplicity of the past . Illustration Picture omitted : The Cathedral of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ INF PHOTO Illustration Picture omitted : Our Lady of the Angels in Los Angeles has few right angles . - ROBERT LANDAU  --  CORBIS Illustration Picture omitted : A church in Windham , Vt. , reflects its era 's simple values . - BOB KRIST  --  CORBIS Illustration Picture omitted : Hard pews at Trinity Church , built in 1803 in Cornish , N.H. - LEE SNIDER  --  PHOTO IMAGES/CORBIS Illustration Picture omitted : A storefront church in New York that once housed a drug den . - ANGEL FRANCO  --  THE NEW YORK TIMES/REDUX Illustration Picture omitted : The lobby of the Southern Christian Church in Louisville , Ky. - ROB CARR  --  THE NEW YORK TIMES/REDUX <p>                     