@@388759

Headnote The existence of dark matter is confirmed-again. // Dark matter is every where . According to current theory , it permeates our solar neighborhood , surrounds our Milky Way , and envelops every other substantial collection of matter in the universe . It 's so dilute that astronomers ca n't even detect its presence in our solar system , yet on scales ot millions ot light-years. it 's the dominant source ot gravity in the cosmos . What 's more , it 's not made up ot the same stuff we 're made of-electrons , neutrons , and protons . And , true to its name , it 's dark : Not only does it give off no visible light , but it 's also dark across the entire electromagnetic spectrum . No gamma rays , no X-rays , no waves ot ultraviolet , infrared , microwave , or radio frequency issue forth from dark matter anywhere . So what is dark matter ? Astrophysicists still do n't know , but its existence has been tested again and again in the past few decades , and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet despite all the tests and confirmations , plenty of people remain skeptical . Could another explanation be consistent with the observations ? The question , ot course , is specific to astrophysics , but that khnl of question would be familiar to investigators in virtually any scientific discipline . Whenever an accepted scientific theory ca n't explain a set of observations , scientists have three options : discard the theory and propose a new one ; expand the theory to account tor the anomalous data ; or propose an alternate explanation for the observations that shows how the theory remains sound . That , by the way , raises a fundamental difference between science and nonscience : no scientific knowledge is so sacred that it ca n't be tested , challenged , and ultimately superseded . Here 's another fundamental difference between science and nonscience . No matter which of the three options they choose , scientists must push the new or revised ideas to their logical conclusions . deriving new predictions from them and testing the predictions repeatedly with new experiments and observations . A proposed but untested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remains hypothetical-maybe an educated guess , possibly even a correct guess , but a guess nonetheless . So it is with the theory of dark matter . A few scientists have supported an alternate explanation for the observations that dark matter is supposed to explain . Their idea is that Newton 's second law of motion needs to be subtly modified , ! fits correctness could be confirmed , many observations that seem to point to dark matter could be explained in terms of ordinary matter alone . Mind you , these " modihed force " guys are part of only a small dissenting minority on the dark-matter issue . Yet dismissing their ideas would hardly be scientific , either . The scientifically right thing to do is to conduct experiments or make observations that clearly distinguish between a modified-force law and a preponderance of dark matter . Recently , a team at the University ot Arizona led by Douglas Clowe , now of Ohio University in Athens , made just such an observation . How much testing must be done before a hypothesis becomes established scientific knowledge , or else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolutionary , it must be confirmed often and in many independent ways before it is accepted.A classic example is the history of the theory of gravity . In the seventeenth century , Newton 's theory explained the orbits of the planets around the Sun . The theory was revolutionary , but it was repeatedly confirmed . But Newtons theory of gravity was eventually supplanted by an upgrade . as it were . Einstein 's theory or gravitv-general relativity-added the critical idea that space-time curves . Cieneral relativity , however , was nothing mure than an elegant hypothesis until 1919 , when observations or the apparent positions of stars during a solar eclipse confirmed one or its major predictions-that matter can bend space-time . Less than two decades later , gener.il relativity appeared subject to its own apparent anomalies . In the 1930s the American astronomer Fritz Zwicky measured the speeds of galaxies in a cluster in the direction of the constellation Coma Berenices as they orbited their common center of gravity . To his great surprise , he found that the typical speed or the orbiting galaxies was about 2 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ galaxies would have escaped the cluster 's collective gravitational pull so quickly that the cluster could never have formed in the first place . And yet , there it was , hale and hearty-in direct observational contradiction to Einstein 's established theory of gravity . Like all good scientists , Zwicky had to choose : new theory , revised theory , or same theory with alternate explanation ? Zwicky chose door number three-and came to an astounding conclusion : a vast amount or invisible , or " dark , matter must be lurking in the Coma cluster , far outweighing the combined mass of the galaxies in the cluster . Only such dark matter could provide the gravitational " glue " necessary to hold the cluster together . The recent work of Clowe and his collaborators centers on an object far more distant and complex than the target of Zwicky 's studies . Designated 1E 0657-56 , the object , about 3 billion light-years from Earth , is actually a merger of two galaxy clusters that looks like a gargantuan , asymmetric dumbbell see image on opposite page . Each cluster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually made up of hundreds of galaxies , and the two clusters are more than 2 million light-years apart . ( By comparison , our entire solar system , out to the orbit of Pluto , is about 0.001 light-year across . ) The clusters appear to have passed through each other after a head-on collision that began some 100 million years ago . Traveling like two schools of cosmic fish , the galaxies in the clusters flew right by one another at millions of miles an hour . But the diffuse , ionized gas that permeated the space between the galaxies did n't pass through quite as cleanly . Instead , the gas clouds dragged behind , billowing like two giant jellyfish in the space between the clusters . All that gas is more than twice as massive as the star-laden galaxies , based on estimates of its density and its volume from X-ray images . The result is that even though the galaxies are concentrated in rhe clusters at either end , the ordinary matter is concentrated near the center of the dumbbell , in the form of lingering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the dumbbell , its gravity should be strongest m its central region and weaker at each end . Clowe and his colleagues were able to measure how gravity varies across the entire dumbbell by charting how it acts as a gravitational lens : how the images of distant galaxies behind 1E 0657-56 are bent or distorted because of the space-time curvature in its vicinity-as the light passes through its various parts . The resulting gravitational-lensmg map showed clearly that most of the mass of IE 0657-56 is concentrated around the galaxy clusters-not in the center , where the gas remains , even though the hot gas far outweighs the combined stellar mass of the two clusters . A modiflcd-fbrce law simply ca n't explain that observation . Something around and within the two clusters of galaxies , other than ordinary matter , is generating most of the gravitational pull in the system . What could this something be ? Lots and lots of dark matter remains the best answer . So once again , and in a new and unambiguous way , the reality of dark matter has been continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Can we astronomers at last take its existence as truth ? Um , no and yes . No , because both as a scientific community and as individual scientists , we should never reject the possibility-however remote-that we are wrong . Yes , because with so many lines of overwhelming evidence in its favor , it would be silly to pretend otherwise . Yet we 'll also keep on testing our theories of dark matter at our laboratories and observatories . That 's a good thing ; it 's precisely the kind of skepticism that elevates real scientific theory above the realm of mere hypothesis . And it 's also the only way , after all . that we 're ever going to get to the bottom of the great mystery of what dark matter really is . Sidebar Aftermath of the collision of two galaxy clusters is shown in this composite of X-ray , optical , and gravitational-tensing images of the object 1E 0657-56 . The two colliding galaxy clusters ( each white or orange speck in the two purple patches is a galaxy ) have passed through each other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of each duster was slowed by the collision and now lags behind its former cluster . The purple overlay indicates higher distortion by gravitational lensing , hence greater mass . It shows that mass is concentrated in the two galaxy clusters , even though the hot gas far outweighs the galaxies ' combined luminous mass , confirming that each cluster is permeated and surrounded by a huge amount of unseen , cosmological dark matter . Author Affiliation CHARLES LIU is a professor of astrophysics at the City University of New York and an associate with the American Museum of Natural History . // <p>                     