@@380357

Even by the standards of al-Qaeda in Iraq , the suicide bombing in Ramadi on Jan. 5 was stunning for its audacity . The bomber had blended into the ranks of Iraqi police recruits outside the Ramadi Glass and Ceramics Works before blowing up his explosive vest , loaded with ball bearings for maximum devastation . The blast killed two U.S. service members and more than 70 Iraqi police recruits  --  but it also turned out to be a deadly miscalculation by the jihadis and their leader , Abu Mousab al-Zarqawi . Most of the victims were local Sunnis , and they were joining the police force under the protection of tribal chieftains who , with the U.S. military 's approval , are trying to impose order over their violent swath of Iraq . After the Jan. 5 blast , according to insurgents , tribal chiefs in Ramadi notified al-Qaeda that they were withdrawing protection in the city for the group 's fighters . The jihadis responded by gunning down several prominent Sunni clerics and tribal leaders . Now al-Qaeda fighters who once swaggered through Ramadi are marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iraqi intelligence officer with contacts among the insurgents . <P> For months , U.S. officials in Iraq have tried to exploit growing differences over tactics and aims among factions of the insurgency , a push first detailed by TIME in December . Although reports of clashes between Iraqi nationalist groups and religious extremists linked to al-Qaeda remain difficult to quantify , there are signs that at least in some parts of Iraq , the tension is boiling over . Iraqi security sources with contacts in the insurgency told TIME that fighting has erupted in several cities that have long been bastions of the resistance , including Fallujah , Samarra , Latifiya and Mahmoudiya . In one recent incident , according to an Iraqi security source , insurgents wounded a Palestinian member of al-Qaeda , tracked him to a Baghdad hospital and then kidnapped him from his bed and handed him over to U.S. forces . Some Pentagon decision makers believe that the feuding within the insurgency may help U.S. and Iraqi troops quell the terrorist attacks that have made parts of the country ungovernable . " We 're starting to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lieut . General Ray Odierno , assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . In places like Ramadi and Fallujah , Odierno says , " we 've had some Iraqi insurgents ' groups actually put up defenses to protect their people against al-Qaeda forces . "                     