@@399763

The driving force in education in the next 25 years will be choice , fueled by changing roles for teachers , administrators , students , and entire communities . Photograph // Many people in the United States are unhappy with public education . Teachers complain about being battered and intimidated , educational administrators find themselves and their contributions unappreciated , school boards are increasingly criticized for micromanaging , parents are beset by a whole new set of alternative schooling choices , and students are being tested to death . In spite of stresses and strains on the educational system , there is more to celebrate than to lament , especially over the long term . In short , education has a future-indeed , a significant and interesting one . If we could leap ahead 25 years to view the current educational scene , we would see four factors driving educational change : decentralization and educational options ; performance evaluation and success measurement ; changes in leadership and leadership roles ; and reconfigurations in learning spaces , places , and times . School Choices Although competition arrived late in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By offering a wide range of possibilities rather than a single focus , competition has given education a new lease on life . Traditionally , education offered three choices : public , private , and parochial schooling . Public education dominated , and for good reason : It educated the poor and middle classes , prepared them for work or college , acculturated wave after wave of new immigrants , and provided significant employment for many professionals . Private and parochial schools continue to appeal to middle- and uppermiddle-class families disenchanted with public education ; homogeneous and traditional , their future is rooted in the attitudes of the past . The variety of educational choices has dramatically increased . Home schools , for instance , enrolled an estimated 850,000 students in the United States in 1999 , according to the National Center for Education Statistics , and support for this method of instruction continues to increase . Charter schools enrolled nearly 580,000 students , according to Center for Education Reform 2001 statistics . Run by different private groups in a variety of ways , charter schools receive public financial support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers of students can be unmanageable , school district administrators have restructured many into a series of schools within a school , each with a core of teachers serving between 100 and 150 students . Students and teachers in each smaller school know and relate to each other . Although restructuring does not alter class size , it reduces studentteacher ratio . Private educational management companies have intensified the competitive environment of education . Often invited to take over failing schools , many of these companies are publicly owned , have stockholders , and are committed to making a profit . Although evidence for their success is mixed , they are a permanent fixture on the educational scene and add significantly to the range of available choices . Private companies such as William Bennett 's " K12 " education program offer online curricula through electronic schools , so students can complete and graduate from a basic high-school program online . Electronic offerings also provide advanced placement , language , and special studies courses that normally attract few students . They are a boon to small rural districts and serve as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 2025 will be totally decentralized , offering parents , students , adult learners , and citizens in general a dazzling menu of choices . Many people will opt for an amalgam of different educational sources that may be altered as desired . Whatever the selection , students and their parents-not schools-will drive educational choice . Measuring Success Major shifts will occur in the ways educational success is measured ; some of these shifts are discernible now . Teachers were once evaluated on how they organized lesson plans , gained student interest , and involved the entire class in discussion . Now the focus is student achievement , usually measured by class performance on high-stakes mandated tests . Data now dominates the current educational scene , and its importance will intensify in the future . Photograph High school students walk to class . In 2025 , author Irving Buchen predicts , schools and their facilities will serve entire communities and not simply the student population . Everyone will have access to libraries and computers as well as gymnasiums and auditoriums. // Because allocating funds is increasingly tied to student performance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administering , and evaluating tests , compromising instruction as a result . Many teachers , therefore , are " teaching to the test " - which would not be bad if , as one superintendent wryly observed , there was a really good test to teach to . School officials assign teams of extra teachers , tutors , and specialists to schools with low scores or failing grades , sometimes stripping the curriculum down to only tested subjects . Some schools in competitive environments advertise their test scores to attract students , further accelerating the process of constant testing . Parents have been known to request test scores of schools within a district to decide where they should send their kids . In Florida and other states , students in schools that fail basic skills tests twice consecutively are offered financial vouchers to use in whatever school they wish . Preliminary research shows that voucher programs help drive improved student performance . Vouchers also drive choice and decentralization and significantly drain enrollment from " mainstream " schools . A number of state governments have taken over failing schools , placing them under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philadelphia 's school district was turned over to a private management company , Edison Schools Inc. , because of poor student performance . In New York City , private management companies operate some 30 schools . Perhaps the most embarrassing consequence of this is a cynical reversal of graduation requirements in many states and schools that tie graduation to test scores . Many schools have postponed implementing requirements , lowered minimum scores , or revised graduation tests for students failing to achieve minimum scores but who were already scheduled to graduate , accepted to college , or had jobs . The Principal 's Changing Role According to the U.S. Department of Labor , the school administration profession faces a shortage of 40,000 principals by 2005 . That has been intensified by the reduction of school superintendents ' terms of office to an all-time low of two to three years . Part of the difficulty of attracting administrators is that a principal 's salary is not much higher than the highest paid teachers in a district ; and when longer hours and more days of work are taken into account , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasingly becoming subject to business market forces , there is the trend toward hiring MBAs rather than education MAs , and even changing the title of superintendent to CEO . In fact , New York City split the top job into academic and business components . Los Angeles followed suit with an additional twist : Signaling the extent to which superintendency is increasingly political , the head of the Los Angeles school district hired a former governor of Colorado ( Roy Romer ) as school superintendent . But like the decentralization of schools , leadership is no longer solely of one type . The variety of leaders mirrors school choice . Photograph A ninth-grade class In an intensive reading program in Parkland , Florida , works on a writing assignment . Breaking assignments down into their component parts and grading each step will be one way of evaluating student success in the near future , says author Buchen. // Recently , the National Association of Elementary School Principals ( NAESP ) published a 96-page document calling for principals to be instructional leaders and to lead the charge on behalf of student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem an odd request . Have n't principals always done that ? Actually , they seldom did because of bureaucratic , financial , and security tasks heaped on their plates . NAESP called for appointing assistant principals to provide relief and free principals to become instructional leaders . Whether school boards with tight or reduced budgets are willing or able to increase administrative staff at a time when teaching staff is stretched has yet to be determined . But if they do , a whole new corps of principals will emerge who are far more visionary , aggressive , and knowledgeable about school reform and improvement . They will resemble their business counterparts more than principals of the past do . Do We Really Need Principals ? Although clearly there are principals who are effective leaders no matter how burdened they are , a significant new form of management is appearing . At Chicago 's McCosh School , for example , the principal and her team of teacher-managers run the school . The principal still reports to the superintendent and the board , but once she has her marching orders and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . How effective has that arrangement been ? McCosh has the best test scores in the district , and the morale of teachers , students , and parents is high . This arrangement has an advantage over even the most exemplary performance of a number of assertive principals : There are no subject matter or competency gaps between administration and instruction . The typical principal struggles with the handicap of being outside the classroom , perhaps for many years , and leading teachers in all subjects without possessing the credibility of pedagogical competence . But a management team of certified teachers already possesses subject matter competence . Harvard University education professor Richard Elmore calls this distributed leadership and sees it as the future of site-based management . It creates a democratized structure in which the traditional vertical management structure has been leveled to horizontal collective action . Perhaps the most dramatic and radical version of distributed leadership is where the responsibility for running the school is in the hands of teacher-leaders and learning teams consisting of teachers , tutors , technical advisers , counselors , parents , and students . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ team following the principle of author Robert K. Greenleaf : primus inter pares-first among equals . Being first is not fixed but rotates based on situation needs . But perhaps the most futuristic aspect of this new development , setting it apart from other developments and standing perhaps the best chance of becoming a significant part of education in 2025 , is its attention to both external and internal integration . Externally , distributed leadership unites school , parents , students , and the community . Internally , through its basic collaborative governance structure , distributed leadership aligns and combines administration , instruction , and evaluation . Parents ' New Roles Parents are taking on more assertive roles , moving well beyond the stereotype of running bake sales . For example , parents in South Pasadena , California , serve as teacher aides and tutors . Their major task , however , is to raise substantial amounts of money annually to supplement the budget . They have successfully built and stocked a computer lab , turned the library into a state-of-the-art electronic information and resource center , and created an extensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways , parents have become leaders involved in significant and often unique school reform . One of the most promising examples is a proposal by the Parents Center for Education Reform for students to lead teacher and parent conferences . Under this arrangement , students would set the agenda and facilitate discussion about their own performance . The fact that this initiative arose from a parents ' group rather than from the public education mainstream dramatizes the extent to which parents have assumed a greater leadership role . The U.S. Department of Education officially recognizes and facilitates parental leadership through its Partnership for Family Involvement in Education . The National Network of Partnership Schools based at Johns Hopkins University focuses on a comprehensive and aggressive plan of parentteacher-student involvement and interaction . It features a program for teachers to generate homework assignments that require family participation . Teachers and parents use holidays and summer vacations to develop skills , anticipate academic problems , and develop solutions . All these and other efforts improve communication not only between schools and families , but also within families . Linking Business To Education Driven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as a sense of social responsibility , many CEOs have forged partnerships with schools . For example , Florida-based Paradigm Learning , which develops corporate board games , developed a high-school game called " Strive to Drive . " The game takes students through all the steps of choosing , buying , financing , maintaining , and paying for a car ; the game significantly and rapidly improved reading , math , and planning skills in the process . Tutor Inc. , an online tutoring service , developed a partnership with the Boys Choir of Harlem , buying laptop computers for choir members to stay on top of assignments while traveling and providing access to the company 's computer tutors to keep them current and on target . The most important leadership contribution of business executives is that they are forming direct relationships with educational administrators , including sharing and exchanging different ways of effective management . Thus , the Public Education and Business Coalition received a grant to train some 100 principals in the Denver area . What business leaders discovered is that educators read and hearken only to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the business world , the effect of increasing competition , the difficulty of balancing quality control with productivity-in short , precisely what education is newly encountering . The Pearl River School in Rockland , New York , uses a continuous improvement business model to set incremental goals for students , raising achievement every year since 1989 . The number of students graduating from Pearl River with the academically rigorous state regents ' diploma has jumped from 32% to 86% . A few business CEOs are sharing libraries , research resources , and attendance at executive conferences with education CEOs . There is a strong likelihood that such business CEOs may become school superintendents in the future . If so , then education may increasingly be defined or perceived as a business . Photograph Education benefits from partnership with business . Ken Cameron , General Motors program executive and former astronaut , demonstrates how a fuel cell works to students at Jackie Robinson Junior High in Manhattan . This successful partnership between business and education is expected to reach nearly 3.5 million students . // Business leaders have created a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coalition for Educational Reform , the National Association for Partners in Education , the National Employer Leadership Council , and the Schoolto-Work Learning Center . Looking only to education for education leadership impoverishes the resources and sources of change . New Learning Spaces Seldom , if ever , do parents or citizens who already have raised and schooled their kids revisit schools . If they did , they would find many things have remained the same but some things have changed dramatically . Technological changes would top the list , but these are perhaps predictable compared with the reconfiguration of learning places , spaces , and times . The size , holdings , and sheer physical variety of a fairly new high school are overwhelming . Built to accommodate a small town of thousands of students , a new school is surrounded by many practice and playing fields-perhaps even a football stadium-as well as extensive parking spaces for daily student use as well as for athletic events . Inside is a modern gymnasium equipped with seats for 2,000 students and a huge auditorium with seats for 3,000 and state-of-the-art theater equipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is completely computerized with relatively few real books in sight . When demographics ( especially in the suburbs ) indicate a significant increase in the school-age population , municipal planners quickly draw up plans to build new school-cities . Of course , expenses for building a new school are higher than they were for building the last school , not only because of increased costs of construction and materials , but also because some communities try to outdo others by constructing bigger and more splendid high schools . Yet research studies suggest that schools can be too big and impersonal . Extending the School Day Once again , economics rears its ugly head when discussion of extending the school day , lengthening the school year , or reducing class size begins . In the face of severe budget cuts , many communities are naturally unwilling to extend the school calendar or reduce class size . The obvious solution is technology . Technology can reduce class size to one student . School days can be extended easily and laptop computers mean education can continue during vacations and trips . A total tested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high schools that do not have enough students to take certain advanced or specialized courses , foreign languages , or advanced placement courses . Electronic instruction has bailed out many rural schools with too few students to permit face-to  --  face teaching at acceptable costs . Electronics already has helped many high schools reconfigure themselves into smaller schools-within schools - by providing them with their own electronic curriculum , including specialization in arts , sciences , business , and communications . Moreover , the availability of such electronic courses has spread as a number of states bind together in electronic consortia , making their curricula available virtually without cost . Accepting technology as a legitimate and equal teaching partner will make this happen . Student-Led Learning And Schools Every school district placing an ad for administrators or teachers claims to have student-centered schools . Usually that means allowing students to express their views at great length , but ultimately ignoring them . Student-led schools are something else . Allowing students to conduct teacher-parent conferences is an example of a genuine learning and mastering experience for all involved , especially for the student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Photograph A private school girl wends her way to class . Private schools appeal to middle and upper middle classes disenchanted with public education , according to author Buchen . Photograph Irving H. Buchen // In large part , what drives student learning is just that-student learning . The learning focus is not on different subjects but on comprehensive projects , including community  --  based ones . Because that requires knowledge of many subjects , an academic progression develops not unlike the system of apprenticeship . Using dialogue , mentors steer students to an initial plan to test the project . The process is subject to an incredible number of revisions . Gradually , the dominant mentor moves to the periphery as the student moves toward the center . The gradual exchange of positions signals the beginning of mastery . Only then does student leadership appear , earned through sweat equity and the accumulation of a knowledge and research base . Initially , the mentor talks and the student listens ; eventually , the student talks and the mentor listens . Such arrangements do not occur only at the high-school level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Tempe , Arizona , former principal Sandra McClelland explored the future of education with various organizational theorists , not just by reading materials about education . The result is not just a student-centered but a student-driven school . Student leadership teams have replaced the student council to make basic structural and political decisions . A collaborative group of teachers , students , and administrators implements the school 's vision and goals . Team learning is the dominant mode ; older students mentor younger ones . There is a concerted search for financial supplements and greater independence from state funds ; toward that end , teachers are given , are in control of , and are accountable for their classroom budget . Finally , a formal pedagogical partnership has been formed with Southwest Airlines : The school shares its effective and collaborative teaching strategies , Southwest its team management training . Clearly , Rover is a futures lab . What to Expect from Education in 2025 Here are some of the most likely essential features of education by 2025. * Education will be intensely decentralized , offering a significant number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Increasingly , school and learning will be related to time rather than to place , available everywhere that there is connectivity 24 hours a day all year . * Space and place for learning will exist for the community and no longer be reserved for the young . * Increasingly , learners will become autonomous , almost totally free agents ; nevertheless , they must earn their independence through mastery of prescribed knowledge bases . * Cost controls and supplemental financing will steadily take hold as municipalities divert federal , state , and local funds away from education to other social crises such as health care and the aged . Education has at most only another 10 or 15 years as the favored focus of funding and attention . * Increasingly , teachers will be at the center of administration , instruction , and evaluation ; in some programs , they may replace principals . * Horizontal collaboration among teachers , students , and parents  --  rather than vertical hierarchies-will characterize school governance . A commonality of vision and purpose will be arrived at and implemented collectively . * Parents will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hire parent surrogates as substitutes . * Initially , business practices will only benefit education ; eventually , educational innovations will provide models for business . * Increasingly , minorities will take over educating minorities , mostly through charter schools . They will accomplish more through chosen rather than de facto segregation , and , in the process , save a whole generation of urban kids . Sidebar MACHINE TEACHERS Sidebar Machines-computers and/or other technology  --  can and probably Sidebar will replace teachers in the future because they can provide solid and competent instruction . However , three major obstacles continue to keep technology out of the classroom for the immediate future : * Economics : Sidebar Education 's insulation from economic and market forces has done it an enormous disservice . Economic incentives have yielded powerful , sophisticated , and flexible teaching and learning technologies , changing how we learn and acquire knowledge . Education should be at the center of these innovations , but its isolation has kept it from benefit Sidebar ing from technology to the fullest possible extent . Teacher fears : Sidebar Technology is ubiquitous , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So they ignore technology . Nothing matches the variety and subtlety of human activity , they say ; no one enlivens and inspires students better than a teacher . Teachers ' objections and fears of technology are profound , the number of converts few , and the prospects for new perspectives dim . * Critiquing technophiles : Sidebar Education can not reaffirm its traditional position or stake its future role without asking substantive questions ( What problem does this Sidebar technology solve ? What new problems does it create ? ) that challenge the technology community and incorporating these questions into teaching . Challenging and critiquing technophiles will result in the best of both worlds , where education asks the questions and technology performs the tasks . If this partnership falters or fails , there is little doubt that technology will fill the vacuum and appear as both educator and performer . Creating technologically savvy teachers as well as machines to serve as teachers depends on examining these obstacles . Whether the change will be gradual , accelerated , or radical depends on how fast we overcome them . - Irving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Web sites offer information on distance-learning opportunities for students : Sidebar Distance Learning Exchange ( www.dle.state.pa.us ) is a free Web-based clearinghouse of distance learning and Internet project opportunities . It includes a directory listing individuals or groups who provide distance  --  learning activities . Sidebar Jefferson County , Colorado , Public School District ( **26;2291;TOOLONG ) offers online courses nationwide , Students participate in numerous group interactions in real time with other students , teachers , and mentors . Sidebar Laurel Springs School ( www. laurelsprings.com ) integrates home schooling , independent study , distance learning , and virtual schooling into a personalized educational experience . Sidebar The Internet Academy ( www. iacademy.org ) provides learning opportunities meeting state standards for students anywhere . Sidebar The Babbage Net School ( www.babbagenetschool.com ) is a virtual high school offering courses taught in a highly interactive classroom by certified teachers . Sidebar Issues to consider when selecting an online program include the parent organization 's credentials , qualifications of the teaching staff , assignment and assessment of student work , course structure and administration , and whether the college of your choice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association , 8 Winter Street , Suite 508 , Boston , Massachusetts 02108 . Web site www.usdla.org . Distance Learning Resource Network , 2020 North Central Avenue , Suite 660 , Phoenix , Arizona 85004 . Web site www.dlrn.org . Sidebar FEEDBACK : Send your comments about this article to letters@wfs.org . Author Affiliation About the Author Irving H. Buchen is a business and education consultant . He serves on the doctoral faculty of the online Capella University and as senior research associate for EdVisions Cooperative Author Affiliation and the Center for School Renewal in Minnesota . His address is 8650 Kilkenny Court , Fort Myers , Florida 33912 . E-mail ibuchen@ msn.com. // <p>                     