@@415417

Retro Booster Adventure ! Romance ! Giant robots ! Sky Captain takesoff by going back to the future , by Lisa Schwarzbaum Do n't worry , our hair will save us ! Jude Law , Gwyneth Paltrow PG , 107mins . ( Paramount ) A shimmering zeppelin named the Hindenburg HI docks at the tip of the Empire State Building in the ravishing opening moments of Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow . Passengers disembark ; the men , in their fedoras , look particularly elegant and faintly disreputable , the way only men in fedoras can to moviegoers for whom Raiders of the Lost Ark is old hat . The entire city looks as if it were designed by Norman Bel Geddes for the 1939 world 's fair-streamlined , sophisticated , and besotted with the power and promise of modern machines . The giant , glamorous metropolis is sepia-toned , shrouded in shadow and fog . The time is a futuristic past located somewhere in the zone of Buck Rogers , early DC Comics action heroes , and Fritz Lang-a time when monstrous robots stomp the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is n't just those robots ( iron-giant terrorists as massive as the New York buildings so recently leveled by real-life destroyers ) but the hidden Oz-like power who has programmed all those lethal automatons , as well as other incoming winged and streaking weapons of mass destruction . And the fate of the citizenry rests on the derring-do of one reedy girl reporter , and the dashing flying ace who 's also her old flame . Can they stop a nefarious doomsday plan from wiping out civilization ? And can they stop bickering and just , you know , kiss already ? If we think we 've seen something like this before in a melodramatic , sci-fi-saturated ripping yarn , well , we haven't-not exactly . Which is what writer-director Kerry Conran has in mind . His shimmering zeppelin of an entertainment , born of his own cinematic and technological obsessions , is , as they say in crossword puzzles , a oner-as singular in its vision and wit as Wallace &; Gromit or The Road Warrior is . Sky Captain is the very opposite of a committee-made Hollywood production . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first feature film who has been given once-in-a-lifetime , big-budget backing and cartoonishly famous movie stars to make his dream come true . The investment is optimistic and wise ; Sky Captain is a gorgeous , funny , and welcome novelty . Which is not to say that the raffish , mercenary hero of the title ( who goes by the off-duty name of Joe Sullivan ) , played with charming , silk-scarf nonchalance by Jude Law , is likely to linger in the memory with any of the staying power of Indiana Jones . Or that Gwyneth Paltrow 's Polly Perkins , the spunky , camera-toting newshound with a cascadingVeronica Lake of blond hair and a rakish chapeau of her own , has any of Lois Lane 's enduring appeal . In their own ways , the characters are interchangeable with the appliances they battle , each a collection of attitudes and foibles . ( Joe cricks his neck manfully before engaging in combat ; Polly is prone to pouting as an expression of sexual tension . ) But while they 're busy saving the world-an assignment that takes them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Law fit snugly and happily in front of the bluescreen on which Conran and his production designer ( and brother ) , Kevin Conran , have built their entirely CG dream universe , in which actual sets are obsolete . They 're disposable action figures but collectible ones . And when they 're joined by Angelina Jolie , sporting a kinky black eye patch and a fetishcompatible tight uniform as a kick-butt naval captain ambiguously named Franky Cook , the confection is irresistible : three of Hollywood 's most polished stars , assuming the contours of 2-D characters without irony or condescension . And they never forget their silver-screen roots . " Fm late for a movie , " Polly tells her editor ( Michael Gambon , in a sly tip of the felt brim to his noir masterpiece The Singing Detective ) as she hurries off to interview a source at Radio City Music Hall . On the Music Hall screen , Dorothy is just realizing that she 's not in Kansas anymore . This could n't have happened ; The Wizard of Oz never played in Radio City , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the late Laurence Olivier " play " the evil wizard Dr. Totenkopf through the magic of pixels . Indeed , for all the grandeur of Sky Captain visible on screen , hidden in behind-the-scenes technical specs , and audible in the stirring , enveloping score of Edward Shearmur , it 's the little , low-tech grace notes that stand out . I love that Dex ( Giovanni Ribisi ) , Sky Captain 's trusty , tinkering sidekick , chews gum like an ail-American boy . That Polly 's charm bracelet becomes a liability . And that Franky. barks " Alert the Amphibious Squad ! " Ooh , yes , please do ! we reply , bouncing with happiness . A- <p>                     