@@413973

See also additional image in Table of Contents of same issue Special agent Chris Trojan pulls into the parking lot of a convenience store in Ozone Park , Queens , and spots a half dozen colleagues lingering out front , exchanging morning banter and finishing second cups and cigarettes . The previous afternoon , at the Drug Enforcement Administration 's New York offices in Manhattan , Trojan 's unit had looked at the week 's open schedule and decided to start this day trolling the neighborhoods around John F. Kennedy International Airport for a particular class of arriving travelers . Trojan  --  his short hair wet and spiky , his ruddy face freshly shaved  --  falls in with the crowd long enough to trade the expected verbal abuse and extract his partner for the day . In such a cluster , the officers ' street clothes present a rather homogeneous look of faded blue jeans topped by dark Windbreakers or leather jackets . When they have dispersed across the local neighborhoods , these undercover uniforms will blend in with the sidewalk traffic to all but the keenest drug @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is looking for less experienced quarry . They are hunting for " swallowers , " drug couriers who rent out their bodies as cargo containers , each carrying upwards of a kilo , or 2.2 pounds , of packaged narcotics . It 's an old trick , body packing , but on the rise , and getting more sophisticated . Increased airport security has caused some drug cartels to shift a majority of their small shipments out of carry-on baggage and into the less easily searched internal compartments of the " mule . " Trojan and his partner walk toward Rockaway Boulevard , where they begin conducting the kind of ad hoc street interviews  --  " Excuse me , sir , may we talk with you for a minute ? "  --  that occasionally lead to the arrest of heroin smugglers arriving from Central or South America , on their way to make connections in the neighborhoods that surround the airport . Search and seizure laws say that suspects do n't have to let agents look in their bags . " But , " says Trojan , " believe it or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afraid they 'll look guilty if they do n't . " In the drug-refining centers of Central and South America , the cartels target the nondescript  --  middle-class workers , women , even children  --  and groom them for the task of swallowing as many as 100 packages the thickness and shape of fat breakfast sausages . Some swallowers are naturals , while others build up to the task with a succession of gradually larger objects such as grapes and baby carrots . " It has more to do with psychology than the size of the person , " says Trojan , who has arrested small-framed women carrying far more cargo than that found inside men twice their size . Once packed , the courier must slip unsuspected through airport customs and try to rendezvous with his or her connection before the cargo starts passing of its own accord . Nature determines the timetable here . Occasionally agents end up making their arrests as suspects leave bathrooms . Sometimes they locate already-passed packets in pockets , suitcases or shopping bags . Drug swallowing came to light in the mid- ' 70s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Toronto emergency room with an intestinal blockage . During the 1990s , the typical packaging  --  double-bagged but leak-prone condoms  --  gave way to sturdy , machine-pressed pellets . Each pellet is fashioned from the sealed finger of a latex glove that has been packed with 8 to 12 grams of narcotics  --  most often heroin , sometimes cocaine or amphetamines  --  and coated with hard wax . The DEA recently got a look at one of the production machines , rigged from a hydraulic jack . There 's a growing consensus that at least some cartels are now using machines professionally engineered for the task , says Trojan . When Trojan cuts through the wax coating of one of the pellets , which is about 1.5 inches long and 0.75 inches in diameter , he finds additional layers of plastic wrap , transparent tape , carbon paper and other materials that suggest an attempt to evade X-ray detection . Though the ruse ultimately does n't succeed , it reveals a working knowledge of radiology on the part of the manufacturers ... or their medical consultants . But Trojan has his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began bringing his drug-packed suspects to Bellevue Hospital , on Manhattan 's East Side . Although several hospitals nearer JFK airport were more convenient for the X-rays and medical exam that Trojan 's suspects required , he got little sympathy from the staff at their emergency rooms when he explained the delicacy and urgency of the situation . " They pointed me to the waiting room and the end of the line , " he says . There he would sit amid the screaming , the bleeding and the retching  --  handcuffed to a drug courier passing narcotics into his or her pants . The first swallower who Trojan brought to Bellevue sparked immediate interest and care . " The medical issues are fascinating , " says Stephen Traub , the Bellevue toxicologist who was on call that day . " And the patients are some of the saddest I 've ever seen . " As a toxicologist , Traub understood the medical risks that other ER doctors tended to gloss over . Though the machined packets are less likely than tied-off condoms to leak and trigger a massive overdose , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lodged in the intestines . Should doctors then release the patient into police custody , the pellet could degrade and begin to release its contents . Trojan shares the doctor 's sympathy for many of his suspects . " For the most part , these are not hardened criminals , " he says . " Once I have them under arrest , my priority is to get them the best possible medical care . " And so , over the hospital bed of their first shared charge nearly four years ago , Trojan and Traub forged a friendship and a mutually advantageous working relationship . " They give us the red-carpet treatment , and we bring them a research opportunity like no other , " says Trojan . Last September , Trojan and Traub filled a large auditorium with a presentation on " body packer syndrome " at the annual meeting of the North American Congress of Clinical Toxicologists in Chicago . Traub and Bellevue colleagues Robert Hoffman and Lewis Nelson have also published several scientific papers on the syndrome , including a recent review article in The New England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diagnosis and care . It includes guidelines for recognizing telltale X-ray patterns such as the star-shaped " rosette " that signals where the knot at the end of a latex packet traps tiny air bubbles inside its folds . Similarly , air between the layers of a typical drug package can reveal its sausage-shaped outline . The repetition of these patterns on an abdominal X-ray tells the doctor that he or she is looking at manufactured goods , rather than the remains of yesterday 's dinner . The Bellevue doctors offer a compelling reason for further research into their new specialty . " If anyone is contemplating how to get a small amount of a concentrated bioterrorist agent into this country , this is it , " says Hoffman . With its capacity of 10 grams , a single pellet could be used to import enough anthrax , ricin or other deadly biochemical powder to wreak havoc . " Maybe I 'm just a dumb doctor , " says Hoffman , " but we hear about drug money funding a lot of terrorist operations , and those people are going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the threat , confirms Sam Stabile , a deputy chief inspector for Kennedy Airport . " It 's one of the toughest things to defend against  --  someone who 's willing to swallow something that could kill him . " While the threat is hypothetical , the drug cartels have shown they recognize the versatility of body packing : They have used swallowers to courier pellets filled with rolls of currency . " Our most powerful screening tools are not X-rays or body scans but the instincts of our inspectors , " says Stabile . " A lot of what we do involves observing behavior , recognizing discrepancies in reasons for travel , and the like . We acquired this expertise before 9/11 in our fight against narcotics , and now we are applying it to terrorism . " Illustration <p>                     