@@417892

As digital media become the dominant means of communication , they will usher in a new paradigm , transforming how we think , behave , relate , and create . A business consultant and communications theorist offers a method for understanding the changes we will face-and for better managing those changes . // Marshall McLuhan famously declared , " The medium is the message . " Watching a war on television is very different from reading about the war in a newspaper . Television began entering homes less than 60 years ago and swiftly changed almost every aspect of human life-from business and education to politics and sports . Now , digital communications-computers , PDAs , the Internet , Blackberries , etc. - are bringing another communications revolution that is likely to produce an even more radical transformation of our lives . For clues to what may happen in the years ahead , let 's look at what occurred as a result of two previous revolutions in the dominant medium of communications-the shift from oral communications to printed media in the fifteenth century and the very recent shift from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When Johannes Gutenberg invented movable type about 1454 and printed the Bible , he initiated a revolution in communications . Gutenberg 's Bible became a best-seller , and the art of printing spread rapidly . Within 70 years , Europe had more than 1,000 printers , and books were widely available . Later , newspapers and magazines proliferated . Printed words , unlike speech , remain fixed in space and motionless over time . This permanence allows readers to return to the same words again and again-a process that permits thoughts to be examined and tested from many different perspectives . Photograph // The dominance of print communication created more-analytic , rational minds that see the world as parts assembled in an orderly whole , like the words in a sentence . So printed literature enabled linear , " rational " thought to largely supplant the " irrational " thought of the oral world . Understanding through analysis began replacing understanding through dialogue . With printing , the West exploded with new discoveries . Books nourished the Renaissance , the Reformation , the Enlightenment , science , and much else . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as does speaking-but it lost its dominance in about 1950 to television , which now feeds more information into people 's minds than does print . Television showed the world to itself . Hundreds of millions of people sitting at home could watch stirring events in faraway places and see the world 's leaders more frequently and up closer than their next-door neighbors . Television broke down barriers that had separated people from each other . Poor people now could see how rich people actually lived . Whites and blacks could see the realities of racial segregation . The American people could see the horrors of the Vietnam War , and their government could not explain away its failures . Print had made reason king and stimulated reflective thinking , but now broadcast elevated desire and emotion and encouraged reflexive thinking-the kind of thinking we do while driving a car . Television demands only our attention and reaction , requiring of us no analysis , no historical perspective , and no connection to any other event . Printed words drive us toward reaching a conclusion or having a perspective , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encourage us to keep our options open and " go with the flow . " The Print Era lasted for 400 years , coming to an end within the lifetime of people still alive . The Broadcast Era will have a much shorter run . Already , broadcast 's dominance is yielding to the digital media , and they will likely become the dominant media of communication by about 2010 . The Emergence of A Digital Culture Digital media combine text , graphics , sound , and data in such a way that we experience things in a much more integrated format-multi-sensory , multimedia , and multi-networked . As a result , boundaries separating disciplines , organizations , structures , and people begin to dissolve . We see convergences of things that once were sharply separated . The message and the messenger become a holographic reality capable of infinite change and complexity . In a digital environment , things that might take decades to surface within natural systems can show up within minutes . The threat of a terrorist attack or an outbreak of a deadly disease reverberates globally , systemwide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of knowing and understanding is shifting to an interactive , global , anytime , anywhere , multimedia experience with countless sources to explore and test . This experience is quite different from the intellectually passive experience of watching television or the emotionally distant experience of reading . Consequently , our minds and bodies will undergo a rewiring to support this different sensory experience . Convergence is perhaps the key characteristic of the coming Digital Era . Convergence is an inherent property of our digital medium of information and communications , because all its many forms ( text , image , data , sound ) can exist on a single medium , such as a disc , and reproduced through a common digital language of bits and bytes . Digital data makes no distinction between Romeo and Juliet and that snapshot of your child on a pony , between geological calculations and the sound of a Bach cantata . They are all merely sequences of zeros and ones . In the digital world , the boundaries that once separated physics , poetry , metaphysics , and other disciplines are beginning to blur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together physics , chemistry , and biology . AT &T; Broadband , AOL , and Time Warner Inc. all began as separate businesses-a phone company , an Internet service provider , and a publisher ; each was based on different technologies ( telephone wire , cybertechnologies , printing press ) . But digital technologies provided them all with a common platform , and they merged . The new digital world is characterized by seven qualities : 1 . Interconnection : We used to live in a " domino world , " in which one change logically caused the next . Now we have entered a chainreaction world of exponential shifts . Interconnection means that our problems and opportunities are intimately linked . Emerging networks-virtual communities based on common interests-have begun to level our hierarchical organizations . 2 . Complexity : Complex systems behave in complex ways . Simply changing a line of computer code can cause ripple effects that move through the systems in many different ways . Faced with such complexity , old analytical tools can not anticipate the potential consequences of actions . A single word from Federal Reserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and even governments to fall . 3 . Acceleration : Each new technology and concept leads to faster change , so that change compounds and accelerates the pace of human life . The increasing speed of communications accelerates business transactions , which accelerates production and marketing , which accelerates capital growth , which accelerates investment , which accelerates further the development of new technologies . 4 . Intangibility : In the new digital environment , we have little or no connection to the original sources of information and things we buy , use , or believe . We 're moving away from a world we can touch and hold to a world that operates on intangibles like information and reputation . Arthur Andersen , the accounting firm , offered some tangible services such as accounting , but it also offered intangibles , such as its credibility and reputation . When its client Enron imploded in scandal , Andersen 's reputation went up in smoke . 5 . Convergence : Print , graphics , sound , and data can all reside in a digital medium , such as a CD or DVD @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ones . In digital media , the past boundaries of knowledge and organizations blur , crumble , and eventually integrate in new ways . 6 . Immediacy : Digital media shrink the time allowed between question and answer , request and fulfillment . We are now expected to respond to the world with a speed similar to that required of fighter pilots in combat . An F-16 pilot must master a different set of rules for decision making , because there is little or no time for reflection in an environment that changes at high speed in an irregular , disorderly , and unpredictable manner . 7 . Unpredictability : Complex , highly interactive systems behave unpredictably . As a result , well-intentioned attempts to improve conditions may actually worsen them . A legal system that heavily penalizes physicians who make mistakes may cause the doctors to give up their practices , thus increasing the number of people who are sick or incapacitated . Rethinking Our Institutions The digital media require us to rethink our institutions . Our educational institutions , for example , are likely to rely increasingly on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the challenges that schools currently face-from rising costs and textbook obsolescence to flexible schedules and parental involvement-have solutions in the new technologies . Today , children not yet in school are adeptly using computers to send messages to their friends and downloading M music files from the Internet . The kids soon learn how to use search engines such as Google to get information and put together multimedia presentations for class projects . These digital kids are learning to think and work differently from the TV kids a generation ago . In the emerging digital culture , children do not grind out their lessons by rote memorization . They no longer sit passively in front of a television and say " Huh ? " when asked what they learned . Children now are absorbed in an interactive-game environment , pursuing treasure hunts of knowledge over the Web . They integrate what they learn , expand far beyond the assignment , and retain a high level of enthusiasm . Youngsters using digital media are pushing education toward self-learning , and it 's likely that self-directed learning will become more and more the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to becoming general facilitators handling several grades at a time . In a virtual little red schoolhouse , technology will afford a shift back to the teaching relationship . Continuity will lead to greater effectiveness , and that effectiveness will create opportunities for mentors and higher levels of fulfillment for all concerned . But there is a danger to this new form of learning . What happens when our play allows us to simulate and rehearse reality ? We applaud simulation training for pilots or physicians-in fact , we demand it . We want them to be able to handle the chaos of a crisis with icy coolness . However , when this simulation technology seeps into the hands of our youth , we can unwittingly create cold-blooded killers , as we saw with 14-year-old Michael Carneal , the boy who methodically carried out his murders at a school in Paducah , Kentucky , in 1997 . Carneal killed each victim by one accurate shot . Investigators found he liked to play a video game that required shooting " human " targets . This was like the training soldiers receive to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managing the transition into the Digital Era will not be easy or problem free . We must expect challenges in most of our institutions , so we need to rethink them and build them well for what lies ahead . A few years ago , I spent several hours with an oil company executive charged with designing and constructing the firm 's oil tankers . This helped me construct my own mental picture of how to build for an environment of turbulent change . Building an oil tanker is an amazing feat . The number of details is mind-boggling , and the obstacles are incredible , especially if it is being designed to face the North Atlantic , the most treacherous environment of all . Remember the Titanic ! North Atlantic tankers must be able to withstand a head-on collision with an iceberg at seven knots . Without dropping anchor , they must maintain a stable position while buffeted by 50-foot waves . To cope with such a turbulent , hostile environment , the North Atlantic tankers have multiple redundant systems acting as safeguards and backups . They have powerful stabilizers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enormous waves crash over them . The North Atlantic tankers give us a phenomenal metaphor for today 's institutions to consider as they rebuild themselves for the challenges of the Digital Era . Today 's institutions must navigate stormy seas of social and technological change . Unfortunately , we are still building the social equivalent of vacation cruise liners : large , slow structures made for calm , balmy seas and friendly ports of call . These " cruise-liner " institutions may be a little more userfriendly , but they are built for calm seas and a sunny horizon . And that is not what we are likely to get . Today , we need institutions built like North Atlantic tankers to meet the colossal waves of largely unpredictable social change . They need to be highly agile and fast-changing , with extra capacity , awareness of the environment , powerful stabilizers , and buffering , like the double hulls of the tankers . Redesigning our institutions for stresses and opportunities of the Digital Era is now the greatest challenge we face . FEEDBACK ! Send your comments about this article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rex Miller has spent the last 25 years researching social change through the lens of communications . Three of his passions-communications , religion , and business-powerfully shape his new book , Millennium Matrix : Reclaiming the Past , Reframing the Future of the Church . The book presents the matrix he developed to show how institutions transformed during the successive shifts in the main communications media . Miller focuses primarily on applying the matrix to the Christian church and offers rich insights into how religion has shifted through the centuries and is likely to shift in the future . The Millennium Matrix ( 2004 , 279 pages , cloth , $23.95 ) was published by Jossey-Bass and may be ordered through the Futurist Bookshelf , www.wfs.org/bkshelf.htm . Photograph Author Affiliation About the Author M. Rex Miller is vice president of sales and chief concierge for Spencer Furniture and author of The Millennium Matrix ( Jossey-Bass , 2004 ) . He is a successful businessman with degrees in theology and communications theory . His address is 1409 Dartmouth Drive , Southlake , Texas 76092 . Telephone 1-214498-3055 ; e-mail **26;3309;TOOLONG com ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject at WorldFuture 2005 : Foresight , Innovation , and Strategy , the World Future Society 's annual meeting , to be held in Chicago July 29-31. // <p>                     