@@407771

THE LOCAL VISITORS BUREAU refers to Santa Barbara and its environs along the south-central California coast as the " American Riviera . " To see what they mean , drive down State Street-a Scott-and-Zelda Fitzgerald dance-in-the-fountain kind of place-all whitewash and wrought iron , elegant buildings and tiled galleries , arcade windows glittering with luxury goods . Yet there 's more to this stretch of coast than high credit lines and conspicuous consumption , as I discovered in a meandering road trip through Santa Barbara and San Luis Obispo counties . Three centuries ago these hills and valleys echoed with the prayers of padres bent on winning souls for God and land for Spain . Some of their 21 missions became towns , and the road that connected them-the King 's Highway , or El Camino Real-became Highway 101 . The route is still beautiful but now often a big , fast freeway . I set out to explore this old land of missions in a gentler manner , via country lanes leading to ranches , small towns , and vineyards . Like me , those willing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a nave floor , sprinkler water splashes on vineyard grapes , and bells toll in the towers of the old Mission Santa Barbara-where Mike Acosta likes to come and pass the time . I meet the 83-year-old local perched on a low retaining wall just outside the mission 's heavy doors . It 's a fine vantage point , with a view of the modern city of Santa Barbara below and the shimmering Pacific beyond . Acosta comes here to talk to the tourists and to savor the view . We fall into easy conversation , and as we chat I notice hummingbirds sipping nectar from the purple and white Mexican sage beneath the statue of Father Junipero Serra , who founded many of the missions . Acosta unrolls a tattered photograph of a vaquero , or cowboy . The picture is of his uncle , taken in the 1870s in the Santa Ynez Valley , just behind the coastal ranges . " The best wine in the world is there , " he says . " Yes , I used to drink my share . " He tells me I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when I do . " When you come back , " Acosta promises , " I 'll give you my recipe for enchiladas . " Soon after , I find myself driving State 154 , which cuts through the coastal ranges to the Santa Ynez Valley , where I stop in Los Olivos . The village is lined with tasting rooms of varying degrees of quaintness . I choose an airy , open cafe and walk inside . Wine merchant John Moisan sets five local bottles before me and offers a taste from each . Central California is dotted with vineyards , he explains . Its Pinot Noir , Chardonnay , and other varietals now rival Napa 's . Tasting the wine , he says , is literally tasting the region itself . Moisan splashes some Bernat ' 00 Chardonnay into a long-stemmed glass . " This is the Santa Ynez . " I take a sip . " Can you taste the lemon and honeydew ? " I can . And something else . " White fig , " he says . Okay . Sampling the next pouring , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pear . Then I savor the hills of Santa Rita-strawberry and cherry . That the land can be treasured for the flavors it produces-and not just as acres to be subdivided , scraped , and developed-is a romantic view of real estate , I know , but it suits these hills . I hear whispers of the past as I return to Santa Barbara from San Luis Obispo via Route 246 . Near the town of Lompoc , I find La Purisima Mission . Surrounded by fields and woods , the long , one-story buildings were reconstructed to look as they did in the 1820s . So I 'm not surprised when I see small market stands selling baskets , chickens , and red peppers . Men and women in sombreros and serapes admire a stallion being led by a man in period dress . But wait . This is too perfect . Then , I grin . A camera sits on a dolly . The movies ! While searching for the real , I 've stumbled into the make-believe-a scene from Universal 's Seabiscuit . " The mission is so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a park ranger says . I watch for just a moment . Star Jeff Bridges is nowhere to be seen , probably kicking back in an air-conditioned trailer . No matter . I walk down the colonnaded corridor into old rooms , refreshingly cool compared to the dry heat outside . I see the faded vestments the padres wore and the implements with which they worked the land . I realize that the real California lies not in its shops but in the taste of its wines , in the simple rooms of La Purisima , and with locals like Acosta . " Oh yes . The south coast is good , is n't it ? " he says . " My ancestors came here in 1782 . They were n't dumb . They picked the right place . " Sidebar <p>                     