@@388817

Headnote During the second half of the 19th century a single writer held enormous sway over the hearts and minds of American artists , critics , and the general public . by John A. Parks By the middle of the 19th century , as the United States emerged from an agrarian economy to become a mighty industrial power , it began to foster a climate in which the arts could be pursued seriously . Along with this development arose inevitable questions for critics , artists , and collectors : How was the art of the new nation to be judged ? Was it to be set against the same standards as European art , or was it to be rated as a peculiarly American affair ? And if the art was to be based on European models , on which side of the struggle between the Romantics and the classicists would American artists fall ? The way forward was eventually provided by the writings of one Englishman , John Ruskin . From the publication of the first American volume of his Modem Painters in New York in 1847 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ruskin 's ideas on art , architecture , sculpture , and eventually social and political issues exerted an enormous influence over American intellectual and artistic life . This spring an exhibition at the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University , in Cambridge , Massachusetts , " The Last Ruskinians : Charles Eliot Norton , Charles Herbert Moore , and Their Circle , " demonstrates the direct influence of Ruskin on a group of American watercolorists associated with the short-lived American Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood . Fascinating as this is , it is even more interesting to consider the wider influence that Ruskin exerted on the development of American art . RUSKIN 'S BACKGROUND AND UPBRINGING John Ruskin was born in London in 1819 , the son of a successful merchant and the daughter of an innkeeper . Great things were expected of the child right from the start , and his parents set their sights on a career as a poet or a preacher . Educated at home , and immersed in great literature and lengthy Sunday-morning sermons , the child soon began to display a precocious literary ability . Ruskin eventually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the High Street to keep an eye on him . The young man did not disappoint and soon won the prestigious Newdigate Prize for literary achievement and considerable renown for his scholarship . He seemed positioned to fulfill his parents ' dreams . But against all this study and endeavor there had entered into Ruskin 's life another , and perhaps more powerful , experience . Each summer during his upbringing , the family would leave their pleasant and secluded home in South London and travel northward by coach to the Lake District . To the young Ruskin , exhausted from his studies , this transition was utterly magical . The release from sermons , tracts , and texts was accompanied by the sight of mountains , lakes , and vast panoramas . Later , as a teenager , he was taken to the Alps , and there these feelings of glorious release and reverence were magnified by the colossal scale of the landscape . Ruskin wrote copiously and brilliantly of the feelings inspired by this experience . " The whole valley was full of absolutely impenetrable wreathed cloud , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the changeful domes of it ; and beyond these domes of heavenly marble , the great Alps stood up against the blue ... not wholly clear , but clasped by , and intertwined with , translucent folds of mist . " Ruskin 's command of language and his intense sensitivity to nature were joined by an interest in art and architecture . He regularly visited exhibitions with his father and received drawing and watercolor lessons . And it was when he came upon the work of j.M.W . Turner that he felt strangely moved by its airy atmospheric space . In Turner 's work Ruskin found his own feelings played back to him , a kindred spirit speaking his thoughts about the power and wonder of nature . Turner had begun his career as a dazzling marine and landscape painter , capable of intense and convincing rendering . By the middle of his career in the 1830s , however , he had moved on from the conventions of 18th-century painting , with its admiration of classical models , and had begun to produce work in which the forces of nature seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fogs , and mists were conjured from dabs of color and gestures of paint with little regard for the careful building and description of form prized by earlier generations . He was accused in the press of putting his imagination ahead of his observation of nature . The attacks on Turner incensed young John Ruskin . His own experience of nature told him that Turner 's vision was fundamentally and powerfully true . Inspired , he sat down to write an impassioned defense . THE INFLUENCE OF Modern Painters Ruskin 's book Modern Painters , the first volume of which was published in London in 1842 , set out to show that the then modern masters , and in particular Turner , were superior to the Old Masters . Although much of the argument , drawn out over hundreds of pages of grandiloquent English , is somewhat daunting for the contemporary reader , a number of principles quickly impress themselves : Like the classical painters , Ruskin felt that beauty emanated from the understanding of the work of God in nature . But Ruskin believed that any particular of nature could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classicists believed that only certain aspects of nature cotdd be regarded as beautiful . " It is only by the habit of representing faithfully all things , that we can truly learn what is beautiful , and what is not , " Ruskin wrote . In his scheme , therefore , there is no longer any need to base the artist 's vision on that of previous painters such as Claude Lorrain or Nicolas Poussin , a path recommended by the classicists . Modern Painters was received with enthusiasm by the American art community , and in early 1855 a magazine titled The Crayon appeared that was devoted to Ruskin 's ideas and writings . It was widely read by both artists and intellectuals , and the magazine published writings by Asher B. Durand as well as many of the leading critics and artists of the day . It was through this magazine that Ruskin 's broader message of truth to nature in all its aspects influenced the great American painters of the igth century , including Durand , Frederic Edwin Church , John Kensett , and Albert Bierstadt . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , distinction , and perfect beauty ... its peculiar habitation , expression and function , " wrote Ruskin in the introduction to the third volume of Modern Painters . " The highest art is that which seizes this specific character , which assigns to it its proper position in the landscape .... Every class of rock , every kind of earth , every form of cloud , must be studied with equal industry , and rendered with equal precision . " The deep conviction that many American painters still have for the power of close and faithful observation of the natural world owes a debt to the sense of moral worth that Ruskin 's writings gave to this approach . RUSKIN INSPIRES THE PRERAPHAELITE BROTHERHOOD Although Ruskin 's inspiration came through the paintings of Turner , his own influence quickly fostered a following from a group of artists with very different aims . He was approached in 1851 by William Holman Hunt , who had found Ruskin 's call to examine the particulars of nature to be inspiring . Around Hunt had formed the PreRaphaelite Brotherhood , a group of painters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They were interested in returning to the condition of art prior to the era of Raphael , a time when they imagined that artists addressed nature directly before the grand classical manner had emerged . Ruskin wrote in support of these artists , although his own interests were considerably broader than those of the group . The group formed in 1863 in the New York studio of the English expatriate artist Thomas Charles Farrer and was known as the Association for the Advancement of Truth in Art . The principal members were Farrer , John Henry Hill , John William Hill , Charles Herbert Moore , Henry R. Newman , and William T. Richards . These artists did not follow their English counterparts in terms of elaborate narrative paintings but pursued their careful and highly detailed observations of nature . They also published a periodical , The New Path , in which they presented a lively combination of reviews and essays . The power of Ruskin over this group was considerable , not merely through his ideas on art but also directly in the form of studio instruction . In 1857 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ titled The Elements of Drawing . The principles Ruskin espoused in his book were delicacy , close observation of the details of nature , and a watercolor technique in which broken areas of brilliant local color were built to obtain a rich and dazzling surface using a hatching technique . Although directed at amateurs , the book was widely read by professional artists on both sides of the Atlantic . No less a figure than Winslow Homer learned his watercolor technique from it , and so pervasive was its influence on color that Claude Monet himself was quoted by a British journalist in 1900 as saying that " ninety percent of the theory of Impressionist painting is in ... Ruskin 's The Elements of Drawing . THE LAST RUSKINIANS Paintings executed with the delicate hatching and brilliant broken color suggested by Ruskin form the focus of the current exhibition at the Fogg Art Museum . Here we see the English artist William Henry Hunt spending weeks painting every twig and feather in a bird 's nest . Charles Herbert Moore must have spent an equivalent amount of time rendering a peacock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can see too that Ruskin himself , when he took up the brush to paint Fragment of the Alps , was inclined to a similar approach , rendering a large rock through a laborious catalogue of its surface detail rather than summoning up its gross girth and weight as a more classically trained artist might have done . The effect of this piece , for all its intensity of observation and industry , is somewhat lightweight and fragmentary . In fact , Ruskin would often leave works unfinished , stranding areas of intensely observed detail in the middle of blank canvases before giving them away to friends . Other followers in this exhibition include Henry Roderick Newman . who took the Ruskinian approach to Florence , producing in Santa Maria Novella , Florence , Italy a record of every brick and stone of the ancient scene in front of him . The artist used gouache body color over the watercolor to increase the density of the rendering and control the lights , a technique advocated by Ruskin in The Elements of Drawing . Although the fine quality of the paintings in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weaknesses of this heavily detailed approach . There is a general lack of invention in terms of composition and little understanding of how the color and tone throughout an entire picture can be balanced and orchestrated . To be fair to Ruskin , he always said that this process of looking very carefully at the world was only a prelude to a more mature stage of artistic development , such as that exhibited in Turner 's later work , where the invention and imagination of the artist would take a larger role . In fact , in his later writing Ruskin developed a strong sense of the limits of slavish devotion to facts . " Always look for invention first , " he wrote in his volume on architecture , The Stones of Venice , " and after that , for such execution as will help the invention , and as the inventor is capable of without painful effort , and no more . Above all , demand no refinement of execution where there is no thought , for that is slaves ' work , unredeemed . Rather choose rough work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be answered , and never imagine there is reason to be proud of anything that may be accomplished by patience and sandpaper . " RUSKIN 'S LEGACY Posterity has been somewhat unkind to Ruskin . This is due , in part , to the unfashionable quality of his prose , so revered in his own time with its grand cascading sentences and its vast grasp of vocabulary . To the modern ear it seems outmoded , long-winded , and suspiciously overstylcd . And then Ruskin is also the victim of the somewhat grotesque prurience of his biographers . Ruskin 's first marriage to Effie Gray in 1848 was never consummated due to some kind of physical aversion on Ruskin 's part . The marriage was eventually annulled , causing a considerable scandal , and the young woman went on to marry Ruskin 's protg John Everett Millais , with whom she had many children . Ruskin himsell conlined his future romantic attentions to very young women but was refused by the girl lie most admired . Rose Ia Touche , to whom he proposed when she was just 17 . Rose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind . He got it back after a number of months , but he was never the same . In 1877 Ruskin became embroiled in yet another controversy when he harshly criticized a painting by fames McNeill Whistler . " I have seen and heard much of Cockney impudence before now , " Ruskin famously wrote , " but never expected to hear a coxcomb ask two hundred guineas for flinging a pot of paint in the public 's face . " Whistler , a man with an enormous ego , sued Ruskin for libel , and a curious court case ensued in which the merits and values of various kinds of art and art-making were debated in court . Whistler won the case but was awarded only a copper coin in damages . The costs of the case bankrupted him . Ruskin was able to pay his own costs through a subscription raised by his friends , but the courtroom loss was a blow to his precarious mental state . In 1869 Ruskin was elected the first Slade Professor of Fine Art at Oxford and gave many well-received lectures . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audiences by extolling the virtues of the minor illustrator Kate Greenaway , whose sentimental line drawings of smiling little girls now looked better to him than all the great masters of European art . Meanwhile , his writings were inclined to make less and less sense , combining moments of great brilliance with complete non sequiturs and sometimes delving into imagery and ideas bordering on madness . Ruskin spent his last years living in seclusion in a large dilapidated house on the shores of Coniston Water in his beloved Lake District . He died in 1900 . Ruskin 's legacy lives on in the lively interest in realism in American painting . He would be delighted , no doubt , in the current vogue for plein air painting and its pleasure in the direct experience of the wonders and wealth of nature . On the other hand , he might be saddened by the rank commercialism and lack of lofty ideals in the contemporary world of art . " All great art is the work of the whole living creature , body and soul , and chiefly of the soul , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But it is not only the work of the whole creature , it likewise addresses the whole creature . " They do n't make critics like that anymore . Sidebar " IT IS ONLY BY THE HABIT OF REPRESENTING FAITHFULLY ALL THINGS , THAT WE CAN TRULY LEARN WHAT IS BEAUTIFUL , AND WHAT IS NOT . " - JOHN RUSKIN Sidebar " THE HIGHEST ART IS THAT WHICH SEIZES THIS SPECIFIC CHARACTER , WHICH ASSIGNS TO IT ITS PROPER POSITION IN THE LANDSCAPE . ... EVERY CLASS OF ROCK , EVERY KIND OF EARTH , EVERY FORM OF CLOUD , MUST BE STUDIED WITH EQUAL INDUSTRY , AND RENDERED WITH EQUAL PRECISION . " - JOHN RUSKIN " The Last Ruskmians : Charles Eliot Norton , Charles Herbert Moore , and Their Circle , " an exhibition currently on view at the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University , in Cambridge , Massachusetts , will be displayed until July 8 . For more information , visit www.artmuseums. harvard.edu/fogg . Sidebar www.myAmericanArtist.com To read an extended version of this text , as well as a related arthistorical article on Hudson River School artist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section of our website at www.myAmericanArtist.com . Twilight , a Sketch by Frederic Edwin Church , 1861 , oil on paper mounted on canvas , 13 x 20 1/8 . Collection Olana State Historic Site , Hudson , New York . Author Affiliation John A. Parks is an artist who is represented by Allan Stone Gallery , in New York City . He is also a teacher at the School of Visual Arts , in New York City , and is ajrequent contributor to American Artist , Drawing , Watercolor , and Workshop magazines . <p>                     