@@387739

Have you ever wanted to experience an old-fashioned Christmas ? Each year , the town of Williamsburg , Virginia , puts together programs and activities that recreate what Christmas was like during the years up to the American Revolution . The festivities begin this year on December 3 with the Grand Illumination ceremonies . A variety of walking tours , musical programs , and evening plays for every age accompany the vast offerings of Colonial Williamsburg during the season . " The Christmas Decorations Walking Tour " takes a guided look at Colonial Williamsburg 's picturesque buildings and streets , decked in their holiday splendor . The evening program , " Christmastide at Home , " examines holiday celebrations spanning three centuries . Guests can also enjoy country dances , reels , and the minuet during " An Evening of Dance at the Palace . " Discover how the enslaved Virginians celebrated the holiday season with two programs at Great Hopes Plantation . During " Kate 's Christmas Box , " Kate will discuss the customs and practices of slaves during the holidays . " The Night the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family telling two versions of the same story . During the weekends of December 910 , 16-17 , and 30-31 , the Historic Area offers families an opportunity to experience the holiday season in eighteenth-century Williamsburg with " A Kid 's Holiday Memories . " Other activities include : celebrating several religious traditions ; singing carols ; participating in food preparation ; and conversations with a Founding Father . Even if your family ca n't make it to Williamsburg this year , there is always the website **33;2133;TOOLONG which features interactive games and activities , including Pardon or Pillory ( a variation on the ever-popular " Hangman " game ) . Colonial Williamsburg Christmas FAQs What is Grand Illumination ? A staple of Colonial Williamsburg since 1935 , this night of fireworks and entertainment features gun and cannon salutes commonly used during the eighteenth century to celebrate weddings , royal birthdays , and holidays . The tradition began with the first " White Lighting " of the Historic Area , during which a single candle was lit in each window of homes and shops throughout the area . Though the program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public buildings , homes and shops continues . How many lights are displayed in the Historic Area ? Windows in more than 100 exhibition buildings , trade shops , private homes and other Historic Area buildings will be lit with more than 1,200 electric or battery-operated candles from Thanksgiving weekend through January 1 , 2007 . What makes Colonial Williamsburg 's decorations unique ? Williamsburg 's outdoor Christmas decorations are known worldwide for their use of natural materials available during the eighteenth century , including pine and boxwood wreaths decorated with fresh pineapples , apples , oranges , pomegranates , nuts , pinecones , holly and other materials . More than 2,000 white pine and Fraser fir wreaths and more than three miles of white pine roping are used to put the finishing touches on doorways , windows , columns and railings . How far in advance should reservations be made ? Since this is such a busy time , hotels recommend that parents make reservations for lodging and dining during the holiday season as soon as possible . Weekend reservations tend to fill up faster than midweek reservations . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fill up , followed by the Colonial Houses , Williamsburg Lodge , and Woodlands Hotel &; Suites . There may be two-night minimum stay requirements , based on demand , in Colonial Williamsburg hotels for Grand Illumination . When is Colonial Williamsburg open ? Colonial Williamsburg is open 365 days a year , generally from 9:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. during the holiday season . To request a free planner that details Colonial Williamsburg 's holiday programs or to make reservations by phone , call toll-free 1-800-HISTORY or explore the Colonial Williamsburg Web site at **28;2168;TOOLONG . How do I get there ? Williamsburg , 150 miles south of Washington , D.C. , is midway between Richmond and Norfolk . It is served by international airports at Richmond , Norfolk and Newport News , and by Amtrak . The Colonial Williamsburg Visitor Center is accessible by Interstate 64 , exit 238 . <p>                     