@@368710

Call it cyberjihad . With his nubby oatmeal sweater , blue jeans and easy smile , Malek Hussein might seem more at home sipping a latte in Seattle than sugary tea in Beirut 's Shi'ite Muslim stronghold . But the 38-year-old self-taught Webmaster is holed up in a secret office where the Lebanese Islamic group Hizballah operates an Internet site that blasts propaganda against Israel . With a four-person staff , Hussein is fending off a hacker assault launched by Israelis . " They 're going after us ! " proclaims Hussein , who loads software designed to deflect the bulk messages that become e-mail bombs when they reach Hizballah 's Web address . <P> After a four-month lull , Hizballah and Israel are back at war . In two provocative operations last month , Hizballah commandos captured three Israeli soldiers and a businessman who the group claims is a Mossad agent , putting Hizballah back in the spotlight as heroes of the Arab world . The group is also openly extending its campaign beyond Lebanon , using its financial and operational resources to whip up Palestinian fury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen the last of Hizballah when he ended a 22-year military occupation of southern Lebanon in May . Many Lebanese , including some Hizballah moderates , expected the group to downsize its guerrilla activities and become a conventional political party . But Hizballah 's political ambitions were toasted by a dismal showing in parliamentary elections in September . So , with the blessing of Iran , which has supported Hizballah for years , the group has returned to its path of violent resistance . <P> The latest clashes between Israelis and Palestinians have offered a good pretext . In a TIME interview at his fortified office in Beirut 's southern suburbs , Hizballah secretary-general Hassan Nasrallah made it clear that the group 's political aims in Lebanon have become secondary to the regional jihad to free Jerusalem from Israeli occupation . " There is no doubt that our most important role is in the region , " he explained . " We have experience , and we are ready to help . All means must be used to help the Palestinians . " U.S. officials contend that Hizballah is training radical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried to up the stakes by threatening to attack Syria in retaliation for Hizballah 's moves , it 's not entirely clear that Syria controls the group . Hizballah 's top leadership is probably as responsive to Iran as it is to Syria . Still , the prospect of Israel 's taking on the group 's sponsors instead of just the group is worrisome . <P> To be sure , Hizballah still seems ready to take on Israel . The group runs patrols along the Israeli border  --  which helped it snatch those three Israeli soldiers last month . And the group has shown new skills in luring the Israeli businessman  --  who it says is a spy  --  to Beirut before nabbing him .                     