@@426178

Finches , monkeyflowers , sockeye salmon , and bacteria are changing before our eyes . // Charles Darwin 's wife , Emma , was terrified that they would be separated for eternity , because she would go to heaven and he would not . Emma confessed her fears in a letter that Charles kept and treasured , with his reply to her scribbled in the margin : " When I am dead , know that many times , I have kissed and cryed over this . " Close as they were , the two could hardly bear to talk about Darwin 's view of life . And today , those of us who live in the United States , by many measures the world 's leading scientific nation , find ourselves in a house divided . Half of us accept Darwin 's theory , half of us reject it , and many people are convinced that Darwin burns in hell . I find that old debate particularly strange , because I 've spent some of the best years of my life as a science writer peering over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action . What they can see casts the whole debate in a new light-or it should . Darwin himself never tried to watch evolution happen . " It may metaphorically be said , " he wrote in the Origin of Species , that natural selection is daily and hourly scrutinising , throughout the world , the slightest variations ; rejecting those that are bad , preserving and adding up all that are good ; silently and insensibly working , whenever and wherever opportunity offers . . . . We see nothing of these slow changes in progress , until the hand of time has marked the lapse of ages . Darwin was a modest man who thought of himself as a plodder ( one of his favorite mottoes was , " It 's dogged as does it " ) . He thought evolution plodded too . If so , it would be more boring to watch evolution than to watch drying paint . As a result , for several generations after Darwin 's death , almost nobody tried . For most of the twentieth century the only well-known example of evolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England . The moth had its picture in all the textbooks , as a kind of special case . Then , in 1973 , a married pair of evolutionary biologists , Peter and Rosemary Grant , now at Princeton University , began a study of Darwin 's process in Darwin 's islands , the Galapagos , watching Darwin 's finches . At first , they assumed that they would have to infer the history of evolution in the islands from the distribution of the various finch species , varieties , and populations across the archipelago . That is pretty much what Darwin had done , in broad strokes , after the Beagle 's five-week survey of the islands in 1835 . But the Grants soon discovered that at their main study site , a tiny desert island called Daphne Major , near the center of the archipelago , the finches were evolving rapidly . Conditions on the island swung wildly back and forth from wet years to dry years , and finches on Daphne adapted to each swing , from generation to generation . With the help of a series of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of every year on Daphne , watching evolution in action as it shaped and reshaped the finches ' beaks . At the same time , a few biologists began making similar discoveries elsewhere in the world . One of them was John A. Endler , an evolutionary biologist at the University of California , Santa Barbara , who studied Trinidadian guppies . In 1986 Endler published a little book called Natural Selection in the Wild , in which he collected and reviewed all of the studies of evolution in action that had been published to that date . Dozens of new field projects were in progress . Biologists finally began to realize that Darwin had been too modest . Evolution by natural selection can happen rapidly enough to watch . Now the field is exploding . More than 250 people around the world are observing and documenting evolution , not only in finches and guppies , but also in aphids , flies , grayling , monkeyflowers , salmon , and sticklebacks . Some workers are even documenting pairs of species-symbiotic insects and plants-that have recently found each other , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world together like lovers in a novel by D.H . Lawrence . The Grants ' own study gets more sophisticated every year . A few years ago , a group of molecular biologists working with the Grants nailed down a gene that plays a key role in shaping the beaks of the finches . The gene codes for a signaling molecule called bone morphogenic protein 4 ( BM ) . Finches with bigger beaks tend to have more BM , and finches with smaller beaks have less . In the laboratory , the biologists demonstrated that they could sculpt the beaks themselves by adding or subtracting BM . The same gene that shapes the beak of the finch in the egg also shapes the human face in the womb . Some of the most dramatic stories of evolution in action result from the pressures that human beings are imposing on the planet . As Stephen Palumbi , an evolutionary biologist at Stanford University , points out , we are changing the course of evolution for virtually every living species everywhere , with consequences that are sometimes the opposite of what we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Wild populations of bighorn mountain sheep are carefully managed in North America for hunters who want a chance to shoot a ram with a trophy set of horns . Hunting permits can cost well into the six figures . On Ram Mountain , in Alberta , Canada , hunters have shot the biggest of the bighorn rams for more than thirty years . And the result ? Evolution has made the hunters ' quarry scarce . The runts have had a better chance than the giants of passing on their genes . So on Ram Mountain the rams have gotten smaller , and their horns are proportionately smaller yet . Or take fishing , which is economically much more consequential . The populations of Atlantic cod that swam for centuries off the coasts of Labrador and Newfoundland began a terrible crash in the late 1980s . In the years leading up to the crash , the cod had been evolving much like the sheep on Ram Mountain . Fish that matured relatively fast and reproduced relatively young had the better chance of passing on their genes ; so did the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crashed , the average cod had been shrinking . We often seem to lose out wherever we fight hardest to control nature . Antibiotics drive the evolution of drug-resistant bacteria at a frightening pace . Sulfonamides were introduced in the 1930s , and resistance to them was first observed a decade later . Penicillin was deployed in 1943 , and the first penicillin resistance was observed in 1946 . In the same way , pesticides and herbicides create resistant bugs and weeds . Palumbi estimates that the annual bill for such unintended human-induced evolution runs to more than $100 billion in the U.S. alone . Worldwide , the pressure of global warming , fragmented habitats , heightened levels of carbon dioxide , acid rain , and the other myriad perturbations people impose on the chemistry and climate of the planet-all change the terms of the struggle for existence in the air , in the water , and on land . Biologists have begun to worry about those perturbations , but global change may be racing ahead of them . To me , the most interesting news in the global evolution watch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the origin of species . " The process whereby a population acquires small , inherited changes through natural selection is known as microevolution . Finches get bigger , fish gets smaller , but a finch is still a finch and a fish is still a fish . For people who reject Darwin 's theory , that 's the end of the story : no matter how many small , inherited changes accumulate , they believe , natural selection can never make a new kind of living thing . The kinds , the species , are eternal . Darwin argued otherwise . He thought that many small changes could cause two lines of life to diverge . Whenever animals and plants find their way to a new home , for instance , they suffer , like emigres in new countries . Some individuals fail , others adapt and prosper . As the more successful individuals reproduce , Darwin maintained , the new population begins to differ from the ancestral one . If the two populations diverge widely enough , they become separate species . Change on that scale is known as macroevolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might take between ten thousand and fourteen thousand generations to arise . Until recently , most biologists assumed it would take at least that many , or maybe even millions of generations , before microevolutionary changes led to the origin of new species . So they assumed they could watch evolution by natural selection , but not the divergence of one species into separate , reproductively isolated species . Now that view is changing too . Not long ago , a young evolution-watcher named Andrew Hendry , a biologist at McGiIl University in Montreal , reported the results of a striking study of sockeye salmon sec illustration on page 51 . Sockeye tend to reproduce either in streams or along lake beaches . When the glaciers of the last ice age melted and retreated , about ten thousand years ago , they left behind thousands of new lakes . Salmon from streams swam into the lakes and stayed . Today their descendants tend to breed among themselves rather than with sockeyes that live in the streams . The fish in the lakes and streams are reproductively isolated from each other . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 1940s , sockeye salmon were introduced into Lake Washington , in Washington State . Hundreds of thousands of their descendants now live and breed in Cedar River , which feeds the lake . By 1957 some of the introduced sockeye also colonized a beach along the lake called Pleasure Point , about four miles from the mouth of Cedar River . Hendry could tell whether a full-grown , breeding salmon had been born in the river or at the beach by examining the rings on its otoliths , or ear stones . Otolith rings reflect variations in water temperature while a fish embryo is developing . Water temperatures at the beach are relatively constant compared with the river temperatures . Hendry and his colleagues checked the otoliths and collected DNA samples from the fish-and found that more than a third of the sockeye breeding at Pleasure Point had grown up in the river . They were immigrants . With such a large number of immigrants , the two populations at Pleasure Point should have blended back together . But they had n't . So at breeding time many of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been relatively unsuccessful at passing on their genes . Hendry could also tell the stream fish and the beach fish apart just by looking at them . Where the sockeye 's breeding waters are swift-flowing , such as in Cedar River , the males tend to be slender . Their courtship ritual and competition with other males requires them to turn sideways in strong current-an awkward maneuver for a male with a deep , roundish body . So in strong current , slender males have the better chance of passing on their genes . But in still waters , males with the deepest bodies have the best chance of getting mates . So beach males tend to be rounder-their dimensions greater from the top of the back to the bottom of the belly-than river males . What about females ? In the river , where currents and floods are forever shifting and swirling the gravel , females have to dig deep nests for their eggs . So the females in the river tend to be bigger than their lake-dwelling counterparts , because bigger females can dig deeper nests . Where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shallower nests will do . So all of the beachgoers , male and female , have adapted to life at Pleasure Point . Their adaptations are strong enough that reproductive isolation has evolved . How long did the evolution take ? Hendry began studying the salmon 's reproductive isolation in 1992 . At that time , the sockeyes in the stream and the ones at Pleasure Point had been breeding in their respective habitats for at most thirteen generations . That is so fast that , as Hendry and his colleagues point out , it may be possible someday soon to catch the next step , the origin of a new species . And it 's not just the sockeye salmon . Consider the three-spined stickleback . After the glaciers melted at the end of the last ice age , many sticklebacks swam out of the sea and into new glacial lakes-just as the salmon did . In the sea , sticklebacks wear heavy , bony body armor . In a lake they wear light armor see photograph on page 63 . In a certain new pond in Bergen , Norway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lighter armor in just thirty-one years . In Loberg Lake , Alaska , the same kind of change took only a dozen years . A generation for sticklebacks is two years . So that dramatic evolution took just six generations . Dolph Schluter , a former finch-watcher from the Galpagos and currently a biologist at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver , has shown that , along with the evolution of new body types , sticklebacks also evolve a taste for mates with the new traits . In other words , the adaptive push of sexual selection is going hand-in-hand with natural selection . Schluter has built experimental ponds in Vancouver to observe the phenomenon under controlled conditions , and the same patterns he found in isolated lakes repeat themselves in his ponds . So adaptation can sometimes drive sexual selection and accelerate reproductive isolation . There are other developments in the evolution watch , too many to mention in this small space . Some of the fastest action is microscopic . Richard Lenski , a biologist at Michigan State University in East Lansing , watches the evolution of Eschcrichia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and billions of E. mil can fit in a petri dish , the bacteria make ideal subjects for experimental evolution . Throw some E. coli into a new dish , for instance , with food they have n't encountered before , and they will evolve and adapt-quickly at first and then more slowly , as they refine their ht with their new environment . And then there are the controversies . Science progresses and evolves by controversy , by internal debate and revision . In the United States these days one almost hates to mention that there are arguments among evolutionists . So often , they are taken out of context and hyperamplified to suggest that nothing about Darwinism is solid-that Darwin is dead . But research is messy because nature is messy , and fieldwork is some of the messiest research of all . It is precisely here at its jagged cutting edge that Darwinism is most vigorously alive . Not long ago , one of the most famous icons of the evolution watch toppled over : the story of the peppered moths , familiar to anyone who remembers biology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evolutionist Bernard Kettlewell noted that certain moths in the British Isles had evolved into darker forms when the trunks of trees darkened with industrial pollution . When the trees lightened again , after clean air acts were passed , the moths had evolved into light forms again . Kettlewell claimed that dark moths resting on dark tree trunks were harder for birds to see ; in each decade , moths of the right color were safer . But in the past few years , workers have shown that Kettlewell 's explanation was too simplistic . For one thing , the moths do n't normally rest on tree trunks . In forty years of observation , only twice have moths been seen resting there . Nobody knows where they do rest . The moths did evolve rapidly , but no one can be certain why . To me what remains most interesting is the light that studies such as Hendry 's , or the Grants ' ' , may throw on the origin of species . It 's extraordinary that scientists are now examining the very beginnings of the process , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the genes . The explosion of evolution-watchers is a remarkable development in Darwin 's science . Even as the popular debate about evolution in America is reaching its most heated moment since the trial of John Scopes , evolutionary biologists are pursuing one of the most significant and surprising voyages of discovery since the young Darwin sailed into the Galpagos Archipelago aboard Her Majesty 's Ship Beagle . Not long ago I asked Hendry if his studies have changed the way he thinks about the origin of species . " Yes , " he replied without hesitation , " I think it 's occurring all over the place . " Sidebar Galpagos finches have been important to evolutionary field studies ever since Charles Darwin belatedly recognized the meaning of their diversity and distribution in the islands . In recent years , biologists observing many generations of the birds have demonstrated that the process of natural selection can be seen in action-in real time and in extraordinary detail . The beaks of Galpagos finches are adapted to their various diets . In the photographs a cactus ground finch , Geospiza scandens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slender beak ; a medium ground finch , Geospiza fortis , middle , feeds on seeds of the coral tree ( Erythrina ) ; and a small ground finch , Geospiza fuliginosa , right , rests on a small branch . All three share a common seed-eating ancestor from South America . Sidebar EVOLUTION THAT 'S FAST ENOUGH TO WATCH New England : marine snail ( Littorina obtusata ) Shell shape and thickness have changed in the past century , probably in response to being heavily hunted by crabs . Bahamas : anole lizard ( Anolis sagrei ) Shapes of anole lizards ' hind limbs changed and adapted to their new habitats when people brought the lizards to new island ranges . Florida : soapberry bug ( Jadera haematoloma ) Beak size of soapberry bugs grew significantly longer after its habitat was invaded by a non-native plant species with large fruit . Hawai'i : scarlet honeycreeper , or i'iwi ( Vestiaria coccinea ) Bill length of the scarlet honey-creeper was reduced , and the bird switched to another source of nectar , as its favorite flowering plants , the lobelloids , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Average length and fat content have shifted among distinct populations of mosquitofish , in response to variations in local environments . Australia : wild rabbit ( Oryctolagus cuniculus ) Body size , body weight , and ear size changed among rabbits brought to Australia from Europe , in response to the unique climates of the Island Continent . Sidebar Some of the sockeye-salmon populations in and around Lake Washington have changed so much in the past half century that today they rarely interbreed . Salmon in Cedar River must contend with colder temperatures and stronger currents than the f ! sh living at Pleasure Point Beach . Females living in the river have larger bodies than females along the beach , which enable them to dig slightly deeper nests in the gravel beds on the river bottom . Males living in the river , however , have more streamlined bodies ( smaller body depth ) than their counterparts along the beach , which may help them fare better in the strong currents . The beach salmon can dig shallower nests and still keep their eggs warmer than the river salmon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is largely undisturbed by water movement . Author Affiliation JONATHAN WEINER ( " Evolution in Action , " page 47 ) began writing about evolution in 1990 , when he met Peter and Rosemary Grant , who observe evolution firsthand in finch populations in the Galpagos . Weiner 's book The Beak of the Finch ( Alfred A. Knopf ) won a Pulitzer Prize in 1994 . He is a professor in the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University , in New York City . He is also working on a book about human longevity for Ecco Press . // <p>                     