@@391342

Headnote The revolution will be televised . A media scholar examines how feminists have impacted mainstream media from without and within-but reminds us we still have a long way to go . Thirty-five years ago , as the second wave of the 20th-century U.S. feminist movement burst into action , women were all but shut out of newsrooms , press clubs , editorial boards and broadcasting booths . Women did the research ; men got the bylines . Feminists were determined to be included , and to change the media . They wanted to counter and correct the mainstream news-and start their own presses . That 's why Ms. magazine began , along with dozens of smaller feminist journals and other media projects . Today , women are writers , producers , anchors , editors and publishers at every important newspaper , news magazine , television network , and local TV and radio station . Although still grossly underrepresented in many areas , women often decide what becomes news , what goes on the front page , who is given a voice and which stories form the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman is frequently one of the faces of the news : Women are anchors and on-camera reporters in virtually every local television market , and appear on major broadcast and cable-news networks-even on networks dedicated to the twin citadels of masculinity , business and sports . So in an era in which women seem to have integrated into the mainstream , do we still need feminist media ? More than ever . Feminist media remains an instigator and a feeder of content , as well as providing a gender lens through which to view the news . Scholar Patricia Bradley , in her book Mass Media and the Shaping of American Feminism , 1963-1975 ( University Press of Mississippi , 2003 ) , offers Ms. as an example : " Ms. magazine introduced new content to the mass magazine marketplace and influenced the agenda of other mass media vehicles . " Bradley points out that subjects like domestic violence , sexual harassment and equal pay soon became issues " accepted in the broad society without a specific feminist framing . " Cathleen Black , one of the original members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the powerful president of Hearst Magazines and author of Basic Black : The Essential Guide for Getting Ahead at Work ( and in Life ) ( Crown Business , 2007 ) , puts it this way : " Ms. paved the way for a lot of mainstream media to tackle women 's issues in a more frank and open way . What used to be called feminism has truly become part of the zeitgeist . " As feminist media has affected the larger news media from without , feminism has equally affected the media from within . One of the key tenets in the founding document of the National Organization for Women ( NOW ) was to protest and contest the false images of women in the mass media , but that was merely the first step . The feminist movement as a whole called for inclusion in the institutions of power , including the media : There were numerous lawsuits , sit-ins and other protests to end blatant sex discrimination and sexist programming , improve coverage of significant women 's issues and boost the numbers of women delivering news . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporter , as the story being reported and as the behind-the-scenes producer who chooses what constitutes a newsworthy story . In the past 35 years , women have upped their visibility and power in all three areas . As reporters , women have been struggling for decades to claim roles in front of the news cameras . In the 1960s , only a handful of pioneers held such network jobs , but with the prodding of feminism in the 1970s and 1980s , women such as Barbara Walters , Judy Woodruff , Connie Chung , Carole Simpson , Diane Sawyer , Jessica Savitch and Jane Pauley rose to national prominence . But in the 1980s , under Reagan , the Federal Communications Commission , which had been strictly enforcing affirmative action , stopped doing so . The number of women anchors plummeted ; many were replaced by older men or much younger , less-well-paid women . The typical hierarchy of the broadcast too often became that a " serious " older white man served as the primary news anchor , while a " perky " younger woman anchor read script and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have seen more women journalists than ever on the national airwaves , including Christiane Amanpour , Ashleigh Banfield , Paula Zahn , Campbell Brown , Erica Hill , Robin Meade and Nancy Grace . And finally , in 2006 , Katie Couric rose all the way to the " power seat " of solo nightly network news anchor ( Walters and Chung had both been coanchors ) -a position heretofore reserved only for older white-male authority figures , designated as the source and disseminator of knowledge ( and , presumably , " objective truth " ) . Women as newscasters , however , are still endlessly evaluated as visual objects in ways that men are not . For example , the deft and inquisitive Hill , who anchors Prime News on CNN 's Headline News , was named one of People magazine 's " Most Beautiful People " in 2006 , while Maria Bartiromo-a CNBC business news anchor and managing editor for the nationally syndicated Wall Street Journal Report with Maria Bartiromo-is widely referred to as the " Money Honey . " Women ca n't just deliver the news ; being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mere presence of women does n't solve the problem of gender bias when it comes to who is most capable of possessing and delivering information and ideas . That 's why what goes on behind the camera has been crucial in advancing women 's causes and perspectives . As Carole Simpson , a trailblazing African American woman who was ABC 's former weekend anchor for World News Tonight , explains , the news of old was n't just delivered by men but solely decided by them . " And they were usually white , middle-aged and upper-middle-class , " says Simpson , currently a faculty member at Emerson College School of Communications . " The news they presented was not in the public interest , but in white men 's interest . News about , for and by women was relegated to " women 's pages " or " women 's shows . ' ' " She gives a potent example : " When Viagra became available , we had stories about the " wonder drug " night after night on the evening news . But when the breast cancer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newswomen had to fight to get that story on the air , and stories about hormone replacement therapy , the lack of women in government medical studies , the abortion debate and in vitro fertilization . " Simpson was always vocal about what should be included in newscasts-with varying success : " If the executive producer respected my news judgment ( and some did ) I could have real impact , making sure there were social-issues stories .... I would watch closely how women and minorities were portrayed and could effect change . " She did not , however , hold the sort of power retained by the network 's lead anchor , who was white and male . And if the executive producer insisted on being " boss " of the program , Simpson 's ideas could be rebuffed . Nonetheless , women in the news media have sometimes been instrumental in obtaining coverage of issues . For example , it was n't accidental that Anita Hill 's testimony against Clarence Thomas appeared for hours on national television , and the term " sexual harassment " came to permeate public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Des Moines Register , in Barbara Rick 's 2001 film She Says : Women in News , " Women 's reporting on the Anita Hill hearings made it the story it was . I do n't think it would have been the story if men had been the only ones in those political reporting positions . " Then again , the Anita Hill story had sexual content . Would it have gotten the same coverage and ignited the same water-cooler conversation if Hill had instead complained that Clarence Thomas paid her less than male employees ? Despite women 's advancements , in some areas of news journalism they continue to lag way behind . Judy Woodruff , a CNN anchor for 12 years and currently senior correspondent and moderator of 2008 election coverage for The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer on PBS , points out that there are still not enough women in management-where critical decisions are made about hiring , firing , promotions and story selection . Furthermore , women are still rarely asked to comment as experts on serious events , trends or policies : They comprise less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtually absent as columnists for major national print or online media outlets . In a 2005-2006 study of some well-known general-interest magazines ( including The New Yorker , Atlantic Monthly and Vanify Fair ) , the percentage of women writers ranged from a low of 14 percent in Harpers to a " high " of 45 percent in The New York Times Magazine . In radio , women program less than 11 percent of all stations , and just four of Radio Ink magazine 's 40 " Most Powerful People in Radio " are women . It 's not surprising to learn that women own just 3.4 percent of the nearly 12,000 U.S. radio stations . Even in the more liberated blogosphere , only a handful of Technorati 's 100 most-visited blogs are written by women , among them the Huffington Post and Gawker . But a recent study found that women now make up half of all bloggers , and breaking into the top echelons are feminist blogs such as Feministing , Echidne of the Snakes and blac(k)ademic . Women also trail men as newsmakers , except in the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stories using women as sources tally less than 15 percent , according to the Women 's Media Center . And nationally , if a woman is n't white , she has a much smaller chance of making mainstream headlines . Take the lack of reporting about missing African American women : Kristal Brent Zook , an associate professor of journalism at Hofstra University and author of the forthcoming / see Black People : Interviews with African American Owners of Radio and Television ( Nation Books , 2008 ) , wrote about that subject in a 2005 issue of Essence . The stoiy got picked up and played on major cable and online outlets , but it first had to appear in a magazine designed primarily for and by African American women . Often , the origin of news sound bites can be traced back to magazines such as Essence and Ms. Zook wonders how we can talk about the relationship between domestic violence and missing women , and about race and class dynamics , in a news industry where limited page space restricts analysis . " There is a lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Zook . " It is not necessarily lazy journalism , but the politics of corporate ownership . " Which brings us to advertising . Not surprisingly , it plays a significant role in determining the kind , the means and the meat of news that is produced . As Gloria Steinern pointed out in her 1990 Mr. article " Sex , Lies &; Advertising , " it 's " advertisers-not readers-who have always been the problem for Mr. " Ratings and sales directly affect most broadcast news and print media , and the search for revenues grows even more intense with corporate consolidation and the advent of the Internet ( which is killing newspaper classifieds ) . How free is the press when ownership belongs to fewer and fewer individuals , and those few are predominantly white men ? The answer is quite pessimistic . Then again , we 're in the midst of a digital revolution , which is changing everyone 's thinking about the news and its delivery . Will there be more and more room for other voices-those of women , people of color-in the new environment that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time ripe for change . One should n't be naive , but we can also recognize , optimistically , that power ultimately resides in the hands of consumers rather than sellers . Cathleen Black of Hearst is one of the optimists : " I think that all media are realizing the importance of the women 's audience and that these women are major decision makers for their households , " she says . " Traditionally , the newspaper audience has skewed more male than female , but I think that a number of newspapers are working harder to reach women these days , from their features departments to their opinion pages . " We ca n't forget or discount the power of readers and viewers in the women 's media equation . Television has an economic stake in representing women because it has a stake in attracting them to watch . However , " Television producers and advertisers are not as interested in finding out what appeals to women as in constructing ( or reinforcing ) an identity for women that is favorable to what advertisers hope to sell , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Television , Media Culture , and the Women 's Movement Since 1970 ( University of Pennsylvania Press , 1996 ) . Nonetheless , we do not have to buy what we are being sold , and if we refuse to buy then the offerings will be forced to change . Finally , there is no reason for us to be satisfied with a nonthreatening , depoliticized feminism proffered by the mass media . Instead , we need to keep pushing for media that questions and challenges social injustices rooted in gender , as well as extending itself into other categories of disenfranchisement such as class , race and immigrant status . And women in the media need to keep working together , as they do in the International Women 's Media Foundation ( www.iwmf.org ) and the Journalism and Women Symposium ( www.jaws.org ) - networks that support , promote and expand women 's role in the production of news and advocate for equality in the newsroom . Yes , mass media can bring about progress and social changebut not without feminist and other alternative media pushing and guiding . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used to be , but not nearly what they could and should be in 2007 . " Sidebar Christiane Amanpour , seen here , is chief international correspondent for CNN . Sidebar Left : Connie Chung , former network news coanchor . Right : TV news correspondent and anchor Judy Woodruff , currently on PBS , interviewing Associated Press president Louis Boccardi . Author Affiliation L.S. KIM is an assistant professor of film and digital media at the University of California , Santa Cruz . She is the author of the forthcoming Maid for Television : Race , Class and Gender on the Small Screen . <p>                     