@@376558

The farmers and fishermen who live in jungle villages along the southern coast of Burma were long overlooked and neglected by their government . And they liked it that way , given the notorious methods of the country 's military dictatorship . But their lives changed horribly , they say , after two oil companies , the U.S. giant Unocal and its French partner Total , began exploiting natural-gas deposits offshore . The gas discovery prompted construction of a $1.2 billion pipeline through hundreds of miles of rain forest to an electrical plant in neighboring Thailand . At that point , villagers contend , the government began to view them as another kind of natural resource to be exploited . Burmese troops were brought in to provide security and build infrastructure for the project . Overnight , claim the villagers , soldiers forced them at gunpoint to build army camps , helipads and roads . Many fled into the jungle , but others could not escape what they charge were terrible abuses . One victim , a slightly built , middle-aged rice farmer , told TIME of beatings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loads through the jungle , sometimes for weeks at a stretch . " The government calls us volunteers , " he said . " But the truth is , we were slaves . " <P> To protect his identity , the rice farmer is known as " John Doe No. 8 " in a lawsuit in which he and 14 other unnamed victims accuse Unocal of " aiding and abetting " abuses carried out by Burmese soldiers . The villagers , assisted by American labor activists , have asked U.S. courts to award damages that could exceed $1 billion . How Unocal fares in a trial scheduled for December in a California state court and in federal litigation will be closely watched because the oil company is just one of many big U.S. companies facing similar court cases , a potential minefield for multinationals that do business in unsavory nations . Other targets include Fresh Del Monte Produce , which is being sued by Guatemalan laborers who say the firm hired goons who kidnapped and tortured union organizers , and ExxonMobil , which faces claims by Indonesian villagers that the oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " We want to establish that multinationals , which are among the biggest players in the global economy , are bound by the rule of law , " says Terry Collingsworth , executive director of the International Labor Rights Fund , which is backing many of the lawsuits . <P> The law in question is a once obscure statute drafted in 1789 by the first U.S. Congress and known as the Alien Tort Claims Act . Originally designed to combat piracy , it fell into disuse until 1980 , when courts began applying it to liability for aiding and abetting violations of fundamental human rights no matter where they occur  --  a standard similar to one used to prosecute German companies at the Nuremberg trials after World War II . More than two dozen cases have been filed against firms doing business in developing countries . No judgments have been awarded so far , but the potential liability could reach $200 billion .                     