@@364844

As the number of airline passengers starts to soar with the temperature , the Transportation Security Administration ( TSA ) is finally taking a significant step toward speeding the security process for at least some flyers . Aviation sources tell TIME that this week the TSA will announce the launch of a three-month trial of its Registered Traveler program , which will start at five airports , beginning in Minneapolis  --  St. Paul and then in other cities , including Los Angeles and Houston . A sort of fast track for frequent flyers , the program aims to let approved passengers use less crowded lanes to the security checkpoints and possibly avoid such routine security measures as removing their shoes and coats . To gain that privilege , passengers must submit to an extensive background check , including searches of commercial and government databases . After being approved and paying a small annual fee ( yet to be determined ) , they would be issued a card  --  containing a biometric identifier ( a fingerprint , for example ) and personal data  --  that shows they 're entitled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not a moment too soon . Almost 200 million people are expected to fly this summer , a 12% increase from last year , yet the cash-strapped TSA has had to lay off thousands of screeners . Up to 15% of passengers are still being singled out for extra screening because of outdated parameters like buying a one-way ticket or paying in cash . The TSA has fumbled efforts to improve the screening procedures and carry out a new color-coded system that verifies the identity and assesses the risk of every passenger . <P> Critics of the pilot program doubt it will make the security process much easier for prescreened travelers . But airport officials are supportive . " We love the idea , " says Tim Anderson , an executive director of the Minneapolis  --  St. Paul International Airport . " It helps move us away from treating everyone the same and searching for the needle in the haystack . " <P>  --  By Sally B. Donnelly                     