@@411181

" Even with the belated extension of prosperity to lower-income Americans in the tight labor markets at the end of the expansion of the 1990s , great inequalities in wealth , income , and opportunity remain . " // DESPITE a relatively robust economy , a booming stock market , low levels of unemployment , and high business profits , the political , social , and economic gains from America 's long period of broadly shared prosperity between 1940 and the early 1970s are being eroded by some strong negative trends , especially declining real wages for most workers and growing inequality of wealth and income . There is mounting evidence that these trends are fragmenting the country politically and exacerbating such serious social pathologies as crime , family disruptions , suicide , and mental and physical health problems . Although the American economy is performing well relative to most other countries , these underlying weaknesses make it questionable that this prosperity is sustainable . Indeed , in a highly integrated global economy , sustainable prosperity depends heavily on growth in the rest of the world . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage of its current good fortune to address some fundamental issues that could weaken future economic performance and create social instability . It is not clear whether the broadly shared prosperity period was an aberration or whether there are public and private policies that could sustain growth while improving opportunities for the majority of Americans whose real incomes have not risen much , if at all , since the early 1970s . The basic premise is that the earlier shared prosperity was due to a combination of basic economic and technological trends strengthened and directed by supportive policies that caused prosperity to be shared broadly . The very different economic realities of the 1980s and 1990s are supported by national and international economic policies that cause prosperity to be shared less widely . The most serious deterrent to sustainable prosperity is the growing inequality of wealth and income resulting from stagnant or declining real wages . Family incomes have been sustained since the early 1970s mainly by the increased employment of women . Real income losses have been particularly large for the bottom 40% of wage earners , despite improvements in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , low levels of unemployment owe more to slow growth in the workforce than to robust economic expansion . The recovery that started in 1991 is the weakest of any since World War II . Widening inequality would be less problematic if , as some economists argue , it were accompanied by greater upward mobility . In that case , the good fortune of those at the top could provide incentives for those at the bottom to move up . Since growing inequality has not been offset by greater upward mobility , opportunity in America is declining across generations as well as life spans . Declining and more unequal wage mobility has become a particularly serious issue for younger workers . The causes of the burgeoning inequality can be understood in terms of specific and more basic structural changes . The specific causes are the slowdown in the growth of productivity and total output and the absorption of a larger share of that growth by business profits and higher-income families . Productivity growth , the basic determinant of improvement in real incomes , was only about one-third as large during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than half the 1870-1970 annual trend rate of 2.3% . This means that two or three times as much labor was required to get the same improvement in output as formerly . As a consequence , capital investment has slowed , as has total output of goods and services , which grew at an annual rate of two percent between 1990 and 1996 , compared with five percent in the 1960s , 3.6% in the 1970s , and 2.8% in the 1980s . Other specific factors responsible for the slower economic expansion since 1973 include the reduced rate of public investment , the shift of jobs to lower productivity services sectors , the short-run profit orientation of American companies , higher real interest rates , and rising long-term joblessness ( unemployment and underemployment ) . The specific reasons for declining real wages include cuts in manufacturing employment , more intensive international competition , reduced collective bargaining coverage , and the declining real value of the minimum wage . With respect to more basic structural causes , America 's long period of broadly shared prosperity was due primarily to three factors : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important sources of wealth and income ; rapid improvements in productivity from economies of scale in the mass production sectors ; and supportive policies and institutions , especially relatively free market and political systems , and pragmatic public-private cooperation in constructing infrastructure , education , and income support systems . The New Deal policies on full employment , collective bargaining , wage supports , Social Security , and education were particularly important in improving the conditions of low-income workers and farmers . World War II contributed significantly to demanddriven technology , human capital formation , and economic growth . The post-World War II GI Bill probably did more to improve higher educational opportunities for middle  --  and low-income men than any other activity in American history . The policies and institutions responsible for America 's broadly shared prosperity period were undermined by a combination of very strong technological , demographic , and economic trends , requiring a new national and international economic policy paradigm . Today 's economic environment is much more dynamic , competitive , knowledge-intensive , and market-driven . In this environment , the requirements for economic success are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainly economies of scale ) and quality ( meeting customers ' needs ) - and the flexibility to respond rapidly to changing markets and technologies . A new policy paradigm The main conclusion to be drawn from a careful study of the evidence is that restoring broadly shared prosperity will require establishing new policies and institutions : * A new basic conceptual framework must be developed to replace the New Deal-mass production paradigm that has become much less effective , if not obsolete . In arriving at this new conceptual framework , a careful factual and analytical underpinning for economic and social policy is needed . It is particularly important to have a pragmatic , non-ideological approach to the relationships between markets and the public sector . The late Robert Eisner , one of America 's most insightful economists , stressed the need for careful public accounting ( including capital budgeting ) and sound economic analysis in order to avoid costly mistakes based on such unsupported assumptions as : the U.S. could have had faster economic growth during the 1980s and 1990s without inflation ; there is a Social Security crisis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth will exceed moderately rising economic dependency ; balanced budgets are always good policy ; private investments always have higher yields than public investments ; and privatization of Social Security , lower benefits , or increased Social Security taxes are needed to avoid a pending crisis when the baby boomers retire . The obvious benefits from competitive markets should not blind Americans to the critical importance of public investments in infrastructure , human resources , technology , and research and development . New organizations of work , commonly called high performance organizations ( HPOs ) , must replace the traditional authoritarian mass production organization of work as the microeconomic core of a broadly shared prosperity strategy . HPO models differ , but the one most deserving of support has a number of distinguishing characteristics , including a focus on improving productivity , quality , and flexibility ; lean , decentralized , highly participative management systems ; positive material and non-material compensation systems that reward value added ; continuous individual , group , and organizational learning , especially by frontline workers ; the development and use of leading-edge technology ; and policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers . The alternative to the high-value-added ( HVA ) strategy is to compete by direct cost cutting ( DCC ) , which implies lower and more-unequal incomes and limits economic progress to using more resources instead of improving value added . The essence of the HVA strategy is to create efficient learning organizations that substilute ideas , skills , and knowledge for physical resources . This strategy could greatly improve broadly shared prosperity through steep learning and value-added gains . In addition , this strategy 's core participative and human resource development requirements clearly are more compatible with broadly shared prosperity and democratic institutions than the DCC alternative . HPOs require supportive policies and institutions , including : 1 . A full employment growth strategy based on the best evidence about the ability to achieve high levels of growth without inflation . Slower economic expansion since the 1970s is a major cause of declining opportunity . Under present conditions , inflation is less threatening to national well-being than slower-than-optimal growth , though Massachusetts Institute of Technology Nobel Laureate Robert Solow warns against complacency on the inflation front . 2 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help restore broadly shared prosperity . However , while structural changes in the domestic economy are more important factors , globalization has contributed perhaps 20-30% to wage inequality . AFL-CIO international economist Thea Lee cautions that the costs of deeper international integration could far outweigh the benefits . She recommends rigorous evaluation of additional trade liberalization , as well as international rules to protect environmental and labor standards . Indeed , the numerous efforts under way to construct a much-needed new international financial architecture should be guided by high-value  --  added concepts , not by the traditional cost  --  cutting and austerity policies favored by international financial institutions . These traditional approaches not only shift the cost of crises to lower-income people less able to cope with losses of income and employment , but usually deepen those crises and threaten social stability and democratic institutions . New international institutions and policies should seek to prevent global crises by encouraging sound financial and economic policies and measures to respond more effectively to such events than was the case during the 1980s and 1990s . It is particularly important to encourage social safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bearing the brunt of financial crises . 3 . Corporate governance , a major obstacle to broadly shared prosperity , should be reformed . American corporations ' concentration on short-run shareholder value , intensified by the globalization and deregulation of financial markets , reduces long-run investments for human capital , slows the transformation of hierarchical management structures into HPOs , blocks efficiency-producing forms of worker participation , and causes companies to neglect workers and communities . 4 . Employee participation and the right of workers to organize and bargain collectively should be strengthened . Although there is growing evidence that worker participation can improve corporate performance , Americans have less voice at work than their counterparts in other democratic industrial countries . Declining union strength is an important factor in growing inequality . Moreover , the U.S. 's obsolete labor laws do not serve anybody very well , though they give employers a considerable power advantage . Among the main problems , some forms of labor-management cooperation are illegal ; at least 25,000,000 workers say they want union representation , but are unable to get it because to do so requires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employers , which could cost them their jobs ; and the entire system is far too adversarial , clumsy , litigious , and inefficient . 5 . American human resource development policies , institutions , and practices need to be improved . Wide disparities in the quality of education are a major cause of growing inequality . While almost all analysts agree that dramatic improvements in education are necessary for broadly shared prosperity , they are . not sufficient for this purpose . There is , for example , no necessary relationship between investments in schooling and economic performance in various countries . Education improves economic performance only if value-enhancing opportunities create a demand for skilled workers . Clearly , a failure to improve dramatically the quality of education at every level , especially for low-income families , will make it much more difficult , if not impossible , to restore broadly shared prosperity . For instance , Economic Policy Institute economist Dean Baker believes that , unless wage inequality is reversed , the median hourly wages for the lowest 40% of wage earners is unlikely to improve by 2030 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1995 . However , if annual education spending increases by one percent of gross domestic product and wage equality is restored to its 1970s level , the wages and incomes of all Americans would improve dramatically . Indeed , Baker 's analysis in Defusing the Baby Boomer Time Bomb shows worry about the aging of boomers to be a much less important negative impact on future wage and income growth than continued wage inequality . By 2030 , at the peak of baby boom retirement , after-tax hourly wages will still be 30% higher , and after-tax , after  --  health care income will be more than 41% greater . In addition , the typical full-time employee could have almost two weeks more vacation than today 's workers . Educational inadequacies From his extensive involvement in school restructuring , Marc Tucker , president of the National Center on Education and the Economy ( NCEE ) , concludes that American schools , developed for a mass production economy , are grossly inadequate for a more  --  competitive , knowledge-intensive world . Indeed , American K-12 schools , school-to  --  work programs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of other industrial democracies . Tucker directs a standards-driven school reform system that could upgrade American education to equal the best in the world . The NCEE 's New Standards are internationally benchmarked to define exactly what U.S. students should know and be able to do at various levels . As part of the NCEE America 's Choice high-performance school design , standards have been developed to improve the motivation of teachers and students ; provide better information to students , parents , employers , and educators ; facilitate systemic efficiency ; strengthen accountability ; and provide better linkages between levels of education and between schools and workforce training or higher education . The America 's Choice model is particularly promising as a way to improve the most-troubled schools like those in large urban areas , populated by students who have not been well-served by traditional mass production schools . One of the greatest weaknesses in the American system is the absence of effective school-to-career and workforce development processes for the majority of U.S. workers who are not college graduates . Federal workforce development institutions are very fragmented , severely underfunded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and have very limited participation from employers , without whom the system is unlikely ever to be very effective . American companies have provided less training for frontline workers than their counterparts in other industrial countries . The Clinton Administration has initiated policies to change these outcomes , but such efforts are only in the beginning stages and could easily be eliminated by a new administration less committed to public investments in human resource development . There is a serious need to build broad bipartisan support for a world-class workforce development infrastructure . 6 . More effective strategies are needed to develop urban areas , especially inner cities , which contain some of America 's most rapidly growing concentrations of people with multiple disadvantages and declining opportunities . Although urban problems have been greatly exacerbated by structural shifts in the economy , Columbia University urban affairs expert Elliot Sclar notes that the most fundamental problems of U.S. cities are not due to natural market forces , but to uniquely American public housing , transportation , and tax policies that have subsidized suburbanization and depopulated cities . Moreover , the structural changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reduce greatly the availability and increase the cost of credit to inner cities , thus hastening their deterioration . Harvard sociologist William J. Wilson has demonstrated the catastrophic consequences of the disappearance of work for the lives of inner-city residents . While shared economic growth would clearly help improve the conditions of low-income people everywhere , these would not be sufficient to address the needs of people in depressed inner cities and rural areas-special targeted programs are required for this . In addition , Wilson recommends greater cooperation between suburbs and cities in order to align resources and responsibility better with the scope and severity of problems . Remedial efforts must address particular industries and sectors as well as geographic areas . MIT economist Lester Thurow concludes , for example , that broadly shared prosperity is not likely unless measures are taken to improve productivity greatly in service industries , where over 90% of all new jobs are being created . He notes that service jobs in other countries require higher skills , are more technology-intensive , and pay higher wages . Health economist Karen Davis cites the ability of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic opportunity as well as the quality of life far low-income Americans . She notes that poor health is an important cause of the low labor force participation of minority males . Some insight into what might be done to improve low-income communities is provided by the impressive results of the Southwest Industrial Areas Foundation . Its director , Ernesto Cortes , Jr. , stresses the importance of social capital and the extent to which the engagement of community residents is necessary for permanent improvements in education , employment , public facilities , and other activities essential for increasing opportunities for low-income people . Even with the belated extension of prosperity to lower-income Americans in the tight labor markets at the end of the expansion of the 1990s , great inequalities in wealth , income , and opportunity remain . Moreover , the next economic downturn could easily erase the small gains these groups made toward the end of the I990s . However , there is evidence that , with proper policies , broadly shared prosperity could be restored , perhaps even more robustly than during the 1940-70 period , since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge bases from which to build . Author Affiliation Ray Marshall , Audre and Bernard Rapoport Centennial Chair in Economics and Public Affairs , The University of Texas at Austin , served as Secretary of Labor during the Carter Administration and is the editor of Back to Shared Prosperity . // <p>                     