@@386969

" I THINK THE TRAIL must be just up ahead . " My wife Penny 's voice flutters past me like an errant scrap of paper . Below me , she and our friend Kris Karlson clamber over deadfall and through brush up a steep slope toward the saddle where I 'm scouring our map , which suddenly seems less detailed than I 'd like . We 've spent 30 minutes bushwhacking through sub-alpine forest trying to relocate the Continental Divide Trail ( CDT ) , which we lost amid a maze of rogue camper footpaths beside Warren Lake . Penny 's sense of direction proves true as a compass needle . After a bit of scouting , we 're back on the CDT . But our diversionary romp begins to solidify my impression that the Anaconda-Pintler Wilderness remains true to its historical reputation . The mountains here in southwestern Montana , near the Idaho border , have been losing people for centuries . Two hundred years ago , even Meriwether Lewis and William Clark had difficulty crossing the Continental Divide . They believed the Missouri River would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where a mere half-day portage would deposit them in the Columbia River drainage . But on August 12 , 1805 , when Lewis crested the divide just south of here , he saw " immense ranges of high mountains still to the West of us with their tops partially covered with snow . " THE LAND TODAY LOOKS little different . In 1937 , the U. S. Forest Service declared it a primitive area , citing the " almost complete absence of man 's influence . " In 1964 , Anaconda-Pintler was deemed sufficiently wild to merit inclusion in the inaugural class of 54 federal wilderness areas created by the Wilderness Act . Named for the Anaconda Mountains and Charles Ellsworth Pintler , a 19thcentury settler in the Big Hole Valley , the wilderness comprises 159,086 acres of the Beaverhead , Bitterroot , and Deerlodge National Forests . Half a dozen peaks top 10,000 feet and numerous others rise above 9,000 , their slopes and valleys home to mountain goat and lion , elk , moose , deer , wolverine , and black bear . Not many people find their way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just three vehicles at the trailhead . Two sunrises into our 4-day loop , we 've hiked through cool pine forests , strolled beside creeks coursing with ice water , traversed an exposed talus ridge overlooking sweeping glacial cirques , and slept beneath a cold sky liberally salted with stars . Yet we 've passed only four backpackers . " It 's easy to see why Lewis and Clark had trouble getting over the Bitterroots , " Penny muses , gazing west at the daunting wall of mountains . We 're straddling the divide at an unnamed pass beside an unnamed 9,800-foot summit . Pikas chirp at us from the talus . Moments earlier , five mule deer bounded away . To our right , the ground peels away through cliff bands and meadows of wind-blown grasses to Rainbow Lake , where waters spill into Fishtrap Creek to begin a long journey to the Atlantic Ocean . To our left , Martin Lake tumbles into the Falls Fork of Rock Creek to begin an impressive trek to the Pacific . We stop for lunch beside Johnson Lake . A few hikers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on sun-splashed rocks , I ponder the odd anomaly of backpacking over a Labor Day weekend amid 10,000foot peaks along the Continental Divide and encountering virtually no one . Perhaps some higher hiking power long ago ordained that this majestic stretch of North America 's backbone should remain forever anonymous , largely beyond view of paved roads , guarded like a valued secret . Maybe this convolution of skyscraping peaks and mazelike valleys in the northern Rockies suffers only the most intrepid explorers . I ca n't completely explain it . But I can enjoy it . Lewis and Clark bemoaned their tribulations in crossing these mountains 200 years ago , but I firmly believe that if they were around today , they 'd appreciate the fact that a few places like the AnacondaPintler Wilderness remain . Sidebar <p>                     