@@414174

LETTERS FROM OUR READERS JUST WARMING UP Although the news presented from around the world on climate change is alarming ( " Welcome to the Greenhouse Century , " September/October 2000 ) , your special report is very much appreciated . Contrary to public perception , this issue has been discussed for more than a century . But it seems as though our western culture 's profit incentive and residual war-based economy ( weapons and their delivery systems are created from fossil fuels and nuclear power ) are almost oblivious to the tens of billions of tons of carbon dioxide entering the Earth 's atmosphere every year . Is n't it time for the people of the U.S. to match our economic activities with our ecological concerns ? I 'd also like to point out a correction , however . In your E Word editorial , you refer to " five tons of carbon dioxide per U.S. citizen " and also state " Americans will have pumped another billion tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere . " But these tonnages are actually for carbon alone . Your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are more accurately expressed as " 20 tons of carbon dioxide per U.S. citizen per year , " and " Americans add about 5.5 billion tons of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere every year . " James Newberry New Haven , CT Global warming has come to my part of Connecticut in the form of bizarre instances of extreme weather . Last winter , for instance , there were several marathon thunderstorms . I remember that one day the thunder and lightning began mid-afternoon and went on until 11 p.m. or later ; yet there was hardly any rain . Then there were unseasonal interludes of mild spring weather , sandwiched between bursts of such bonechilling cold that I had to carry my dog home , the frozen ground hurt her feet so . When does the anecdotal , like my observations and some of those cited in your September 2000 cover story , merit elevation to the status of evidence ? I suppose not until the situation has become so critical that business interests and politicians feel safe in clamoring for large-scale initiatives , costing billions of tax dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily and cheaply if only they had had the courage to take action sooner . Robert Davey Bridgeport , CT I would like to commend you on your global warming issue . The mainstream media has so far said little about a topic that a large majority of independent scientists believe is a real danger to the future of this planet . I fail to understand why , with such a threat hanging over us , we need to wait for absolute proof and total agreement before acting . Is it worth jeopardizing the future of our children , grandchildren and other life on this globe ? You have done a good job of reviewing scientific evidence , and also of giving concrete examples of what has already happened all over the Earth . Independent periodicals such as E Magazine are essential in our society for keeping citizens aware of crucial problems , which magazines that depend heavily on advertising are afraid to touch . Thank you for your hard work and insights . Keep it up ! Elizabeth Mark Alexandria , VA Your article on global warming told a fascinating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 21st century . Global warming is no longer just a theory to be debated in academic circles : It is having real effects on real people . It 's disturbing to consider that some skeptics still say that the science is n't in when a plurality of climate scientists agree that it is , and there is so much anecdotal evidence to suggest the process has already started . While it may be too early to advise friends and family not to buy beachfront property , it 's plain that the world will have to brace itself for the onset of warmer weather , rising tides and an increase in storms , floods and general disruption . Only by reducing fossil fuel use can we hope to repair the damage already done to the atmosphere . E 's story and the mounting evidence of these devastating effects will , I hope , prod the nations of the world to hurry up and take action . Jim Mason Mount Vernon , MO In E 's special issue on global warming , I appreciate how you pointed out the salience of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Having just finished researching The Global Warming Desk Reference ( to be published next year by Greenwood Press ) , I was impressed by the depth and accuracy of the writing . Ross Gelbspan , who wrote the introduction , is always good on the subject , and I also liked the specific emphasis placed on various parts of the world , especially China . Global warming is a very large subject , and even a special issue ca n't stretch to cover it all . Other aspects of the problem warrant more in-depth coverage , such as ozone depletion 's relationship to global warming , and the positive steps being pursued to reduce greenhouse gases in many European countries , especially Great Britain and Denmark . A third area that needs deeper examination is the devastation faced by coral reefs around the world . Bruce E. Johansen , Professor University of Nebraska Omaha , NE I was disappointed to see in your " Greenhouse Century " piece that Mark Hertsgaard 's discussion of global warming ( " China : The Cost of Coal " ) included no suggestion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal-generated pollution : Namely , providing China with less-polluting oil and natural gas , or even better , the latest in alternative energy technology . I imagine most people 's response to such a suggestion would be : " Huh ? Is n't China supposed to pay for that stuff ? " In other words , we seem unwilling to forego short-term financial gain to help China meet its legitimate goal of providing a decent living standard for its people through less-polluting means . Hopefully , environmentalists have a broader perspective , but your neglect to mention this option causes me to fear that even environmentalists have failed to learn the lesson of " the tragedy of the commons . " Ken Meyercord Founder , Zero Growth Pleasant Hill , CA In the section of your " Hot and Bothered " feature entitled " Antigua and Barbuda : In a Tropical Depression ? " Jennifer Bogo writes : " Lenny was a serious anomaly , " says Keithley Meade of Antiguas Meteorological Office . It surprised everyone by spinning in the opposite direction of the typical storm . ' I would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incorrectly ; the alternative is that he 's a meteorologist with no clear concept of hurricanes . Either way , the statement is false . The winds around hurricanes in the Northern Hemisphere ( and , indeed , all low-pressure systems there ) circulate counterclockwise . Hurricane Lenny could n't have , as you state , spun " in the opposite direction of the typical storm . " Lenny was an anomaly because it was traveled along a rare west-to-east path and therefore struck islands from a different direction than normal . That distinction does n't lessen the damage that the islands suffered . Sid Perkins Alexandria , VA Editor 's Note : Thanks for the clarification . Our intention , when we stated that Lenny " spun in the opposite direction of the typical storm , " was that although the rotational axis of the spin itself was not anomalous , the path in which the storm was spinning , was . I recently ran across your magazine and read the global warming series . I have worked as a trained environmental engineer and civil engineer on a couple of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restoration and compliance projects . I 've dealt with all the major mediums : air , soil , water/ groundwater , social , biological and cultural . And I am not terribly surprised at the absurdity of your article . Since when has anecdotal material become scientific proof ? The article is nothing more than a poor example of " cargo  --  cult " science , inferring cause-and-effect relationships by superficial observation . If this article is typical of your magazine , then you are the source of more problems than solutions . If you use ridiculous and unfounded emotional appeals to change people 's behavior , you will lose their respect as well as their ear and your cause will suffer . Anecdotal stories with no clear-cut relationship are insulting to the scientific method and to any scientists worth their salt . Daniel Yocum Colorado Springs , CO Your special issue dedicated solely to global warming added credibility to the most troubling issue of our times ; however , I was left disappointed and confused regarding your neglect to offer the clearest and most convenient solution for everyone to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the unifying connection should have been Al Gore 's endorsement for President of the United States . The effects of global warming are being felt all over the world , and with our country far and away the biggest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions , we have an added responsibility to seriously tackle this nightmare . George W. Bush 's position is that there is not enough scientific evidence to take this problem seriously . Yet in the super-tight race where every vote counted , your failure to articulate this was dismaying . It is projected that a one-meter rise in sea level will put as many as a billion people at risk , with more than a million people facing displacement in countries such as China , Bangladesh , India , Indonesia , Vietnam and the Phillippines , with unknown effects on Malaysia , Sri Lanka , Burma , Cambodia and Thailand . At the Millenium Conference at the United Nations in September , the President of the Maldives , Maumoon Abdul Gayoom , asked the 149 world leaders present , " When the U.N . meets to usher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low-lying nations be represented here ? My time at the podium is up , but I pray that of my country is not . " And right in Washington , D.Ca backyard , a 1996 conference at Chestertown , Maryland 's Washington College brought together 140 scientists , property owners and government officials who produced this blunt statement : " The evidence that sea level has risen , is rising and will continue to rise along the coast of Maryland is so great that no informed person would suggest otherwise . " Unless , of course , we 're talking about potentially the next President of the United States . Jay Lustgarten North Bellmore , NY Sidebar We welcome your letters Sidebar Please type letters double-spaced , and include your full name and address and a daytime phone number . Mail to : EMagazine/ Advice and Dissent , RO . Box 5098 , Westport , CT 06881 , or e-mail them to : info@emagazine.com. // <p>                     