@@412622

" Five specific areas where the North American Treaty Organization can play a greater role in bringing security and stability to the Middle East are Turkey , Afghanistan , Iraq , the Mediterranean , and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . " // NATO secRETARY GENERAL Lord George Robertson recently gave a farewell speech in London titled " The Omaha Milkman Today . " In it , he reminded his audience that one of the drafters of the Washington Treaty of 1949 sought to make the language of the treaty establishing the Atlantic Alliance so clear and concise that even a milkman from Omaha , Neb. , would be able to understand it . As a senator from Nebraska , I commend the drafters for setting this lofty benchmark . I have learned to trust the instincts and insights of my fellow Midwesterners , who respect and appreciate clarity and straight talk . They also understand the connections between prosperity and security at home , and the success of our foreign , trade , and economic policies abroad . The clarity and durability of the Atlantic Alliance begins with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even at its inception , NATO was more than just a military cooperative built to defend against the Soviets . Europeans and North Americans understood its common purpose and challenges . There was no significant debate about whether the Soviet Union represented a threat to U.S. security and world peace . The North Atlantic Treaty Organization became the most successful coalition in history because it matched purpose with power and served the interests of its members . Yet , the end of the Cold War and the reunification of Germany raised new questions about the future . Many argued that the European Union could not adjust to the reintegration of a united Germany into Europe . Some predicted that NATO could be a victim of its own success , a relic of history , or that it might be relegated to keeping the peace in Europe-in other words , a regional security organization . We were reminded that alliances are formed in response to threats . In the absence of the threat from the Soviet Union , NATO 's fate was uncertain . What now was its purpose ? The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secretary of State Henry Kissinger in Diplomacy : " The architects of the Atlantic Alliance would have been incredulous had they been told that victory in the Cold War would raise doubts about the future of their creation . They took it for granted that the prize for victory . . . was a lasting Atlantic partnership . In the name of that goal , some of the decisive political battles of the Cold War were fought and won . In the process , America was tied to Europe by permanent consultative institutions and an integrated military command system-a structure of a scope and duration unique in the history of coalitions . " During periods of historic change , institutions must adapt to remain vital and relevant . In the 1990s , NATO began this process as it sought to define a new role in world affairs . This included an expansion of membership , welcoming new countries from Eastern Europe , and establishing a fresh relationship with Russia . Sept. 11 , 2001 , brought NATO 's purpose into clearer focus . The greatest threat to the Atlantic Alliance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and networks , and the potential for these groups to obtain and use weapons of mass destruction . The danger to stability today does not come from great powers , but from weak ones . Terrorism finds sanctuary in failed or faltering states , in unresolved regional conflicts , and in the misery of endemic poverty and despair . No single nation , including the U.S. , even with its vast military and economic power , can meet these challenges alone . The struggle in which we now are engaged is a global one that does not readily conform to our understanding of military confrontations or alliances of previous eras . It is not a traditional contest of standing armies battling over territory . Failed or failing states , or nations in transition , such as Iraq and Afghanistan , are not rebuilt by military force alone . Progress must be made in these countries with human rights , good governance , and economic reform before we can expect lasting security and stability . The next generation of Arabs and Muslims may either embrace the promise of freedom , or drift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to play a vital role , but the future success of NATO will be determined by its members ' abilities to deepen and expand their cooperation in the intelligence , law enforcement , economic , diplomatic , and humanitarian fields . Photograph First North Atlantic Council meeting for the newly appointed NATO secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer , Jan. 7 , 2004 . Photograph First North Atlantic Council meeting for the newly appointed NATO secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer , Jan. 7 , 2004 . Photograph Left : A multinational fleet of warships on patrol is part of NATO 's Standing Naval Force Mediterranean . Photograph Left : A multinational fleet of warships on patrol is part of NATO 's Standing Naval Force Mediterranean . Photograph Above right and top right : Members of NATO 's Multinational Chemical , Biological , Radiological and Nuclear Defense Battalion practice responding to a variety of threat scenarios . Photograph Below : NATO vessels docked in Naples , Italy . // The strategic focus of NATO 's efforts in the first half of the 21 st century will be the Middle East . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have settled the " out of area " debate for NATO , which has reorganized this reality with its presence in Afghanistan . Adapting to this new strategic environment-and expanded membership-will not come easily or cheaply and will require a revamped strategic doctrine . As NATO adjusts , it must address the gaps in military expenditures and capabilities of its partners . The tough decisions can not continue to be deferred . It is essential that members not allow themselves to drift into adversarial relationships over disagreements . The challenges and differences that always will exist among allied nations must be resolved inside NATO , not outside . That means institutional flexibility will need to be addressed , as NATO only can be undermined by its own internal distractions . Pres. George W. Bush has offered a plan for the Middle East that is potentially historic in scope , and conveys the strategic importance of this region for American foreign policy . U.S. support for freedom must be matched with operational programs of partnership with the peoples and governments of the region to promote more democratic politics and more open economies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas where NATO can play a greater role in bringing security and stability to the Middle East are Turkey , Afghanistan , Iraq , the Mediterranean , and the Israeli-Palestinian problem . New York Times columnist Tom Friedman has described this era in world politics as a " hinge of history . " Turkey hangs on that hinge . Our course of action with Arab and Islamic societies must emphasize , in Friedman 's analysis , building bridges rather than digging ditches . The NATO alliance can provide a mechanism for growth . As Europe and NATO have reached out to a united Germany and the states of the former Warsaw Pact , we now must ensure that we apply the same tact to Turkey . That nation has been a vital member of NATO , a strong and honest force , and it deserves credit and recognition for this effort . Turkey also is a cultural and geographic bridge to the Arab and Islamic world . By drawing it closer , and supporting European Union membership , the Atlantic Alliance will have a better chance of encouraging continued political and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will increase the prospects for resolution of long-standing disputes between Turkey and Greece over Cyprus and between Turkey and Armenia over Azerbaijan . If we push Turkey away , we jeopardize our interests in bringing greater peace and stability to the entire region . In Afghanistan , the Loya Jirga recently completed drafting a new constitution that sets a course for elections and holds the promise of a democratic transition and the rule of law . The government of Pres. Hamid Karzai and the people of Afghanistan have come a long way in the past two years . Sustained political progress , however , will depend on greater strides in security and economic reconstruction . The job here is far from complete . Reconstituted Taliban and Al-Qaeda forces continue to threaten the fragile gains that have been forged . The role of NATO has evolved and become more important to the future of Afghanistan . In 2003 , NATO assumed leadership of the UN-mandated International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) , the Alliance 's first mission beyond the Euro-Atlantic region . Current NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ priority for the Alliance . " Photograph Members of NATO 's International Security Assistance Force discuss a water system repair project with residences of Kubal , Afghanistan . Afghanistan Pres. Hamid Karzai ( left ) meets with NATO 's previous Secretary General Lord Robertson , Sept. 28 , 2003 . Photograph During military exercises staged in Doganbey , Turkey , November , 2003 , NATO Response Force demonstrated its sea , land , and air capabilities . A Sea King helicopter rendezvouses with the Spanish naval vessel SWS Castilla. // Reconstrcting Afghanistan NATO 's goals eventually should be to assume responsibility for all military and reconstruction operations in Afghanistan , including that of Enduring Freedom . On Jan. 6 , NATO took responsibility for the German Provincial Reconstruction Team ( PRT ) in Kunduz . This is a good step , but ISAF needs to begin planning for deployments in southern and southeastern Afghanistan , where security and reconstruction are most threatened by Taliban and Al-Qaeda forces operating in the difficult border region with Pakistan . The expansion of ISAF beyond Kabul , and of NATO-led PRTs throughout the country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy . It is critical that NATO assets promised for Afghanistan be there-on the ground and operational . There are reports that things are falling behind schedule . This is dangerous . NATO must ensure that commitments made are fulfilled and honored-now . The Afghanistan Freedom Support Act of 2002 authorized $1,000 , - 000,000 to bolster ISAF expansion . Robertson has emphasized that " Failure would be a crushing blow , not just for NATO , but for each and every NATO country . " Moreover , NATO will need to play a significant role in helping bring security and stability to Iraq . In 2003 , NATO committed to providing force generation , communication , logistics , and movement support for Polish forces in Iraq . That is a good start . However , NATO should initiate discussions to take over the duties of the Polish sector in central Iraq , or possibly assume responsibility for a division in the north . I am encouraged by German Chancellor Schroeder telling his parliament recently that his government could support the deployment of NATO troops to Iraq . Bringing security and stability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members . There may have been disagreements over how best to deal with Saddam Hussein 's regime prior to the war , but that is behind us . The alliance must be able to manage disagreements , as we have in the past . Suez , Vietnam , and the deployment of intermediate-range nuclear missiles in Germany in 1983 come to mind . Kissinger has likened U.S. disagreements with Europe and our NATO allies over the years to the " grating character of family squabbles . " Iraq should be put in the same light . Photograph Opposite page left : Two Turkish soldiers practice search and rescue operations . Opposite page right : A NATO trooper acquires a mock target with a Mistral air defense missle. // If Iraq becomes a failed state , its liberation will be a historic opportunity squandered . NATO 's collective credibility , as well as its collective security , can not be disconnected from the end result in Baghdad . Our common policies and interests throughout the Middle East and the Islamic world-including the war on terrorism , resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Iraq . Pres. Bush has set an ambitious timetable for turning authority over to a new Iraqi government by june 30 . This is the right course , but the path is difficult . There are great risks and high costs that come with this effort . As in Afghanistan , progress toward security and economic reconstruction must complement political advances , which is why I met with UN secretary General Kofi Annan about the urgency of getting the United Nations back into Iraq . It has the expertise and legitimacy necessary to help ensure success in Iraq , but its role must be defined clearly and it must be given decisionmaking authority to carry out its mission . NATO 's role in Iraq will evolve , but the discussion and planning should begin now . There is limited hope for Iraq 's future without the full support and commitment of the world community-especially the United Nations and NATO-during this critical transition period . In addition , NATO should expand and deepen its partnership with the countries of the Mediterranean . NATO seriously is exploring new and long-term possibilities for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it unfortunately has been more dialogue than partnership . We should consider a modified version of the " Partnership for Peace " for the Mediterranean . Gen. James Jones , Supreme Allied Commander in Europe , has in mind a model for NATO naval security cooperation in the region whereby the participation of Mediterranean countries would be expanded in various naval missions . Over the coming years , the Mediterranean will take on even greater strategic importance . It should be considered as a critically vital geopolitical region with its own dynamics . Terrorism , narcotics trafficking , and various other threats are very real . These are major security concerns . Remember , the Mediterranean draws together Europe , North Africa , and the Middle East . All of the region 's countries are influenced by European , Arab , and African political developments . The strategic significance of North Africa , meanwhile , may be easy to overlook , especially given the challenges we face in Iraq , Afghanistan , and elsewhere . However , we need to keep a wider perspective in viewing and understanding this area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a vacuum , as was proven during World War II . There is tremendous potential for expanded security cooperation in Algeria , Tunisia , and Morocco-especially intelligence gathering and sharing as well as economic and trade development . Yet , whatever progress is to be achieved can be undermined by instability in West Africa and by radical Islamic groups and terrorists based in this region . The Israeli-Palestinain conflict Finally , NATO should begin to plan for a role in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . A NATO peacekeeping mission eventually may be called upon to help secure an Israeli-Palestinian peace . The day may come when NATO troops monitor the birth of a Palestinian state . NATO is the only institution with the credibility and capability to undertake such a critical mission . The time is not yet right for this development , but we must begin to move our thinking , policies , and planning in that direction . One step toward greater engagement is more focused military-to-military contacts with Israel and the Arab countries of the Mediterranean . NATO also should consider formal military training relationships with other nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be neither stability nor security in the Middle East until the Israeli-Palestinian issue is resolved . It is woven into the fabric of the region , including our relationships with all Arab and Muslim countries , and can not be separated from our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan . Change is difficult , especially for institutions . It forces us to reexamine the foundations of our identity , purpose , and policies . The world does not have the luxury of choosing the challenges that it faces . They are complex and interrelated-terrorism , poverty , endemic disease , proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , failing states , and protracted conflicts-and they do not lend themselves to easy solutions . The task ahead for the greatest alliance in history is to build on the success of the last 50 years to make NATO relevant to the issues of our time . This will require strengthening trust among its members . As Nobel Prize-winning physicist Albert Einstein wrote , " Every kind of peaceful cooperation among men is primarily based on mutual trust and only secondarily on institutions such as courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumed , nor squandered , nor taken for granted , even in strong institutions such as NATO . Trust among members is the glue and foundation that allows NATO to meet the challenges of this era . The future of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization will be determined by the outcome in the Middle East . This is a historic burden for all of us in a region that is rich in culture and tradition , but so far at odds with the modern world . Our approach requires subtlety , vision , determination , and purpose . secretary of State Colin Powell notes that " We fight terrorism because we must , but we seek a better world because we can-because it is our desire , and our destiny , to do so . " There never has been a partnership or alliance historically as well-positioned or more politically capable of leading the change for a safer and better world than NATO . One of the great achievements of the last half of the 20th century was a reshaping of world order , bringing new freedoms and prosperity to millions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NATO helped guarantee much of this progress-and so it will be for the 21st century . NATO 's mark has been set . Its responsibilities are clear . This is the nobility of its inheritance . This is the reality of its destiny . Author Affiliation Chuck Hagel ( R.-Neb. ) is a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the Select Committee on Intelligence . // <p>                     