@@415742

Spam and turkey tails have turned Micronesians into Macronesians . A case study of how fatty Western plenty is taking a disastrous toll on people in developing countries // In Kosrae , an island in Micronesia , new arrivals are a curiosity , and it seemed that half the island had come to greet me and Steven Auerbach , a Manhattan-based medical epidemiologist and an officer in the U.S. Public Health Service who had worked in Micronesia in the early 1990s , when we visited last year . Dazed from our 8,000mile journey , we groped our way down the pockmarked coastal road , driving past groves of trees bent nearly double under loads of bananas , papayas , and breadfruit . We were on our way to a funeral feast . We arrived to find the feast in full swing . Young men in lawn chairs played cards , while toddlers squatted , transfixed , around a television screen blaring taped cartoons . Hovering women filled plates and wiped faces . Perhaps a hundred people were there , and the dead man 's wife looked bored . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crypt , seemed almost beside the point . Kosraeans die young ( the man in the crypt was fifty-six ) , but not for reasons commonly associated with the developing world . There is no famine here , and with the notable exception of upper-respiratory infections , little evidence of the diseases that cut life short in , for example , sub-Saharan Africa . The big killer in Kosrae-what some epidemiologists call New World syndrome-is a constellation of maladies brought on not by microbes or parasites but by the assault of rapid Westernization on traditional cultures . Diabetes , heart disease , and high blood pressure-scourges of affluence that long ago eclipsed infectious diseases as killers in the West-have only recently appeared here . We sat with the dead man 's brother-in-law , who told us that he expects to die soon too . His sister 's husband died of heart disease ; he himself will likely die of diabetes . " But I am fifty-seven , an old man , so this is of no matter , " he said . He worried more about the young people . Nodding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not uncommon for them to gather to mourn a man or woman of thirty . Kosrae was at one time a mighty kingdom with Lelu its capital . Today Lelu is still the state 's largest and most densely populated village , a jumble of tin-roofed huts connected to Kosrae proper by a causeway . We went to Lelu to see the ruins of the ancient city , built 600 years ago of immense basalt " logs . " Exhausted by the heath we ducked into a nearby general store to get a cold drink . Inside we found row ofter row of canned goods : Spam and corned beef and Vienna sausages in fancy tins . There were cake and muffin mixes from the United States , ramen-noodle soup from the Philippines , flats of soda and Budweiser beer , shelves of candy bars and potato chips . An entire freezer was reserved for turkey tails-a fatty , gristly hunk of the bird which is generally regarded as inedible in the United States . The freezer was empty Turkey tails are so popular , we were told , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of other grocery stores scattered around the island we found plenty of salty , sweet , and fatty imports  --  but no fresh bananas , papayas , breadfruit , coconut , or mangoes . Apart from a fish shack or two and a few forlorn stands hawking bags of the island 's famous-and costly  --  green tangerines , there was nowhere to buy local produce on the island . We were told that most Kosraeans once grew fruits and vegetables on family plots , and pulled tuna and reef fish from the sea . But the majority of modern Kosraeans do n't have time or energy to farm or fish-they are too busy with their office jobs . Kosrae is the smallest of four island states that make up the Federated States of Micronesia ( FSM ) , the largest and most populous political entity to emerge from the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands , which placed the islands under U.S. administration after World War II . In 1986 Micronesia implemented a Compact of Free Association with the United States , which dissolved its trust status . In order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the FSM 's chief benefactor , supplying the bulk of its revenue-about $100 million-in aid each year . The bureaucracy required to manage and distribute this windfall continues to be Kosrae 's single largest employer . Few if any of its jobs demand the skill or physical effort required by the traditional work of fishing and farming . Physical exertion has been further discouraged by expansion of the coastal road and the steady importation of cars , some bought with the help of government money . To walk in Kosrae is to announce that one is too poor to ride , and Kosraeans offer a lift to every casual stroller . This newfound convenience comes at a high price , as a visit to Kosrae 's state hospital revealed . A low-slung concrete structure with greasy windows and no air-conditioning , it is poorly equipped to handle anything but basic health needs . Patients with serious problems are airlifted to Guam or the Philippines . The hospital director , a former Vice President of Micronesia , confessed to us that he and his wife travel abroad for even routine checkups . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and nineteen were occupied on the morning we visited . Thirteen people were there for complications of diet-related diabetes and two for heart conditions . Paul Skilling , a Kosraean family doctor , lamented that cases of diabetes , hypertension , and heart disease are as common as coconuts on his island . Another doctor half joked that even health-care professionals are at risk . " Look at me , " he said , pointing to his paunch . " I am myself obese . My body-mass index is thirty-two . How long before I have these diseases ? " The doctor was indeed obese , but his body-mass index was only slightly higher than average for a Kosraean adult . In 1993-1994 the Micronesian Department of Health , with funding from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control , screened almost all the adults on the island and found that nearly 85 percent of those aged forty-five to sixty-four were obese . Non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , heart disease , and hypertension are closely linked to obesity , so it is perhaps not surprising that more than a quarter of Kosraeans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than a third suffered from high blood pressure . ( Noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , or NIDDM , the kind that afflicts Micronesia , is also known as Type TITe 11 or adultonset diabetes ; " diabetes " here refers to this type . ) Vita Skilling , the island 's chief of preventive health services , told us that efforts to reverse this trend have been disappointing . " Here you buy imported food in the store to show that you have money ; she said . " Even if you do n't have much money , you can buy turkey tails . " In Kosrae 90 percent of adult surgical admissions are linked to diabetes , and of these many are for amputations necessitated by vascular breakdown . There are more cases of renal failure than the hospital can handle , and cardiovascular disease is pervasive . And in Kosrae ill health hits early  --  frequently men and women have a first heart attack in their late twenties . New World syndrome has taken hold throughout much of the South Pacific . The problem in Kosrae pales by comparison with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowded island known as the Kuwait of the South Pacific . Nauru 's citizens grew rich from the mining of phosphate deposits , which long ago eclipsed fishing as the state 's major revenue source and are now nearly depleted . This rocky island 's few patches of arable land were laid waste years ago by mining , so Nauruans subsist almost entirely on imports . Prosperity has brought them Japanese televisions , German luxury sedans , and Australian filet mignon . It has also brought them what Auerbach calls " the worst of 1950s American cuisine " processed foods with plenty of fat , salt , sugar , and refined starches . As a result Nauruans have among the highest rates of obesity and diabetes on the planet , and a life expectancy of only fifty-five . In contrast , the region 's poorest nation  --  Kiribati , thirty-three islands that straddle the Equator , with little money for imported food or anything else-has in its rural regions the lowest rates of noncommunicable disease in the South Pacific . Scientists have studied the health status of native peoples in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of diet-related disease in Nauru and Micronesia , among other islands . But the CDC-supported effort seven years ago was the first to offer systematic health screening of adults in the islands of the FSM . Auerbach was in charge of that screening . He told me that it had made possible the early identification and treatment of health problems , and had helped to alert the islanders to the perils and prevention of noncommunicable illnesses . Among the small victories were an early-morning walking program for adult women and the Micronesian One Diet Fits All Today campaign , through which Kosraeans are encouraged to avoid imported food in favor of locally grown fruits , vegetables , tubers , and fish . Vita Skilling said that although MODFAT had helped some patients to reduce their blood pressure and dependence on diabetes medication , she did not know whether the program had had a wide impact . She invited us to attend a party for a group of women who had recently " graduated " from the MODFAT program . We arrived in time for lunch and were offered fresh fish , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and apple pie . Most of the graduates were hugely obese . Apparently the " healthy diet " message had gotten muddled . The walking program , although enthusiastically endorsed by the clinicians I spoke to , was in May still suspended " for the Christmas holiday . " Paul Zimmet , an Australian physician and researcher who specializes in the study of noncommunicable diseases , wrote in 1996 that " the non-insulindependent diabetes mellitusglobal epidemic is just the tip of a massive social problem now facing developing countries . " Zimmet implicated the " coca-colonization " that has devastated local customs and economies and led to ill health . Rates of obesity and diabetes have skyrocketed around the globe , but particularly among traditional peoples in transition-Polynesians , Native Americans , and aboriginal Australians ; Asian Indian emigrants to Fiji , South Africa , and Britain ; and Chinese emigrants to Singapore , Taiwan , and Hong Kong . Although the rapid introduction of processed foods and other conveniences is certainly the proximate force behind this trend , scientists are also looking at genetic components . Jeffrey Friedman , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute at Rockefeller University , in New York , is investigating why some Kosraeans manage to escape the hazards of coca-colonization while others succumb . To Friedman and his team , the interesting question is not why so many sedentary , office-bound , Spam-loving Kosraeans are obese but why not all of them are . // Kosraeans , like all natives of Micronesia , trace their ancestry back 2,000 years to a handful of Indo-Malayan mariners . Driven by fear , religious persecution , greed , or foolhardiness , this small band settled the Pacific . Those who landed on Kosrae developed a feudal society that went largely unnoticed by the West until 1824 , when a French research vessel , the Coquille , dropped anchor nearby . Rene Primevere Lesson , the ship 's doctor , described Kosraeans as " advanced people of a high civilization , to judge from the vestiges of customs , tradition such as the authority of the chiefs , classes of society , and the remnants of the arts which they still practice " The women , he wrote , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full of superb teeth ... but a tendency to become fat . " He also observed that considering the island 's bounty , its population of about 3,000 was surprisingly small . ( Easter Island , in Polynesia , was then supporting a population of at least 7,000 with roughly the same land mass and a less hospitable climate . ) Studies later supported local lore that a much larger population had been diminished by starvation after typhoons devastated the island 's food supply . The population continued to dwindle throughout the nineteenth century , as Kosrae became an increasingly popular base for pirates and New England whalers , who brought with them tobacco and whisky-and infectious diseases . By 1910 only 300 Kosraeans had survived the Western imports of smallpox , measles , influenza , and sexually transmitted diseases . James Neel , a geneticist at the University of Michigan Medical School who died last year , hypothesized in a 1962 article on diabetes that under conditions of scarcity natural selection weeds out people unable to store food efficiently in their bodies , and that a " thrifty genotype " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested that this mechanism was necessary for survival during periods of extreme stress and famine that would otherwise ravage a population . Most populations are assumed to have some variation on this genotype , but it is likely that peoples whose evolution was punctuated by a number of particularly harrowing events developed the most-effective versions . In Kosrae , where weather and disease wiped out 90 percent of the population , this effect must have been profound . The very genes presumed to have protected islanders from their history are now believed to be predisposing them to lifethreatening illnesses . In 1994 Friedman and his team at Rockefeller cloned what is perhaps the ultimate thrifty gene-the obese gene , which in its normal form carries the chemical code for leptin . A hormone discovered by Friedman , leptin plays a critical role in the brain , regulating appetite and fat storage , among other things . Leptin is an extremely potent hormone . People who carry the abnormal form of the obese gene do n't have the genetic makeup to produce leptin ; they eat uncontrollably and are morbidly obese . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us have variations along the leptin and perhaps other brain pathways that influence our eating habits and efficiency at turning calories into body fat . Friedman 's group examined blood samples taken from 2,286 adult Kosraeans in the course of Auerbach 's islandwide screening . Preliminary findings suggest that European genes inherited from New England whalers and other visitors protect Kosraeans to some degree against obesity and diabetes : the more " European " an islander , it appears , the less likely he or she is to be obese or diabetic . Zimmet says this finding is consistent with earlier findings linking Asian genes with those of populations from Native Americans to New Guinea highlanders . Scienfists speculate that certain aspects of the Asian genotype , evolved in part to withstand long periods of scarcity , predispose hundreds of millions if not billions of people to obesity and diabetes . Writing in Nature in 1992 , Jared Diamond , a professor of physiology at the UCLA Medical School , suggested that the populations of Western industrial nations had already to some extent weeded out the thrifty genotype , keeping diabetes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gradually eliminated , bringing diabetes to its present relatively low frequency . " Diamond and others have suggested that some human populations , notably those that evolved in regions of Europe , may have developed a relative resistance to certain noncommunicable diseases just as they did to some infectious diseases  --  through natural selection over centuries of relatively sustained plenty . Given the burgeoning rates of obesity and diabetes in the United States and other industrialized nations , this seems surprising , until one considers that rates among the most susceptible peoples-Pacific Islanders such as Native Hawaiians , Samoans , and Nauruans-are higher still . Indeed , all measures indicate that the greatest impact of obesity-related disorders will continue to be in newly industrialized and developing nations in Asia , Africa , the Caribbean , Latin America , and the Indian and Pacific Oceans which historically had an unstable food supply . The World Health Organization recently described overeating as the " fastest growing form of malnourishment " in the world . For the first time in history the number of people worldwide who are both overweight and malnourished , estimated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and malnourished . Obesity rates in China have quadrupled in the past decade , and obesity in the urban middle class in India is epidemic . In Colombia 41 percent of adults are overweight , The global spread of diet-linked disease presents one of the greatest medical challenges of the twenty-first century . But when I spoke with agricultural and business leaders in Micronesia , it was clear that a concerted government effort to fight noncommunicable disease was not likely on these islands . I heard repeatedly that health was a matter of willpower and individual effort , and that government could do nothing to curb the public taste for imports . The fact that many state legislators in Micronesia are also food importers was never mentioned-nor were the particulars of auto importation in a tiny country already overrun with cars . Father Francis Hezel , a Jesuit priest from Buffalo , New York , who has spent more than three decades teaching and writing in Micronesia , said that even people in power are reluctant to speak out . " You can enter any clinic and smell the decaying limbs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But many people here are beholden to the government . They do n't want to rock the boat " In Micronesia-as in much of the world , particularly the developing world-it is more profitable for authorities to encourage overconsumption than to discourage it . The Worldwatch Institute reported last year that approximately four of the five McDonald 's restaurants that opened every day in 1997 were outside the United States . In its 1998 annual report the Coca-Cola Company described Africa as " a land of opportunity . " Obesity , diabetes , and other manifestations of New World syndrome can , like infectious diseases , be contained . In Singapore the nationwide Trim and Fit Scheme , which began in 1992 , has cut childhood obesity by up to 50 percent . And in Hawaii , Terry Shintani and colleagues at the Waianae Coast Comprehensive Health Center have shown long-term health benefits from a program emphasizing a return to traditional local foods . We spotted a glimmer of progress in Micronesia , though not in the Westernstyle wellness programs . One of our hosts , a hospital administrator , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoy playing basketball , and that he would sometimes jog rather than drive to the high school gym to play . As a result of this regimen he had lost a significant amount of weight , and avoided some of the health problems suffered by his more sedentary compatriots . Basketball , he said , was catching on quickly in Kosrae , as was baseball . " Imports made us sick " he said . " Now maybe imports will help us get well . " However nice the thought , increasing amounts of junk food are being shipped into Kosrae from the West , food importers say , and the island is about to import television programming . Kosraeans will be able to come home , open a few cans of Spam , switch on the tube , and kick back for the evening . It is then that they will truly be able to liveand die-in the manner of their Western benefactors . It is likely that billions of human beings are genetically primed to get fat-and sick-when exposed to the Western lifestyle . Exportation of this lifestyle is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need not be . Curbing the international obesity epidemic is as tough a problem as any now facing public-health officials . But given the lessons of Kosrae , it is worth taking very seriously . <p>                     