@@405414

CHRISTINA APPLEGATE " Not only is Christina Applegate a genuine beauty , she is also a fighter and a classy role model for us all " Camilla Le , Orem , Utah You can finally retire the title of Most Beautiful . I do not think anyone could ever fill those shoes the way that Christina Applegate does . Thanks for showing us what the word " beautiful " really means . Diane Wheaton Lafayette , N.J. Tim Geithner makes the list but not Sarah Palin ? Are you kidding ? Carol Rampino Brooklyn , N.Y . It really surprised me to find Kevin Jonas missing from your 100 Most Beautiful list , especially since he was named one of your Sexiest Men Alive . He is sexy but not beautiful ? Liza Tompkins Red Lion , Pa . We applaud your issue of the 100 Most Beautiful . How wonderful to see celebrities without makeup . There 's nothing more attractive than natural beauty . Melissa and Meg Matthews Lawrenceville , Ga . I see that your " Beauty at Every Age " gallery stops with Meryl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( and me ) when she ( and I ) turn 60 ? Fall off the edge of the page ? Here 's hoping next year you will include a few 60-year-olds . Cheryl Lynn Blum Huntington Station , N.Y . SUSAN BOYLE Thank you so much for the recent articles about Susan Boyle . I watch the YouTube video daily , and I still cry every time . God blessed this woman with the voice of an angel . I love watching the awe that washes over the judges and the audience . This renews my faith in the human spirit . Susan Boyle is truly an amazing , beautiful , classy and immensely talented lady . Martha Balser Cincinnati , Ohio I am so pleased that Susan Boyle is getting the attention that she deserves . When I look at her , I do n't see a " plain " woman but rather a talented woman who is finally getting some recognition . Guess what : Contrary to popular ideals , you do n't have to look like Christina Aguilera to belt out a note or two . Casey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wonderful to read the update on Bob Woodruff and his family . Prior to his accident , Bob and Elizabeth Vargas were " in our home " every weeknight . I felt that the accident and later consequences had happened to a member of my family . I 'm sure many other fans felt the same way . Mary Lou Wise Plymouth , Ind . BEA ARTHUR As we mourn the passing of the legendary Bea Arthur , we will remember her perfect deadpan deliveries and witty one-liners . She was one of TV 's true golden girls . Maria Palermo Stamford , Conn . Bea Arthur was worth much more than just two pages . She was her own special double issue Most Beautiful ! Sean McClinton Antioch , Calif . CRAIGSLIST CHANGES On the heels of the arrest of Philip Markoff , the alleged Craigslist killer , the online classified site announced May 13 that it was replacing its " erotic services " section with a pre-screened " adult services " one . However , First Amendment expert Robert M. O'Neil says , " Given the volume of Internet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limited impact . " Readers of our Markoff stories ( May 4 and 11 ) also expressed concern about predators using the site . " We need to learn to do better safeguarding " of networks , wrote Paul Dale Roberts of Elk Grove , Calif . Meanwhile , Rhode Island authorities have issued a warrant for Markoff 's arrest in the attempted robbery of a masseuse he met via Craigslist . BOX WRITE US TO CONTACT EDITORIAL : Send a fax ( 212-522-0794 ) , e-mail ( editor@people.com ) or mail ( Letters to the Editor , PEOPLE , Time &; Life Building , Rockefeller Center , New York , NY 10020 ) . Letters should include the writer 's full name , address and daytime phone number and may be edited for clarity and space .                     