@@391547

A Toxic Nightmare in New Orleans ' Marinas More than 200 children from around the country traveled to New Orleans in June of 2006 to compete in a two-day youth sailing championship on Lake Pontchartrain . The kids , some as young as eight , launched their seven-foot sailboats and sailed out to the course , dodging the nearly 200 derelict , foundered sail and powerboats still littering the city 's largest marina , the Municipal Yacht Harbor at West End . The forest of masts rising from the dark , brackish waters only hint at the environmental hazards concealed below . The Municipal Yacht Harbor has yet to be cleaned up from the worst effects of Hurricane Katrina in 2005 , highlighting a disconnect between all levels of government that still continues . This past summer , another youth sailing championship was held at the same marina , with work only just begun on removing the dead boats . Ben Goliwas , who lives aboard his boat at the marina , was astounded when he finally returned to the city in May of 2006 and discovered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He called upon the members of the New Orleans and Southern Yacht Clubs to volunteer their time removing floating and submerged debris , and they responded . Taking time away from rebuilding their homes and businesses , the volunteers attempted to raise a few boats blocking the channels , using truck inner tubes and inflatable racing marks , but were severely under equipped . Goliwas says , " We only touched the surface . We removed maybe 30,000 pounds of wreckage , but unfortunately that was only a small part of it . Everything you could imagine was in that marina . " During the storm , several marine service yards and nearly 102 boathouses and their contents were washed into the marina , along with more than 450 large wooden dockboxes stationed at each boat slip . The boxes held a stew of paints , solvents , oils , batteries , fiberglass resin and other chemicals . All of this debris sat on the marina bottom alongside the rusting and deteriorating boats , many with their fuel tanks full of diesel . Goliwas says , " You would n't want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We were only able to pull out hot water heaters , refrigerators , parts of walls and other unidentifiable large wooden things . " Carlton Dufrechou , the president of the active environmental group known as the Lake Pontchartrain Basin Foundation , wanted a thorough inventory . He says , " We really needed to determine what and how much was down there . It 's guaranteed that something was leaking . We just did n't know the magnitude of it , but leaving it in place was never an option . " The Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality ( DEQ ) , at the request of Orleans Parish , took over the leadership role for the problem of removing the estimated 125 sunken vessels remaining in Municipal Harbor at the end of 2006 . But after several site visits , the DEQ began to grasp the extent of the potential hazards . When Bruce Hammatt , the DEQ official managing the project , saw the young racers , he came away convinced of the need to be thorough . " I knew the cleanup had to include a sweep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kids were out there having a regatta . " The Louisiana DEQ was ready to bid a marina clean-up contract at the beginning of year , but was dogged with delays from the Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) bureaucracy . The major snag was that the federal government requires local governments to advance either the full amount or , in some cases , 10 percent of the costs for infrastructure reconstruction before it will reimburse or release matching funds . With the city of New Orleans nearing bankruptcy , with tax revenues from the decimated population and businesses far below their pre-Katrina levels , the city is forced to prioritize and juggle projects and dollars . This has left FEMA sitting on billions of dollars in recovery aid with almost none of that money making its way to the affected areas . It took nearly two years for Congress to finally eliminate this local dollar match , a requirement that was quickly eliminated for every other major disaster site including Hurricane Andrew in 1985 and the 9/11 attacks . New Orleans ' officials who deal on a daily basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " -a giant stack of project worksheets and documentation for only the first step in a long list of steps to release federal money for rebuilding damaged public infrastructure . While the boating community has long understood that marinas are a low priority when compared to the infrastructure needs of the city , they make an argument for quality of life and protecting the jobs of marine service companies , all of which have reopened . They add that the West End and Lakeview neighborhoods , inundated by more than 10 feet of water from the federal levee failures , are nearing a critical mass in their recovery . The area needs only a small push from government to ensure the neighborhoods ' return to life . Rebuilding the marina could very well be that push . <p>                     