@@376910

Is the strutting sage grouse , iconic bird of the Western steppe , an endangered species ? No doubt about it , say environmentalists , who petitioned for federal protection for the " cock of the prairie , " as Lewis and Clark fondly dubbed it . Millions once darkened the skies across 16 states , but development has decimated its sagebrush range . Today an estimated 140,000 are left  --  some 8% of its historic numbers . And given the breakneck pace of Western economic growth , some biologists fear the grouse could disappear within 50 years . <P> But Bush Administration officials told a gathering of Western Governors last week that the bird is not threatened with extinction and does not need protection under the Endangered Species Act . That was welcome news for the Partnership for the West , a coalition of ranching and energy interests that mounted a fierce yearlong lobbying campaign against federal involvement . " A sage grouse listing would be used by radical environmentalists to take control of vast public and private lands , " says spokesman Jim Sims . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <P> The fight over the chicken-size bird , whose 110 million-acre habitat is 12 times bigger than the spotted owl 's , may have just begun . Industry groups plan to pressure next year 's friendlier Congress to weaken the 30-year-old endangered-species law . Meanwhile , a score of conservation groups , including lawyers who fought the timber industry over the owl , are preparing to file suit to force a sage grouse listing . By law , such decisions must be based on science alone , but a leaked copy of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 's synthesis of biological information shows extensive editing by an Interior Department political appointee . " The only science upon which the Administration based this decision was political science , " says Mark Salvo , director of the Sagebrush Sea Campaign . " They are paying back their political base in the grazing and oil and gas industries . "  --  By Margot Roosevelt                     