@@406453

The most extreme party I 've ever attended or heard about was ... When the mother paid to have the local fire department bring the fire truck to the party . Stacey Nicholas Canton , Mo . A first-year party for triplets that included an Elvis impersonator , huge blow-up toys , a clown , and so on . What does a 1-year-old remember ? Name withheld Chicago , Ill . A limousine picked up seven girls from school , allowing the uninvited students to witness it , and took them to the mall and back to a sleepover . Donna Richert Jennings , La . Ten kids and their parents at Disneyland overnight . Name withheld San Bernardino , Calif . Traveling 200 miles for an " American Girl " party at " her " store . Nancy Eleanor Deters Sigel , Ill . A couple hired caterers and rented an entire circus troupe , complete with an elephant for riding , for a backyard party for their preschool child 's birthday . Name withheld Boynton Beach , Fla . Those sweet-16 parties that have been on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the child getting a sports car . M. Costello New York , NY . For an 80-year-old woman at a fancy hotel where out-of-towners stayed , lavish appetizers and drinks , seated dinner for around 150 , a band , and a fantastic video of the honoree . It was equivalent to a lavish wedding reception . Name withheld Atlanta , Ga . My biggest concern about over-the-top birthday parties is ... It just feeds the same attitude that has made our sacramental celebrations-from Baptism through weddings- into " events . " We 've lost our sense of joy in life itself and of God in the everyday and replaced it with the momentary displays of consumerism . " Love equals money " seems to be the message . Mary Anne Bressler Cincinnati , Ohio Producing spoiled brats . Ken Bagot St. Petersburg , Fla . It makes kids more insular and unaware of poverty around the world . Name withheld Miamisburg , Ohio Environmental waste . Lucy Smedstad Slidell , La . It is all about me , me , me ! Name withheld Des Moines , Iowa My @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on parents ' credit cards . We are a nation that lives beyond our means . Name withheld Pittsburgh , Pa . That the expectations are so high that families that do n't have a lot of money ( including ours ) are under a lot of pressure to spend money to make their child feel special . Sofia Livorsi Decatur , Ga . When I was a child , my birthday was ... Simple . We had our favorite meal , homemade cake , and one special gift . Rosemary Maker Providence , R.I. I had only two or three parties growing up with about 10 friends . These parties were infrequent because we did n't have a lot , but my eight brothers and sisters were a built-in birthday party . Name withheld Hamilton , N.Y . A few neighborhood friends for ice cream and cake . When I was older , we had a sleepover , too . Barbara Zelenka Mandeville , La . A home-cooked meal with my siblings . My mother always included a dish of noodles- for long life ! Pete Recinto Annadale , Va @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for dinner and no chores for the day ! Pat Orkis Southampton , N.J. Christmas Eve . My family always sang ( off-key ) , and I got one extra gift . My mom would apologize for having a birthday so close to Christmas , but I always felt especially blessed to share my day with Jesus . That 's still the best birthday gift possible ! Ruth Chronister Fort Wayne , Ind . A birthday party that most expresses Catholic values would ... Validate a child 's importance to the family and provide an opportunity for members to express their love and appreciation for his unique contribution to all present . Hazel Stultz Middletown , Md . Perhaps include saying grace before eating and discussing the saint of the day or the saint of the birthday girl or boy . Anne Kubic Charles Town , W. Va . Make sure each child in the class is made a part of the festivities . Catherine Iapalucci Cresson , Pa . Involve giving something back in terms of service or donation of resources . Marty Rendon Woodbridge , Va . As long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I think the birthday party you choose that does n't break your budget and celebrates youth and healthy play is all OK . Linda Flynn Charlotte , N.C. Be a celebration at home , focusing on the " birth " day- pulling out baby photos . Karen Gillingham Dayton , Ohio Since my mom died , I have become aware of how important my birthday must have been to her . Perhaps shifting the attention to include mom would help make birthdays less of selfish feasts . Father Kevin Forsyth Naugatuck , Conn . General Comments It is not over-the-top to outsource the party . Should we also feel guilty about serving dessert when there are starving children ? This author makes moms feel guilty . You just ca n't win ! Sheila DePuydt Scituate , Mass . It 's fine to " make a big fuss , " but given the current condition of the global , national , and people 's personal finances , we need to re-learn how to do so simply . Name withheld Plymouth Meeting , Pa . I think the big spending party arose out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a parent is not at home . Sam Amelio Pittsburgh , Pa . A child 's Baptism day is a more Catholic celebration and worthy of attention , too . Name withheld Cameron , N.C. Let 's not put religion with birthdays ! Let the kids have a good time . Mike Lewis Pensacola , Fla . A friend hosted a birthday party where each guest brought $2 instead of a gift - one for the birthday girl and one for charity . Very nice ! Name withheld Cincinnati , Ohio We have a wonderful daughter-in-law who feels obliged to throw outrageous parties for our grandchildren . She exhausts herself and the children with what I feel is a misplaced sense of love . Name withheld Glastonbury , Conn . I love birthdays because they celebrate the lives of people I love . I believe they should be celebrated within the family who cares about the individual . Anne Etue Toledo , Ohio                     