@@387141

The South Pacific carrier battle in 1942 provided lessons critical to the success to come at Midway , Guadalcanal , Tarawa , Iwo Jima and Okinawa . Photograph The carrier USS Lexington is pummeled by Japanese torpedo planes and dive bombers in ferocious action in the Battle of the Coral Sea . // THE BATTLE OF THE CORAL Sea , the first significant clash of aircraft carrier forces , entered its climactic phase early on May 8 , 1942 . At 8:20 a.m. , Lieutenant junior grade Joseph G. Smith flew his dive bomber out of a towering cloud bank into the sunlight . Seeing a dozen telltale ship wakes far below his Navy Douglas SBD Dauntless , he caught his breath . It was the Japanese striking force . He radioed the carrier USS Lexington : " Contact ! Two enemy carriers , four heavy cruisers , many destroyers . " Two minutes later , roughly 200 miles to the south , Imperial Japanese Navy Petty Officer Ist Class Kenzo Kanno banked his torpedo plane . Looking down , he too saw a thrilling scene . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fleet carrier Shokaku . The opposing carrier forces had been vainly looking for one another for four days . Both sides had drawn blood the day before . Now came the main event . Thirty-five hundred miles away in Pearl Harbor , Admiral Chester W Nimitz , commanding the Pacific Fleet and Pacific Ocean areas , was studying a map of the Coral Sea sprawled out on sawhorses in his hillside command center . He waited impatiently for his task force commander , Rear Adm . Frank Jack Fletcher , to break radio silence . Nimitz might have taken some solace imagining that Vice Adm . Shigeyoshi Inouye , his counterpart commanding the Japanese Fourth Fleet from Rabaul , New Britain , was equally frustrated by scarce information . The Battle of the Coral Sea would be Fletcher 's to win or lose , but Nimitz had a huge stake in the outcome . In his first major test as fleet and theater commander , he was risking precious carriers-all that remained of U.S. naval power in the Pacific-to thwart a new Japanese drive into the South Pacific , protecting Australia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . NIMITZ HAD INHERITED WHAT was left of the Pacific Fleet in a quiet ceremony on the last day of 1941 in Pearl Harbor . His job as chief of the Bureau of Navigation in Washington had ended two weeks earlier . President Franklin D. Roosevelt had instructed Secretary of the Navy Frank Knox : " Tell Nimitz to get the hell out to Pearl Harbor and stay there until the war is won ! " During an epic Pacific campaign , Nimitz would command more men , ships and planes than any other military leader in history . Yet the first months of his new command were a private hell . Short on resources-the Allied strategy was " Europe first " - dangerously outgunned by the Japanese fleet and limited to making nuisance raids , Nimitz endured much public criticism . Depressed , sleepless , in March 1942 , he wrote his wife , " I will be lucky to last six months . " He also endured a difficult relationship with Admiral Ernest J. King , his direct superior . Abrasive and imperious , King , commander in chief ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atlantic Fleet in prewar years while Nimitz had managed a naval bureaucracy from Washington . King had a seaman 's scorn for the deskbound . Now King wondered if Nimitz would be bold enough to keep the Japanese off balance until his fellow Joint Chiefs committed adequate resources to the Pacific . Indeed , for the first several weeks Fletcher had been deployed as Coral Sea task force commander . King bypassed Nimitz , issuing orders directly to Fletcher . King did not let Nimitz control Fletcher until April . King could be excused for his early doubts . Few people really knew the 56-year-old admiral from the Texas hill country . In fact , Nimitz 's relative anonymity begs the question of why Roosevelt and Knox entrusted him in the first place . Since graduating from the Naval Academy in 1905 , Nimitz had been an unremarkable though steadfast performer . He spent his early years in submarines , then lost himself in the obscurity of diesel engineering . Nimitz had never heard shots fired in anger , had never commanded a ship bigger than a cruiser and had served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , Chester Nimitz was resourceful , self-disciplined and a team player-invaluable strengths for prosecuting the Pacific campaign . His great talent proved to be a rare ability for choosing subordinates . These excellent selections included great future fleet commanders such as Raymond A. Spruance , William E " Bull " Halsey and many officers who played lesser roles equally well . Soon after being appointed Pacific Fleet commander , Nimitz retained Lt. Cmdr. Edwin Layton as fleet intelligence officer , supported by Lt. Cmdr. Joseph Rochefort . Both men had shared some blame for the Pearl Harbor debacle , but Nimitz knew Rochefort and his colleague had in fact broken part of the Japanese naval code . Nimitz realized that Layton could use partially decrypted messages , filling in blanks where necessary . His farsighted belief in Layton and Rochefort 's skills would win Nimitz limited success in the Coral Sea , then overwhelming victory at Midway . Eventually he would hold his own with the intimidating Ernest King and his outspoken peer , General Douglas MacArthur . Nimitz , whose pink cheeks and grandfatherly manner disguised a warrior 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , merging engineering logic with abiding confidence in his subordinates . Husbanding four precious carriers in the spring of 1942 , a more cautious commander might have clustered his ships in Hawaiian waters . Not Nimitz . He agreed ( with reservations ) to King 's preposterous scheme to send two carriers deep into the North Pacific to launch Jimmy Doolittle 's oneway raid on Tokyo . Meanwhile , when Layton and Rochefort predicted a new Japanese offensive in the South Pacific , Nimitz used this intelligence to cajole King to let him send the Lexington task force commanded by Rear Adm . Aubrey W Fitch to reinforce Fletcher 's Yorktown force in the Coral Sea . All four carriers would spend a month perilously far from home waters . Radio intelligence gave Nimitz an edge . Rochefort told Nimitz that the Japanese would soon launch Operation MO to seize Tulagi in the Solomons and Port Moresby on New Guinea 's southeast coast , thus gravely threatening Australia . Rochefort convinced Nimitz and King of this peril . The COMINCH reinforced Fletcher with a small Allied naval force ( commanded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sending Fitch with Lexington to the Coral Sea . King may have rued the Doolittle Raid 's timing : Nearly 10,000 miles from the Coral Sea , Bull Halsey was approaching Japan with Enterprise and Hornet . King would have to rely on Fletcher , whose boldness he questioned , rather than the Navy 's most aggressive commander . However , Nimitz knew better . Just a year behind him at the Naval Academy , Fletcher had earned the Medal of Honor in combat at Veracruz , Mexico , and had later been his assistant in Washington . His weakness was not lack of nerve , but lack of carrier experience . Like King , Nimitz would have preferred that Halsey was available-but , unlike King , Nimitz was comfortable with Fletcher . Radio intercepts in late April told Nimitz that the Port Moresby invasion convoy , " MO Force , " would be escorted by the light carrier Shoho and aided by Vice Adm . Takeo Takagi 's striking force : fleet carriers Zuikaku and Shokaku with more than 100 aircraft under Rear Adm . Chuichi Hara . Being outnumbered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fletcher had radar ; the Japanese did not . Radio-intelligence units on U.S. carriers would augment cryptographic intercepts . Moreover , his pilots and deck crews were spoiling for a fight . On the other hand , Japanese naval aviators had ruled Pacific skies in their impressive Mitsubishi A6M Zero fighters , Aichi D3A " Val " dive bombers and Nakajima BSN " Kates " since Pearl Harbor . Moreover , the MO Force was an experienced team , but Fletcher , Fitch and Crace would not join their forces until the battle began . Nimitz told his staff , " We should be able to accept odds in battle , if necessary . " Nimitz had to provide maximum support to Fletcher without ignoring a threat looming near New Caledonia , Samoa and Fiji . In the meantime , he would redirect Halsey to the Coral Sea when he could . Now Fletcher would have to intercept and defeat Takagi by himself . On April 14 , Nimitz ordered Fletcher to withdraw to Tongatabu , 500 miles south of Samoa , to prepare for the coming fight , returning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end . Ten days later , Nimitz flew to San Francisco to meet King , the first of their many wartime meetings . The surviving minutes of that conference supply scant detail . The first discussion was apparently about suppressing " information gained through radio intelligence ( substance and terminology ) . " The next topic was Fletcher 's ability to lead a task force with so much at stake . Both men " expressed uneasiness ... but decided to take no further action . " // Allied victory at Coral Sea blocked further Japanese expansion , preserved vital sea lanes to Australia and , as the first acid test of naval carrier doctrine , built confidence in American naval aviation , which would sweep across the Pacific . // Nimitz returned to Pearl Harbor , congratulated an exhausted Halsey on the sensational Doolittle raid and ordered him to the Coral Sea . There was no time to lose . Zuikaku and Shokaku had arrived at Truk on April 28 . The Australians were abandoning their Tulagi outpost before the Japanese swept in . On May 3 the Japanese seized the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Coral Sea from his Tongatabu respite , Fletcher steamed south of the Solomons , seeking the Japanese striking force . Crace 's Allied force was expected by the 4th . Fitch 's Lexington force was on hand but still slowly refueling , a nerve-wracking process . Fuel was scarce . After draining USS Tippecanoe , Fletcher had only fleet oiler Neosho . Meanwhile , U.S. Army Air Forces Boeing B-25 bombers and Royal Australian Air Force Consolidated PBY Catalinas continuously scoured the vast sea . Fletcher relied heavily on these long-range , landbased searchers , but they served under MacArthur , and inter-theater communications were poor . ON THE NORTH , THE Coral Sea is bounded by the lower tip of New Guinea , the Louisiades and the Solomons ; on the east , by New Caledonia and the New Hebrides ; to the west , Australia 's coast and its Great Barrier Reef ; and latitude 25 degrees south is the south boundary . In May , prevailing winds from the southeast favored Japanese carriers steaming into the wind rounding the Solomons , while hindering the northwest-bound Fletcher . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recover aircraft , losing time and fuel . Weather would play a critical role in the battle . During the preliminary encounters of May 4 and 7 , Fletcher would benefit from sheltering storm clouds and a clear target , but on May 8 , when the opposing carrier forces finally discovered one another , his luck would run out . While Fletcher lacked Halsey 's aggression , he had inspired , decisive moments . When reports came from coastwatchers and an RAAF Catalina pilot that a Japanese amphibious task force had concentrated off Tulagi in the southern Solomons , he decided to strike immediately rather than wait for the rest of his force . Taking advantage of protective clouds , Fletcher launched three successive waves of Yorktown dive bombers and torpedo planes and separate fighter sweeps by Grumman F4F Wildcats . The planes passed over Guadalcanal and came out of the clouds over Sealark Channel , surprising the remnants of the Tulagi invasion force . It should have been a turkey shoot . Admiral Takagi 's striking force was out of range , delayed by bad weather off Rabaul . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the inexperienced U.S. fliers did not inflict significant damage on the Japanese ships hastily getting underway from their anchorage . Defective warheads and tactical errors hampered the torpedo planes . Dive-bomber pilots experienced an unwelcome fogging of their bombsights during rapid descents . Aviators also misidentified Japanese ships and overestimated battle damage . Despite a debriefing claim of sinking a cruiser and several destroyers , raiders had achieved much less : one destroyer beached , several minesweepers and small commercial transports sunk . Larger ships escaped . Now Takagi knew an American carrier was in the Coral Sea . " Some fun ! " Fletcher reported to Nimitz . " Congratulations and well done , " Nimitz replied , initially pleased . Later , when the Tulagi strike 's meager results became known , he would characterize the operation as " disappointing in terms of ammunition expended to results obtained . " Two extremely tense days passed . Zuikaku and Shokaku sailed into the Coral Sea , as did the MO invasion force , closely shepherded by Shoho . Fletcher 's force finally completed refueling . Fletcher dispatched the oiler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spot to the south . Search planes flew long orbits in a deadly game of blindman 's bluff . Nimitz found it hard to remain stoical throughout the long silence . Sensing King 's impatience but lacking anything substantive to report , Nimitz sent a throwaway message the evening of May 6 : " From reports of enemy forces in the Louisiade area , believe Fletcher and Fitch should have been able to strike excellent objectives today , but have not heard from them . " The next morning , a Japanese search plane reported sighting an Allied carrier and cruiser . Admiral Hara quickly launched a massive airstrike from the two fleet carriers , but his searchers had critically misinformed him . His strike leader found only Neosho and Sims . Frustrated attackers struck the unprotected targets with a vengeance , sinking the destroyer and reducing Neosho to a smoking hulk that would drift with her survivors for four days . Then Takagi received reports that American carriers were south of the Louisiades , posing an immediate threat to the Port Moresby invasion convoy . Recovering and refueling his carrier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shore-based bombers to attack the American carriers . The ships south of the Louisiades were not Fletcher 's carriers but the cruisers and destroyers of Crace 's force . Boldly , Fletcher had divided his fleet , hoping Crace would serve as the cork in the bottle should the Japanese escape the American carriers . This ploy took some pressure off the carriers , but now Crace , lacking tactical air cover , was at great risk . A Yorktown scout plane radioed contacting two Japanese carriers and four cruisers . Fletcher decisively launched 93 aircraft from both carriers , but his luck proved snake-bit too . Shortly after the huge formations had flown off toward the sighting , the reconnaissance plane landed on Yorktown and its pilot expressed amazement at being congratulated for finding the carriers . In fact , he had not . He had reported several smaller combatants-but his encryption was faulty . Fletcher had stripped his ships of their main armament . Already angry , Fletcher then received Neosho 's emergency report . Uncertain whether the ship 's attackers had been land- or carrier-based aircraft , Fletcher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oiler . Soon , however , he received a sighting report of a Japanese light carrier and escorts within 40 miles of the destination of his airstrike . Shaking his head in disbelief at fortune 's rapid shifts , Fletcher vectored his formation toward the new target , near Misima Island . The target was the light carrier Shoho , a converted submarine tender half Shokaku 's size , but still dangerous . Aircraft from Commander William B. Ault 's Lexington flight found Shoho first . Ault led the attack , diving from 10,000 feet to drop a 500pound bomb close to the wildly maneuvering ship . Torpedo 2 's Lt. j.g . Leonard W Thornhill launched the first successful hit against a Japanese capital ship . His torpedo detonated on Shoho 's starboard quarter . More torpedo planes and dive bombers swarmed over the stricken ship , ignoring cruisers and destroyers in the screen . Shoho 's combat air patrol , led by Warrant Officer Shigemune Imamura 's Mitsubishi A6M Zero , tried to disrupt the attackers . Imamura quickly shot down Lieutenant Edward Allen 's SBD Dauntless . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's agility , but their pilots used diving speed to corner Imamura . Lieutenant junior grade Haas shot him down and became the first Navy pilot to down a Zero . There was no respite for the dying Shoho . Yorktown 's air group applied the coup de grace . Staggered by 13 bomb hits and seven torpedo strikes , the carrier sank at 11:35 a.m . More than 600 members of her crew drowned . Homeward bound , Lt. Cmdr. Robert E. Dixon , commanding Lexington 's Scouting 2 , sent his classic report : " Scratch one flattop ! " Sinking the first Japanese carrier of the war was a grand psychological victory for the Americans , but they had squandered an opportunity to sink another half dozen combatants while enjoying nearly total air superiority . " We had an overkill on the carrier , " said Lt. Cmdr. Paul D. Stroop , flag tactical officer to Admiral Fitch on Lexington . " But this being our first battle of any kind , why , everybody went after the big prize . " MEANWHILE , ADMIRAL Crace 's Allied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land-based enemy bombers and friendly fire from MacArthur 's B-17s . The Japanese claimed they had sunk a battleship and a cruiser , but Crace 's superior seamanship actually brought his force through the ordeal unscathed . The results of the day evidently unnerved Admiral Inouye in Rabaul . He had lost a light carrier , the Allies continued to block the invasion route to Port Moresby at Jomard , and American carriers were hidden in fog banks . He ordered the MO Force to reverse course until Takagi could gain air supremacy . Although immensely relieved to recover his aircraft before the Japanese could attack , and pleased by sinking a light carrier , Fletcher was still concerned by losing his only oiler , Neosho . He was a long way from the nearest source of fuel . He told Nimitz that the oiler 's loss " will cripple my offensive action and may cause my withdrawal in a few days . " Nimitz ordered his staff to look for alternate fuel sources . Embarrassed by losing Shoho and unable to find Fletcher 's carriers , Takagi and Hara gambled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on May 7 , led by combat veteran Lt. Cmdr. Kakuichi Takahashi . The mission was a disaster . Flying blind , Takahashi 's raiders flew over the American task force . Fletcher 's radar picked them up , and a combat air patrol intercepted them . The melee cost the Japanese nine aircraft against two American losses . More chagrin : Takahashi 's survivors jettisoned their torpedoes and bombs for dogfighting , then flew right over the elusive American carrier force returning to their own ships . Photograph Prior to attaining the status of a legendary strategist , Admiral Chester W. Nimitz was severely tested as U.S. Pacific Fleet commander in the fight for the Coral Sea . // Takahashi 's report on Fletcher 's ships ' whereabouts gave Takagi his only good news on that very long day . Finally , he knew his enemy 's general location . Fletcher still lacked this information , so at dawn on May 8 , he dispatched 18 SBD scouts . Takagi sent only seven aircraft . Yet both flights hit pay dirt almost simultaneously . Fifteen minutes after Petty Officer Kanno @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intercept report that an enemy carrier plane was snooping his formation . Both task forces were steaming toward each other at high speed . Fletcher signaled Aubrey Fitch to take tactical command , astutely bowing to Fitch 's dozen years as a senior aviator . Fletcher was learning . In his first expedition commanding a carrier task force-the abortive Wake Island relief mission-he had retained his flag in the cruiser Astoria , foregoing a better location aboard Yorktown . Now Yorktown flew his flag and Fitch , his academy mate , would direct the day 's complex aerial battles . The weather now turned against them . Enormous cloud banks and rain squalls would protect the MO striking force this day , while Fletcher 's ships would be bathed in sunlight under a limitless ceiling . Fitch launched 75 aircraft from his carriers starting at 9 a.m . Ten minutes later Hara launched 69 aircraft from Zuikaku and Shokaku . Aided by tail winds , the Yorktown Air Group reached its target first . The Dauntless dive bombers hovered in the clouds , watching the big enemy carriers below , impatiently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up . By the time the TBDs arrived , Zuikaku was disappearing into a fog bank . Dive bombers began their assault on Shokaku at 10:57 . This was going to be much tougher than sinking the hapless Shoho . Among the Japanese fighter pilots was Petty Officer Ist Class Tetsuzo Iwamoto , the Japanese Imperial Navy 's leading ace in the China campaign with 14 kills . ( He would survive the war with 80 kills . ) Iwamoto would not improve his score that day , but he and his wingmen riddled and disrupted the American attackers . The TBD Devastators achieved no torpedo hits on Shokaku , but the Dauntless dive bombers registered three hits despite fogged-up bombsights and Iwamoto 's slashing flank attacks . Lieutenant John J. " Jo Jo " White delivered the crippling blow . His 1,000-pound bomb set the flight deck ablaze before he crashed into the sea . Lexington 's Commander Ault also claimed a hit on the flaming carrier , but he , too , would not return . When Zuikaku steamed unscathed from her protective fog bank , Admiral Hara groaned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exposed carrier . She had suffered more than 200 casualties and could no longer launch aircraft . Payback time came soon for the Japanese . Petty Officer Kanno had loitered near Task Force 17 since his spotting report . Now , his fuel tanks nearly empty , he led Commander Takanishi 's formations toward the American carriers . At 11:40 , Lt. Cmdr. Stroop made his final entry in the flag diary on Lexington : " Under attack by enemy aircraft . " Photograph Artist Robert Taylor depicts the first U.S. carrier-plane attack on an enemy aircraft carrier , as SBD Dauntless dive bombers hit Shoho in the Coral Sea . // Fitch 's radar gave warning , but his combat air patrols were out of position . Adjusting their vectors took valuable time . Soon the Japanese enjoyed good attack positions , upwind and upsun . Lieutenant Commander Shigekazu Shimazaki , a Pearl Harbor veteran , led the torpedo planes . Stroop watched from Lexington 's flag bridge , later describing it as " a fine , nicely coordinated attack . " Captain Frederick C. Sherman maneuvered the carrier through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more were coming . Task Force 17 's anti-aircraft gunners desperately blazed away , and Shimazaki later admitted , " Never in all my years have I imagined a battle like that . " With insufficient Wildcats , Fitch had to throw his scrappy Dauntless dive bombers into the fray . They downed several Kates but fared poorly against Zeros : four went down . The Wildcats fought furiously . Shimazaki reported : " Our Zeros and enemy Wildcats spun , dove , and climbed in the midst of our formation . Burning and shattered planes of both sides plunged from the skies . " Air-to-air action was sustained and violent . Commander Takahashi would not return from this fight . When Lt. j.g . Duran Mattson landed , his crew found his Grumman Wildcat fighter riddled with 21 cannon shell holes and countless machine-gun bullet holes . " Lady Lex " was doomed despite these heroics . Hammered by two torpedoes and two bombs , the giant carrier shuddered and slowed , burning fiercely . A bomb that penetrated four decks set Yorktown afire , too . Japanese aviators returned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had sunk both enemy carriers . Yet Yorktown 's crew quenched her fire and kept her operating . For a brief period even Lexington gave hope that she could limp to port , until a deadly explosion wracked her when aviation gas vapors found a sparking motor . More violent explosions followed . At 4:30 p.m . Sherman secured his engineering department . The great ship went dead in the water , unable to launch planes . As fire approached the torpedo magazine , Admiral Fitch kindly advised Sherman , " Well , Ted , I think it 's time to get the men off . " Sherman ordered abandoning ship , executed with commendable discipline . More than 92 percent of the ship 's crew survived . Sherman was last to debark , and the destroyer Phelps finished Lexington with five torpedoes . Down she went . Said Lt. Cmdr. Stroop , who had stuffed the day 's flag dispatches into his pocket before clambering down a rope into the water , " We felt very badly about the whole business . " NIMITZ HEARD THE FIRST battle reports from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroyed . Shortly after noon Fletcher advised Nimitz that he had heavily damaged an enemy carrier while sustaining some damage himself-on balance , good news . A CINCPAC " Graybook " summary included this entry , " This was a red-letter day for our forces operating in the Coral Sea . " Nimitz sent a decidedly premature message to Fletcher , congratulating him on his " glorious accomplishments . " Fletcher 's subsequent report of Lexington 's loss shocked Nimitz . A staff officer observed that the news " was a terrible blow to Nimitz ; he was visibly jolted and muttered several times that they should have saved her . " Shaking it off , the admiral turned to his staff , blue eyes blazing , and said : " Remember this , we do n't know how badly the enemy is hurt . You can bet your boots he 's hurt , too ! " Unwilling to risk the damaged Yorktown in another battle against the undamaged Zuikaku , Nimitz ordered Fletcher to retire from the scene . Fletcher did n't protest . Thirty-six aircraft had gone down with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had reported a third enemy carrier in the vicinity ( a double sighting of Zuikaku , as it happened ) and Fletcher was worried about his dwindling fuel supplies . Almost simultaneously , Admiral Inouye canceled the Port Moresby invasion and directed Takagi to retire . Repairing Shokaku would require months , and Zuikaku had suffered severe aircraft losses . ( Ironically , Hara , too , was down to 39 planes . ) Neither carrier would be able to accompany the forthcoming Midway invasion forces , reducing by one-third key assets from Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto 's complex battle plan . Furious , Yamamoto ordered Inouye to send his surviving carrier to the Coral Sea to finish the brash Americans . Takagi reversed course sluggishly , pausing to refuel , but Fletcher was gone by the time he returned . Even Neosho 's survivors were rescued just before their hulk went under . Takagi then set course for home , not realizing that the Japanese navy had unwittingly forfeited the Coral Sea to the Allies for the duration of the war . Admiral King was also angry . He had never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a ship King had once commanded , was gone . Peevishly , he asked Nimitz why Fletcher had failed to send his destroyers against Japanese carriers . The answer probably did not assuage King : Nimitz expressed his concerns over fuel , the uncertain location of the enemy , the need to protect his force , and the Lexington survivors crowded aboard his ships . " Acting on my best judgment on the spot , no opportunity could be found , " Fletcher concluded . Nimitz had greater concerns . Rochefort had convinced him that Yamamoto would surely head for Midway with an enormous naval force in less than three weeks . He had just lost one carrier , and the others were thousands of miles out of position . In a brilliant flash of inspiration , Nimitz ordered Halsey " to be seen " by Japanese patrol planes in the South Pacific . This worked . Yamamoto , who had believed Hara 's aviators ' claims that both of Fletcher 's carriers had been sunk , now thought that the last two American carriers would not be a factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler congratulated the " victors " of the Coral Sea . But Nimitz nursed all three carriers to Pearl Harbor , got Yorktown repaired in three days and sortied them under Fletcher and Raymond Spruance ( replacing an ill Halsey ) in time for Midway , one of the greatest battles in American history . Few people realized how much the obscure preliminary battle in the Coral Sea contributed to victory at Midway . Coral Sea had been a tactical defeatsinking Shoho did not offset Lexington 's tragic loss-but a significant strategic victory . The proposed seaborne assault on Port Moresby never materialized , nor did Japan expand into New Caledonia , Samoa or Fiji . Vital sea lanes to Australia had been preserved . The Battle of the Coral Sea produced other benefits to the Pacific Fleet . Naval historian John Lundstrom later called it " the first acid test of naval carrier doctrine . " Naval aviators gained confidence from their first encounters with Zeros . Eighteen months later , equipped with new carriers and amphibious forces , naval aviation would sweep across the Pacific to the Japanese Home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task force commander face to face . Afterward , Nimitz wrote King : " Fletcher did a fine job .... He is an excellent , seagoing , fighting naval officer and I wish to retain him as a task force commander . " Nimitz had made mistakes , true , but his experience and confidence were growing . He made masterful use of radio intelligence . He had learned to bite his tongue and not pester his commanders in combat . He shielded Fletcher from King . And he was developing the essential perspective of a theater commander-keeping an eye on the next , more threatening operation . These lessons would serve Nimitz well at Midway , Guadalcanal , Tarawa , Iwo Jima and Okinawa . Sidebar *1941-1945* Sidebar The surprise attack on Pearl Harbor jolted the United States from an isolationist slumber into intense action . That infamous day in Decem Sidebar ber 1941 gave an aggrieved nation a rallying cry and a focus for its anger . Overnight , previously blase kids became eager recruits . Few of them had any idea where places like Tarawa , Anzio or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these exotic , haunted names as well as if they had been etched on their souls . In the two years before December 7,1941 , the world had gone mad . Tyrants and despots flourished . Aggression spread around the globe like a horrific disease . Although Imperial Japan was the immediate and proper target for U.S. animus-a decade before it attacked Hawaii , Japan had invaded China 's Manchurian province without provocation-there were many foes on whom U.S. aim could be taken . Italian Fascists had already strutted into Ethiopia . Aided by Nazis , Spain 's rightists brutally put down a civil war . The Third Reich took back the Rhineland , annexed Czechoslovakia and blitzkrieged through Poland in 1939 . In the next two years , war metastasized everywhere : in Holland , Denmark , Belgium , Finland , France , Britain and Indochina . After pummeling Pearl Harbor , the Japanese took Thailand , Burma , Hong Kong , Singapore , the Philippines and American island territories . Brave but overwhelmed GIs resisted as best they could , but soon Wake , Guam , Bataan and Corrigedor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Europe . The Soviet Union was reeling , and London was terrorized by aerial bombardment . Prospects for the Allies could not have been bleaker . Sidebar Yet during this dark time the U.S. Navy managed to unnerve Japan and startle the world by launching Colonel James Doolittle 's astonishing raid on Tokyo on April 18 , 1942 , and then holding its own in the Coral Sea . In June , the Pacific Fleet dealt Japan a decisive defeat at Midway Island and , when Marines landed and then hung on at Guadalcanal , the war 's current was flowing in a new direction . In the North Atlantic , American convoys did not let U-boat wolf packs deter them from delivering precious supplies to Britain and Russia . In November 1942 , a strong Anglo-American force defeated Germans in Morocco , Libya and Egypt . Next , British and American forces landed in Sicily . After some dithering about how to attack the mainland , the U.S. Eighth Army and a British army crossed the Messina Strait at Calabria . The Italians gave up almost at once on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stiff resistance on the opposite coast of Italy , where the Fifth Army landed at Salerno . The drive to Rome stalled . Not even an amphibious assault at Anzio by 110,000 American attackers eased the stalemate at first , but eventually , valiant GIs and their British allies slowly clawed their way along Italy 's spine to Rome and the Alps beyond . Then came D-Day . After 10 more grueling months , The Thousand-Year Reich would be utterly defeated . In the Pacific , MacArthur 's army flanked the Japanese at New Guinea in 1944 , then took the Philippines the next year , as U.S. Marines battered and hammered their way by frontal assault , moving from one island beach to another . The closer Americans came to their enemy 's Home Islands , the more desperate Japanese defenders grew . The battle for Iwo Jima 's sulphurous slopes was bad enough , but Okinawa 's tempestuous seven-week slog was worse . Finally , perhaps even mercifully , U.S. atomic bombs ended the war , making moot the plans for the greatest battle never fought . // <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           