@@372700

When the Republican congressmen meeting in a basement conference room at the Capitol last October got word that Democrats had just elected Nancy Pelosi as minority whip , they broke into applause . They were n't cheering because the California Representative had made history by becoming the first woman to win a top leadership post in the House . Many of the Republicans , including Speaker Dennis Hastert , considered the San Francisco Congresswoman a lightweight whose liberal voting record would help them paint the Democrats as out of synch with moderate voters . <P> One key Republican who did not join in the cheers that morning was Tom DeLay , who for almost eight years has been majority whip , the House G.O.P. 's top enforcer and vote counter . The conservative Texan knew his new adversary was a mediagenic and relentless political organizer , a firebrand who could invigorate her party 's liberal base just as he does the Republican right . " She 's a worthy opponent , " says DeLay . " I 've always sort of liked her . But , obviously , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <P> This year Pelosi and DeLay will be battling each other not just on the House floor but also across the country , as they spearhead their parties ' respective campaigns for control of the House . It promises to be a bruising fight . The Democrats need to pick up only six seats to take back the House , and history is on their side : the party of the President  --  even a popular one like George W. Bush  --  typically loses House seats during a midterm election . Bush 's high poll numbers have so far created " no coattail effect , " admits Virginia Representative Tom Davis , who chairs the National Republican Congressional Committee . Democrats are looking to draw blood on domestic issues , where they think Bush is vulnerable . Last week , House Democratic leader Dick Gephardt pounced on a White House proposal to raise interest rates that college students pay for federal loans ( Bush quickly backed away from the idea ) , while Pelosi called Bush 's education budget " $4.2 billion short of the promise of leaving no child behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of other rallying issues could help the Republicans . The Democrats " do n't have a whole lot of running room this time , " says California Representative Ellen Tauscher , the national vice chair of the Democratic Leadership Council . Congressional redistricting , which is mandated every decade in accordance with the new Census count , is still under way , but so far the redrawn lines appear to favor most House incumbents . No more than two dozen of the 435 House races may really be up for grabs , and many of them are in Republican-friendly areas in the South and Midwest . DeLay predicts the G.O.P. will defy history and actually increase its majority in November .                     