@@377303

Kids in the street . Of all the improbable images from Iraq 's historic election day , none captured the mood of the nation better than the sight of children flying out into the open . There have been times since the fall of Saddam Hussein when Iraq 's cities have seemed childless , as parents have tried to shield their kids from kidnappers , gun battles and car bombs . And yet on Jan. 30 , widely predicted to be the most dangerous day since the end of the war  --  so dangerous that the government banned vehicular traffic  --  the streets seemed to be overrun by children : playing soccer in the shadow of U.S. Abrams tanks , chasing other kids in impromptu games of catch , accompanying their parents to polling booths , decked out in their newest clothes . " It 's a big day , and I wanted my girls to experience it , " said Amina Hussein , a Baghdad housewife , as she and her husband tried to subdue three giggling preteen daughters at a voting booth in the downtown Karrada @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they will vote in many elections . But this is the one they will never forget . " <P> Given the chaos of Iraq 's recent past and the uncertainty of what lies ahead , it was understandable that so many wanted to make this one hopeful moment last . Days after the vote , Iraqis were still waving index fingers stained with the dark ink that proved they had taken part . In solidarity , members of the U.S. Congress showed up at the State of the Union address with their own digits dyed purple . On election day President Bush woke at 5 a.m. to watch news reports of how the vote was going . After his advisers told him that early indications showed higher-than-expected turnout , Bush stayed glued to the results . " For millions of Iraqis , it was an act of personal courage , " he said , " and they have earned the respect of us all . " Even the insurgents appeared taken aback by the outburst of people power : there were no major attacks anywhere in Iraq in the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course . Extremist groups resumed their campaign of attacks , mainly against Iraqi security forces , killing 12 in an ambush in Kirkuk . Even so , the vote jump-started a first chapter in democracy : before the ballots were even counted , politicians in Baghdad were already engaging in the ancient art of dealmaking . Early trends suggest that the so-called Sistani List  --  a slate of religious Shi'ites and secular parties that has the backing of Grand Ayatullah Ali Husaini Sistani  --  has won a majority in the 275-member Transitional National Assembly . Vying for second place are a unified Kurdish list and the secular list of interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi , Washington 's preferred candidate .                     