@@390600

Headnote What does it mean to go for the gold ? FUTURE GENERATIONS OF CATHOLICS could call our era " the bad old days . " Or they might look back on this troubled chapter of church history and conclude that while Catholic adults suffered from many religious ailments , apathy about handing on the faith , at least , was not one of them . As evidence they can point to a healthy movement , going on right now , to address the troubling religious illiteracy of our young people . Why are teenagers so ignorant of the faith into which they were born and so uninvolved in the life of the Catholic community ? Specifically , what can Catholic schools do to contribute to understanding , engagement and vitality among a generation that seems to be slipping away from us ? To find the answers , we will have to address a whole other list of questions : What should we be offering students , both Catholic and not Catholic ? What would we consider success in religious nurture and development ? What can we realistically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole school ? What are our Hmitations ? Can they be overcome ? How ? Go for the Gold A good way to start is by thinking of the process of religious education as a contest in which medals are awarded in recognition of different levels of achievement . Students come to us from different religious backgrounds and with various levels of religious receptivity . Think of our success in reaching them as deserving of gold , silver and bronze medals . Gold . In working with Catholic students , the highest achievement is taming out well-informed , convinced young believers who identify with the faith community and participate in the sacramental life of the church . Besides being well informed and observant , they aspire to a Ufe influenced by Christian values . This includes moral sensitivity and a developing social conscience . For non-Catholic students , the goals are necessarily different . One is that they take seriously the religious dimension of life . The school 's religious instruction and activities support and encourage commitment to their own religious tradition . They have an understanding and appreciation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community . They show signs of growth in moral maturity and practice . Silver . Although not convinced of or practicing their faith , students are religiously Uterate . They know what weU-informed Catholics and other Christians beUeve and stand for , and why it is important to them . AU students should know what authentic reUgion is , though they do not feel ready to take an active part . They want to lead morally responsible Uves . Bronze . Students are unresponsive to reUgious insights or concerns and have a basicaUy secular outlook on Ufe . Yet they take moral questions seriously , care about justice and are learning how to form their conscience . They recognize the impoverishment of much of what passes for moral discourse in society at large . They are building resistance to materialism and consumerism , and they aspire to something better . The descriptions above overlap and blend into one another . They are not exhaustive , but may help us form reaUstic expectations and assessments of our efforts at reUgious instruction and formation . We must always go for the gold . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a failure , even if no one is to blame . Educational Consumerism Some might caU this description " not-so-great expectations , " but let 's be reaUstic . More and more of the young people who enroU in CathoUc schools come for reasons other than reUgious development . Research has shown repeatedly that the reUgious illiteracy and tepidity of the young are usuaUy a reflection of their parents ' spiritual mediocrity . Often parental motivation in seeking a CathoUc school education for their children has Uttle or nothing to do with reUgion or even learning itself . And for many students , education is not about exploring and questioning , enjoying learning and taking pride and satisfaction in accompUshments . It is about getting good marks , excelling in sports , padding coUege appUcations and cheating compulsively in desperation to gain admission to coUeges that guarantee success . It 's not what you know , but how high up you go . This is education 's peculiar brand of consumerism , where the product must be purchased at any cost , including the loss of honesty , integrity , curiosity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human being , but about getting what you need in order to elbow a place at the common trough of conspicuous consumption . Most disturbing of aU , many parents buy uncriticaUy into much of this scramble for upward mobility . The school 's faculty and administration may have problems , too . They may be tempted to measure the school 's success solely by which colleges their graduates attend , not by what kinds of persons they become . In such an environment , reUgious formation can hardly be expected to exert much impact . These are daunting obstacles to everyone committed to educating young people for a Uving faith . They do not condemn us to failure ; but if we do not confront them honestly , we will be tempted to settle for a bland kind of reUgious identity that employs the terminology of traditional CathoUc institutions but does Uttle to implement its ideals . Aiming Higher How can we overcome these hmitations ? What should we offer students in reUgion classes and campus ministry ? What kind of support do such activities need from the whole scholastic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of reUgious instruction have gone through many stages in the last 50 years . We went from rote catechism recitation to the " baUoon books " of the 1960s and 70s that replaced the plastic Jesus with the friendly Jesus , whose main job was to assure aU that God does not make junk and to shore up their positive self-image by telling them that God loved them just the way they were and would not want them to change a thing . Fear was out , love was in , and both were soon replaced by boredom . The transcendent God who offers answers to questions of ultimate meaning yielded to a benevolent deity who provoked mostly yawns from youngsters who got tired of being told to be nice to one another . Into this theological rice paddy strode the alarmed bishops , who tried to restore order by making lists of doctrines and teachings and pointing out errors and inaccuracies . This brought some clarity to the enterprise , though not without some of the usual authoritarian stifling of creativity . But it left undone the task that only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - teachers must start from a sophisticated sensitivity to the psychological needs and capacities of the young , then offer them a presentation of the Christian message that is not only orthodox but also challenging and inspirational . Do n't play catechetical " Jeopardy . " Instead , help students ask religious questions before offering them the answers to the deepest questions we can put to human life . Young people , growing up in a dominant culture that discourages serious religious searching , need a lot of help . If the questions do not mean anything to them , why should the answers ? Creative Tension While exploring reUgious questions with young people , teachers must preserve a creative tension among some basic aspects of Christian belief and practice . God must be presented not only as creator , lord and judge , but also as friend , lover and companion . Jesus must be presented not only as comforting and affirming , but also as challenging and demanding . Christian living must be presented as involving both the carrying of the cross and the sharing in the joy of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produce religious styles that are either grim or flabby . This creative tension has a particular relevance in campus ministry , especially in the conduct of retreats . In the years preceding die Second Vatican Council , most retreats were characterized by an individual kind of piety that stressed acknowledging guilt and seeking conversion , especially through the sacrament of confession . The years following the council saw a healthy , new stress on the communitarian dimensions of prayer and celebration . Several different forms of group retreats evolved that did much to improve the quality of personal relationships among the participants , often affecting positively the life of the school . Some of these retreats , which inspire a vibrant fervor and quiet enthusiasm , are still among the best things happening in Catholic schools . Retreats present educators with the challenge of maintaining a creative tension . The communitarian , face-to-face experiences of interpersonal relating can sometimes become so effectively horizontal that the vertical dimension of religious discourse all but disappears . God-talk can lose its place , and after a while it is all about us and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply as an experi- enee of making friends . How about making friends with and getting close to God ? One possible indication of progress on that point is whether students go to Mass where the congregation is not made up of their peers . Another part of school life that can enhance the CathoUc dimension is the program of service projects in which students serve the poor and the needy . This is one of the positive developments that arose in the postconciUar era . Faith became a matter not just of words but also of deeds , and much good continues to be done by and for the young . But even here a word of caution is in order . What exactly does " Christian service " mean to the girls and boys involved ? Does it mean any more to them than it does to their peers in pubUc schools ? Of course , good deeds have a value of their own , but here we are considering formal education . CathoUc school students need to engage in guided reflection on the meaning of their service , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any faith dimension . That does much for others , but it could do more for the students . Service becomes a learning experience when students reflect on the sources of people 's neediness . Does the need come from unjust social structures and insensitive pubUc policies ? Confronting the Culture All these efforts at promoting a Uving faith must be complemented by a hard look at opposing aspects of the surrounding culture . Help young people to be " culture smart " - make them intentionaUy aware of the contradictions and tensions between mass culture and what the school stands for ; offer them a level of sophistication not available elsewhere ; help them recognize those elements of the dominant culture that seek to manipulate them . Consumerism is not just about buying things . It is a whole worldview , a way of perceiving and dealing with reaUty . It defines the human person in terms of material things owned and consumed . Explain how advertising , the machine that powers consumerism , plays on our fear of not being loved , and then promises us that we will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the greatest obstacles to conversion and moral sensitivity : comfort . People who are comfortable do n't want to hear criticism of the status quo . They label as " do-gooders " or " bleeding hearts " or " fuzzy Uberals " anyone who has the temerity to suggest that this is not the best of all possible worlds . Clearly offer an alternative vision of life , one that is designed not to soothe students but to wake them up . Some people equate serious religious education with dogmatism and the restriction of intellectual freedom . But education for a living faith , as proposed here , is just the opposite . It promotes critical intelligence and rational commitment . The best weapon against mindless herd behavior is the human mind . Do n't just teach kids how to make Web sites ; teach them how to think . Encourage them to ask questions and demand explanations . At a time when critical thinking is discouraged in both church and state , employ one of the most underused words in education : why . Why ca n't this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries do ? Why are we the last industrialized country to resort to capital punishment ? Why ca n't women be priests ? Why are Americans divided on issues like abortion and assisted suicide ? Many of us came to adulthood after years of schooling . We learned all kinds of skills except how to raise our hands and ask " Why ? How do we know that ? " It is time to break new ground , but watch out . If you let students ask questions , you had better know the answers . A Pervasive Environment Teachers , campus ministers and service program directors are the adults who explicitly carry the school 's religious dimension . But can they do it all by themselves ? There is a temptation , already yielded to by many Catholic school communities , to do just that . We have all heard the argument : " Who ever heard of Catholic math ? " But it does n't work that way . Older Catholic school graduates who speak positively of the religious formation they received , look back on it as something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , English and social studies had a Catholic flavor that was pervasive without being intrusive . They were encouraged to see Christianity as a distinctive way of life , and they got the impression that the adults around them had bought into it . Today , if faculty members and administrators are not Catholic or not interested in the religious dimension of the school , the term " Catholic atmosphere " can become little more than a vague abstraction . And the most important adults-the-parents-must be addressed , too . They may be the hardest to reach , but we have to try . Parents-night activities , which usually involve questions of scholastic achievement and college placement , could make a little room for discussing levels of religious involvement and development . The " bad times " are not going to go away very soon , but we can nudge our young people along a day at a time . And one of the best ways is by making an investment in the future they represent in our Catholic schools and communities . How ? By going for the gold . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between cultural Catholicism and the real thing . Tell them that being a genuine Catholic includes free and committed participation in the life of a believing and worshiping community . Those who accept it will contribute to a newly vibrant church . Those who leave the church will at least know what it is that they have left . Author Affiliation JAMES J. DIGIACOMO , S.J. , is the author of many books on religious education and youth ministry . <p>                     