@@416333

Determined leaders fight national effort to destroy key programs Photograph At the University of Michigan , students demonstrate in support of the school 's affirmative action admissions policies , which have been challenged in two law suits . // THE battle lines are clearly drawn . The opposing forces are armed to the teeth , ready for a deathmatch that may determine , once and for all , whether the nation 's leading institutions will continue to consider the legacy of slavery and discrimination , as well as the overarching benefits of diversity , as mitigating factors in decisions about hiring and college admissions . Affirmative action is on the firing line . In courtrooms across the country , an intensive assault is being waged against programs designed to promote diversity in elite institutions and employment arenas where women and minorities have long been shut out . Most agree that it will take a ruling by the Supreme Court to quell the legal wrangling over affirmative action policies and programs . But no matter how the high court rules , many say the upshot will be a dramatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designed and executed . Yet even in the face of predictions about the passing of affirmative action programs as we now know them , many individuals and institutions are determined to hold the line on policies to promote diversity and redress historic inequities . Atlanta Mayor Bill Campbell is among them . His administration has spent the past year embroiled in a multimillion-dollar defense of the city 's minority setaside program . The Atlanta program , like many around the country , was designed to help minorityand women-owned businesses gain the government contracts by mandating that a percentage of the business on each government project go to minority firms . The Southeastern Legal Foundation , a conservative group that has spent millions in its effort to dismantle set-aside programs , sued the city of Atlanta , claiming that its affirmative action programs were unconstitutional . Campbell vowed to " fight to the death " to maintain the program . " I believe the preservation of equal opportunity programs is the most fundamental issue for minorities in this country , " he says . " We are nowhere near to correcting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is ongoing discrimination in the corporate sector , in the public arena , and in private enterprise . In my view , these programs are the very least that America can do for African-Americans . " Photograph Atlanta Mayor Bill Campbell ( above , at podium ) fires up a crowd at a rally for the city 's beleagured minority set-aside program . University of Michigan President Lee Bollinger ( below , left ) and the school 's lead attorney , John Payton ( below , right ) , plan to carry the university 's affirmative action fight to the Supreme Court . // Yet in a settlement that saw both sides claiming victory , the city of Atlanta agreed in December not to continue its fight over the constitutionality of affirmative action and to phase out its current set-aside program in favor of a new program that shifts the burden of maintaining affirmative action goals from the city to private companies that do business with the city . " What we 've come to realize is that most business opportunities exist in the private sector , " Campbell says , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of making opportunities available for minority- and female-owned firms . What this ordinance says , in essence , is that the companies that do business with the city of Atlanta must have in place a fully functioning affirmative action or minority business program in their own companies . And if they do n't , it gives them a corrective period to develop one . " Whether this move will stave off future lawsuits and become the vehicle by which other cities open the doors to minority firms remains to been seen . So far , many of the cities whose affirmative action programs have been challenged have simply abandoned them in the belief that the programs would not hold up in court . As costly and acrimonious as the affirmative action fight has been for cities , it pales in comparison to the furor being raised on the campuses of some of the nation 's most prestigious colleges and universities . Five critical lawsuits-challenges to the affirmative action admissions policies of a few select institutions-are currently winding their way through several jurisdictions . Within the next year-perhaps even the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will land before the Supreme Court . " We 're still very much in a dogfight right now , " says Ted Shaw , associate director-counsel of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund , emphasizing how intensely the opponents of affirmative action are marshaling their forces . If college campuses are the hotbed of the affirmative action dispute , the University of Michigan is an inferno , with lawsuits swirling and the eyes of the nation trained on the university 's efforts to preserve its admissions policies , which consider race among many of its admissions criteria . Photograph Having a diverse student body is critical to its educational mission , according to administrators at the University of Michigan . // In December , a federal district judge in Detroit rejected the arguments of a group of White students who sued the university , stating that its undergraduate admissions policy discriminated against Whites in favor of Blacks . Michigan 's admissions criteria is based on a point system that includes minority status as well as grades and standardized test scores when evaluating prospective students . judge Patrick Duggan ruled that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarding the educational benefits that flow from a racially and ethnically diverse student body . " But in a separate suit brought against the University of Michigan 's law school , another federal district judge , Bernard A. Friedman , ruled in March that the school 's consideration of the race of applicants was illegal and discriminatory . In that trial , lawyers for the university argued , as they had in the undergraduate case , that maintaining diversity in the law school was central to the university 's mission . " We have set out to prove that having a racially and ethnically diverse student body is educationally compelling-we would even say crucial , " says John Payton , the noted Washington-based civil rights attorney who serves as the university 's lead counsel . " As a society , we are as divided today as ever , maybe even more divided residentially and in grades kindergarten through 12 . Therefore it 's really important that higher education have diversity so that we can have a much healthier educational environment given where we are . " While Friedman acknowledged that maintaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society as a whole , he ruled that achieving that goal by factoring race into admissions decisions was " inherently suspect and presumptively invalid . " " The focus must be upon the merit of individual applicants , not upon the characteristics of racial groups , " Friedman wrote . The university is planning its appeal to Friedman 's ruling . In the meantime , administrators stand steadfast in support of their admissions policies , the benefits of which , they say , outweigh the relatively small number of nonminority students who are affected . " The fact is that the total number of White students who are affected by affirmative action policies is really quite small , " says Jeffrey Lehman , dean of the law school . " The odds are that most of those White students who think they would have been admitted under a color-blind regime probably would n't have gotten in anyway because the numbers of minority students we 're talking about is very small-less than 10 percent of most incoming classes . And while affin-native action does make a difference for the institution and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also would have been admitted under a color-blind regime-the number of adversely affected White students is infinitesimal . " At the center of the Michigan controversies is the university 's current president , Lee Bollinger , a California native who was educated at the University of Oregon and Columbia Law School . The former dean of the University of Michigan law school and First Amendment scholar has long been a passionate champion of diversity , especially at the nation 's elite institutions of higher education . " A core mission of the university is to help students see the world through multiple perspectives , " he says . " It 's one of the reasons you study other cultures . Given the history of this country , there is a different life experience growing up White , growing up Black , Hispanic or Native American . Giving students the chance to cross those boundaries is the same kind of educational experience as sitting down and reading a novel that illuminates for you a perspective on life that you had not seen before . " Bollinger and the Michigan attorneys say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the erroneous belief that admittance to certain institutions is based solely on measurable data . " Some people think of admissions as taking applicants , looking at their LSAT or SAT scores and grades , lining them up in numerical sequence , drawing a line and that 's the class . Admissions are not done that way . We select an array of individuals who collectively will provide the best education for the entire class . " Black students at Michigan weighed into the dispute by mounting an unsuccessful suit in federal court designed to prove that the university needs an admissions policy that will attempt to offset past and present discrimination against people of color . " Our contention is that racial discrimination and bias is very much a reality in this society and that affirmative action is the only way to offset that bias , " says Miranda Massie , the Detroit attorney who served as legal counsel for a group of Black students and who , like the students she represents , maintains that " the racism of the basic admissions criteria used by colleges and universities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who do think that a simple numerical formula-students with the best grades and test scores get in-should prevail in college admissions . And so the lawsuits proliferate . In addition to the Michigan cases , affirmative action admissions policies are at the heart of lawsuits directed at the University of Washington School of Law and the University of Georgia , which in January celebrated the 40th anniversary of the admission of its first two Black students , Charlayne Hunter and Hamilton Holmes . At state colleges and universities in Texas and California , both of which put an end to their affirmative action admissions policies in 1996 following lawsuits and voter initiatives , administrators are actively seeking to reinstate some form of race-sensitive evaluation criteria that will ensure diversity in their most selective institutions . " We are very definitely at a crossroads , " says John Payton . " It 's been 23 years since the Supreme Court has looked at affirmative action . It now appears that we will have to wind up in the Supreme Court again before there is any clarity on this issue . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was in 1978 with a landmark decision in the Regents of the University of California v. Bakke case . Allen Bakke , a would-be medical student , sued to gain admission to the University of CaliforniaDavis Medical School , contending that the university 's policy of reserving 16 of 100 slots for Black applicants was a form of discrimination against Whites . The high court 's ruling in Bakke was less than definitive . While striking down the quota system , justice Lewis Powell , who wrote the prevailing opinion , stated that race could indeed be considered in an effort to achieve diversity . The court did not address the past or current inequities that have made affirmative action necessary , thus the supporters of race-sensitive admissions policies have narrowly framed their arguments around the objective of preserving diversity , not addressing discrimination . Still , the anti-affirmative action forces press on in their effort to eradicate all race-sensitive admissions criteria . In doing so , they " radically distort the extent to which race is used in admissions , " according to John Payton , " and leave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions . " The Supreme Court will be the ultimate arbiter . But supporters of affirmative action say the fight also must continue in the court of public opinion . " We can not allow this to be the last , great struggle , " says Mayor Campbell of Atlanta . " What I continue to hope for is that the same troops who helped to overthrow apartheid in South Africa and apartheid in the United States-the college students who were the footsoldiers in those fights-will be re-energized and will use their energy and their forceful advocacy to turn America back to its promise of equality . " Which affirmative action case the Supreme Court will hear first is anybody 's guess . But legal experts agree that how that case is decided will depend largely on the composition of the court . " Do I think our arguments about the benefits of affirmative action will prevail when they end up in the Supreme Court ? " asks John Payton . " If we were before this Supreme Court right now , I 'd feel very good about our arguments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will look like in another year , I think there 's a different worry . " One thing is certain-a dramatic shift away from affirmative action will alter the complexion of many institutions . And that , some say , would be disastrous . " Every public and private university in the country that receives federal money could n't take race into account as a factor in admissions , " says Bollinger . " People do n't think ahead to what the world would look like if that actually happened . " <p>                     