@@374378

Readers of the science pages could be forgiven for thinking that the conversation in the cartoon on the opposite page really took place . Study after study has shown that genes can affect behavior and mental life . Identical twins separated at birth ( who share their genes but not their environment ) are similar in their intellectual talents , their personality traits ( such as introversion , conscientiousness and antagonism ) , their average level of lifelong happiness and such personal quirks as giggling incessantly or flushing the toilet both before and after using it . Identical twins ( who share all their genes ) are more similar than fraternal twins ( who share half their genes ) . And biological siblings ( who also share half their genes ) are more similar , of course , than adopted siblings ( who share none of their genes ) . Not only are personality and intelligence partly heritable , but so is susceptibility to psychological maladies such as schizophrenia , obsessive-compulsive disorder and major depression . <P> The discovery that genes have something to do with behavior came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century , when most people still thought that the mind of a newborn was a blank slate and that anyone could do anything if only he or she strove hard enough . And the link continues to set off alarm bells about what it will lead to . Many people are worried about a Brave New World in which parents or governments will try to re-engineer human nature . Others see genes as a threat to free will and personal responsibility , citing headlines like MAN 'S GENES MADE HIM KILL , HIS LAWYERS CLAIM . Behavioral geneticists are sometimes picketed , censored or compared with Nazis . <P> As we increase our knowledge of how the genome works , many beliefs about ourselves will indeed have to be rethought . But the worst fears of the genophobes are misplaced . It is easy to exaggerate the significance of behavioral genetics for our lives . For one thing , genes can not pull the strings of behavior directly . Behavior is caused by the activity of the brain , and the most genes can do is affect its wiring , size @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among the brain circuits laid down by genes are the ones that reflect on memories , current circumstances and the anticipated consequences of various courses of action and that select behavior accordingly  --  in an intricate and not entirely predictable way . These circuits are what we call " free will , " and providing them with information about the likely consequences of behavioral options is what we call " holding people responsible . " All normal people have this circuitry , and that is why the existence of genes with effects on behavior should not be allowed to erode responsibility in the legal system or in everyday life .                     