@@380298

During a tour of communities devastated by the rainstorms that hit California last week , Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger stood atop a battered levee reinforced by stacks of sandbags and previewed his next crusade . He was preparing to ask the legislature to support a 10-year , $222 billion proposal to fortify eroding flood banks and other decrepit infrastructure . Surveying the swollen canal nearby , Schwarzenegger closed by saying , " I hope we can move forward with the plan . It 's just the sandbags protecting us from a disaster here . " <P> Schwarzenegger is crossing his fingers that the massive public-works plan will help rescue him from political disaster . His approval ratings are well below 40% , his re-election day is just 10 months away , and he 's still recovering from the defeat of his pet ballot initiatives by voters who thought he had become too conservative and combative during the special election last November . The Republican Governor is trying to rally by championing levee restoration and a host of other largely nonpartisan programs in a concerted attempt to recast himself as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elected two years ago . To that end he has added more moderates to his inner circle-most notably staff chief Susan Kennedy , an iconoclastic Democrat who supports abortion rights but shares the Governor 's hostility to government regulation . And he has demoted partisans like liberal environmental activist Terry Tamminen and Kennedy 's predecessor , conservative Republican Patricia Clarey . He is courting-or , some suggest , co-opting- Democrats on pet issues like raising the minimum wage and freezing tuition at state colleges . But at the same time , he followed the politically safe precedent-no California Governor had commuted a death sentence in 38 years-and denied clemency to death-row inmate Stanley ( Tookie ) Williams . <P> Schwarzenegger 3.0 was on full display during his State of the State address last week . Gone was the man who in last year 's speech talked of fighting special interests , deplored the " broken " budget process , called the education system a " disaster " and declared that the state-employees pension system was " out of control . " In his place , legislators heard a chastened Governor offering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , union member , hourly worker , college student or construction-company owner . " The people , who always have the last word , sent a clear message-cut the warfare , cool the rhetoric , find common ground and fix the problems together , " Schwarzenegger said . " So to my fellow Californians , I say-message received . " Among other things , he proposes to repay elementary and secondary schools the $1.67 billion the state previously borrowed to close the budget gap . He would finance his public-works projects not with higher taxes but with a combination of bond sales and freeway tolls . Most startling , Schwarzenegger conferred so frequently on those ideas with Democratic legislative leaders that " Democrats all but wrote the speech , " says Fabian Nez , the Democratic assembly speaker who has shared cigars , wine and espresso with the Governor during their confabs.                     