@@384418

IRRITABLE BOWEL SYNDROME Do you have abdominal pain ? Do you feel full after eating just a few bites of a meal ? Do you experience prolonged and painful bouts of bloating , diarrhea or constipation ? If you answered yes to a combination of any of these questions , you may want to ask your doctor about the gastrointestinal disorder known as irritable bowel syndrome ( IBS ) . IBS is a serious , but not life-threatening , condition that causes abdominal pain , discomfort , inconvenience , embarrassment and medical expense , according to the International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders . Increasingly , **28;1400;TOOLONG women - are being diagnosed with the disorder , which affects up to 20 percent of the population , according to the foundation . About 15 percent of African-American women who complain of abdominal pain have been diagnosed with the disorder , doctors say . Diagnosing IBS can be difficult , and there is no test to diagnose the condition , the foundation says . As a result , doctors rely on answers to several questions about a patient 's discomfort , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fiber in the diet is an important step toward getting relief , treatment is available in the form of two relatively new drugs that tackle the multiple symptoms of IBS , including pain . Lotronex ( alosetron ) has been approved for women with severe IBS and whose main bowel symptom is diarrhea . ZeInorm ( tegaserod ) has been approved for the short-term treatment of women with IBS and whose primary bowel symptom is constipation , according to the International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders . Since most new treatments are geared toward women , men are encouraged to work with their doctors to determine the best way to treat their symptoms . Besides increasing fiber , doctors may prescribe laxatives for constipation or medicines to decrease diarrhea . An antispasmodic is commonly prescribed to control colon muscle spasms and to reduce abdominal pain . Antidepressants may relieve some symptoms . The cause of IBS is unclear , experts say . But doctors say that sufferers can find some relief by making major lifestyle adjustments in their diet and exercise routines . Reducing stress levels also is important in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produces higher-thannormal blood glucose levels , currently affects 41 million people in the United States and can develop into type 2 diabetes if not given proper attention . A new drug that is pending FDA approval has been developed to combat type 2 diabetes . The once-daily oral medication claims to enhance the body 's own ability to lower blood sugar when it is elevated . Type 2 diabetes develops when the body does not produce enough insulin , and it is most prevalent in African-Americans over age 40 . Among African-Americans , 1 in 9 have diabetes ( compared to 1 in 16 Caucasians ) , according to the National Diabetes Education Program . Other forms of the disease include type 1 diabetes ( formerly called juvenile diabetes ) and gestational diabetes , which occurs during pregnancy , and is most common in obese women and those with a family history of the disease . One theory related to why African-Americans seem to be predisposed to the disease is the thought that they have inherited a gene that enabled their African ancestors to survive during cycles of feast and famine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy more efficiently during food shortages may make weight control more difficult today . While diabetes is serious , it 's possible to live a full life with the disease by eating healthy , exercising and taking insulin if necessary . Since many people are unaware that they have the disease , one course of action is to be tested , particularly if you have a family history of the disease or have warning signs , which include constant urination , abnormal thirst , unusual hunger , rapid weight loss , fatigue and nausea . BONE MARROW CANCERS In 2006 , there will be more than 35,000 new cases of leukemia and more than 66,000 new cases of lymphoma , according to the American Cancer Society . While the rates of both leukemia and lymphoma are slightly higher in Whites than Blacks , there have been some new developments in research in these two types of bone marrow cancers . In a recent study from a group of researchers at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center , patients with a type of bone marrow cancer called myelodysplastic syndrome were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clinical trials . Myelodysplastic syndrome generally occurs in patients who are older than 60 . In some cases , the disease can progress into acute myeloid leukemia . According to the study , the quality of life of the patients treated with the drug improved significantly . But researchers say the drug has little impact on the patients ' survival . In another study , a group of researchers from the University of Rochester Medical Center 's James R WiImot Cancer Center discovered that adding monoclonal antibodies to the standard treatment methods for patients with follicular lymphoma helped patients live longer . Three different groups of patients were treated with different treatment regimens , the group of patients who were treated with monoclonal antibodies along with the standard therapy had the highest survival rate of the three groups-which was 91 percent . Bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplants are treatment options for patients with lifethreatening blood , immune system or genetic disorders . Leukemia and lymphoma are two common diseases often treated with bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplants . While patients with life-threatening bone marrow diseases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stem cell transplants are used to treat patients who have received high doses of chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy . Without healthy bone marrow , the patient is not able to make blood cells needed to carry oxygen , fight infection and prevent bleeding , according to the National Cancer Institute . Medical experts say individuals in need of a transplant have a better chance of finding a donor match with a brother or sister . Yet only about 30 percent of patients who need a bone marrow or blood cell transplant find a matched donor in their family , according to the National Marrow Donor Program . There are more than 6 million donors registered with the National Marrow Donor Program , but less than 8 percent of those registered donors are African-Americans . And while it 's possible to receive a donor match from another racial or ethnic group , the most likely match is found within one 's own racial background . African-Americans have the toughest challenge because of the lack of AfricanAmerican registered bone marrow donors . To find out more information about how you can became a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DISEASE There is good news in the area of heart disease prevention . According to a clinical study done by UCLA , aged garlic extract can benefit individuals who are at risk for heart disease , which claims one life every 33 seconds-more than either cancer or AIDS . The study also showed that aged garlic extract was found to inhibit calcified plaque formation by more than 65 percent , lower levels of bad cholesterol , known as lowdensity lipoprotein , and increase good cholesterol , or high-density lipoprotein , in cardiac patients . The 7year clinical study included 3,000 individuals . Cardiovascular disease is the No. 1 killer of all American women with African-American women ( 44.7 percent ) being most affected compared to 32.4 percent of Caucasian females , according to the American Heart Association . At-risk factors include high blood pressure , physical inactivity , obesity , high cholesterol and a family history of heart disease . In another development , experts say it appears that excessive coffee drinking may not contribute to heart disease , as originally suspected , according to another study . To avoid heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aerobic exercise , maintain your ideal body weight , quit smoking , eliminate transfatty acids and increase the amount of fruits , vegetables and whole grains in your diet . HIV and GENITAL HERPES A vaginal gel that could prevent the spread of HIV and genital herpes may become available in stores as soon as 2008 , according to news reports . The product is good news for African-American women , who stand the greatest risk of contracting HIV and genital herpes , doctors say . The Food and Drug Administration has granted fasttrack status to review VivaGel , a microbiological gel that women would apply hours before engaging in sexual intercourse to prevent transmission of HIV and genital herpes , according to the Australian-based company , Starpharma . A fast-track review by the FDA could greatly shorten the federal approval process . Starpharma says the difference between its product and condoms is that the gel does not require women to seek cooperation from their sexual partners , which could go a long way toward saving their lives . If the trials prove successful , the gel would come as good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No. 1 killer of African-American women age 25 to 34 , according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . Between 2000 and 2003 , the rate of contracting the disease among African-American women was 19 times that for White females and 5 times the rate for Hispanic females . And the rates among African-American men were 7 times those for White men and 3 times the rate for Hispanic males . Black women also are at the highest risk of being infected with herpes simplex virus type-2 ( HSV-2 ) , according to findings by the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center in Denver , which studied individuals visiting STD clinics in five U.S. cities between 1993 and 1996 . While medical experts are not sure why AfricanAmerican women appear to be more susceptible to the spread of certain STDs , they agree that the problem may lie in the apparent unwillingness of their partners to wear condoms . INSOMNIA If you often wake up tired and headachy , tend to chew out your co-workers before lunch , and are totally exhausted by mid-afternoon , you might have insomnia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million Americans suffer from insomnia , which is the difficulty initiating and/or maintaining sleep for a variety of reasons . A myriad of sleep disorders exist , including sleep apnea , which is marked by excessive snoring and occurs when an individual repeatedly stops breathing during their sleep . Doctors say sleep apnea is more common among Black men . Women are more likely to lose sleep due to being awakened by children or issues stemming from menstruation , pregnancy and menopause . One recent medical study shows that sleeping disorders can lead to more life-threatening problems , such as heart disease , hypertension , heart failure and stroke . Before you reach for the potato chips late at night , know that sleep experts have found that sleeplessness can even cause obesity by disrupting hormones that regulate hunger and satiety . If you are having sleep problems , consult your doctor . In the meantime , the National Sleep Foundation recommends some steps that adults ( without medical problems ) can take to help them get some much-needed shut-eye . They include maintaining regular sleep/wake hours ; establishing a bedtime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to soothing music ; creating a sleep-conducive environment that is comfortable for you ; eating no more than two to three hours before bedtime ; getting some exercise , preferably a few hours before you retire ; not watching television while you 're in the bed ; and avoiding alcohol , caffeine , nicotine and other stimulants during the hours near bedtime . Sidebar STDs occur most commonly in sexually active young adults and teenagers , especially those who have multiple sex partners . An estimated 200 to 400 million people worldwide are infected , which represents men and women of all economic classes . // <p>                     