@@406417

KENNETH COLE is as well-known for his philanthropy as he is for his brand of shoes , leather bags and men 's and women 's garments . As early as 1987 , he became involved with amfAR ( the Foundation for AIDS Research ) . " There was an extraordinary stigma then with regard to HIV issues , " says Cole . " The presumption was that if you were active in AIDS causes , you were a drug user , gay and/or Haitian , none of whom were exactly socially well-integrated into society . I was n't any of those , but I stayed involved , eventually becoming chairman in 2005 . " As Cole writes in his book Awearness : Inspiring Stories About How to Make a Difference ( Melcher Media , 2008 ) : " For me , the decision to commit much of my life to social entrepreneurship just seemed to happen . Not a single person I have met or spoken to has expressed any regret about their choice to dedicate their life , all or in part , to a life of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ richard phibbs ; lara robby/studio d In Awearness you write about the idea of " a company with a conscience . " What advice can you offer businesses , whether they 're mom-and-pop shops or Fortune 500 companies , about how to find their conscience ? Businesses need to come up with more creative ways to connect with their customers . Company leaders need to ask themselves who their target audience is and put themselves in their shoes . What inspires their customers ? These are questions leaders need to ask  --  and answer  --  honestly . And when a business chooses an initiative to get involved in , that commitment has to be genuine . It is more important now than ever to connect with customers on all levels . They will know right away if a charitable endeavor is just a disguised marketing plan . It 's okay , of course , to allow commercial realities to have a place in these decisions , but they should not overshadow the idea to do some good on another level . How does having a conscience benefit a company ? What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involvement ? Doing good business and doing good works are interconnected . One can not exist without the other . Business and community service are not independent but interdependent . Our economy is failing ; overall business is failing ; individuals are struggling ; government is no longer able to provide for those who are least able to provide for themselves . If business does n't rise to the occasion , everyone loses . Explain how the Awearness Fund works to promote volunteerism . The book , which is available at all our 100 U.S. stores and at major book retailers , is a launching point . Its eighty-six stories , many from friends , tell about how to make a difference : Robert Redford talks about free speech , Mario Cuomo about death-penalty laws , Matilda Cuomo about mentoring youth . We also have a merchandise initiative where we create provocative messages and put them on Kenneth Cole bags and T-shirts . Awearness.com is a resource where people can find places to volunteer . The goal of the fund is to promote , educate people about and support acts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around an issue . We can conceivably do extraordinary things . We all have resources that we do n't realize we possess . In November 2008 , we launched the Awearness Alliance , through which we urge you to bring your resources directly to us . We 'll actually " loan " you one of our stores so that you can hold an event to help you create a community  --  and awareness  --  for your cause . We 'll help you generate commerce by donating a percentage of the proceeds to support local service-based organizations .                     