@@391341

Headnote Carol Moseley Braun is now a recovering politician , an organic-biodynamic food seller-and a bee hugger On a hot day in late August , Carol Moseley Braun , the former U.S. senator from Illinois , ambassador to New Zealand and Samoa and 2004 presidential candidate , was prodigiously taking notes on a certain winged creature that sends thills down her spine . Just as some people are frightened by heights or suffer from claustrophobia , Braun is terrified of bees . Yet she had reasons for closely confronting her fear . For more than a year , honeybees , the pollinating workhorses of American farms and orchards , have been vanishing at an alarming rate . And Braun , who had flown to California specifically to learn about life in the hive , was concerned about the creatures ' fate . Attending the honeybee lecture at Rudolf Steiner College , a small institution nestled in the rolling bluffs near Sacramento , is part of Braun 's immersion into the realms of farming , food production and a very special form of organic crop propagation . The bees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ play a role in the organic and biodynamic food company she started in 2005 , Ambassador Organics . The enterprise currently markets teas , coffees and spices , commodities that for centuries have reigned at the core of global trade . What sets Braun 's products apart from numerous others crowding grocery shelves worldwide is their connection to biodynamic farming , an agricultural philosophy that grew out of a series of 1923 lectures by Austrian organic-farming expert Rudolf Steiner , namesake of the California college . Steiner believed that the land and its crops are intimately linked to the spiritual forces of the universe . Also a beekeeping expert , he predicted the current honeybee die-off eight decades before billions of bees vanished , forecasting that large-scale commercial beekeeping enterprises would precipitate a sweeping decline . Now Braun has embraced biodynamics with gusto . It has given her another outlet for her energy now that she has given up politics . " I call myself a recovering politician , " Braun , 60 , told Ms. in a recent interview . " I served in that arena and I 've moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'm going to make my mark now . " She has entered the food industry at a time when many people are increasingly interested not only in what they eat but how the food is grown . Food scares-such as E. coli contamination of spinach and other leafy greens grown on large industrial farms-have created explosive headlines in recent years . Pesticide use on fresh fruits and vegetables is an ongoing concern for consumers as well as farm workers . Even though Steiner 's notions are more than 80 years old , his philosophy of crop propagation is still gaining followers . The Benziger Family Winery , which operates an 85-acre vineyard in Glen Ellen , Calif. , for example , proudly promotes its adherence to biodynamic propagation principles . Vineyards and farms elsewhere in the country and abroad are following suit . " Biodynamics is about being in harmony with the Earth and the universe , " says Braun-and no , the practical ex-politician has not lapsed into hippie-era lingo . " Some of the unintended consequences of progress have been the abuses of our bodies and our planet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lot of the health problems that are in epidemic proportions today are directly related to the foods we eat . Obesity , high blood pressure , diabetes and a long list of other medical conditions come from our degraded food supply . That 's part of the reason for my getting into biodynamics in the first place , because it emphasizes the nutritional values of foods . " At its core , biodynamic farming goes several steps beyond what most people recognize as organic food production . Instead of simply staying free of chemicals , farmers time when they plant and reap their crops according to Steinerian principles . Seeds , he believed , should be sown in synch with lunar phases and planetary alignments . Harvests likewise should have planetary timing . And seasons , not market forces , should dictate which commodities are available for human consumption . He stressed the importance of avoiding toxic fertilizers and pesticides at all costs , suggesting instead that farmers use insect predators to devour pests that thrive on crops . Many of Steiner 's present-day followers see the biodynamic philosophy as part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preservation of Earth 's resources and promotion of human and animal health . Experts in biodynamics believe Steiner 's methods help " heal " soils stripped of vital minerals . " With organic farming you 're still spraying plant-derived chemicals ; with biodynamics you 're looking to bring a healthy balance to the soil , " says staff gardener Natalie Coles of the Josephine Porter Institute for Applied Bio-Dynamics in Woolwine , Va. , which markets the herbs and other organic materials Steiner recommended to condition soils . Braun , who lost her Senate seat to a Republican in 1998 after one term as the first-and still only-African American woman elected to that body , now directs as much energy into her company as once flowed into her campaigns . And there were a number of campaigns in some 30 years of public service : After serving as a prosecutor in the U.S. attorney 's office , she was elected Illinois state representative ( where she received the honorary title " Conscience of the House " ) , Cook County Recorder of Deeds and U.S. senator . And then she ran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her time , though , that she has not been involved in the current Democratic presidential campaigns . " I like them all . Barack is my neighbor , " she said of candidate Obama who won her former Senate seat back for the Democratic party in 2004 . " Hillary and I are friends ; I adore Joe Biden . And Dennis Kucinich , how could I forget him ? " Her Chicago-based enterprise has already landed its first big coups : Internet grocer Peapod will carry the Ambassador Organics brand , as will organic-fare giant Whole Foods , in its northeast stores . Braun will be making appearances at Whole Foods markets , promoting her line of teas , shade-grown coffees and a range of spices . The products have " organic-biodynamic " notated on their labels . " We actually considered marketing fresh foods and vegetables , but it was difficult starting with perishables , " Braun says . " Right now , I am trying to grow the business . That 's why we 're focusing on nonperishables . Once we get ourselves better established , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those that are prepared , which would allow people to take them home to heat . " Braun has to cast a wide net to find suppliers who meet biodynamic standards . She buys spices from Egypt , coffee from Mexico and teas from Sri Lanka . As head of her own company , Braun has found a new forum in which to legislate and impose rules . Her company employs the " triple bottom line , " emphasizing environmental sustainability , social justice and corporate accountability . She insists on fair trade , emphasizing decent salaries and sanitary conditions for workers who produce the foods she sells . And those who know Braun well are optimistic that she will succeed despite fierce competitiveness in the food industry . " From a business standpoint she has turned a corner . And hopefully from here on out it will be easier , " says Lloyd Wright , a member of Braun 's board of directors , who worked for 38 years in the U.S. Department of Agriculture and directed the agency 's Office of Civil Rights during 1997 and 1998 , under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foods , the largest of the chains that sell organic , was really important . Like any developing business , hers is going through some growing pains . But she 's out there getting a brand started , getting a supply line going and getting her brand known . " Braun did n't enter the food industry as a hobby . The native Chicagoan 's family roots run deep into Alabama farmland , where more than 300 acres of virgin soil in Union Springs has remained untouched by chemical fertilizers and pesticides . Planted with pecan trees , the land has been in her family since 1870 and has served as a symbol of her green Earth focus . Now that the land has been handed down to her generation , she is restoring the ailing trees in order to preserve the farm for her retirement and for future generations . Braun 's son , Matthew , 30 , already sits on her board of directors and helps his mother with the new endeavor . " There are two threads in life that came together , " leading to a role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ senator , Braun helped develop agriculture and nutrition bills ; as a child , she spent many hours on the family farm . Both experiences , she says , helped forge her interest in chemical-free farming . As a girl in the 1950s she 'd observe with interest as her grandparents used compost as fertilizer . But Braun interrupted the bucolic image with a sharp reality check of Alabama in the early 1950s . Visiting the Deep South during trips from Illinois meant witnessing sharp racial divisions imposed by Jim Crow-the unwritten doctrine that ruled Dixie . She vividly recalls drinking fountains governed by signs reading " white " and " colored . " Today , Braun is concerned that the food supply is becoming divided between food for the affluent and food " ghettos " for the poor . Residents there sometimes have to travel miles to find a head of lettuce , let alone morenutritious vegetables . It is no accident that obesity and diabetes abound in communities where fast food and highly processed fare predominate . As her company grows , Braun hopes to market vitamin-rich fresh vegetables @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a retired lawyer with a graduate degree in public health who has known Braun since the two were in law school 38 years ago , says the former senator is putting a familiar face and a widely recognized name on the philosophy of biodynamics . " This is a topic of mounting interest , " says Levin , who herself has had a decadeslong interest in natural foods . " People are concerned about the quality of food they eat and how it 's grown and the human capital that is used to produce it . These are issues that Carol 's addressing . She has a deep understanding of farming and the land . She has been interested in health , so this brings together many interests of hers . Any new venture is very risky , but I think she 's very brave . " Braun , who served as ambassador to New Zealand between 1999 and 2001 , says she also learned about living close to the land from New Zealand 's Maori culture . The Maoris ' deep spirituality provided yet another view of how harmony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consuming foods based on a radically different farming philosophy can positively affect public health . " There are so many things that I 'm interested in . I ca n't do everything or solve every problem , " Braun says . " What I can do is find my niche and master one part of this big problem . If I can make a few things even marginally better , then I will have accomplished a lot . " Sidebar On left : Four generations of Carol Moseley Braun 's ancestors gather at their family farm in Union Springs , Ala. , around 1898 . At far left is her grandmother , in the center her great-great-great grandmother . On right : Ambassador Carol Moseley Braun Author Affiliation DELTHIA RICKS is a staff writer for Newsday , specializing in health issues . <p>                     