@@368002

You can see all the way from the past to the future of Washington from atop the Tower Club , a posh , crusted-sea-bass kind of eatery crowning an office building in Tysons Corner , Va . Barely visible in the distance is the 555-ft. - high Washington Monument , looking like a gray toothpick far out on the horizon . But right down below , amid miles of suburban shopping malls and carpet outlets and car dealerships , is a place that 's becoming as important as the formal capital of the U.S. , a place that 's doing something traditional Washington has never done before : generating billions in private wealth . <P> Just 15 miles across the Potomac River from the marble and granite monuments built during 224 years of democracy , the acronyms of Washington have been newly scrambled . You wo n't find the FTC , the FBI or the DOD ; but you ca n't miss the shiny new glass-and-stone headquarters of UUNet and PSINet , AMS and UUcom , commercial titans of the new Washington . You ca n't miss the new-economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cell phones as they zip around I-66 and Routes 7 , 50 and 123 . And you certainly ca n't avoid the traffic . Fifteen years ago , Fairfax , Loudoun and Arlington counties in northern Virginia were nothing but sleepy residential communities and remote farmland , places to drive through on the way to Dulles Airport or concerts at Wolf Trap or camp sites near Front Royal . Now this 1,400-sq. - mi. area of northern Virginia is threatened with becoming a concrete-and-asphalt expanse of office buildings and parking lots , home to hundreds of new dotcoms , telephone companies , wireless firms , Internet-service providers and venture capitalists  --  home to everything that makes the new economy the powerhouse that it is . <P> " Washington is n't just a government town anymore , " observes Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers , who recently ventured all the way out to speak to a gathering of new CEOs at the Tower Club . " The synergy of telecommunications and the Internet has created a boom . " And this is a boom with cultural as well as economic consequences . The thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face the Pentagon or the Treasury anymore : they face Fairfax County , Va. , where the real money is . " The best thing governments can do is stay out of the way , " says a prominent northern Virginia venture capitalist , voicing a common if ironic sentiment in the heart of the region that created the Internet . But official Washington is n't about to disappear . Administration officials , Senators and members of Congress  --  and , more important , the fund-raising arms of their political parties  --  are making it a point to know who 's who in the local tech world . " We have no problem getting our phone calls returned , " says John Backus , chairman of the Northern Virginia Technology Council ( NVTC ) , a business-promotion group . <P> WELCOME TO TECHTOPIA                     