@@390476

Headnote Fifty years of blaming America 's educational system for our stupidity In 1951 , when historian Henry Steele Commager first observed that " no orher people ever demanded so much of schools and of education as have the Americans , " he could n't have dreamed how much more would be demanded . Win the Cold War ; beat the Germans and the Japanese in the battle for economic supremacy ; outduel the Chinese and Indians in the training of scientists and engineers ; Americanize millions of children not just from Southern and Eastern Europe , which Commager celebrated , but from a hundred Third World cultures he thought little about ; make every child " proficient " in English and math ; educate the blind , the mentally handicapped , and the emotionally disturbed to the same levels as all others ; teach the evils of alcohol , tobacco , marijuana , cocaine , heroin , and premarital sex ; prepare all for college ; teach immigrants in their native languages ; teach driver 's ed ; feed lunch to poor children ; entertain the community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairs for the kids ; and serve as die prime ( and often the only ) social-welfare agency for both children and parents . Some of those things were on Commager 's list . Many others are responses to more recent demands and stresses , particularly the rapidly growing gaps in earnings between the very rich and almost everyone else . Given the mandates , is it any wonder diat so many Americans think the schools are lousy ? The watershed moment was October 4 , 1957 , just a half-century ago , when the Soviets launched Sputnik , the world 's first Earth-orbiting satellite , thus beating the United States into space . That event more than any other began the process of nationalizing the task of the schools . Physicist Edward Teller , the patron saint of the H-bomb , called it a defeat worse than the attack on Pearl Harbor . With it , declared the best-selling science-fiction novelist Arthur C Clarke , " the United States became a second rate power . " It was , said Senator Henry M. " Scoop " Jackson of Washington ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known as " the Senator from Boeing " ) , " a devastating blow to the prestige of the United States . " The long shadow of Sputnik injected new urgency into America 's embryonic space program-more money for rockets and satellites , the establishment of NASA-but its greatest impact was on our educational system . Sputnik reinforced prior attacks on the alleged academic flabbiness of American schools , and especially on child-centered progressive education , and it marked the beginning of a half-century of uninterrupted school-reform efforts diat continue to this day . If the country could n't shape up its schools and produce more , and better , scientists and engineers , the Russians , who were said to be " training scientists and technical personnel at a pace four times our own , " would beat our brains out . In this way the Sputnik crisis bolstered , even sanctified , the belief that the schools were the answer to virtually every major American problem and added maintenance of the nation 's international supremacy to the agenda . Virulent criticism of die schools and demands for all-purpose educational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half a century progressives had battled traditionalists over matters of child rearing and schoolhouse instruction . In 1953 , four years before Sputnik , historian Arthur Bestor Jr . of the University of Illinois had published his influential Educational Wastelands : The Retreat from Learning in Our Public Schooh . In 1955 came Rudolf Flesch 's best-selling attack on progressive education , Why Johnny Ca n't Read ; to this day , diere are those on die fringe who assert that progressive education was a socialist plot to make Americans stupid . Sputnik greatly intensified the attacks . " Our really great race with the Soviet Union , " said Vice Admiral Hyman Rickover , the " father " of the atomic submarine , in 1959 , " is in education . Unless we in the United States can solve our educational problems , we will have difficulty in solving our other problems I searched far and wide in Russia and Poland and could not find a single drum majorette . Nor did I hear of a single school where the principal was an ex-athletic coach . " It also sparked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in 1958 , which called for $900 million ( then a sizable sum ) to beef up math , science , and foreign-language teaching in American schools and colleges-it would , said one senator , " add vastly to the strength and security of the United States in die Cold War . " Unless there was " a true revival of learning , " said Senator J. William Fulbright , die country would be headed for " national disaster . " Thus began the escalating federalization of kindergarten through twelfth-grade education . The upshot of Sputnik and die various economic , political , and social crises of die succeeding years-real or perceived-was ( and is ) an uninterrupted string of American educational reforms , what Stanford University 's Larry Cuban and David Tyack have called a " tinkering toward utopia . " The list is long : new curricula like the SMSG ( School Mathematics Study Group ) program ( i.e. , the " new " math ) , PSSC ( Physical Sciences Study Committee ) physics , plus similar programs in chemistry , biology , and the social sciences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the late 1950s and early 1960s ; compensatory education programs for disadvantaged students ; Head Start ; magnet schools ; " computer-assisted instruction " ; " open schools " ; team teaching ; class-size reduction ; new programs for special education ; bilingualism and Ebonics ; calls for bigger high schools ; calls for smaller high schools ; more homework ; less homework ; laptops for all students ; constructivist math ; Discovery Learning ; Direct Instruction ; merit pay ; voucher plans ; " Whole School Reform " ; Success for All ; charter schools ; KIPP ( Knowledge Is Power Program ) schools ; Edison Schools ; Accelerated Schools ; school accountability ; adequate yearly progress ; high-stakes testing for promotion ; exit exams ; plus an alphabet soup of similar programs . Most Americans have probably been exposed to at least three or four of them . Along the way there have been endless battles over the power of teachers ' unions , creationism and " intelligent design , " " secular humanism , " sex education , and , of course , school prayer . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , business organizations , foundations , editorialists , and academics-what John Mockler , a leading California education consultant , has called " the schools suck industry " - that our schools are failing us . Most prominent among them was die 1983 report A Nation at Risk , issued by die Reagan Administration 's National Commission on Excellence in Education , which warned of a " rising tide of mediocrity . " Americans had better shape up their schools , it said , or the Germans and the Japanese would beat our economic brains out : If an unfriendly foreign power had attempted to impose on America the mediocre educational performance that exists today we might well have viewed it as an act of war . As it stands , we have allowed this to happen to ourselves . We have even squandered the gains in student achievement made in the wake of the Sputnik challenge . Moreover , we have dismantled essential support systems which helped make those gains possible . We have , in effect , been committing an act of unthinking , unilateral educational disarmament . But if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the national crisis metaphors were , and to this day remain , precisely the same . A lot of the touted reforms of the past halfcentury have been discredited , abandoned , and forgotten ; according to Chester Finn , who was himself an assistant secretary of education during the Reagan Administration , many were " irrelevant and probably harmful . " Others are currently in their third or fourth incarnation . What 's almost certain is that many of the things educators , scholars , and politicians thought diey knew for sure in the 1950s-such as the wisdom of former Harvard president James Bryant Conant 's 1958 recommendation that small high schools be consolidated because they could n't offer a rich enough program - have since been turned on their head . The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has spent millions to create small schools , because small schools are friendlier and give students , principals , and teachers a chance to know one another . Phonics , which replaced " look-say " readers like the " Dick and Jane " series , was replaced by an emphasis on " whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The certainty that additional university course credits and advanced degrees made for better teachers , an idea on which billions have been spent , has been followed by the belief that they make no difference at all . In the 1960s , following the precedent set by the NDEA , came NAEP , the National Assessment of Educational Progress , the testing program now referred to as " the nation 's report card . " In 1965 came the federal Elementary and Secondary Education Act and Title I , which has directed billions of dollars to school districts with large numbers of low-income children . This was eventually followed , in 1980 , by the creation of a separate Department of Education . In 1989 came die first President Bush 's America 2000 Program ( under Bill Clinton it became Goals 2000 ) , which , among other things , called for a 90 percent graduation rate , and vowed that U.S. students would be first in the world in madi and science by the end of the century . No Child Left Behind ( NCLB ) , President George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signed in early 2002 . It requires all students to be tested in the elementary grades , requires schools to get all children to " proficiency " in math and reading by 2013-14 , and , in theory , was supposed to have put a " highly qualified " teacher in every classroom by 2005-6 . Schools that did n't meet die goals would be sanctioned with increasingly severe measures , including , in extreme cases , replacement of the entire staff . Has any of this made a difference ? The short answer falls somewhere between not sure and not much . American schools do try to serve a far wider spectrum of students now widi more programs and , in the view of some experts , though hardly all , are ( probably ) better than they were fifty years ago , but they are certainly not good enough , nor are they as good as schools abroad . " Europe and Asia are getting ahead , " says Jack Jennings , die former staff director of the House Education and Labor Committee who now heads the Washington-based Center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its national advantage . " Some 64 percent of Americans , according to a Gallup poll in 2006 , would give the nation 's public schools a C or a D. Only 22 percent give them an A or a B. Tellingly , however , they rate their own children 's schools much more highly . But most of the wise men and women in the field will inevitably give you more ambiguity than clarity . Even the most knowledgeable among them are n't sure what 's worked and what has n't . Nor-given the radically changed demographics of school enrollment , the increasing percentage of minorities and immigrant children who start school speaking little or no English , the hightech global economy and escalating demand for higher levels of education , the evolving composition of the workforce and the vastly greater opportunities for women in professions other than teaching or nursing-is it an easy question to answer . The nation , as Ellen Lagemann , the former dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Education , says , has altered its conception of the purposes of schools : " Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " In the late 1950s American schools were still segregated , and a lot of children in the South , forced to work in the fields , did n't go to school at all between April and October . Just ten days before Sputnik , nine black children , protected by federal troops and braving the jeers and taunts of a white mob , integrated Central High School in Little Rock , Arkansas . There were still good industrial jobs at that time for semiskilled workers . The word " dropout " was hardly heard . As recently as 1972 , nearly 78 percent of the nation 's schoolchildren were non-Hispanic white ; by 2004 that level was at 57 percent . Since 1972 die percentage of Latino children in American schools has more dian tripled , to 20 percent . The nation , as Chester Finn says , now has " a steeper hill to climb . We 've always done okay at the top . . . . Now we 're trying to expand the top . " Many more students are now taking Advanced Placement and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we cheapening the currency ? " Even at mid-level colleges like those in the California State University system , half of all entering freshmen , having presumably completed the required college-prep courses in high school , nonetheless are made to take remedial instruction in English or math or both . In the three-plus decades since the beginning of NAEP , one of the few available hard ( and supposedly objective ) indicators of academic achievement , math and reading scores for nine- and thirteen-year-olds have increased . On die other hand , scores for seventeen-year-olds have remained flat , despite the large increase , since 1992 , in the number of high school students taking advanced classes and earning higher grades. * At the same time , scores for each major ethnic subgroupwhites , blacks , and Hispanics - have increased . It 's the growing percentages of black and Hispanic students in U.S. schools , most of whom do less well academically , diat have retarded die growth in average scores . As a consequence , die achievement gap between whites and others has been reduced , but , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being eliminated . " We 're doing better on college prep , " Stanford 's Larry Cuban says , " but in the lowest quartile the situation is no better . " A roughly similar picture emerges from the decline in the scores on the SAT , the entrance exam required by most of die nation 's selective colleges , which show a small gain in math since the mid-1960s but a large drop in reading . Given the changing composition of the college-bound population and thus the growing number of students who do n't come from the social and academic elites , the significance of those numbers is also subject to dispute . What may be more troubling is that the absolute number of high-scoring students , those with scores over 600 ( out of a possible 800 ) on the verbal part of the test , declined by nearly 25 percent from 1973 to 1990 . ( Because in 1995 die test was " recentered " - by lowering die scoring scale so that it corresponds to die performance of today 's students - more recent comparisons are n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educational centrists like Christopher Cross , the former director of the Council for Basic Education and a former assistant U.S. secretary of education , as evidence that American schools have n't gotten any better . As for die federal programs , he says , " By most reports federal grants have not made great progress in solving the problems that prompted them . " Conservatives like economist Eric Hanushek at the Hoover Institution and Frederick Hess at the American Enterprise Institute are absolutely certain that despite large new investments , our schools are no better and probably worse . Like other conservatives , Hess cites international data showing that while the nation has tripled its educational spending since 1960 , and spends more money per pupil on schools than Belgium , Germany , France , Great Britain , Korea , Japan , and many other nations , The United States ranked fifteenth among the thirty-one countries that participated in the OECD 's Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 2000 Program for International Student Assessment ( PISA ) reading exam . Ireland , Iceland , and New Zealand were among those that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results in math are equally disquieting : on the 1999 Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study , the United States ranked nineteenth of thirty-eight participating countries . Most troubling is that America 's standing actually deteriorates as students spend more time in school . Hanushek , in a similar vein , argues that although die United States once had a quantitative advantage over its economic competitors - a higher percentage of people going to and graduating from college - even diat advantage is evaporating . He also contends that reduction of class sizes in the United States , which ranks high among both parents and teachers on die list of desirable school policies , and which has seen classrooms go from an average of twenty-seven pupils in 1950 to seventeen in the 1990s , has produced no discernible improvement in educational achievement . A mid the cacophony of values and objectives inherent in the many tasks that our schools are now charged with , these negative verdicts are hardly unanimous . Richard Rodistein , of the liberal Economic Policy Institute , insists diat " things have gotten much better than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after-school programs , smaller classes , and better special-education programs . And , of course , " the schools are integrated , at least in theory . Claims that they 're the same are flat wrong . " But those are measures of input , not output . And , like many other liberals , Rothstein is n't sure that the last few rounds of test-based accountability reforms , Bush 's mandatory No Child Left Behind test program in particular , have n't made things worse . Because the military-style reading and math drills that NCLB has prompted are pushing out die teaching of history , music , art , and phys ed , Rodistein says , NCLB may in fact be " destroying American schools . " Diane Ravitch , author of a critical history of progressive education and perhaps the nation 's foremost educational historian , has arrived at a similar conclusion by a different route . She 's certain that children learn more now than she did in Houston a half-century ago : " I 'm astonished at what fourth graders learn . " But she also says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " In the Fifties " teachers had a common idea of literature , " and classroom reading anthologies contained a lot more classic literature . Now " that 's gone . " This same outlook has prompted E. D. Hirsch , of the University of Virginia , to create a whole network of " core knowledge " schools that emphasize the teaching of names , dates , places , ideas , and other common cultural referents of educated people . What makes the likelihood of success , and the measurement of outcomes , even less certain is that these reforms tend to come in cycles of contradictory trends : The initial postSputnik attention was on elites - the training of scientists and engineers . By the mid-1960s the emphasis had shifted to poor and minority children - to equality of educational opportunity , ethnic and cultural identity , and selfesteem . Then , with the economic readjustments of the late 1970s and 1980s - principally away from rust-belt industries toward high tech - the focus again turned to national competitiveness . These changes , most dictated by state legislatures responding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ famously generated an endemic cynicism among teachers and administrators - ( a ) a certainty that they understand schools better than the politicians do and ( b ) a near-certainty that whatever the latest passion in Albany or Sacramento , this , too , shall pass . " Schools are conserving forces , " says Henry Levin , a professor at Columbia Teachers College , who 's tried a lot of reforming himself . " They tend to conserve existing practices . Even in charter schools , parents choose traditional stuff . " The longest stretch on earth , it is sometimes said , is the distance between education policymakers and what goes on in the heads of kids . Now the warnings that followed Sputnik and rang through A Nation at Risk are ringing again - this time not about the Soviets , the Germans , or the Japanese but about the Chinese and the Indians . A report issued in February 2007 by two strange bedfellows , the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the liberal Center for American Progress , again talks about a " looming educational crisis that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economic prosperity of future generations of Americans . " The condition of our public-education system is for a vast majority of our students , according to John Podesta , Bill Clinton 's last chief of staff , who heads the Center for American Progress , " intolerable . " Sounding like a classic conservative , and citing a familiar " steady decline in die performance of American students in relation to students in other countries , " he concludes that everything the country has done over the prior half-century has come to naught : Years of well-intentioned - but ultimately insufficient - reforms have been unable to improve overall academic performance in the nation 's schools .... Despite steps to increase per pupil spending , decrease student-teacher ratios , strengthen standards and recruit a better-prepared teaching force , student test scores have remained stubbornly flat over the past 35 years . By international standards , the U.S. spends far more than other nations on education - and has smaller class sizes - yet receives far less value in terms of educational outcomes . In fact , a lot of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the relative paucity of social services in this country - as opposed to the universal preschool , health care , and similar generous children 's services provided in other developed nations - our schools are forced to serve as a fallback social-service system for millions of American children . In addition to teaching a far greater diversity of children than is the case in other nations , our educational workers must address countless medical , social , and family problems before they can even begin to think about teaching math , reading , or history . A recent United Nations Children 's Fund report ranked the United States next to last among twenty-one wealthy nations in such criteria as material well-being , health and safety , and family well-being . And as Gerald Bracey , the nation 's leading critic of die " schools are failing " critics , points out , tests that make American schools look bad tend to get a lot of attention ; when die results are positive , they are generally ignored . Bracey also argues that many of the students tested in other nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Science Study ) were two to three years older than the American high schoolers with whom they were compared and had often - at age twenty or twenty-one - taken more physics and math courses . As should be self-evident , " proficiency " is an arbitrary term . None of this means that American students are doing particularly well . Against the large and growing number of technically trained people being produced in the Far East , even marginally better public schools may not be good enough . And considering that a rapidly increasing proportion of American students are coming from disadvantaged populations , and that we 're not yet training enough people to replace the skills of the baby boomers when they retire , as they soon will , the picture is far from rosy . Yet if the reformist Sturm und Drang of the past fifty years should have taught us any lesson , it 's that , when the assignment is national defense or beating foreign economic competitors , the schools are but one factor in our arsenal - and not nearly the most important . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our economy prospered while the Japanese entered a decade-long depression despite the dire warnings of A Nation at Risk . As nearly all credible research has demonstrated , social , economic , and family background is a far more important predictor of academic success dian are the schools themselves . Schools do make a difference . The studies of the Hoover Institution 's Hanushek and his colleagues in the Texas schools , and of William Sanders and June Rivers in Tennessee , show that when disadvantaged students have good teachers they gain , in Sanders 's and Rivers 's words , " an extreme advantage in terms of attaining higher levels of achievement . " Put students with such teachers for five years or more , Hanushek says , and they can overcome their handicaps . Nonetheless , it 's no secret that schools serving primarily poor and minority kids have fewer qualified teachers , fewer counselors , shabbier facilities , and inadequate materials . The dropout rates at these schools are unacceptably high , and college attendance rates of African- American and Latino students are disproportionately low . College completion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extra-school conditions to academic success a legitimate excuse for unprepared teachers and administrative indifference . But the lesson still holds . More so than other modern societies - and after a generation of conservative attacks on our social-welfare programs - the United States tends to act as if die schools can do it all . Yet children who come to school hungry , or with vision problems , or with toothaches , and who pass through mean streets to get there , ca n't possibly be expected to learn as well as healthy kids . Kids without engaged parents , or with only one functional parent ( if that ) , are almost certain to be less engaged in the classroom . Money is hardly the issue : funding for public schools has never been higher . But neither has the number of tasks charged to the schools , which , in the hope of getting even more money , they have eagerly taken on . In 1848 , Horace Mann , articulating an essential element of the nation 's newly Romantic pursuit of perfection , declared that education " does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rich ; it prevents being poor . " For many contemporary Americans , conservatives particularly , schools have in this spirit become the surrogate for all other social programs : progressive taxation , the earned- income-tax credit , subsidized housing , universal health insurance , community services , and so on . If there is want , change the schools . If there is unrest or inequality , change the schools . And if the schools ca n't do the job , create a new structure that will : a market in which schools - private and public , secular and religious - might be free to compete for customers . In December of 2006 , the New Commission on the Skills of the American Workforce , a group that included a number of former highly placed federal officials , issued a report that , in an echo of A Nation at Risk , warned about the competition from low-wage Indian and Chinese engineers and called for the development in American students of " a deep vein of creativity that is constantly renewing itself . " To achieve the required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speaking , mathematics , science , literature , history and the arts that will be indispensable for everything that comes after for most members of the workforce , " the report recommended that we tear the existing school system apart and have school districts hire independent private contractors - " many of them limited liability corporations owned and run by teachers " - to administer the schools and give parents and students choices among the different schools . In effect this would constitute a complete privatization of American education . The feasibility of the proposal is as dubious as its logic . " What secret , " asks Ravitch , " do private organizations have that has not been shared with the nation 's educators ? What is the logical connection between privatization and quality education ? " Neither Bestor nor Rickover nor even Reagan 's " excellence commission " ever suggested privatizing the schools , but perhaps more troubling is the commission 's absolute confidence that if only the schools were run right we would be able to compete , through sheer " creative work , " with nations whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what they are here . In that respect , this report is no different from every other warning we have received these past fifty years . The concepts of progress and decline that have dominated discourse about educational reform distort the actual development of the educational enterprise over time . The ahistorical nature of most cunent reform arguments results in both a magnification of present defects in relation to the past and an understatement of the difficulty of changing the system . Policy talk about the schools has moved in cycles of gloomy assessments . . . and overconfident solutions , producing incoherent guidance in actual reform practice . - Tyack and Cuban , Tinkering Toward Utopia It is the fashion among ed-policy wonks to complain that American parents are too satisfied with their children 's schools , and the work their children do , even as these kids lag far behind students abroad , whose parents are much less satisfied with both the schools and the schoolwork . But is it just possible that , notwithstanding the mad suburban scramble to place their children in prestigious colleges ( much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than with high academic achievement ) , American parents might understand something that the politicians and businesspeople seemingly do not : that academic achievement is only one element in the future success of their children , that the good life depends on much more rhan high grades ? To say that the large and growing gaps between the very rich and everyone else in this country are simply the result of uneven academic achievement is just plain fatuous . Even as the incomes of the very rich soared , the median inflation-adjusted household income earned by college graduates was lower in 2005 than it had been five years earlier . According to census data , even people with professional degrees were earning less in 2005 than they were in the early 1990s . As Berkeley economist Brad DeLong points out in the web journal The Economist 's View , The big rise in inequality in the U.S. since 1980 has been overwhelmingly concentrated among the top 1% of income earners . . . . It 's hard to attribute this pattern to a rise in the premium salary earned by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . Such a rise in the education premium would produce a much smoother rise in relative incomes among the whole top tenth of the income distribution . College graduates , it should be obvious , earn more on average than high school dropouts . But that does n't begin to explain our rapidly growing income disparity , particularly the gap between die top 1 percent and everybody else , or why that gap is so much larger in the United States dian it is in Europe . " Wage inequality , " as Jared Bernstein and Larry Mishel of the Economic Policy Institute wrote , " is driven by a slew of factors , of which differences in education are but one . " In 1967 , according to a recent study by MIT economists Frank Levy and Peter Temin , first-year Wall Street lawyers earned 14 percent more than individuals with other degrees ; by 2006 , the difference had increased to 135 percent . Additional schooling can not account for such a change ; nor can the pervasive belief that education is birth mother to every American right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much as by Reagan and Bush Republicans - be seen by the honest person as anything more than a distracting illusion . Both left and right have been obsessed by die centrality of schools , the former because it is beholden to the teachers ' unions and , in any case , honestly wants more resources for schools ; the latter because of its dislike of social-welfare programs and , lately , its privatization agenda . That 's also led to profound confusion not only about the quality of the schools - which has blessed us with all those interminable arguments about high-stakes testing programs - but about what their basic objectives should be . As Tyack and Cuban put it , " the public schools need to do a better job of teaching students to think , not just in order ( supposedly ) to rescue an ailing economy but to serve broad civic purposes as well . " Americans are far too hung up on the notion that in some past golden age the schools were better . When was there ever such an age ? The people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ products of schools that were under attack for similar failings a couple of generations ago . Are the schools good enough ? Of course not . But then , diey never were . And as long as we expect schools to solve every cultural and economic challenge die United States faces in an ever-evolving world , as long as we continue to tinker with them as if they were training facilities for warriors in cold wars still to come , they never will be . Perhaps it is time we thought of schools as places where our children might simply learn something - not just for our benefit , not just for the nation 's , but for their own . Sidebar SCORES FOR EACH MAJOR ETHNIC SUBGROUP HAVE INCREASED , BUT THE ACHIEVEMENT GAP BETWEEN WHITES AND OTHERS , AS ALMOST EVERYBODY KNOWS , HAS N'T COME CLOSE TO BEING ELIMINATED Sidebar THE MILITARY-STYLE READING AND MATH DRILLS PROMPTED BY PRESIDENT BUSH 'S NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND PROGRAM HAVE PUSHED OUT HISTORY , MUSIC , ART , AND PHYS ED , AND MAY IN FACT BE DESTROYING AMERICAN SCHOOLS Sidebar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HAS NEVER BEEN HIGHER . BUT NEITHER HAS THE NUMBER OF TASKS CHARGED TO THE SCHOOLS , WHICH , IN THE HOPE OF GETTING MORE MONEY , THEY HAVE EAGERLY TAKEN ON Footnote * To be fair , NAEP , which tests only small samples of students and is distincdy low-stakes - meaning that students have no incentive to do well - may be itself an imperfect measure . Author Affiliation Peter Schrag is the author , most recently , of Final Test : The Battle for Adequacy in America 's Schools ( New Press ) and California : America 's High-Stakes Experiment ( University of California Press ) . <p>                     