@@426179

Ancient genes , recycled and repurposed , control embryonic development in organisms of striking diversity . // When we no longer look at an organic being as a savage looks at a ship , as at something wholly beyond his comprehension ; when we regard every production of nature as one which has had a history ; when we contemplate every complex structure and instinct as the summing up of many contrivances , each useful to the possessor . . . how far more interesting , I speak from experience , will the study of natural history become ! - Charles Darwin , the Origin of Species , 1859 Darwin closed the most important book in the history ofbiology by inspiring his readers to see the grandeur in his new vision of nature-in how " from so simple a beginning endless forms most beautiful and most wonderful have been , and are being , evolved . " For the next century , many kinds of biologists-geneticists , paleontologists , taxonomists-sought to test and expand that vision . The result of their work was the so-called modern synthesis , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past fifty years . In spite of the labels " modern " and " synthesis , " however , an important element was still missing from evolutionary theory . Biologists could say , with confidence , that forms change , and that natural selection is an important force for change . Yet they could say nothing about how that change is accomplished . How bodies or body parts change , or how new structures arise , remained complete mysteries . Contemporary biologists are no longer savages staring at passing ships . In the past twenty years biologists have gained a revolutionary new understanding of how animal and plant forms and their complex structures arise and evolve . The key to the new understanding is development , the way a single cell becomes a complex , multibillion- or trillioncelled organism . And development is intimately linked to evolution , because all changes in form come about through changes in development . As an animal embryo grows , it must make countless " decisions " about the number , position , size , and color patterns of body parts . The endless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great variety of animal forms of the past and present . Advances in the new science of evolutionary developmental biology-dubbed " evo-devo " for short-have enabled biologists to see beyond the external beauty of organic forms into the mechanisms that shape their diversity . Much of what has been learned , about animal forms in particular , has been so stunning and unexpected that it has profoundly expanded and reshaped the picture of how evolution works . In the same stroke , evo-devo delivers some crushing blows against the outdated rhetoric of those who doubt that complex structures and organisms arise through natural selection . Darwin always insisted that embryology was crucial to understanding evolution . In a letter to the American botanist Asa Gray , shortly after the publication of the Origin of Species , he lamented , " Embryology is to me by far the strongest single class of facts in favor of change of forms , and not one , I think , of my reviewers has alluded to this . " Yet the puzzle of how a single egg gives rise to a complete individual long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of biology . Many biologists once despaired that development was hopelessly complex . Each kind of animal , they thought , would require its own unique developmental explanation . With the advent of genetics , biologists came to realize that genes must be at the center of the mysteries of both development and evolution . After all , butterflies look like butterflies , elephants look like elephants , and we look the way we do because of the genes we each carry . Those physical resemblances , and many other attributes , would surely be traceable to the genes within each species . The challenge , given such a focus on genes , was that until relatively recently no one knew which of the thousands of genes in every animal shape its formation and appearance . The impasse was finally broken by the humble fruit fly . Geneticists devised schemes to hnd the relatively small fraction of genes that control the patterning of the fly 's body and the formation ot its parts . Just as the invention of the telescope revolutionized astronomy , new technologies were pivotal to conceptual breakthroughs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genes , together with new kinds of microscopes , enabled the body-building genes to be observed in action . Chemical changes in an embryo could be visualized long before the appearance of physical structures . Workers could thereby directly observe the earliest events in the formation of segments , limbs , or a brain see photomicrographs on next page . I realize it may be hard to get excited about how a maggot develops . What can that teach us about the more majestic creatures people care about , such as mammals , the rest of the animal kingdom , our own species ? Indeed , the common perception twenty years ago-reinforced by a wide cultural divide between biologists who worked with furry animals and those who worked with bugs or worms-was that the rules of development would differ enormously among such different forms . The body parts of fruit flies , for instance , would not appear to have much in common with our own . We do n't have antennae or wings . We walk around on two long , bony legs , not six little ones reinforced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , camera-type eyes , not compound bug eyes staring out from a fixed position . Our blood is pumped by a four-chambered heart through a closed circulatory system with arteries and veins ; it does not just slosh around in our body cavity . Given such great differences in structure and appearance , one might well conclude that there is nothing to learn from the study of a fly about how our own organs and body parts are formed . But that would be so wrong . The first and perhaps most important lesson from evo-devo is that looks can be quite deceiving . Virtually no biologist expected to find what turned out to be the case : most of the genes first identified as body-building and organ-forming genes in the fruit fly have exact counterparts , performing similar jobs , in most mammals , including humans . The very first shots fired in the evo-devo revolution revealed that despite their great differences in appearance , almost all animals share a common " tool kit " of body-building genes . That discovery-actually a series of discoveries-vaporized many previous ideas about how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ origin of eyes has received a lot of attention throughout the history of evolutionary biology . Darwin devoted considerable effort in Origin to explaining how such " organs of extreme perfection " could evolve by natural selection . What has puzzled and intrigued biologists ever since Darwin is the variety of eye types in the animal kingdom . We and other vertebrates have camera-type eyes with a single lens . Flies , crabs , and other arthropods have compound eyes in which many , sometimes hundreds , of individual ommatidia , or unit eyes , gather visual information . Even though they are not close relatives of ours , squids and octopuses also have camera-type eyes , whereas their own close relatives , the clams and the scallops , have three kinds of eves-camera , compound , and a mirror-type . The great diversity and crazy-quilt distribution of eyes throughout the animal kingdom was , for more than a century , thought to be the result of the independent invention of eyes in various animal groups . The late evolutionary biologist Ernst Mayr and his colleague L. von Salvini-Plawen suggested , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been invented independently between some forty and sixty-five times . Discoveries in evo-devo have forced a thorough reexamination of this accepted idea . In 1994 Walter Gehring and his colleagues at the University of Basel , Switzerland , discovered that a gene required for eye formation in fruit flies is the exact counterpart of a gene required for eye formation in humans and mice . The gene , dubbed Pax-6 , was subsequently found to play a role in eye formation in a host of other animals , including a species of squid see illustration on opposite page . Those discoveries suggested that despite their vast differences in structure and optical properties , the evolution of different eyes has involved a common genetic ingredient . Ernst Mayr once wrote : If there is only one efficient solution for a certain functional demand , very different gene complexes will come up with the same solution , no matter how different the pathway by which it is achieved . The saying " Many roads lead to Rome , " is as true in evolution as in daily affairs . But Mayr s view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the genomes of vastly different species to differ vastly . They had no idea that such different forms could be built with similar sets of genes . Stephen Jay Gould , in his monumental work , The Structure of Evolutionary Theory , saw the unexpected discovery of common body-building genes as overturning a major tenet of the modern synthesis . There are not as many roads to Rome-or in other words , evolutionary paths to eyes and other complex structures-as biologists once thought . Natural selection has not repeatedly forged eyes from scratch . Rather , eye formation has common genetic ingredients , and a wide range of eye types incorporate parts , such as photoreceptor cells and light-sensing proteins , that have long been under the command of the Pax-6 gene . Other tool-kit genes have been identified that take part in building various kinds of limbs , hearts , and other structures . Because parts of the genetic tool kit are shared among most branches of the animal kingdom , they must date back , at least , to some common ancestor of those branches . That would place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explosion that marked the emergence of large , complex animal bodies , more than 500 million years ago . Here , then , is another somewhat counterintuitive insight from evo-devo : One might think that increases in animal complexity and diversity would be driven by the evolution of new genes . But it is now clear that most body-building genes were in place long before most kinds of animal body plans and complex organs emerged . The discovery of such an ancient genetic tool kit , as exciting and rewarding as it is , raises a conundrum . If the sets of body-building genes among animals are so similar , how do such vast differences in forms arise ? Studies of many animal groups have shown that the diversity arises not so much from the content of the tool kit , but from how it is used . Various animal architectures are the products of applying the same genetic tools in different ways . For example , one of the most obvious features of large , complex animals such as vertebrates ( fishes , amphibians , reptiles , birds , mammals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insects ) is their construction from repeating parts . Segments are the building blocks of arthropod bodies , vertebrae the building blocks of backbones . In both cases , important structures emerge from subsets of these building blocksthe many appendages of arthropods from their segments , the ribs of vertebrates from the vertebrae . One of the dominant themes in the large-scale evolution of these animal bodies is change in the number and kind of repeating parts . The major features that distinguish classes of arthropods are the number of segments and the number and kind of appendages . Similarly , vertebrates differ fundamentally in the number and kind of vertebrae ( cervical , thoracic , lumbar , sacral ) . Extensive study of arthropod and vertebrate development has shown that those major features depend on a set of tool-kit genes called Hox genes . In general , Hox genes shape the number and appearance of repeated structures along the main body axes of both groups of animals . Individual Hox genes govern the identity of particular zones along that main body axis , and determine where various structures will form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mammals , and snakes , as well as insects , shrimp , and spiders-has proved that shifts in where Hox genes are expressed in embryos are responsible for the major differences among both vertebrates and arthropods . Those shifts account , for instance , for the way a snake forms its unique long body , with hundreds of rib-bearing vertebrae and essentially no neck , in contrast to other vertebrates see photograph on next page . The shifts explain why insects have just six legs and other arthropods have eight or more . The new imagery of evo-devo can pinpoint when and how the development of these animals diverges . The study of Hox genes has shown how , at an entirely new and fundamental level , these animals are the products of variations on ancient body plans-not wholly independent inventions . Shifts in the expression of tool-kit genes during development not only account for large-scale differences in animal forms ; they can also explain differences among closely related species , or even populations of the same species . For example , the three-spined stickleback fish occurs in two forms in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ page . One is a short-spined , shallow-water , bottom-dwelling form . The other is long-spined and lives in open water . The two forms have evolved rapidly in these lakes since the end of the last ice age , about 10,000 years ago . The length of the fishes ' pelvic spine is under pressure from predation . In the open water , long spines help protect the stickleback from being swallowed by large predators . But on the lake bottom , long pelvic spines are a liability : dragonfly larvae seize and feed on young sticklebacks by grabbing them by their spines . Pelvic spines are part of the fishes ' pelvic fin skeleton . Short spines in bottom-dwelling populations can be traced to a reduction in the development of the pelvic-fin bud in the embryo . David Kingsley , a geneticist at Stanford University , Dolph Schluter , a biologist at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver , and their collaborators have demonstrated that the change in spine length in short-spined sticklebacks can be traced to one specific tool-kit gene . The expression of the gene is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ultimately , the pelvic skeleton . The research has connected a change in DNA to a specific event in embryonic development , which in turn gives rise to a major adaptive change in body form that directly affects the ecology of a species . The insights from the little three-spined stickleback may reach far beyond the fish 's particular natural history . The pelvic fin is the evolutionary precursor of the vertebrate hind limb . Hind-limb reduction is not at all rare in vertebrates . In two groups of mammals-the cetaceans ( dolphins and whales ) and the manatees-the hind limbs became greatly reduced in size as the animals evolved from their land-dwelling ancestors into fully aquatic forms . Similarly , legless lizards have evolved many times . The study of sticklebacks has shown how natural selection can lead to changes in major features of animal skeletons in a relatively short time . In addition to showing how evolution can change the number and kind of repeated body structures , evo-devo is shedding light on how novel structures and new patterns evolve . Bird feathers , for instance , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ways tool-kit genes are expressed . So are the hands and feet of four-legged vertebrates , the insect wing , and the geometric color patterns on the wings of butterflies . It is easy to imagine that insects invented " wing " genes , or birds " feather " genes , or vertebrates " hand " and " finger " genes . But there is no evidence that such genes ever arose . On the contrary , innovation seems to be more a matter of teaching old genes new tricks . The implications of that insight are particularly significant for understanding human evolution . We humans have long supposed that we hold some unique position in the animal kingdom . Surely we must be the most genetically well-endowed species . Yet the reality , as molecular biologists now know from sequencing the genomes of our own and other species , is that the genes of human beings are very similar in number and kind to the genes of the chimpanzee and of the mouse-in fact , of all other vertebrates . No one should expect to account for the evolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traits by finding novel genes . A more likely explanation will come from understanding how our " old " genes , shared with other primates , mammals , vertebrates , and more distant animal relatives , have found new applications . Darwin knew very well the difficulty people would have in picturing how complex structures or " contrivances " arose . In fact , as scholars such as the late Stephen Jay Gould and Randy Moore , a biologist at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis , have pointed out , Darwin 's choice of the term " contrivances , " which appears fifteen times in Origin , was a deliberate one , used for rhetorical effect . It evoked a term the Reverend William Paley used in his 1802 book , Natural Theology . Paley saw the fashioning of " contrivances " in nature for specific-purposes as revelations of God 's design : Contrivance must have had a contriver ; design , a designer . ... It is only by the display of contrivance , that the existence , the agency , the wisdom of the Deity , could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the essence of the idea of " intelligent design , " now being touted as a new " alternative " to evolutionary science . Darwin admired Paley 's book , and declared that he had virtually committed parts of it to memory . He then structured much of his argument in Origin as a direct refutation of Paley . Where Paley compared the design of the eye with the design of the telescope , Darwin explained how such contrivances arose by natural selection , without the intervention of a divine contriver . But Darwin 's explanation , no matter how brilliant , was founded on the extrapolation of natural selection over vast periods of time . He had no access to fundamental knowledge about the development of eyes or their detailed evolutionary history . The new knowledge of tool-kit genes makes it clear how such complex structures are built . Evo-devo makes it possible to connect this everyday , observable , and experimentally accessible process to the long-term process of evolutionary change . Evo-devo shows how complex forms and structures evolve , not only in ways that lead from one species @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the making of body plans , that have shaped the major differences in the higher taxonomic ranks . The major tenet of the modern evolutionary synthesis is that the evolution of forms above the species level ( " macroevolution " ) can be extrapolated from processes operating at the level of populations , within species ( " microevolution " ) . For those who have doubted that the modern evolutionary synthesis could explain macroevolution , the new insights from evo-devo should resolve the question . Through the lens of evolutionary developmental biology , biologists can finally see beyond external forms into the very processes that forge them , completing the picture of how the endless forms of nature have been , and are being , evolved . Sidebar New patterns evolve when old genes " learn " new tricks . The eyespot patterns in the Morpho butterfly ( below left ) and the Caligo butterfly ( above ) evolved when genes that play a role in building other body parts and body patterns were coopted . No new " spot " genes were involved . Sidebar Chemical changes in various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fruit fly ) reflect the activities of tool-kit genes ; the changes can be imaged by laser-dye probes long before the physical form of an animal emerges . The upper image shows the pattern of activity of a single gene , Engrailed , that marks the back end of each developing segment of the insect 's body . In the lower image a different set of laser-dye probes reveal where each of seven Hox genes are active , corresponding to various parts of the body ; for example , bright yellow indicates the segments that will form the fly 's rear end , whereas fuchsia and light blue mark segments that will form mouthparts . Sidebar Formation of a vast range of eye types-the camera eyes of vertebrates and squids as well as the compound eyes of flies-is controlled by a single gene , called Pax-6 . Recognizing the role of the Pax-6 gene has been a key piece of evidence in tracing the evolution of the eye . Each animal eye evolved from simpler photoreceptive structures in a distant common ancestor of the arthropods , cephalopods , and vertebrates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half of diagram ) , each one endowed with a distinct type of photoreceptor , as well as with light-sensitive proteins called R-opsin and C-opsin , respectively . One organ was a simple two-celled prototype eye ; the other , called the brain photoclock , was a part of the animal 's brain and played a role in running the animal 's daily clock . The arthropod and squid retinas ( red ) incorporated the photoreceptor from the simple prototype eye , whereas the vertebrate eye incorporated both kinds of photoreceptor into its retina ( red and blue ) . Rods and cones , the photoreceptors of human vision , are shown in blue . Their orientation with respect to the light source ( black arrows ) is opposite that of the photoreceptors in the arthropod and squid eyes . Sidebar Hox genes determine the form , number , and evolution of repeating parts , such as the number and type of vertebrae in animals with backbones . In the developing chick ( left ) , the Hoxc-6 gene controls the pattern of the seven thoracic vertebrae ( highlighted in purple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ garter snake ( right ) , the region controlled by the Hoxc-6 gene ( purple ) is expanded dramatically forward to the head and rearward to the cloaca . Sidebar Major difference in the skeletal patterns of closely related populations reflects a difference in how a single tool-kit gene is used . Two forms of the three-spined stickleback fish ( Gasterosteus aculeatus ) , which differ in the size of their pelvic fins , have repeatedly evolved in freshwater lakes . Long pelvic spines protect the open-water form from attack by other fish . Yet in the bottom-dwelling form ( lower image ) , whose principal predator is dragonfly larvae rather than other fish , the tool-kit gene controlling the formation of the pelvic fin has been selectively turned off . Author Affiliation SEAN B. CARROLL ( " The Origins of Form , " page 58 ) is a professor of molecular biology and genetics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and an investigator with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute , in Chevy Chase , Maryland . His most recent book on the development and evolution of animal forms is Endless Forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. Norton , 2005 ) . Carroll is also the author of a book on evolution titied The Making of the Fittest , scheduled for publication by W. W. Norton in 2006. // <p>                     