@@660036

<p> Peter Thorpe 's experiences in education have run the economic gamut . He once served as headmaster of a posh California prep school . Now he heads up Gateway High School , a publicly funded San Francisco charter school for at-risk young people . Having lived through both the lean years and the fat , Mr. Thorpe has strong views on the relationship between funding and good schools . " Of course money makes a difference , " Thorpe says . " It 's fundamentally counterintuitive to argue that funding levels do n't matter . " The degree to which money affects quality in schools is a thorny issue . Many states - under legal order - have significantly increased spending in recent years , easing some of the stark differences between schools in wealthy communities and poor ones . Yet persistently low scores in many districts continue to raise the question of whether substantial progress has been made toward achieving true educational equity . Earlier this month , New York State Supreme Court Judge Leland DeGrasse ruled that New York State was not spending enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sound and basic " education . He ordered New York to find more funding for urban schools . <p> Although the state will appeal , the decision is being viewed by many advocacy groups as a victory . The court 's ruling was hardly the first of its kind , but it went further than many others in terms of spelling out exactly what kind of educational outcomes would be required to meet the standard of a " sound and basic " education . In the past 15 years , more than 25 cases have challenged school-finance systems across the United States . A number of states - including Texas , Ohio , and New Hampshire - have been ordered to rethink the way education is financed at the state level and to produce better results for poorer districts . But the question of how to define equity is still hotly debated . " That 's a whole conversation I get really frustrated with , " says Frederick Hess , professor of education and government at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville . " It 's never been explained to me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special needs get more funding ? Or does every kid get the exact same funding ? " Money matters , agrees Professor Hess , but after a certain point , court cases focused on financing can be counterproductive . " They prevent policymakers from more-fundamental questions like : ' We 're already spending a fair amount of money and why are n't we producing good schools ? ' " he says . " Good schools and good school systems are not simply the result of imposing the right amount of money . " Many taxpayers are reluctant to feed more money into a system that , they charge , bulks up its bureaucracy at the expense of teachers and students . Indeed , a simple equation of more money equals better schools has not been borne out in a number of cases across the US . More than a decade ago , both Kentucky and Arkansas retooled their systems for funding education , with an eye toward leveling differences and directing more money to poorer districts . Yet neither state has of yet been able to demonstrate a link between higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly doubled its property taxes in the mid-1980s to achieve one of the highest per-pupil spending levels in the country for a district of its size . Yet a decade later , its schools were still failing to produce results . Ironically , in New York City , an analysis of city schools done last year revealed that some of the worst-performing city schools were among the best funded . Still , such disappointing results can not serve as an excuse to pull back on the conversation about educational equity , says Paul Reville , executive director of the Pew Forum at the Harvard Graduate School of Education in Cambridge , Mass . " The injury of poverty is so potent as to severely mitigate the degree to which education can impact children , " Professor Reville says . But he adds that requiring states to recognize there is a basic , minimum standard for public education that must be met is a positive step forward . Augusta Kappner , president of Bank Street College of Education in New York agrees that , despite limitations , the focus should be on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the past 20 years or so , US educators have learned much about the positive impact of well-trained teachers , high-quality prekindergarten offerings , and smaller class sizes on children in disadvantaged neighborhoods . Intelligent spending of additional funding released by lawsuits like the one in New York , she predicts , will ultimately lift student achievement in low-income areas . In some ways , say those who study school financing , there 's been a significant shift in the debate about funding . Back in the 1970s , when the first court cases began springing up , the focus was on equity . The goal was to erase the huge gap that existed in some areas between what wealthy districts were able to lavish on their schools and what poorer districts offered . But today , the focus is instead on adequacy . States are not necessarily being told they must erase spending gaps . Instead , they are required to make sure every child 's schooling meets a certain minimum level . To some extent , this change in focus has been linked to the standards movement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at things from an adequacy point of view , " says Steve Smith , a policy specialist at the National Conference of State Legislatures in Denver . States ca n't decree that students must be able to know and do certain things in order to pass from grade to grade , he points out , and then shirk from ensuring that their schools are adequately preparing them to meet those standards . Adequacy and equity do not mean the same thing , however . A school may be adequately funded with help from the state and yet still fall short of the richer educational experience being offered students in a neighboring district with a higher local tax base . A truly equal system of education remains an elusive , if not impossible , goal , agree most reformers . But that does n't prevent many from viewing court-mandated funding increases for poor districts as a positive step . Jonathan Kozol , for instance , a writer who has long been associated with the drive to offer poor children better public schooling , is a proponent of the more radical notion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But he declares himself delighted with the New York decision . His recent book , " Savage Inequalities , " tells of children in one of New York 's lowest-income school districts . Channeling dollars to urban schools will make a big difference for the children he writes about , he says . " Money alone is not an answer , but money is almost always a precondition for creating a situation in which the other good objectives can possibly be realized , " Mr. Kozol says . A safe and loving environment that nurtures learning can be achieved without increased spending , he agrees , but it 's easier in a school with a lower student-to-teacher ratio . Rulings like the one in New York may be only partial solutions to dilemmas involving educational equity , but they are still battles worth fighting , Kozol insists . " If I did n't believe that , I would have given up this fight 35 years ago , " he says . <p> E-mail marjorie@csmonitor.com . <p> ( c ) Copyright 2001 . The Christian Science Publishing Society 