@@660019

<p> With gale-force winds , pounding rains , and severe floods from a harsh North Atlantic autumn fresh in mind , delegates from more than 160 nations meet in The Hague today to try to throw earth 's climate a lifeline . During the next two weeks , these delegates hope to put teeth into a 1997 pact that would commit countries to cut the amount of climate-warming gases their cars , factories , and power plants pump into the air . In the near term , decisions made here could push up energy prices and stunt the growth of developed nations . They might also spur sales of fuel-efficient cars and watt-tight appliances as well as inject fresh activity into national economies . Longer term , scientists and diplomats are making decisions now about the kind of world their grandchildren will live in . This meeting comes at a time when climate scientists are increasingly confident that human activities are behind the relatively rapid run-up in average global temperatures since the 1860s . By 2100 , rising " greenhouse " gas concentrations could push the world 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was in 1990 , according to a draft report from the UN International Panel on Climate Change 's science working group . Scientists are reluctant to attribute Britain 's current weather problems to global warming . But some say it exemplifies the type of severe weather that could become more frequent as climate warms . Their concern is not lost on the diplomats . " Climate change is an epic environmental challenge , " says David Sandalow , US assistant secretary of state for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs . " We have to deal with it for the sake of our children and grandchildren . " To begin the process of dealing with it , negotiators will walk a tightrope , says Michael Zammit Cutajar , executive secretary of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change . Delegates will try to balance the need to keep costs of compliance with the Kyoto Protocols as low as possible , while still sending their governments a pact with " environmental integrity . " The 1997 protocols look to reduce average global greenhouse-gas emissions - mainly carbon dioxide - by 5.2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between 2008 and 2012 . Yet the global average hides wide gaps in countries ' individual targets . The US would cut emissions by 8 percent . Germany must cut emissions by 21 percent . New Zealand would make no cuts at all . So far , developing countries are not covered . The rub is that as a lifeline , the Kyoto pact is more like a thread than a hawser . " Even if Kyoto were adopted , it would only produce a small decrease in the rate of increase in CO2 in the atmosphere , " says Jerry Mahlman , recently retired director of the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory in Princeton , N.J. If Kyoto virtually fails the environmental-integrity test , why bother ? " The essential first step toward any long-term solution is an international agreement that requires countries to begin to address greenhouse-gas emissions , " says Mr. Sandalow . " We have to take the first step in order to be able to solve the problem long-term . " The definition of " long term " may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a doubling of CO2 by 2100 , " we 're on a trajectory to make it quadruple " over the next two centuries , Dr. Mahlman continues . " South Carolina under a four-times CO2 scenario ? You wo n't want to live there , " he says , adding that no place on earth today has the combination of heat and humidity that state would have if CO2 quadrupled . To protocol supporters , arresting such changes - at the moment based on computer models with their attendant uncertainties - means prodding countries to try " to integrate action against climate change into economic decisionmaking , " Mr. Cutajar says . These protocols add targets , timetables , deadlines , and reduction gears to the 1992 Framework Convention on Climate Change , which sets out the broad goal of throttling greenhouse-gas emissions back to 1990 levels . Yet Kyoto sidesteps nagging details on a number of issues negotiators now must confront . The most contentious include : Emissions trading . Under this scheme , a country whose carbon emissions already fall below 1990 levels could in effect sell some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such a scheme could be a hard-currency boon to countries such as Russia , whose post-Soviet financial tailspin sent its carbon emissions plummeting . The US is leading the charge for no limits on buying and selling emissions " credits . " It holds that trading could significantly cut the cost of meeting targets and allow time for more energy-efficient technologies to work their way into industrial economies . The EU wants to put strict limits on trading , arguing that trading allows countries to buy their way to reaching targets , rather than take concrete actions to cut emissions . Carbon sinks . The basic idea : Plant a tree or shrub , which uses CO2 during photosynthesis , and get credit for draining carbon dioxide from the atmosphere . But the idea gets more complicated on a national and international scale , with the potential to become a bookkeeper 's nightmare . Moreover , research is mixed on how effective this approach could be . The US supports the broad use of sinks by industrial countries , while the EU frowns on the idea . The sink issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developing countries will developed countries be able to credit against their own reductions targets ? The EU opposes using projects to plant trees , build nuclear power plants , or even more-efficient coal-fired plants in developing countries . For some of these nations , coal remains the cheapest , most abundant energy source . Yet for all the points of contention , the State Department 's Sandalow says signs are emerging that key players are coming together on the need to deal with climate change . Emissions trading is gaining ground among some developing countries that first greeted the idea with skepticism . A growing number of powerful corporations are reducing their own greenhouse-gas emissions , developing climate-friendly cars , and testing emissions-trading plans that could serve as test beds for a treaty-based approach . Finally , key developing countries are showing an increased willingness to address climate change . Sandalow notes , for example , that India and the US have signed a bilateral agreement in which India stated its intention to increase energy efficiency by 15 percent during the next 10 years - setting " dramatic goals " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foundation proves strong enough for negotiators to build a finished structure on remains to be seen . An underlying theme among many industrial countries is a need for developing countries - particularly China and India - to take part in the agreement . That issue is not on the agenda . By many accounts , any treaty that fails to include them is essentially dead on arrival in the US Senate , which must ratify any treaty . Australia 's government affirmed a similar position Nov. 6 . And while Kyoto 's math allows the treaty to take effect without the US , any regime that fails to include a country accounting for 23 percent of annual global CO2 emissions could quickly unravel , some analysts say . Yet even if negotiators fail to weave in all the strands of Kyoto 's thread in the next 14 days , some US observers remain confident that the protocols , in one form or another , will be ratified . " The protocols provide a flexible framework " for attacking the climate-change problem , says Michael Oppenheimer , chief scientist for the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anything better , and the problem is not going to go away . " <p> ( c ) Copyright 2000 . The Christian Science Publishing Society 