@@629434

INDONESIA Weight lifter Lisa Rumbewas , silver medalist at the 2000 Sydney and 2004 Athens Olympics , competed at the Beijing Games-the first Indonesian woman to participate in three successive Olympics . Rumbewas , who took up weight lifting at age 11 and whose mother , her coach , was also a nationally recognized lifter , came in fourth at the Games , lifting " only " a total of 453 lbs . in her two lifts . MALAWI More than two-thirds of deaths among women of reproductive age are pregnancy- or childbirth-related-a larger proportion than in any of the other 170 countries surveyed by the United Nations Population Fund ( UNFPA ) and other U.N . agencies in 2007 . One way to at least lower the rate of unwanted pregnancies ( and , thus , the number of unsafe abortions ) may be the female condom , which has now been introduced in Malawi . " We have been overwhelmed by the demand , " says Sandra Mapemba of the Malawi health ministry 's reproductive-health unit . Why has it taken so long for these condoms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims quality assurance is the reason . AUSTRALIA In September , 65-year-old former lawyer and Queensland governor Quentin Bryce was sworn in as Australia 's first woman governor-general . This past spring , the country 's first Anglican woman bishop , Kay Goldsworthy , 51 , was consecrated in Perth , and two weeks later Melbourne 's Anglican diocese named Barbara Darling as the nation 's second . Australia also has its first woman deputy prime minister , Julia Gillard , and more than 25 percent of the federal ministry and outer cabinet MPs are women . Yet Federal Sex-Discrimination Commissioner Elizabeth Broderick notes that Australian women-51 percent of the population-comprise just 12 percent of executive managers in the country 's top 200 companies , 3 percent of CEOs and just 13 percent of the judiciary . Plus , women earn less than 84 cents for every dollar a man earns . Tanya Plibersek , minister for the status of women , spotlighted " shocking " Australian Bureau of Statistics figures : One in three women experience physical violence , while almost 20 percent suffer sexual violence . Plibersek warns that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Similar data surfaced in an online survey published as a book-Sex Lives of Australian Women-replete with testimonies of women surviving sexual attack . One in three survey respondents had been forced into sex , the perpetrators almost always being male acquaintances . PAKISTAN Taliban militants have instructed male physicians not to enter women 's wards in hospitals . Addressing doctors from hospitals across Islamabad , Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan Vice Chief Maulana Faqir Mohammed also told doctors to avoid prescribing costly drugs or recommending " unnecessary laboratory tests . " Sex education is rare in Pakistan , where cultural and religious traditions impede efforts to address an HIV/AIDS epidemic . Since Islamic law forbids sex outside marriage , many Pakistanis think HTV is no threat . Yet at least 85,000 citizens are infected , according to the United Nations AIDS agency . Condoms can not be displayed in shops and their use is low . Seven times as many men as women are reportedly HIV-positive , researchers at two Pakistani universities have found . The findings , published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases , noted that India and Bangladesh had similarly conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( but see page 27 ) . ISRAEL As Ms. goes to press , Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni was poised to become prime minister-the first woman to hold that position in Israel since Golda Meir , who left office in 1974 . In September , Livni , 50 , won a closely contested race to head the centrist ruling party , Kadima , and thus hopes to replace Prime Minister Ehud Olmert by forming a new coalition government . A lawyer , she was elected to the Knesset ( Parliament ) in 1999 , and recently has been known for leading peace talks with the Palestinians . Although not an overt feminist , she has earned feminist kudos by supporting a significant role for women in the Middle East peace process ( see Ms. , Winter 2008 ) . IRAQ Honor killings continue ( see Mf. , Summer 2007 ) . In May , 17-year-old student Rand Abdel-Qader was stamped on , suffocated and stabbed to death by her father , Abdel-Qader Ali , after she 'd developed a crush on a British soldier in Basra . Arrested , but released @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men and know what honor is . " The mother , Leila Hussein , called Rand 's two brothers to restrain their father as he choked Rand with his foot on her throat , but instead they joined him . Hussein divorced Ali immediately and went into hiding . A month later , traveling to asylum in Jordan arranged by women activists , Hussein was gunned down . Meanwhile , in the KURDISTAN region , a parliamentary report notes an " increasing rate of violence against women . " In one province , 24 women were killed in the first half of this year , with arrests made in only five cases . The report warns that honor killings can be disguised : Many women are forced to commit suicide by male relatives . Chilura Hardi , who heads a Kurdish women 's center in Arbil , blames mullahs who scapegoat women for society 's problems : " It is always women , women , women ... Men go to Friday prayer and they are listening to this . " Hawjin Hama Rashid , another Arbil activist , says authorities have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some men are protected by political parties , adding , " Honor has been the prime motivator of violence against women in patriarchal societies ... Honor has become a new weapon of mass destruction . " NICARAGUA Dora Mara Tellez , a revered Sandinista revolutionary and now a leader in the Sandinista Renovation Movement-an alternative Sandinista party-launched a hunger strike in June to protest the authoritarian policies of Nicaragua 's President Daniel Ortega . As a young militant in 1978 , Tellez was third in command of the historic operation against the Somoza dictatorship , during which 24 Sandinistas occupied die National Palace and set free 70 political prisoners , including Ortega . Women have been leading efforts to reclaim a Sandinismo that restores human rights , including the right to abortion and other political , reproductive and sexual rights dismantled by Onega and his governing party , the Sandinista National Liberation Front . SOUTH KOREA While North Korea remains a labor- and sex-trafficking source , South Korea also traffics women and girls , according to the U.S. State Department 's 2008 Trafficking in Persons Report . A growing number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Thailand and China-are trafficked inside the country and to Japan , Hong Kong and Western Europe . South Korea is also a " significant source " for child sex tourism in Soudieast Asia and die Pacific Islands . The U.S. report urged Seoul to create an enforcement system to curb sex tourism , address die rights of women from less-developed Asian countries and implement laws to protect foreign brides . In another development , die Constitutional Court overturned a 1987 ban on doctors informing parents of a fetus ' sex , noting that son preference has declined and die ratio of newly born boys and girls has dropped from a 1990 high of 116 boys for every 100 girls to an almost-normal 106/100 . The Court noted , " We can not but question whether ... the fetus gender notification is serving as a cause for abortion . "                     