@@660022

<p> Warmer temperatures , rising sea levels , and shifting rainfall patterns ? " Climate changes , " observes Daniel Sarewitz . " Let 's deal with it . " His approach appears at odds with global efforts to reduce humanity 's impact on climate by cutting the amount of heat-trapping gases pumped into the atmosphere each year . But to Dr. Sarewitz and a growing number of analysts , adapting to climate change is an approach that has been overlooked for too long . In the end , they say , adaptation may prove more effective than trying to control emissions in easing the impact of climate change on human activities . This does not sit well with hard-core conservationists , who , since climate change burst to the fore as a global environmental issue in the 1980s , view adaptation as a form of environmental appeasement . Next Monday , diplomats from 160 countries meet in the Netherlands to begin an 11-day negotiating marathon designed to write the rules under which countries that ratify the 1997 Kyoto Protocols would operate . Under the protocols , nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least 5 percent between 2008 and 2012 . Yet even if every nation on the planet were to ratify and implement the pact , " Kyoto is not going to reverse climate trends , " says Sarewitz , a senior research scholar at Columbia University 's Center for Science , Policy , and Outcomes . " Its impact on carbon dioxide is relatively trivial . " " The simple truth is we do n't have a way of figuring out how to keep CO2 from doubling " during the 21st century , adds Jerry Mahlman , recently retired director of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory at Princeton University . Based on doubling atmospheric CO2 , the United Nation 's International Panel on Climate Change ( IPCC ) now estimates that global temperatures will rise an average of 1.5 to 6 degrees Celsius ( 2.7 to 10.8 degrees F. ) between 1990 and 2100 . Trends in CO2 emissions and their projected effects on climate , Sarewitz says , make a strong case for giving adaptation - from improved hazard mapping , weather forecasts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practices - a higher spot on the international climate-change agenda . The concept of adaptation is hardly new , notes Roger Pielke , who studies the interplay between science and climate policy at the National Center for Atmospheric Research ( NCAR ) in Boulder , Colo . " Adaptation to climate is something we do all the time , " he says . Nor would all the effects from climate change be harmful . But , he adds , the issue is taking on greater importance because " losses are certain to rise " worldwide as changing climate alters regional weather patterns and as population and wealth grow . Indeed , he and others argue that if governments are concerned about an increase in severe weather , they do n't need 100-year climate forecasts to prepare , since severe weather , floods , and other extreme events happen regularly enough today . Thus , for example , restricting the development of barrier islands not only reduces society 's immediate vulnerability to hurricanes ; it also reduces vulnerability to hurricanes decades hence . Yet even without global warming as an incentive , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impending climate swings have a checkered record . In 1998 , Hurricane Mitch made landfall over Honduras and Nicaragua . It was n't the first time portions of Central America had been devastated by tropical cyclones . Yet of the $ 5 billion in aid that Honduras received , 80 percent went to the towns devastated by floods and mudslides . The towns " rebuilt in harm 's way , " says Michael Glanz , an NCAR scientist who last month completed a study of global responses to the 1997-98 El Nino for the UN . There , too , he says , results were mixed . Knowing in advance that El Nino was building , Peru borrowed money from international lenders to pay for projects such as clearing storm drains and river channels to reduce flooding . Yet leaders there still tend to view El Nino as a temporary event , rather than a recurring condition that needs to be taken into account for establishing building codes or zoning land , Dr. Glanz says . " The good news is that our findings are not inconsistent with other studies " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The key question is : Why are the solutions known but not applied ? " In trying to anticipate the effects of global warming , several governments have tried to estimate how rising average temperatures would play out in their regions . Earlier this year , for example , the US Global Change Research Program took its first cut at gauging the impact of climate change on different parts of the country . It estimated that if average temperatures rise by 5 to 10 degrees F. , the frequency of winter rains hitting Southern California and the Southwest could increase dramatically , while snowpack in ranges such as the Rockies could fall by 50 percent . If sea levels rise another 35 inches during the 21st century , the US could lose 4,000 square miles of coastal wetlands . Within the past week , a team of scientists in Britain published a similar set of projections for Britain and Europe . The report estimates that southern Europe will dry out , while northern Europe could see substantial increases in rain . Such changes , the team says , could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the south . Estimates from the IPCC look substantially more perilous for Pacific Island countries and low-lying nations like Bangladesh if sea-levels rise significantly . Under such conditions , " it 's morally unacceptable not to think about vulnerability and adaptation , " Sarewitz says . Indeed , the USCGP suggests that the direct economic effects to the US from climate change may be " modest " because " American society could likely be able to adapt " to the majority of changes the country undergoes . How society responds to changing weather patterns plays a bigger role in determining the size of climate-change related losses than the climate itself , Pielke says . He , Sarewitz , and Roberta Klein , also with NCAR , were curious to see how sensitive the International Panel on Climate Change 's estimates of damage from hurricanes , typhoons , and tropical cyclones were to shifts in climate and in societal factors . Using the IPCC 's assumptions , they calculated that if population and wealth are held constant and the climate warms , dollar losses from severe tropical weather worldwide would grow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ climate is held constant but social factors change as the IPCC envisions , damage-cost estimates during the same period would rise nearly 500 percent . Pielke and his colleagues , who published their study in the journal Energy &; Environment earlier this year , suggest that the pattern would hold for other climate-change related hazards , such as droughts and flooding . If the concept of adaptation has met resistance in the past , the resistance may be faltering . " Adaptation is necessary , " says Michael Oppenheimer , chief scientist at Environmental Defense , a New York-based environmental group . But it needs to work in concert with emissions reductions , he continues . " You need sensible policies on both ends " of the problem . Pielke and Sarewitz say a key starting point is to pump more money into research on natural hazards and the most effective ways to blunt their effects . The researchers note that the Framework Convention on Climate Change , under whose auspices leaders will meet in The Hague next week , spent more on itself in one year than donor countries spent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ UN 's International Decade of Natural Disaster Reduction , which ran throughout the 1990s . The US Agency for International Development has embarked on a five-year , $ 200 million-a-year effort to help countries measure and monitor greenhouse-gas emissions . But the agency spent only $ 17 million in 1997 for disaster preparedness and prevention projects . These spending patterns , the researchers say , fail to fund actions that can have a more immediate effect on reducing human vulnerability to climate change than trying to turn " the big knob " of global energy use . Additional money could be earmarked for projects ranging from mapping the extent of flood or other severe-weather hazards a community or country may face to supporting efforts to adopt and enforce more stringent building and land-use codes . Stemming the loss of forests and wetlands in key locations would help reduce the effects of floods - as well as provide a sink for carbon dioxide . These approaches also are closely linked to issues of poverty and public health , which would need to be addressed , the researchers say . Politically , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaning on broader policy changes that affect energy use and economic growth . With adaptation measures , the immediacy of tomorrow 's weather means " there 's a reason for doing this now " that is n't as burdened with the uncertainties surrounding long-range climate forecasts , Sarewitz says . More broadly , such approaches split one large hard-to-turn knob into a series of smaller , easier-to-turn knobs , the researchers say , giving humanity more options as it faces a world in which climate changes - with or without human hands . " We have the expertise " to deal with these issues , Pielke says . " We 're just maladapted . " <p> ( c ) Copyright 2000 . The Christian Science Publishing Society 