@@660064

<p> Orchestral conductors have been taking over American cities with the sweep of four-star generals on a military campaign . The appointment of Christoph Eschenbach at the Philadelphia Orchestra in January was followed quickly by the news that Lorin Maazel would lead the New York Philharmonic . Young German conductor Frans Welser-Most is taking over the mighty Cleveland Orchestra , and at last word , the Boston Symphony Orchestra was in prolonged negotiations with James Levine , music director of New York 's Metropolitan Opera , to take the helm . That makes four of the traditional " Big 5 " American orchestras in a state of flux . The tendency so far has been to hire yet another international superstar , usually a European . But what about the pool of talented young American conductors ? Will women or African-American conductors ever get a shot at the major posts ? Will America 's orchestras continue with " musical chairs " or bring in fresh talent ? A conductor is more essential to an orchestra than most presidents are to countries . He or she determines what music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than a mere " dictator of the podium , " the conductor must turn notes on a page into a great musical experience - in the process convincing 100 or so often-reluctant musicians to follow along . Critics have looked favorably on the Philadelphia Orchestra 's hiring of Mr. Eschenbach , who proved himself a deeply emotional and ac <p> complished conductor while in Houston , and who was able to tame the Orchestre de Paris , one of the most unruly ensembles in the world . He might have even been able to tackle the New York Philharmonic , widely known as " the conductor 's graveyard " for its sometimes lethal treatment of conductors they disapprove . Before the veteran Mr. Maazel was hired , the Philharmonic had scheduled a tryout concert with the superbly talented Mariss Jansons , music director of the Pittsburgh Symphony . Although Mr. Jansons has been praised for his interpretations , which combine dynamic energy with passion , he somehow did not pass muster with the Philharmonic players , according to some media reports . Even the best conductor can have an off day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was persona non grata at the Vienna Philharmonic , and part of Mr. Welser-Most 's motivation for heading to Cleveland is surely that in his previous post in London , players punningly called him " Worse Than Most . " Maazel is no stranger to orchestral scorn , either , having driven some musicians away from the Cleveland Orchestra in the 1970s with his " surly and hostile " moods and " weird , maddening , and indifferent performances , " according to Donald Rosenberg , author of a recent history of the Cleveland organization . But clearly Maazel can dish it out as well as take it . At a recent press conference , he slid in critiques of colleagues ' baton techniques . The occasion was to announce a new $ 5 million conducting competition , funded by the philanthropist Alberto Vilar . Known for publicity stunts , such as conducting all nine Beethoven symphonies in a single day , Maazel remains impressive for his ability to impress others . The bedazzled New York Times recently described him as " lithe as a rock star , " without specifying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or David Crosby . Far more encouraging than the New York situation is Philadelphia 's choice of Eschenbach , a true professional whose first care is for the beauty of the music . And other such conductors in their 40s are waiting to burst upon public awareness . Among the most outstanding of these is Antonio Pappanio , currently head of La Monnaie opera house in Brussels . In 2002 , Pappanio will take over the reins of London 's troubled Covent Garden Orchestra , where things are so volatile that he may wish for an orchestral job in America soon . In addition to being the finest Italian opera conductor around today , Pappano also has a deep understanding of composers from Wagner to Schonberg and excels in orchestral repertory . Another up-and-coming conductor , Peter Oundjian , had a superb 15-year career as first violin of the Tokyo Quartet in their finest era and now is music director of the prestigious Caramoor Festival in Katonah , N.Y. , as well as holding posts in Holland and Belgium . Mr. Oundjian says today 's conductors , unlike their predecessors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life . Instead , they have contracts that may or may not be renewed . " Some conductors may be reluctant to make very long-term plans with an orchestra , or are too concerned with approval or disapproval , " he says . " The one thing that has n't changed is that orchestral musicians are looking to be inspired , even if they do n't admit it , and like to respect the person on the podium ... I believe this , otherwise I would n't conduct . " Another brilliant younger American conductor , David Charles Abell , is based in London because of the dynamic musical scene there . Mr. Abell - who masters composers from Mozart and Puccini to Broadway tunesmiths - agrees with observers who argue that there is an American conducting style , and that there is a strong pool of American conducting talent available . " To make a sweeping generalization , Americans tend to be more gregarious than Europeans , and this certainly comes out in their conducting . " Able says . " I think Europeans like the fact that we wear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American conductors earn conservatory diplomas every year , Abell observes , " The eternal problem for young conductors is getting experience on the podium . " This problem is accentuated for women and African-Americans . Marin Alsop , one of America 's leading female conductors , is music director of the Colorado Symphony in Denver and gives concerts internationally with such major groups as the London Symphony Orchestra . She says that for talented younger conductors in America , " there is no clear path to pursue as far as solid artistic and technical growth is concerned . It does n't appear that America strives to nurture and promote its own talent . " Michael Morgan , music director of the Oakland ( Calif . ) East Bay Symphony , says the pressures of being an American , especially an African-American , " mean you 'd better make a stunning first impression , since no one seems interested in potential or watching your development anymore . " Apart from Morgan , the Chicago Symphony 's resident conductor William Eddins , and Raymond Harvey , leader of the Kalamazoo ( Mich . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One notable maestro , the Oregon Symphony 's James DePriest , nephew of the legendary singer Marian Anderson , is retiring in 2005 , and among numerous conductors invited as possible replacements in an unusually public selection process , not one African-American has appeared so far . All the experts agree that orchestras ' hiring policies are based on principles of business , rather than art . " Apart from Leonard Bernstein and a few others , " Morgan says , " the leading conductors ... have not taken on the responsibility of teaching the next generation , having apprentices , and then promoting them helping them get concerts . This means the business is run by managers and administrators , who should not be determining what , in fact , constitutes a good conductor . " Some orchestra managers even wind up relying on the advice of critics to decide what is good . " Adds maestro Abell : " It is very hard for laymen to judge conductors , since except for the odd grunt or tuneless humming ! they make no actual sound themselves . Consequently , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or just the exotic sound of a foreign name to recommend conductors ... " The best situation is when a really fine conductor gets hired because of his or her talent and ability to thrill an audience , and not because they or their managers have talked their way into the job . " Who 's going where Many of the world 's most famous maestro 's are past 70 years old . Senior maestros from four of the traditional " Big 5 " American orchestras are all leaving in 2002 . Below , a roundup of the changes ahead : Boston Symphony Orchestra The BSO is said to be in negotiations with American James Levine , music director of New York 's Metropolitan Opera , to take the helm from Seiji Ozawa , who moves to the Vienna State Opera . Cleveland Orchestra Young German conductor Frans Welser-Most will replace veteran Christoph von Dohnanyi . New York Philharmonic Veteran conductor Lorin Maazel , formerly maestro in Cleveland and Pittsburgh , will succeed Kurt Masur . Masur moves to the London Philharmonic . Maazel will be the first American to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Philadelphia Orchestra Christoph Eschenbach , a German conductor who has led the Houston Symphony Orchestra , will take over for Wolfgang Sawallisch . At the other " Big 5 " orchestra , the Chicago Symphony , Argentine-born maestro Daniel Barenboim is under contract until 2006 . Among other changes , Robert Spano takes over the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra in September while continuing as music director of the Brooklyn ( N.Y. ) Philharmonic . Both the Minnesota Orchestra and Indianapolis Symphony are looking for music directors . - Staff <p> ( c ) Copyright 2001 . The Christian Science Publishing Society 