@@660040

<p> While job hunting last summer , marketing professional Laura Byrne encountered some workplace environments that were less than inspiring . " I 'd see offices where everyone had the same cubicle , the same desk ; where everything was the same , even down to the kind of pen you used , " she says . So when she walked into iCommunicate , an Internet firm in Alexandria , Va. , and saw the vivid blue wall leading into a soaring space , Ms. Byrne felt a little like Dorothy in Oz . " It was funky and open , like an art gallery . I could tell there was a lot of opportunity to be creative . I would have the freedom to contribute , to be different , and throw ideas out there . " Cutting-edge office spaces have become standard in the New Economy as young entrepreneurs offer professional digs that reflect the creativity of their employees - and recognize that exercise and even naps are legitimate workplace activities . But now organizations in all sectors of the economy are looking to create better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , experts say , as companies strive to draw talent and keep pace with new workplace attitudes . Even amid a slowdown in job growth , new entrants to the workplace put a high value on the settings in which they work . " Workers are demanding a better environment , because they have so many options , " says corporate interior designer Gary Wheeler , managing director at Perkins &; Will Inc. , a design firm in Chicago . " We have to design spaces that respect those employee and help retain them , and give them the opportunity to produce and grow - not just do a job . " Experts allow that settings are just part of the smart-workplace equation . " Our definition of what makes a great place to work is when employees and managers have a high level of trust , " says Ann Nadeau , who works at the Great Place to Work Institute in San Francisco and manages the " 100 Best Places To Work " project for Fortune magazine . " In order to trust your manager , you have to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes beyond walls , " she says . Mr. Wheeler notes the growing recognition of this reality is one of today 's greatest influences on office design . As employees at all levels increasingly are valued as full partners in the business , corporate hierarchies and distinctions of rank have weakened . " We do n't do executive suites anymore , they 're just not there , " says Wheeler , who has designed offices for Fortune 500 companies . " Generally the executives are interspersed with the employees . They still get the offices , but more and more those offices are in the inside . " Changes have n't been confined to the private sector . Many upper-level US Education Department employees lost their private offices in 1998 when 1,300 members of the agency completed their move to a fully renovated office building near the National Mall in Washington . " It was a cultural change , no question about that , " says William Gilmore , director of office management for the federal agency . " There had always been this notion that as you move up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That is something that people strive for . " But after working in the new space for the past several years , employees came to realize that private offices are not the ultimate perk , he says . The new office design now scores high in employee surveys . " What is more important is having offices that need to be in communication with one another , and office designs that facilitate movement among staff , and the ability to have close coordination among issues , " Mr. Gilmore says . The agency 's design eliminates walls and creates wide-open spaces . Each floor is filled with cubicles positioned along pedestrian walkways with side corridors . Colorful round signs with numbers hang from the ceiling at regular intervals , and hundreds of framed student paintings and mural-sized photographs of children decorate the walls . The floor-to-ceiling windows let in natural light . " We were very much concerned about making sure our technical staff and support staff , not just the top-level offices , could enjoy the views , " Gilmore says . David DeSoto , an Education Department employee who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ space is better than some older federal office buildings . Although he finds his workspace efficient , Mr. DeSoto wishes it were a bit larger . " I think it was designed for someone to function , rather than to function and live , " he says , pointing out the limited space for storage . Officewide , DeSoto says , a sense of hierarchy endures as employees are assigned to cubicles of different size and quality . And DeSoto says he and his nearby colleagues sometime have to endure " loud telephone calls or office talk . " Areas where employees gather for this kind of socializing are " basically conference rooms , " he says . Common spaces ranging from Starbucks-like coffee bars to Ping-Pong lounges are now regular features in many offices , notes Donald Albrecht , co-curator of the exhibition " On the Job : Design and the American Office , " now at the National Building Museum in Washington . " It 's the idea of the old water cooler , " Mr. Albrecht says , but " today it 's not looked upon as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together from across a company to share ideas that may spark innovations . " These chance meetings are considered important interactions in the company , " Albrecht notes . This type of meeting area is one of three distinct workspaces that define today 's more flexible office environment , says Wheeler . The first is the employee 's regular workstation , where he or she will spend 50 to 60 percent of the time . The second is the common area , where teams can come and go as needed . And the third is a " quiet , heads-down space , " where employees can work without distractions of the open office . Advances in portable technology and a trend toward more teamwork have had a " huge impact " on the movement to create multiple workspaces , he adds . Such multiple workstations are an increasingly common sight . But some other , more unconventional design trends may have already run their course . This includes the short-lived trend to eliminate personal workstations in favor of a first-come-first-server approach . Made famous by the Chiat/Day advertising agency , employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the task for the day . " People hated it , " Albrecht said . " People wanted to have some place where they could leave a picture , where they could have some privacy . " While most employees today have some kind of workstations to call their own , the trend in open environments has created the need for " new rules of office etiquette , " Albrecht notes . But that does n't mean employees would rather be shut behind doors . An open-office environment assists in the flow of communication , says Andrea Engleson , iCommunicate 's marketing director . With low-slung workstations , employees can focus on their tasks , yet still engage in " intuitive communication , " Ms. Engleson says , " the kind when you can tell if someone is worried , or concentrating ... that allows you the chance to act on a flash of inspiration . " iCommunicate 's office is designed to accommodate the unique tasks of each division - not with walls , but with light . Working in perpetual dusk to avoid glare on their computer screens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the office writing computer code that will be turned into online customer-service applications for businesses . Further back in the office , the company 's sales-and-marketing force sit in well-lit cubicles near a conference room where they rendezvous frequently to hash out strategy . Behind them is a staircase leading to a loft , where the two executive offices are located . It 's not all about aesthetics , notes Marc Epstein , a professor at Rice University 's Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Management in Houston . " People have seen that you can be in a garage and still make $ 100 million dollars , " Professor Epstein says . Even investment bankers may occupy spaces that are nothing to crow about : " They have very small cubicles for people who are making very large salaries , " he notes . Old-line firms have not been immune to change . Take the Bank of America building in Washington . Located a half block from the White House , the 1929 marble-and-limestone structure recently underwent a complete interior renovation . While most of the bankers in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mahogany trim , the bank 's top two executive floors are spectacular . The elegantly designed space for offices and meeting rooms offer stunning views of the Washington Monument . " It 's a privilege to work here , " says Sandy Dunleavy , an executive who recently moved into a top-floor office . But she stresses that the dining areas and conference room , graced by a domed ceiling with indirect lighting , are open to all bank associates who conduct business with clients , not just the top-level executives : " When we bring clients into our office , the historic setting adds a lot to the whole experience . " <p> ( c ) Copyright 2001 . The Christian Science Publishing Society 