@@660008

<p> Early last year , Martin Stoller went on an Internet discussion board to swap messages with fellow shareholders of United Companies Financial Corp . The high-risk lender in Baton Rouge , La. , had just filed for bankruptcy . Mr. Stoller hoped to make sense of the company 's troubles . Thousands of messages later , no one could say why the company 's $ 500 million book value had suddenly plummeted to zero - or why no one at the company would step forward to explain . So Stoller , a crisis-management professor at Northwestern University , finally took a show of hands in cyberspace and quickly established that the irate group on the message board controlled 40 percent of the company . With that muscle behind him , Stoller , who earlier could not get calls to the company returned , now chairs a committee overseeing the firm 's bankruptcy . Welcome to the new era of shareholder activism . It used to be that big institutional investors would get active if they felt an investment was foundering . That 's still true , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinions , marshal support , and put pressure on heretofore unapproachable boards of directors . " The Web will definitely change the face of shareholder activism in the future , " predicts Aaron Brown , a finance professor at Yeshiva University in New York , who aided Stoller in his cybercampaign . Already , message boards allow shareholders of a particular company to easily locate each other for the first time . " Our entire economic system really rests on the tiny pinpoint of the inability of shareholders to find each other and communicate with each other , " says Nell Minow , founder of The Corporate Library , a Portland , Maine-based online resource for shareholders , " and the corporate managers have fought very hard to keep it that way . " Ms. Minow was once sued for trying to get a shareholder list from a company , and other times she 's been told she would have to pay a heavy fee . " With the Internet , you do n't have to experience that anymore . You go to message boards and there the shareholders all are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greenberg , a lawyer from Culver City , Calif. , knows well . When his shares in Luby 's Inc. , a food-services company , slumped 75 percent in the past three years , he posted complaints on a Yahoo ! message board . Mr. Greenberg , surprisingly , attracted some prominent supporters , including some former Luby 's vice presidents . With their backing , he is now seeking to get himself and four other dissidents elected to Luby 's 12-member board in January . Greenberg filed documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) several weeks ago to formalize his proxy fight . It 's the first proxy solicitation organized over the Internet to reach this stage , according to the SEC . If the SEC approves , Greenberg 's group plans to lobby for votes from other shareholders . The Web also enables shareholders to go beyond annual reports and other publications for information . " Now , on the Internet , you can chat with ... people who know a lot about the company ... and find out far more about the details of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statements , " says Mr. Brown . Activism through the years The Internet is just the latest ingredient , he says , in the evolution of shareholder activism . " The torch has been passed , " says Brown . " Shareholder activism before the ' 80s was powerful individual investors . " In that decade there were legendary corporate raiders involved in hostile takeovers , he says . " Then a wave of socially conscious activists followed , such as apartheid opponents . " In the early 1990s , the United Shareholders of America , a grass-roots group formed by activist T. Boone Pickens , influenced Congress to lift restrictions on shareholders . Before the 1992 law passed , 10 or more shareholders of the same company could not meet in a room , or have any discussion about the company , unless they filed with the SEC - a rule that basically squelched any grass-roots shareholder activism . New rules were later introduced that make it easier for shareholders to pose questions on a company 's proxy statement , which is sent out to all shareholders for a vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , says Brown , because it required the services of a lawyer - or a great deal of research . " Today you can get on the Web and practically find a form to fill out and do it , " he says , " and shareholders are starting to take advantage . " Now , for the first time in history , he says , there is the legal framework that lets an individual shareholder really make a difference in corporate governance , and even affect revenues . " What we 're seeing today is a completely new kind of activism : by small individual shareholders ... primarily interested in profit , " Brown says . And why not ? A decade after democracy sprouted in Russia , Eastern Europe , and South Africa , some activists say it makes sense that a pro-democracy movement would be pushed into corporations , where leaders still choose their own successors and where shareholders are on the outside looking in . " I think it 's a quantum shift , the effects of which have not been felt yet , " says Brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these ideas to seep through , and for more people to get accustomed to using the Internet . But broader access may have a downside . Some experts worry that legitimate long-range business decisions by corporations could be mired unnecessarily by the actions of shareholders not fully aware of the implications . Still , the momentum builds . Leading the movement are Brown and Stoller . In March , they founded the Web site eRaider.com . Its motto : " If management wo n't take care of business , we will . " The site features a mutual fund , the Allied Owners Action Fund , that buys 5 percent stakes in small , underperforming companies . Purchases are announced on the site and message boards are used to organize a large bloc of the company 's shareholders - 25 to 40 percent - through the Internet. eRaider urges investors to participate in shareholder meetings , and to fill message boards with criticisms that supporters hope will nudge management to take steps to increase shareholder value . Fund shareholders make money as a target company 's stock recovers . eRaider also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the SEC to force disclosure in areas where the company has been noncompliant , and trying to find a potential buyer for the company . A proxy fight is always an option . Other activist organizations have also turned to the Internet . Minow , cofounder of Lens Investment Management , founded TheCorporateLibrary.com to expose lavish benefits awarded to chief executives - including monthly first- class plane tickets for visits by a CEO 's mother . And CALPERS , California 's retirement fund for its public employees , uses the Internet to conduct shareholder forums that are admittedly less aggressive than those run by eRaider . When the fund began posting its planned votes on proxy issues over the Web last spring , the site got more than 30,000 hits per month , says Kayla Gillan , CALPERS general counsel . But eRaider 's Allied Owners Action Fund is by far the most pug- nacious , and the most reliant on the Internet . Besides connecting the fund 's small individual investors on the Web , it also provides them with the necessary data , and a forum so they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fund should take . A losing proposition ? Whether eRaider 's fund will be around five years from now is uncertain . The fund , which requires investors to initially pony up at least $ 2,500 , has already lost about 30 percent of its value since inception . But Brown promises any one of its holdings could eventually pay off big . " It 's easy to find companies that are worth twice their stock price when shareholders can force one or two changes , " he says . Regardless of the fund 's success , experts say the Web 's role in shareholder activism will only get larger . " There is no question this cultural shift is the way of the future , " says Rick Bennett , activism coordinator at Lens . " Legally , shareholders own the business , and they now have the tools to enforce their will , " Brown adds . " The only thing that 's stopping them is inertia , and I think they have n't realized it yet . " <p> ( c ) Copyright 2000 . The Christian Science @ @ 