@@660030

<p> Six white pick-up trucks idle near the Saddam General Hospital here , each bearing a wooden coffin . In the back of the lead vehicle , a man tenderly rubs the fabric of an Iraqi flag draped over the coffin , and then wipes a tear from his eye . Outside the hospital gates , hundreds of men , some in military or police uniforms , mill around , denouncing the US and its friends Saudi Arabia and Kuwait . The coffins contain the remains of six civilians , workers at a veterinary clinic in the town of As-Salman , killed Jan. 20 in a US missile attack on an alleged antiaircraft radar site . Aid workers visiting a week ago saw no evidence of a radar installation . The truth of what happened last weekend in Iraq 's southwestern desert may never be known . But the contradictions surrounding this latest US airstrike are emblematic of the confrontation between the world 's only superpower and Iraq , the nation with the second-largest known oil reserves . How to deal with Iraq may be one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and some European governments are increasingly at odds with US policy toward this country , even as officials of the new administration insist that a hard line remains justified . The US government appears convinced that President Saddam Hussein remains committed to rebuilding Iraq 's military and reviving programs to develop biological , chemical , and nuclear weapons . If Iraq were not contained , the reasoning goes , Mr. Hussein would again pose a grave threat to the stability of the Middle East . In recent days , two US newspapers have published reports saying that US officials are worried about renewed weapons production in Iraq and about an Iraqi-Syrian effort to circumvent UN regulations governing the sale of Iraqi oil . The Iraqis are equally convinced that the US is determined to subjugate them , mainly out of a desire to control their greatest natural resource . <p> Gulf War origins The catalyst for this enduring conflict , in fact , goes back to a struggle over oil . In 1990 , Iraq invaded the neighboring state of Kuwait , citing historical claims to the territory , following a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized an international coalition and then went to war in 1991 , evicting the invaders from Kuwait but stopping short of toppling Hussein 's government . After a cease-fire , the UN Security Council decided to maintain a strict economic embargo against Iraq in order to force Hussein to yield to UN weapons inspections . Independent of the UN , the US and other powerful nations also announced a ban on flights in the north and south of the country to protect rebel groups from Iraqi air attack . The no-fly zone in the south went into effect after Iraq had crushed rebellion by Shiite Muslim militants seeking to exploit the unstable situation in Iraq following the Gulf War . No major rebellion has been mounted since the zone was imposed . In the north of the country , Kurdish groups have been more in conflict with each other than with the government of Iraq . But the government has largely withdrawn from the region , allowing the Kurds to govern themselves in three northern provinces of Iraq . A tremendous amount of military resources have been invested in restricting virtually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two zones . US and British aircraft have flown nearly 153,000 " sorties , " or flights , over southern Iraq , says Lt. Col. Rick Thomas , a spokesman at the US Central Command in Tampa , Fl. , which oversees the Middle East . In the fiscal year that ended in September 2000 , the effort in the southern zone alone cost the US $ 1.4 billion . Although some Iraqi domestic commercial flights have resumed in recent months , the ban on Iraqis taking to the air is nearly total . The UN 's Food and Agriculture Organization has had to employ Bulgarian pilots to fly Iraqi helicopters to spray pesticides on date palms . A decade after the Gulf War , both the embargo - whose effects on the Iraqi economy and society have been devastating - and the no-fly zones remain in effect . As a result , many Iraqis say they feel as if they have been in a constant state of war . The embargo has been a passive , creeping assault in which malnourishment and disease have been the main killers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , routinely overflown by US and British warplanes , is more akin to a shooting war . In December 1998 , after a standoff between Iraq and the UN over of weapons inspections , the US and Britain bombed military-related targets in Baghdad and other parts of the country for three days . Since that time , the Iraqi military has challenged the enforcement of the " no fly " zones , launching missiles and firing artillery at US and British warplanes . In response , the Americans and the British fire back at military sites , generally attacking the very installations that are targeting them . The US rules of engagement dictate that pilots may attack Iraqi sites as soon as their aircraft are threatened . <p> The latest airstrike That 's what the US says happened on Jan. 20 , when six apparently innocent civilians were killed in As-Salman . American jets used precision-guided missiles to attack a facility , which a US military spokesman says was a radar site . The Iraqis insist otherwise , and a visit to the area - arranged by Iraqi officials on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and no remnants of anti-aircraft activity . An old prison adjacent to the veterinary clinic serves as a military camp , but international aid workers who visited As-Salman on Jan. 17 say " there were no anti-aircraft facilities in the area ... around the clinic , " according to an aid official who spoke on condition of anonymity . Since the end of 1998 , the Iraqi government says 323 civilians have been killed and 960 wounded by British and US warplanes . During the same period , says Lt. Col. Thomas , there were 780 Iraqi " violations " of the southern no-fly zone , including instances where aircraft enforcing the zone came under attack or the threat of attack . US military officials insist that they do everything possible to avoid killing noncombatants , but say they have no way of tracking civilian casualties . They have acknowledged errors . On May 12 , 1999 , jets bombed and strafed the area around a tank used to water sheep in the northern no-fly zone , killing 19 people according to the Iraqi accounts . US military officials later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tank appeared to be a missile launcher - was to blame . What happened in As-Salman may have been an accurate hit , an atrocity , or just a mistake . " The site that we struck near As-Salman was a military site , and what we have indicates that we hit that target , " says Thomas . At the site , a structure that bore the brunt of the attack has been reduced to rubble . A next-door warehouse is partly carpeted with chicken feathers and excrement . A small building nearby , its windows shattered , is stocked with worm medicine for sheep , medical manuals , and other veterinary supplies . At the funeral procession in Samawa , the mourners and marchers have heard the American explanations before , and they do n't trust them . " They say they always hit military targets , but this was a civilian target , " says Aswan Habib , riding behind the body of his cousin , Khalid Khazzal . <p> ( c ) Copyright 2001 . The Christian Science Publishing Society 