@@660095

<p> Commuters around the world can thank their counterparts in Stockholm for the most-talked-about addition to the subway since the turnstile : a free daily paper . People from Scandinavia to South America might still be staring out windows during their morning rides if the newspaper-loving Swedes had n't embraced a new paper called Metro in 1995 . Now , the commuter-paper concept has spread , helping develop a market of new and young readers in an industry that covets both . " There are a lot of people reading the newspaper that did n't before Metro arrived , " says Ingela Wadbring , an assistant professor of journalism at the University of Gothenburg , who has studied Metro 's impact in Sweden . Free daily papers number almost 40 worldwide , according to the International Newspaper Marketing Association . Most debuted in the last several years , and 18 are owned by Metro International , Metro 's publisher . Its aggressive expansion brought it to the US last year when it launched Metro Philadelphia , with other major US cities reportedly targets . While the impact on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the trend has caught the attention of the world 's newspapers - which have launched their own free dailies and challenged Metro 's exclusive rights on transit systems . " We view Metro as competition , pure and simple , " says Pamela Browner-Crawley , spokeswoman for Philadelphia Newspapers Inc. , publisher of The Philadelphia Inquirer and Daily News , a party in a lawsuit involving Metro . In many cities , competitors are racing to get underground ahead of the stealthy Swedes . In London , Oslo , Zurich , Toronto , Montreal , and New York publishers have started their own free daily papers , sometimes competing directly with Metro . To keep the upper hand , Metro International has become secretive about target cities , where it can set up shop practically overnight . Two new Metro editions were launched in the first week of this month alone , in Montreal and Barcelona - even while elsewhere other editions were being closed or merged . " They 're like stealth bombers now . They come in and you do n't know they 're coming , " says Ed Trayes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University in Philadelphia . Metro 's payload is light , mostly wire-service items that can be skimmed on a 20-minute ride . " It 's enough information - not too little , not too much , " says Tomas Wrobel , a computer specialist at a downtown Stockholm bank , who is still reading his copy of Metro as he walks to work on a recent morning . Some traditional papers compare Metro with fast-food journalism ( much as they did USA Today ) . But Metro says it has no plans to change its format - which is an inexpensive-to-produce news summary supported entirely by advertisers . " That 's what we do . We summarize the world for people , " says Sakari Pitkanen , editor in chief of Metro Stockholm . " We do n't want to be one of the boys , we still want to be the new kid on the block , which no one really likes except for the readers . " Metro 's management says it has to offer a quality product , or it ca n't stay in business . " We are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it 's nothing that we are ashamed about , " says Jens Torpe , Metro 's London-based chief operational officer . " Having said that , if you want to sell something to advertisers ... the only way you can do it is if you have good and high-quality product , because otherwise you do n't have any readers . " A Gallup survey commissioned by Metro last November shows that the paper has a readership of more than 6.6 million people worldwide , many of those women and young people . At the end of 2000 , 41 percent of its daily readers were between 13 and 29 , the company reports . Associated Newspapers Ltd. in London says that its free daily is also attracting young audiences . The average age is 32 , with 77 percent of all readers under 44 . Associated - which also owns British tabloids The Daily Mail and The Evening Standard - launched its version of Metro in 1999 ( they even won the right to use the same name ) and have taken to calling it " Britain 's first off-line website @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Linda Grant , the paper 's marketing director . The British company is credited with forming a successful defense to Metro International , keeping it out of London and Britain altogether . Associated adopted the approach Metro aims for : starting in a major city and spreading out to other urban areas - a way to attract national advertising . Associated 's strong position in eight cities across Britain caused Metro to close its only British edition in Newcastle because the competition was too stiff . " We simply had n't done our homework and did n't know about the market , " says Mr. Torpe , who says they made the Newcastle deal early on . Metro International has taken other measures to protect itself in crowded markets . Last week , it closed Everyday , the afternoon sibling to Metro in Stockholm , saying advertisers were n't forthcoming . The same day it announced plans to merge with Today , a rival free paper in Toronto , to help the papers recover from multimillion-dollar losses in a market crowded with three free daily and four other papers competing for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when it rolled out its first edition six years ago , with the idea to forgo the 30 to 40 percent of revenue that usually comes from subscribers and offset the loss by choosing a less costly distribution system : public transport . Metro turned a profit during its first year , as did Associated 's free daily in London . But the quality of the stories and the variety of ads in Stockholm were n't that good in the beginning , commuters report . Now they say both are improving . " If I ca n't get it in the morning , I miss it a little , " says Monica Westling , a university administrator , who passes the paper on to a co-worker when she 's finished with it . In Philadelphia , Professor Trayes says Metro has been popular . " It 's no substitute for the Inquirer , but it 's good enough for quite a few people , " he says . Some analysts suggest it wo n't be in subscriptions so much as advertising that Metro will have an impact on traditional daily papers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those in Philadelphia , report minimal or no change in subscriptions and advertising so far , but they are concerned about having a level playing field . In a number of cities , traditional dailies have challenged Metro 's exclusive distribution deals with transit systems - though they 've rarely prevailed . In the US , Metro 's contract with the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation System drew fire from US media heavyweights - including USA Today 's parent company Gannett and The New York Times Co. - which charged that the arrangement violated the First Amendment . Those companies , along with Philadelphia Newspapers , sued because the contract gives SEPTA the right to review content in the paper , and to exclude competing publications . SEPTA won the first round , but the case is in mediation . " Our biggest issue has been that they are really a newsletter of a government agency , " says Ms. Browner-Crawley . " A real newspaper would never agree to control . There 's a real conflict there . " " For instance , what happens if a transit strike occurs ? Would the paper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for The New York Times Co . Absolutely , say editors and executives at Metro . They say the transit systems often get ad space in the paper , but do n't interfere with editorial content - even when it 's unfavorable . " In no city whatsoever do we have anybody from the local transport authority sitting in our editorial meetings or in any way impacting what we are writing about the subway , " says Mr. Torpe . Torpe says these debates miss the bigger point , which is the change free dailies can bring to the industry . " This is an opportunity for the print media ... to bring young people back to newspapers . " <p> ( c ) Copyright 2001 . The Christian Science Monitor 