@@747118

Section : PREVENTION , MITIGATION AND PREPAREDNESS <p> A natural disaster is by definition remarkable , and thereby often conceived and remembered as singular and unpredictable . Since the mid-1800s , for example , only about six major tropical cyclones per decade have struck the United States , and consequently , as of 1990 just 15 percent of U.S. coastal residents from Texas to Maine had experienced a direct hit by a major hurricane. ( n1 ) Despite the perception of disaster as infrequent , a comprehensive accounting that encompasses decadal time scales and continental spatial scales underscores the regularity of disasters and extreme weather events . For example , Figure 1 on the following page depicts hurricanes and tropical storms in the United States over nearly 150 years , from 1851 to 2004 , illustrating the extent to which this particular perturbation is a normal feature of the U.S. Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico coastlines . <p> While only about one-third of these storms were classified as major hurricanes , the overall lesson  --  which holds for other disasters and extreme events not depicted  --  is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infrastructure investment and effective policy formation. ( n2 ) This comprehensive perspective necessarily blurs the arbitrary boundary , derived from regularity relative to human experience , between major events and more frequent and less damaging ones . In other words , disaster preparedness requires looking beyond the probability of a singular acute hazard occurring in a particular location during a particular block of years . Indeed , smaller and less telegenic events account for a majority of human economic damage : Relatively non-dramatic droughts and floods , for example , account for over 60 percent of weather-related global economic losses. ( n3 ) Moreover , relatively ordinary events such as temperature extremes or droughts can have a cumulative effect on social and ecological systems . When complicated by both endogenous and exogenous variables having extensive feedback effects and examined over relevant spatial and temporal scales , these events warrant integrating normal disaster into investment and policy decisions . <p> Such a comprehensive perspective on natural hazards is , notably , the same one that motivates concern about anthropogenic climate change . Climate change presents a wide-ranging and complex hazard to human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long-term averages of temperature or rainfall , but also droughts , the geographic extent of early thaw , the development and recession of El Nios and more . Changes in these aspects of climate can stress social systems ( e.g. , traditional livelihoods , civil society , community organization , social welfare ) in multiple ways . First , departures from long-term averages raise the level of background stress , thereby increasing vulnerability to acute stresses . Second , the character or frequency of the acute stresses themselves may change , manifesting as extreme weather events such as hurricanes , droughts or floods . Third , climate change may exacerbate the scope and intensity of chronic hazards and the contributing elements associated with such stresses . For example , the reduction in stabilizing ecosystem services due to environmental degradation  --  resulting from climate change , or more often from human activities with immediate impact such as logging  --  exacerbates vulnerability to extreme events . <p> Disaster management and climate change mitigation therefore both fundamentally seek to reduce the trauma inflicted by natural hazards and to facilitate a smooth recovery from perturbations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linking current discussions of hazard preparedness with socioecological resilience and international burden-sharing in a world of changing climate . Drawing on geographically diverse case studies , we argue that long-range climate change mitigation efforts can augment societal resilience to acute and chronic natural hazards in the short-term and furthermore are an important aspect of national security . The comprehensive perspective informs the link between a changing climate and societal vulnerability . It argues for increasing resilience with additional policy mechanisms to transfer and reduce both the expected risks of weather events and the risks of changes in weather patterns due to climate change . Systematic approaches to diversifying climate risk across geography , time and institutions can realize multiple benefits for disaster relief , societal resilience and nations ' well-being . LINKING CLIMATE CHANGE AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT <p> Concepts of vulnerability , resilience and burden-sharing capacity form a basis for understanding the link between climate change and disaster management . Risk analysts are familiar with the first two factors : vulnerability , which captures a system 's sensitivity to perturbations , and resilience , which captures how quickly and easily a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding the potential impact of natural hazards is impossible without understanding their regional and local contexts , including the people , institutions , infrastructure , economy and environment. ( n4 ) <p> Defining the characteristics of a " stressed " system relative to a normal one is the focus of vulnerability analysis. ( n5 ) Vulnerability itself denotes a fairly straightforward susceptibility to damage , and , like a balloon stretched to its breaking point , it can encompass exposure to perturbation , its baseline sensitivity and how close the system 's current state is to a threshold of damage. ( n6 ) Importantly , vulnerability can stem from either common stress , such as drought , or more high-profile " rare " natural disasters . On the one hand , weather-related disasters have accounted for nearly 90 percent of global disaster-related economic losses , or $1.4 trillion , and have produced twenty-six of the thirty most expensive insurance losses on record. ( n7 ) Yet despite the high profile of those events , about 60 percent of weather-related economic losses derive from more mundane occurrences , such as simple temperature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hazards represent the kind of additional stress that gradual climate change is most likely to introduce into the earth system . The vulnerability of a small-holder farming community , for example , might depend on both a climatic threshold  --  e.g. , how close the expected rainfall is to the minimum viable amount  --  and on economic diversification or management practices . Stressing or compromising the integrity of any of these regional and local aspects , while perhaps not precipitating a catastrophe independently , can increase vulnerability and decrease resilience when the region is hit with a stress or shock . For example , the inland surge of the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami was significantly stronger and more damaging in areas along the coast of Sri Lanka where offshore coral reef theft weakened that natural wave barrier. ( n9 ) <p> Sub-Saharan Africa illustrates a more complex , nested interaction of chronic climatic stresses and human activities. ( n10 ) In order to increase agricultural production , many African regions utilize extensive or rotation farming systems that clear large areas of forests , degrade the soil and leave little land fallow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggravating desertification and impeding agricultural production . Furthermore , extensive burning of biomass for energy ( two-thirds of Africa 's energy consumption results from biomass combustion ) can exacerbate soil erosion and thus reduce future biomass energy availability . In this case , chronic stresses on people ( hunger ) , economy ( agricultural production ) and environment ( forests and soil ) can interact such that a perturbation of any one stress aggravates the balance of the others . Climate change threatens to amplify these problems as changes in the hydrologic cycle and temperature will likely exacerbate soil loss in these regions , thus complicating the human response . <p> The antidote to vulnerability is resilience . Scholars define resilience as either flexibility in the face of perturbation or , alternately , ease of returning to the original state after disruption . If patterns of climate change are understood in the same way as the hurricane history chart ( Figure 1 ) in that they create repeated perturbations , then increasing societal resilience is one policy goal that addresses both climate change and natural hazards. ( n11 ) As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , resilience retains that field 's early emphasis on networks and mutual interdependence ; applied to the study of adaptation to climate change , it is usually combined with vulnerability analysis to inform a concept of adaptive capacity. ( n12 ) This capacity includes the ability to reduce exposure to climate risks , to absorb and recover from losses and to enable people to exploit new opportunities that arise in a changing environment. ( n13 ) Thus , while adaptive capacity stems in part from a country 's level of economic development , the geographical context , collective experience and local knowledge often matter more . Indeed , it was institutional readiness and inherited knowledge that allowed fishing communities on Indonesia 's Simeulue Island to escape the ravage of the 2004 tsunami , enabled pastoralists in the West African Sahel to adapt to 25-33 percent decreases in rainfall during the 20th century , and fostered in migrants an understanding of geography that enabled sustainable resource use in remote parts of Bangladesh and Vietnam. ( n14 ) <p> Recent activities of communities in the Moroccan High Atlas exemplify potentially resilient approaches to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change. ( n15 ) These montane agrarian communities ' livelihoods depend on livestock , arable production , arboriculture and external incomes such as tourism . Traditionally , systemic stresses have been managed at a community level through reciprocal arrangements , favors and loans . Such community-centered reciprocity can be important in building local resilience to climate change. ( n16 ) This inter-community burden-sharing also makes sense given the interdependence of many sectors of the local economy : livestock is brought to the lowlands in the winter and in turn fertilizes the lower pastures ; summer-grown lowland fodder and grain feed the livestock ; and irrigation drives the success of fodder and grain harvests . Warmer temperature and drier conditions may stress upland summer grazing lands , extend upslope xerophytic vegetation not fit for sheep or bovine grazing , reduce the fertility of lowlands for fodder production if they are too dry to host grazing herds in the winter and spring , and thus increase pressure for market fodder as well as larger-scale irrigation . Moreover , increased flooding and landslides possibly associated with climate change induced intensification of the hydrologic cycle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further affect lowland areas and exert substantial pressure on communal land management regimes . <p> Clearly , the potential feedback effects described above would stress the social , ecological and economic systems of the High Atlas as the current grazing and growing regimes are controlled by the institutional arrangements of distinct communities . In the meantime , the adaptive capacity of the High Atlas is improving through the spreading of risk . Local economies are increasingly dependent on cash . Through the dramatic expansion of arboriculture , especially the cultivation of apples , and tourism , the High Atlas communities are diversifying their economies . While apple trees cultivated on new terraces may be vulnerable to warmer and drier conditions , and more trees means greater stress on the community assembly that governs j'maa , or water allocation , the successful institutional and inter-community negotiations required to achieve diversification demonstrate the resilience of the High Atlas local systems to cope with further stresses . Indeed , by augmenting the traditional reciprocity-based burden-sharing that allows the mountain communities to handle the occasional flooding disaster , and by drawing on the community knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already buttressing the resilience of the High Atlas to steady decreases in rainfall . Similarly impressive adaptive capacities to climate change are found across much of southern Africa. ( n17 ) <p> The Kashmir earthquake , Hurricane Katrina and Indian Ocean tsunami have underscored a third important component for reducing the impacts of perturbations : populations unscathed by disasters or environmental stress will be responsible for some of the cost of recovery and , perhaps , for accommodating people migrating from the affected areas . These lifelines , moreover , often span national boundaries , thus linking national security of unaffected regions to natural events occurring outside their jurisdiction . This potential to be tapped for extraregional burden-sharing currently acts like a call option on the resources of neighbors and the wider international community , and can thus be thought of as a liability that links the national interests of these entities to the affected region . Climate Hazards : Chronic , Increasing and Punctuating Stress <p> Scientists largely agree that over the next century , the world is likely to see significant changes in climate at both global and regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which climate change observed thus far can be attributed to human activities , the continued accumulation of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is expected with very high confidence to lead to a clear anthropogenic effect on temperatures , precipitation and climate variability . Under reasonable scenarios of future societal emissions , we can expect an overall warming of average surface temperatures in the range of 1.5 to 4.5 Celsius by 2100 . Moreover , because many parts of the earth system respond slowly to changes in greenhouse gas levels , and because altering established energy-use practices is difficult , changes and impacts attributable to these factors will continue and possibly accelerate after the 21st century. ( n19 ) <p> The European heat wave of 2003 provides a window onto a possible climate future . One study estimated with 90 percent confidence that anthropogenic climate change has at least doubled the risk of European heat waves exceeding all pre-2003 temperature averages on record. ( n20 ) Soil moisture feedbacks or atmosphere-ocean interactions may have intensified the heat wave , but the probability of similar events is anticipated by this study to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lesson from the 2003 European heat wave is that climate change is not only observed by changes in mean temperatures or the hydrologic cycle ; rather , greenhouse gas forcing can increase climate variability , or in other words , widen the tails of the statistical distribution of extreme events . <p> These changes in climate and weather will in turn alter the geophysical earth system. ( n21 ) High latitudes and polar regions are expected to experience more warming than lower latitudes , resulting in melting of permafrost and sea ice , costs for residents and disruption to wildlife and ecosystems ( n22 ) Changes in precipitation regimes  --  integral to agricultural production  --  are expected , although the magnitude and direction of change is uncertain at regional scales . The higher average temperatures are also expected to lead to higher numbers of extreme heat and drought events , possibly more intense tropical storms and more extreme rainfall events. ( n23 ) Tropical cyclones account for a significant fraction of damage , injury and loss of life from natural hazards and have historically been the costliest disasters in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may increase sea surface temperatures and therefore average hurricane intensity over the long term. ( n24 ) <p> A gradual yet potentially devastating component of climate change is a slow but long-lasting sea-level rise due to thermal expansion and ice melting  --  adding perhaps a foot or two of elevation by 2100 and continuing , due to the inertia of ocean turnover , for several hundred years thereafter even under aggressive emission reduction policies . Sea-level rise presents a clear hazard to low-lying land areas , both through direct inundation and through increased possibility of storm surges , changing erosion patterns , salination of wells and interference with sewer systems. ( n25 ) A 1-meter sea-level rise , which is likely after 2100 , would directly inundate 17.5 percent of the land in Bangladesh , displacing millions of people. ( n26 ) Several islands throughout the South Pacific and Indian Oceans will be at similar risk of increased flooding and vulnerability to storm surges ; indeed the Lateu settlement in Vanuatu has already been relocated upland due to a combination of increasing coastal erosion and anticipation of future hazards. ( n27 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ triggers are poorly understood . For example , several elements of the earth system seem to be vulnerable to rapid destabilization . The West Antarctic Ice Sheet and the Greenland Ice Sheet may be prone to rapid melting , and the loss of either of these would result in a large sea level rise of greater than 5 meters. ( n28 ) Moreover , the stability of the oceanic circulation that warms Northern Europe has also been questioned . Because of feedback processes and the large uncertainty in system sensitivity , these outcomes are not easy to model and are usually not included in gradual climate change projections , thus complicating adaptation planning and vulnerability analysis . <p> These climate changes and their geophysical impacts will directly stress ecosystems and human populations , though some regions will experience more environmental change than others. ( n29 ) Overlain on the patterns of change is the geography of adaptive capacity . For instance , although wetland and coastal areas of many developed nations are indeed threatened , wealthy countries may be better able to adapt to the stresses expected under climate change than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to many regions , the poorest are most likely to be adversely affected. ( n30 ) Even today , small and steady increases in surface-water temperatures are slowing the mixing dynamics of African Great Lakes , resulting in reduced fishery productivity  --  especially in Lake Tanganyika  --  and threatening the food and economic security of dense surrounding populations . Furthermore , although climate change will have uneven impacts , even within a single region , global losses are expected to outweigh the benefits. ( n31 ) <p> Agriculture is highly dependent on soil moisture levels and can be harmed by increased frequencies of heat waves or climate variability. ( n32 ) Projections of future climate change under most scenarios show crop yield decreases in developing countries and crop yield increases in developed countries. ( n33 ) Water availability is highly likely to decrease in areas that depend on glaciers and seasonal snowpack for their water supply. ( n34 ) Available runoff from precipitation is expected to vary by region : by 2050 , modelers predict with some confidence that runoff will increase by 10-40 percent in East Africa , South America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eurasia , but will decrease by 10-30 percent in southern Africa , southern Europe and western North America. ( n35 ) Since water can not easily be transferred between locations , the net availability of water globally will likely decrease , threatening food security . <p> Beyond the environmental stresses just described , regional climate change is also expected to have direct effects on health through temperature exposure , floods and infectious agents that will require transnational cooperation and burden-sharing . Although not a direct threat to humans , warming in Europe has already allowed the ruminant disease bluetongue to traverse twelve European countries and move 800 kilometers further northward since 1998 because warmer conditions are conducive to either the virus vector or its European host species. ( n36 ) The disease has claimed more than one million sheep lives , and costs hundreds of millions of dollars on an annual basis . With respect to human health effects , the World Health Organization already estimates that anthropogenic warming and precipitation changes currently claim 150,000 lives annually . Vulnerable regions include temperate latitudes which may warm disproportionately , regions currently affected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities where the urban heat island effect adds additional stress to extreme heat events. ( n37 ) Efforts to prevent the spread of disease are important to many countries ' economies and so will be most effective if the burden  --  like the problem  --  is shared . The Case of Bangladesh <p> Bangladesh is both currently afflicted with and also projected to face a myriad of interacting chronic and acute stresses related to climate change , making it an excellent window onto climate and disaster adaptation . By 2050 and 2080 , average maximum temperatures in Bangladesh 's tropical summer are projected to increase 0.4 and 0.8 Celsius , respectively . Average maximum temperatures for the monsoon season are projected to increase by 0.9 Celsius and 1.7 Celsius by 2050 and 2100 respectively . Coupled with modeled changes in the precipitation regime , Bangladesh is likely to experience more winter droughts and more monsoon floods in a changing climate . Temperature changes , sea-level rise , increased river flows , saline intrusion , drought and even changes in the character of the El Nio/Southern Oscillation ( ENSO ) have astounding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While a I-meter sea-level rise would inundate physical infrastructure valuing near 10 percent of the entire Bangladeshi GDP and obstruct crucial river discharges , winter drought and salinity intrusion may harm agriculture more than floods . Moreover , higher temperatures and more monsoon rainfall would result in increased soil erosion and , during the dry winter , more moisture stress from amplified evapotranspiration . Moisture stress , soil erosion and a falling water-table impeding irrigative potential will endanger the Boro rice industry , an important irrigated winter crop central to the nation 's food security. ( n39 ) <p> Further , if climate change is indeed implicated in stronger , more frequent ENSO events , it would at the same time be linked directly to cholera outbreaks in Bangladesh , where cholera cases recur at the same frequency as ENSO events. ( n40 ) A likely explanation for the correlation between ENSO and cholera is that during an El Nio event , the convective dynamics of atmospheric circulation weaken and resulting changes in cloud cover and evaporation provoke a regional heat flux that raises sea-surface temperatures ( SSTs ) in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vibrio cholerae . El Nio events were also consistent with dengue epidemics recurring every few years in Thailand between 1986 and 1992. ( n41 ) While clearly important to Bangladesh in terms of ensuring rice production and controlling cholera outbreaks , increasing understanding of ENSO variability could also help predict maize yields in southern Africa or malaria epidemics in countries such as Botswana. ( n42 ) INTEGRATIVE NATURAL SECURITY : CLIMATE MITIGATION , ADAPTATION AND DISASTER POLICY <p> One implication of climate change as we understand it is that multiple stresses , both gradual and acute , will begin to affect social systems in many regions simultaneously . Even countries with the financial resources , infrastructure , social networks , and luck not to be as adversely affected by climate change will not be able to escape the bad luck of their neighbors . Because climate change must be contextualized within uncertain social and political situations , predicting specific outcomes is challenging . Many nations have donated repeatedly to international recovery efforts in the aftermath of recent disasters . Looking forward , growing stresses combined with human decisions in the institutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over scarce resources , " environmental refugees " and international financial liabilities . <p> Migration may increase as populations on the margin begin to seek less vulnerable livelihoods in new places or as they are potentially forced from their homes by catastrophes . The South Asia earthquake , for example , prompted migrations of populations across the India-Pakistan border as people took advantage of their social networks . Similarly , Hurricane Katrina prompted a large-scale exodus from New Orleans and placed significant burdens on nearby cities such as Houston and Baton Rouge . But catastrophes alone do not paint the full picture : It is estimated that 58 percent of the world 's forty-three million refugees are displaced by environmental degradation. ( n43 ) This already astonishing figure will climb in a changing climate . Whatever the actual manifestation , it is clear that climate change raises the probability of occurrence of negative events in other countries , and thus increases the likelihood that lesser affected countries will be called , asked or pressured into sharing some of the burden . <p> This linkage implies a conception of natural security that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into account those of its neighbors and the role of the international community . Accordingly , while activities that address the root causes of anthropogenic climate change  --  such as reducing fossil fuel usage  --  are indeed important to reduce the future risks and severity of climate change , ensuring societal resilience to the expected changes will help safeguard vulnerable populations and reduce wider economic vulnerability in rich and poor countries alike . <p> Given the clear benefits of a contextual , region-specific approach , a general recommendation is to identify the areas of impact and bolster local infrastructure , aid social networks and grant flexibility to institutions . Specific approaches to these goals include diversification of the practices in question , incorporating governance structures that are easily updated with new information , encouraging the diffusion of private insurance and adopting a risk-management approach that seeks to reduce the chances of very bad outcomes , even under significant uncertainty. ( n44 ) Yet even these objectives give little insight about which specific policies to enact in specific contexts . Such unpredictability and complexity argue instead for an approach that begins with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be made more robust in the face of high uncertainty , additional stress and changes in variability . This approach may include components like vulnerability mapping to disseminate information to localities about their risk , developing and enforcing proper local building codes or ensuring that land-use regulations safeguard against encroachments on the integrity of ecosystems that may augment risk to natural hazards. ( n45 ) <p> One cautionary illustration of the benefits of this approach is an assessment of U.S. energy security in response to Hurricane Katrina . The storm resulted in a temporary loss of 56 percent of Gulf of Mexico oil production and 34 percent of natural gas production ; caused shutdowns of about 10 percent of U.S. refining capacity , resulting in spiking gasoline prices which , in turn , reduced consumer spending on other goods ; and raised wholesale gas prices by about 20 percent , adding to increases due to winter heating demand. ( n46 ) In this case , a concentrated extraction and refining complex presented a vulnerability to disruption of fuel supplies ; national dependence on these fuels led to a dramatic price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy . While the U.S. economy emerged relatively unscathed , such vulnerability could pose a significant threat to developing countries that also tend to have concentrated industries . <p> An appropriate response to this particular vulnerability , both in the United States and abroad , is to increase the diversity of energy supply and reduce overall dependence through efficiency. ( n47 ) As a linked benefit , an emphasis on energy diversity should help mitigate future climate change as well by reducing dependence on fossil fuels. ( n48 ) Similar to how concentrated energy supply increases vulnerability to natural hazards , achieving heightened efficiency and emissions reductions may be more difficult when energy decision making is centralized , whereby broad energy policies are uniformly promulgated at national or international levels. ( n49 ) This observation suggests a more regionally based approach to energy diversification where appropriate . The Dutch Model <p> While this U.S. case demonstrates the pitfalls of concentration in retrospect , an example from the Netherlands illustrates the possibility of proactive policy-enhancing resilience to climate change . As a low-lying country with 70 percent of GNP earned below sea-level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already-vulnerable areas . Furthermore , being positioned on the deltas of the Rhine , Meuse and Scheldt rivers , the Netherlands ' risk of flooding from increased peak discharges is influenced by precipitation , temperature and water management regimes all the way upstream to the river sources in Switzerland , northern France and southern Belgium , respectively . With a long history of investment in protective infrastructure , the Dutch have monitored projections of sea-level rise very closely , but their approach has not been simply to raise the dykes further . Rather , after considerable public debate , they designed a " living with water " strategy that seeks to accommodate occasional extreme flooding with minimal damage . Similarly , because of the possibility of extreme heat events and droughts , they are investigating additional investments in water delivery systems to safeguard their valuable horticultural industries . Finally , they hope to tap into the EU market for carbon emissions to allow farmers to recoup investment in diversifying their businesses to activities producing lower emissions . This activity , like the diversification of energy services discussed earlier , has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also contributing to the mitigation of climate change risk through lowering greenhouse gas emissions. ( n50 ) <p> The Dutch case does more than model a proactive approach to adaptation ; it also demonstrates the " internationalization " of adaptation strategies and the sometimes profound effect of water management relative to climate change on flood damage risks . First , as mentioned above , the Netherlands ' flood risks are influenced by the natural and policy dynamics of many countries . The framework for Meuse management arrangements outlined by the Helsinki Convention as well as the recent EU Water Directive are telling of increased recognition of this point as they acknowledge the need for transnational water management . Moreover , after Rhine flooding in 1995 predominately affected Germany , the purview of the International Rhine Committee expanded to include flood management . However , there are significant obstacles to sharing the burden of higher peak flow with the Germans ; notably , the Bundeslnder  --  not the federal government  --  are charged with water management and are not inclined to create excess water storing reservoirs . Accordingly , the Netherlands shoulders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ options may indeed exacerbate other climate change induced hazards . For example , increasing the discharge capacity of the Rhine may increase the probability of summer droughts. ( n51 ) <p> One of the lessons of these two cases is that the risk of severe disruption can be significantly decreased , and the post-event resilience enhanced , by diversifying or spreading risk . A fitting illustration of resilience enrichment is the disaster adaptation mechanisms developing in the Cayman Islands and facilitating climate change planning : early warning systems , civil society and corporate mobilization , social leaning and organizational restructuring constitute a diversity of tools that demonstrably improved the Cayman Islands ' resilience from Hurricanes Gilbert and Mitch in 1998 , to Hurricane Michelle in 2000 to Hurricane Ivan in 2004 , as measured by the speed of rebuilding public infrastructure. ( n52 ) Of course , maladaptation is also possible  --  reducing the resiliency or increasing the vulnerability of systems . A prime example is Egyptian water management. ( n53 ) Responding to high flows in the Blue Nile , Egypt has taken advantage of anomalous High Aswan Dam reservoir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sinai . This could create problems if , as is likely , the Blue Nile returns to the low flows experienced over the past two decades . <p> Second , management of a particular resource may become paramount to preparedness for the effects of climate change , underscoring the necessity of resilience enhancement . In the Dutch case , for example , Meuse River management interventions , studied by the government-sponsored Committee Boertien , could reduce flooding damage by 3 to 16 times , whereas a 2 Celsius increase in mean winter temperature and a 10 percent increase in winter precipitation by 2050 would only double average flooding damages in the river valley . Thus , water management may sometimes trump climate change in the magnitude of effect on flooding risks . In this example , the extent of stress on the hydrological system will depend heavily on the responses taken and the extent to which expected changes are integrated into those responses . Similar examples abound in the literature : The environmental attitudes studied in the International Panel on Climate Change 's ( IPCC ) Special Report on Emissions Scenarios @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do the different sea-level rise scenarios. ( n54 ) <p> Finally , stresses from climate change and natural hazards have clear implications for national security because they can lead to civil strife , environmental refugees or civil or international conflict. ( n55 ) Discussion of these implications is relatively sparse in the literature , perhaps because of the difficulty in discerning the constituents of security . Despite such difficulty , even the U.S. Congress has acknowledged the risk global climate change poses to national security. ( n56 ) Climate change thus presents three clear threats to national security : ( 1 ) the preservation of the integrity of national borders is jeopardized by mass environmental refugee migrations which can further stress national resources and social welfare systems ; ( 2 ) natural resource dependent economies suffer from environmental degradation and resource depletion , such as the potential effects of productivity declines in Lake Tanganyika on the economies of surrounding Burundi , Tanzania , Zambia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo , which stresses taxable capital needed to run governments ; and ( 3 ) civil and international order is imperiled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water disputes spanning many arid and semiarid regions of the world , which are expected to increase as populations experiencing water scarcity double over the next thirty years. ( n57 ) RECOMMENDATIONS <p> Natural disasters , chronic natural hazards and climate change are geophysically interacting phenomena , as are social , economic and ecological vulnerability and resilience . In many cases , enhancing resilience or decreasing vulnerability to acute and chronic hazards concurrently builds adaptive capacity to climatic and hydrologic changes as well as mitigates future climate change . As we have shown through the case studies and discussion above , vulnerability reduction and resilience enrichment requires a three-pronged approach : distributing decision-making authority to local and regional administrations ; enhancing protections against environmental degradation ; and diversifying , transferring or pooling risks across time , space and institutions . <p> The most robust and flexible institutional arrangements for spreading risks today are found in international financial markets , prompting inquiry as to how best to involve these markets in assisting with the allocation of climate risk as well . Markets for environmental externalities , such as evolving markets for carbon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emissions , but sending market signals for climate change requires additional innovation . Some researchers have proposed mechanisms by which private insurance can be encouraged in vulnerable regions , possibly with host governments or even donor institutions agreeing to provide backup reinsurance. ( n58 ) In this regard , studies show the best way to engage the insurance industry in vulnerability reduction is through public-private collaboration. ( n59 ) Other arrangements may attempt to securitize climate risks , perhaps as catastrophe bonds , or create markets for risk via new forms of weather derivatives , thus allowing the risks to be diversified through the financial markets. ( n60 ) Policies to diversify economies and their inputs  --  such as energy supply  --  can also contribute to additional resilience ; in particular , diversifying energy supply and increasing energy efficiency has the dual advantage of both enhancing regional energy security and reducing the long-term impacts of climate change . The goal is not simply to mitigate the risk of particular hazards but rather to distribute risk by motivating integrative approaches through markets , ideally complementing existing efforts to encourage economic decentralization and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ currently focused on strategies for managing the next disaster . By itself , climate change can seem like a distant and thus relatively low-priority threat . We have argued that the steadily increasing stresses from climate change , coupled with increased probabilities of more frequent , acute stresses , renders climate change a latent danger that could frustrate isolated attempts to enhance social well-being and national security The silver lining to this rather dark cloud is the overlap between enhancing preparedness and the investments and mechanisms necessary to incorporate likely changes in the future climate into policy , investment and financial decisions . FOOTNOTES <p>                     