@@746347

Interpretation has long been a central problem for linguistic and cultural analysis . Given that conceptual categories never completely " fit " the messy situations of everyday life , how do people make sense out of situations in ways that make sense to others ? How do they articulate the meanings they derive from the streams of experience around them ? Much of the literature that has focused on these issues has emphasized the ways in which interpretation is " overdetermined " by the political , economic and social contexts in which it takes place . Such analyses often run counter to the life experiences of the interpreters themselves . On the other hand , analytic approaches that reduce interpretation to pre-established rules , routines and frames often emphasize the notion of " shared " norms of interpretation . They hence fail to address the fact that acts of interpretation take place within situations that are experienced sometimes as routine , sometimes as unique and unrepeatable , but which are always bound by local histories and social relations . <p> One way to examine such problems is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibilities for interpretation : diviners whose proclamations articulate cultural meanings and reproduce social structures , journalists who must turn strips of experience into reportable and consumable events , healers who must convert visual signs and oral reports of subjective experiences into diagnoses and treatments , bureaucrats who must translate the life experiences of clients into legalistic categories . <p> This collection of articles is an initial effort to engage with " interpretive practice , " the ways that routine procedures , cultural categories , and social positions come together in particular " instances " of interpretation . By paying special attention to the discourses through which interpreting actors articulate their own experiences , the authors of these articles explore ways anthropology can understand practices of interpretation as habitual but indeterminate , strategic and situational . They thus seek to present insights into the lives of those charged with the task of interpretation , to offer an " ethnography of interpreting " which reveals insights into not only the process of interpretation itself , but also into the cultural fault lines that are exposed by the interpretation process . Interpretation as Practice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its roots in Weber 's notion of verstehen , and his insistence on the centrality of the hermeneutic tradition in the analysis of social interaction ( Weber 1949 , 1968 ) . But it is also rooted in the pragmatic linguistics of Bronislaw Malinowski . Malinowski 's efforts to discover the meanings of magical formulae led him to the realization that interpretation is a process that subsumes translation ; indeed , he argued , mere translation is , in fact , impossible . In order to translate anything one must recreate the social and cultural context in which the item to be translated exists , and this requires considerable rhetorical work ( Malinowski 1966 ) . For anthropologists writing ethnographic accounts , it is often easier to use untranslated vernacular terms unapologetically , hoping that the reader will come to an understanding of what they mean once they have completed the monograph , and assimilated the broad context in which these materials live . <p> However , the focus on interpretation in the social sciences has tended to center on the role of scholars in interpreting people 's actions ex post @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ models for explaining human action often sidesteps the issue of how these patterns are realized in everyday life . A central problem for anthropology involves exploring how people make sense of the world around them from messy situation to messy situation , managing ambiguity , repairing misunderstandings and negotiating meanings . <p> The articles in this collection address this problem by studying people who do kinds of interpretive work - ethno-interpretive work , if one likes . Brad Davidson 's bilingual interpreters in a hospital setting work under pressure to filter relevant medical information between doctor and patient . Dan Lefkowitz and Mark Peterson deal with media interpreters trying to present reductions of real events for an audience . John McCreery deals with the world of persuasion in sales and advertising in Japan where the seller 's message must be reified through complex cultural filters . Jim Wilce 's Bangaladeshi diviner , Delwar must interpret people 's own world to them in a distanced fashion that will allow them to see things that are so close to them that they can not perceive them under ordinary circumstances . By foregrounding such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of situation and generalities about the interpretive process . Intepretation as Accomplishment <p> Central to all these articles is an emphasis on interpretation as accomplishment on the part of the interpreters . All of the writers assume that the interpreters they studied were people who needed skills to do what they do . So much of our work with discourse and performance assumes that actors are all equally capable . In all of these cases , we see what the interpreters need to know and need to marshal in order to make their interpretive work successful . Davidson 's medical interpreter functions " not as an ' ally ' of the patient nor as a neutral conveyer of propositions , but rather as a covert co-diagnostician and institutional gatekeeper . " The success of the interpreter under these circumstances rests in a balance between individual skill , conscience , and the powers that employ him or her , and all of these factors are brought to bear pragmatically in each interpretive act . <p> Peterson offers a framework for approaching the pragmatic world of the interpreter by suggesting that there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The news reporter dealing with the never-never land of " off-the-record " commentary is caught in a subjunctive bind but one he knows how to master . In pragmatic terms the interpreter-reporter has these conflicting , contradictory courses of action rattling around in his or her head all the time . They are part of the job . Bourdieu 's work is helpful here in understanding interpretive practice as generative rather than as a mechanical process of selection among frames . The effort to theorize these mechanisms is revealing in its juxtaposition of ethnographic description of reporting against the relative smoothness with which these processes take place in the everyday life of those we study . Peterson 's case study looks complicated because he has reduced it to discursive narrative . Reporters who get together at the local watering hole after work trade war stories about such things as a matter of course . Peterson makes us privy to one here . That this process is eventually distilled into a 500-word report is a miracle of performative discourse . <p> Lefkowitz paints a picture of the distinct discourse realms in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Shas party shows the obligatory themes that must be invoked whenever this party is addressed in the media . Media practitioners must address several levels of concern in the interpretive process , ending with concerns about the construction of the Israeli state itself . <p> Jim Wilce both elevates and demystifies the world of interpretive discourse of Delwar the diviner . The work of the shaman is one of the central themes in anthropological discourse . As anthropologists we are drawn to the shaman as if to a magnet . They represent some fundamental mystery about the human condition . Particularly useful is Wilce 's willingness to look at the whole speech event in which the diviner plays a central role . His shifts in vocal register for effect , the contributions of those for whom he is interpreting , and the entire stance he takes as an observer within the community shows what a marvelously skillful communicator he is . Wilce shows us that the work of such a person is interactive , not just the product of a lone agent . Moreover , this interaction takes place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the level of broad community involvement . <p> McCreery 's query about persuasion in the world of Japanese sales and advertising is a rich topic for research on the interaction of discourse processes and broader social context . Linguists and discourse analysts with an Austinian bent have been skirting the question of persuasion for a long time without assaulting it head-on as McCreery does . Persuasion is of course a perlocutionary act par excellence . Beeman ( 1986 ) has argued that these kinds of pragmatic , performative speech acts have the quality of magical formulas . One is looking to transform the world through these acts . One moment a person is unconvinced , the next he or she is convinced . Someone did something to make that shift of convention happen . The key to the functionality of these acts , he suggests , is re-contextualization . And such re-contextualization is an interpretive act . One must get the customer to re-evaluate their decision making position vis-a-vis a new view of the world , created by the interpreter . When interpretation leads people to do things they might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But whatever we call it , it is good sales technique . Naturally in the Japanese context this process is culturally mediated . Traditional Japanese advertising helped consumers re-contextualize through the use of atmospherics and association - the quintessential soft sell . McCreery 's wonderful run-down of the equally culturally valid assault techniques advocated by the HILL group based on sexual seduction and samurai go-like strategies is fascinating . Interpreting Interpretation <p> Taken together , these articles frame a broad research methodology for the study of interpretive practice . This methodology can be usefully divided into four general points : It involves the assumption that interpreters exist within an operational epistemology , and heuristic action framework . Interpretation involves making authoritative assertions and the " truth " of these assertions is inevitably rooted not only in cultural epistemologies but also in authoritative discovery procedures that can turn contingency and ambiguity into predictability , believability and reasonableness . In so doing , these epistemological and heuristic frameworks often serve not only to organize interpretive action but to mystify the process as it happens . Each of the essays here emphasizes the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also demonstrate that social actors conceal - perhaps even from themselves - the extent to which their practices are co-constructed . Thus it is not only Wilce 's diviner but Davidson 's hospital staff and the journalists described by Peterson and Lefkowitz who are struggling to keep " dialogism at bay " by disguising cultural dialogics as monologics . It requires that we see interpreters in active interaction with the community in which they operate at several levels of social involvement . The conarrative and dialogic elements revealed by ethnography point to the extent to which interpretive practices are embedded in broader social activities . Inter-pretation in these essays occurs not in the internal solitude of cognition but in the noisy , demanding , give-and-take of social interaction . Journalists , advertising executives , diviners and hospital translators are all deeply engaged throughout the interpretive process . Indeed , despite attempts by some of the authors here to establish beginnings and endpoints for the instances of interpretive practice under scrutiny , their efforts only demonstrate how difficult and arbitrary such divisions are , and how the insistent imperatives of other social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values make one interpretive event shift into another . The authors handle this problem in different ways . Wilce suggests we see the social facts raised by interpretive practice as " candidate social facts , " contingent moments in an ongoing dialogical process . McCreery simply reminds us ( quoting Grant McCracken ) that " meaning flows " - and that it flows always among and between people . It assumes that interpreters have practical , pragmatic , and even perlocutionary goals in the exercise of their interpretations . The social actors engaged by and with interpretive practices enter into this dialogic activity from different social positions and with different practical goals . They seek , within the constraints of their knowledge and practical competence , to articulate , order , persuade , authorize , and limit possible interpretations in pursuit of their own practical ends . The resulting contestations and cooperations reveal asymmetries among participants seeking mastery . It is interesting in this light to read Davidson 's account , in which interpretation becomes a site in which patients ' inabilities to " speak for themselves " reinforces subaltern positions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ site in which officials seize one of the privileges of journalists - to speak outside representation - in order to promote particular interpretations of events that promote their agendas . Finally it assumes that their interpretive work is susceptible to the social forces within which it is contextualized - economic , political and cultural . All of the interpretative practices described here occur within complexes of overlapping social fields , of which the most ubiquitous is the market . The diviner Delwar plies his trade in the marketplace , competing not only with other diviners employing different heuristics but also biomedical daktars . Peterson 's journalists and their sources are aware that pay , promotion and status are at issue in every negotiation . McCreery 's advertising executives struggle with marketing research as they seek the best possible formula for success in the face of changing economic and social conditions . Davidson probably goes the farthest in showing us how the problems of interpretation are connected with broader social , political and economic forces that shape institutional norms ; and goals that in turn shape the settings and goals of interpretive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ researchers seeking to answer the ultimate fieldwork questions : Why this utterance at this time and place and not another ? What were the other options the speaker had ? What are the possible effects of the utterance on the social setting in which it was embedded ? In this introduction , we have indicated how analysis of people socially charged with the practice of interpretation can shed light on these questions . We have suggested that these essays offer examples of studying interpretive practice without reducing it to a structural epiphenomenon or reifying it as monologic , authoritative , and transparent . We are pleased to bring our own interpretation of these essays to an end and to present them to the reader as offering both insightful analytical perspectives and fascinating accounts of people engaged in the everyday work of interpreting situations .                     