@@14158

( Winningly : ) Citizens and little citizens ! We are going to give you a delicious foretaste of our great performance this afternoon , to which the whole world is coming . This is a pantomime about how a beautiful girl named Proserpina was snatched away by the Devil , and how her mother searched for her over all the hills of the world , and how at last she was able to bring her back to the earth for six months out of every year . THE FIRST MANIPULATOR ( Behind the scenes : ) Let go them strings . THE MANAGER At our great performance this afternoon this same play will be given with words ; and besides it the story of the brave Melusina and her wanderings when she was driven out of Parma . THE SECOND MANIPULATOR ( His voice rising in anger : ) You do n't have to show me ! THE MANAGER On with the play !  --  But do n't forget to bring your rich aunts this afternoon . ( To the Manipulators ) Hurry through with it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The curtain rises with indecent haste and shows the underworld . The rivers Styx and Acheron have been replaced by a circular piece of cloth , sulphur-colored , with waves delicately embroidered about the margin . This is the Lake of Wrath and in it are seen floating arms and legs  --  all that are left , alas , of great puppets , Abraham , Penelope and Jephtha 's daughter , Midas and Harlequin . Beside the lake Proserpina is straying , robed in bluish black as one anticipating grief . Pluto  --  now a medieval Satan  --  is stealthily approaching her . Suddenly Proserpina throws up her arms , runs to him and buries her face in his scarlet bosom . Noah 's Ark  --  mutely protesting against the part it must play , with all its Christianized animals within it , of Charon 's barge  --  is lowered from the proscenium and the curtain falls. ) p. 3 THE FIRST MANIPULATOR ( Sotto voce : ) Beard of Medusa ! You made her run in the wrong direction : The hussy courted death . Did n't I tell you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? THE SECOND MANIPULATOR ( Sulkily : ) I do n't care . A person ca n't tell which is his right hand and which is his left in this place . THE FIRST MANIPULATOR Here , you let me take her ; you take the Devil .  --  Got the orange ? ( When the puppets are next seen Proserpina is exhibiting grief in pantomime . Her lord with affectionate gestures urges her to eat of a yellow pomegranate . Sadly she puts it to her mouth . With an odd recollection of the Garden of Eden , she tempts him into eating the remaining half . They go out cheerlessly . ) All right for that . Now I 'll take the mother and the Devil . You take the other fellow and the daughter . ( Demeter , a handsome Italian matron in a wide gown of brocade , enters with her arms outstretched . At her elbow Hermes , the Archangel Gabriel , guides her through the Lake of Perdition . Proserpina and her husband return and throw up their hands in amazement . Again the frantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arms of Satan . Demeter tries to draw her away , but a matter of pins and hooks-and-eyes prevents her rescue . ) Oh , you Gazoon ! You lack-eyed Silenus ! Your hands are nothing but feet . p. 4 THE SECOND MANIPULATOR The Devil take your show and you with it . ( The altercation behind the scenes grows out of bounds and one blow knocks down the stage . The Archangel falls upon the pavement and is cherished by gamins unto the third generation ; the Devil rolls into the lake ; Proserpina is struck by a falling cloud , and lies motionless on her face ; Demeter by reason of the stiffness of her brocade stands upright , viewing with staring eyes the ills of her daughter. )                     