@@486391

E VEN A POLITICIAN ought to be willing to take his own medicine . So , although we can view the discomfiture of Representative Britten without poignant regret , we have still less sympathy for the dilemma of Secretary Kellogg . Fired with the idea of direct action , Mr. Britten , who is chairman of the Committee on Naval Affairs of the House of Representatives , suggested to Premier Baldwin a powwow between committees of the Britiph House of Commons and our House to do something about disarmament . Heaven knows somebody ought to do something about it , but Mr. Britten was more than a little rash to go over the head of the State Department , leave out our own Senate , and neglect even to get the consent of the House before going ahead with his project . What Premier Baldwin thought , we do n't know . We do n't even know what he said . He sent a polite acknowledgment to Mr. Britten , but when the official reply was presented to Mr. Kellogg by the British Ambassador our august Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we wonder , that it was a dose of his own drug ? Kellogg 's Matchless Compound for International Relations ? Did our Secretary of State reflect that he had set an example in the usurpation of authority by waging a war in Nicaragua without the consent of Congress ? TN SPITE OF A VIGOROUS and intelligent campaign , I. Norman Thomas apparently polled only 300,000 votes in the Presidential election . Returns made to the National Headquarters of the Socialist Party up to December 4 indicated a vote of 179,800 in nineteen States . In these same States in 1920 Debs polled 554,200 votes , about three times the Thomas vote . If the same proportion holds good in States not yet heard from , Mr. Thomas will fall just short of a 300,000 total . The Socialist Party made its best showing in New York where , in spite of the popularity of Governor Smith , Mr. Thomas polled over 100,000 votes . In Wisconsin the great majority of the Socialist voters flocked to Governor Smith on the Wet issue , giving Mr. Thomas only 18,000 in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Congress from Milwaukee seven times , increased his vote by 16,000 but was beaten by a margin of 300 . After twenty-eight years of struggle the Sobialist Party can not extract much cheer from these results . Its vote was the smallest Socialist vote cast in any election since 1900 and less than one-third of the record Socialist vote of 920,000 for Debs in 1920 . Many extenuating circumstances help to explain the disappointing showing . The Socialist Party partially surrendered its own organization to support La Follette in 1924 and the work of building anew from the bottom presented great difficulties . Governor Smith 's clear margin of progressiveness over Herbert Hoover lured the great majority of the La Follette vote . But when all is said and done we see no reason for the poor showing of the ablest candidate whom the Socialist Party has ever presented except the stupidity and conservatism of the voters . G OVERNOR ALVAN T. FULLER made an address the other day in Boston to the heads of the State departments . It was his valedictory , for Governor Fuller retires on January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be due largely to a certain event which occurred at Charlestown prison on the night of August ' 23 , 1927 . He said in part : The greatest danger that confronts us in Massachusetts , in my humble opinion , is the result of avarice on the part of our " best people " who want something more than they are really entitled to . I think in the last analysis , provided the matter was discussed without the heat of controversy , as public officials we must not expect those who would have special privileges to realize that they are doing that very thing which will be used as material by their opponents . . . . I have been discouraged to find that those people who throw out their chest the furthest as our leading citizens , somehow or other in private are not quite as uniformly patriotic and disinterested as one might expect when listening to their Fourth of July speeches . This is a mild attack but none the less an attack upon the " best people . " It was the " best people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on  --  years of private life away from the controversy and pride that official life generates  --  is it possible that " consciousness of guilt " will make a liberal out of Governor Fuller ? MHE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION filed its case against the Electric Bond and Share Company on De-cember 1 , asking the United States District Court for the Southern ' District of New York to order the company to .                     