@@493473

Mussolini vs . Fascism TWO years ago Benito Mussolini had climbed to a position of great power . King Victor Emanuel 's stunted body continued to sit uncomfortably upon specially heightened seats in royal coaches and palaces , but the regal gesture had withered into atrophy as permanent and as grotesque as that of the regal person . Victor was forced to play roi faineant to a maitre du palais who had usurped all his prerogatives , was obliged ? knowing protest useless and realizing that a successful revolution would carry away the crown with the interloper ? to be obsequious to an untitled nobody who had become a species of first consul with - imperial manners . The Italian people rested snugly in the hollow of Mussolini 's right hand . The leaders of the Fascist revolution prostrated themselves abjectly before him . He seemed to have reached the highest level of grandeur a man can attain . But now he has scaled a mundane Olympus . He has removed the single obstacle in his path and has become a combination of absolute dictator and godhead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had climbed to reach his pinnacle , the Fascist doctrine and movement . With Fascism existing , he could be no more than a leader , a man among men ; he could not be supreme . Nor could he be safe . Mussolini is an Italian , one who knows his fellow-countrymen and has delved deeply into the Pages of their history . Friends , he knows , are as dangerous as enemies ; no one can be trusted ; allies must be crushed before they crush you . And his experience as leader of Fascism confirmed what he had realized intuitively or learned from Machiavelli . Hence , he has signed the death warrant of Fascism , quietly and unostentatiously as the great Florentine historian would have done . , Quite without the knowledge of the world at large , a decadence of Fascism has for two years coincided with the growth of a Mussolinian cult . Their apparent identity , taken generally for granted , has hidden a slow process of dissociation which has terminated with the reduction of Fascism to an , Mpty although stentorian echo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the regime 's fifth year , the Mussolinian dictatorship completely replaces the Fascist olio-archY ? The Duce is responsible neither to his folrowers nor to the King , nor even to " his " people . s The cleavage between Fascism and Mussolinian-iM began in the winter of 1924 . Between the march on Rome " of October , 1922 , and the mur-el ' of the Socialist Deputy Matteotti in June , 1924 , Fascism had evolved from a surgical , revolutionary method , brought into being as a means of coping with disturbed conditions of the moment , into a , ' 1.1cerarchical oligarchical system of state organiza- " n , planned as a permanent mechanism for solv ing pressing national problems and as a lasting answer to Italy 's peculiar political needs . Mussolini , leader of a successful revolution , became prime mover of doctrinal innovations , patron of constitutional reforms and godfather of a new type of state . Suddenly , the murder of Fascism 's bravest and most popular opponent rocked the regime with earthquake force . Everything toppled . Hundreds of thousands of previously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it in panic-stricken stampede . Enemies , profiting by their defection , mounted heavy guns of scathing , merciless criticism and kept up a violent barrage for several months . First frightened , then embittered and finally instructed by the spectacle of treason and calumny , Mussolini understood clearly for the first time since his advent to power the insecurity of his position : as leader of Fascism , he was constantly in danger of being crushed between enemies and false friends . Therefore , when the shock of the debacle had been weathered and Fascism could don again its bold face , Mussolini started systematically to protect himself . First , he used as allies in a campaign of extirpation against the regime 's enemies the shamefaced deserters who had scurried back to his camp . To the anti-Fascists , for a year ? all of 1925 from the famous speech of January 3 until the resignation of Roberto Farinacci , the special inquisitioner ? he meted out ruthless " discipline , " resulting finally in the collapse of all organized opposition . From this campaign , Fascism gained tightened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breach within the Fascist movement was healed , but a gulf began imperceptibly to widen between it and its leader . Using the Machiavellian mgthod of exploiting a lesser enemy against a greater , Mussolini was biding his time , awaiting a propitious moment to strike at the danger within his own camp . Caprice and vindictiveness played but small roles in his decision to root out that danger by betraying all his followers , regardless of their conduct during the emergency . Temperamentally , Mussolini could not forget or forgive . Fascism was a mere phrase , unimportant compared with the sanctity of self and mission to a man who is , of course , a megalomaniac . As leader of a military-revolution movement , relying above all upon secure discipline in the face of danger , he did not dare believe so serious a flaw as had been manifested could be remedied . As Mussolini , he could see no more urgent necessity than protecting himself at any cost . Two courses lay open : to purge Fascism or to destroy it . Both meant abandonment of the directive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that of helping Fascism destroy itself by handling his power in such a fashion as to make it voluntarily canalize its vitality into a Mussolinian cult . Allowing his associates to elaborate and put into effect a Nationalist-Fascist centralized organization , harnessing securely to the yoke of the state every force in the nation and legally removing from the people every right to liberty and autonomy ; encouraging , moreover , the same type of omnipotently centralized control within the Fascist party , Mussolini quietly set out towards absolute dictatorship by gradually narrowing the circle of friends aiding him in controlling state and party and by reducing their responsibility . In the spring of 1926 , the Fascist party-state had become one of the most powerful oligarchies in history ; Mussolini was not yet supreme . Then he proceeded to shear its fleece . Two converging campaigns led to the ultimate goal : first , the transformation of Fascist faith into personal faith in Mussolini ; second , the emasculation of the oligarchy . - The Duce launched his imperialistic policy . I alone have made Italy strong and respected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall make Italy the great nation she must and can be . Help me alone and Italy shall be great . Obey me alone and I shall make Italy a great empire whose vast colonies will solve all your material problems . Have faith in me alone . Be led only by me . Fascism ? c'est moi . This pronouncement , in countless forms , was kept constantly before the people until they not only believed it , but became intoxicated with the imminence of their prosperity and strength . Understanding Italian mentality as no other man has , Mussolini exploited it . Realizing that no wine is more delicious to a long impotent people than a promise of power , he plied the people unceasingly with it . Every dream , every hope , every desire of every true Fascist and nationalist was captured and held . Fascism 's terminology seemed drab , its ideals cheap and sickly compared with the new aims . Everything was engulfed in Mussolini 's triumphant imperialism . The Duce walked among his people , made triumphal voyages to provinces and colonies , invented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colossal demonstrations and by hundreds of tricks kept himself in the public eye and mind . Everywhere , always , he delivered the message : " If you have faith in me , I shall make you great and prosperous . " In six months , all the energies of Fascism , all the ideals of its doctrines , all the compactncss and discipline of the party have become minor attributes of the Mussolinian cult . Only his voice can command silence . When others speak , his name must liberally sprinkle their words . Thc Fascist oligarchy has been dealt with more summarily . One by one its most pretentious members , like Farinacci , have been replaced by cat's-paws . Others have been reduced to impotence by the threat of oblivion . Some have been bought off by satisfying personal ambitions , not too elaborate in nature . All have been transformed into tools of Mussolinianism rather than of Fascism . Only one man with true strength remains , Federzoni , who is too useful as a disciplinarian weapon to be discarded. , The hierarchy is a fiction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level of the hierarchy replaces interlocking responsibilities between the various levels , mounting from base to apex . Which of course means no hierarchy at all since there is no string of control of any sort which does not hook up to the Duce 's desk . To maintain security and solidity in the structure of the Mussolinian edifice , the Dictator does not rely upon faith alone . An elaborate secret machinery exists , a system which would have aroused Metternich 's envy and which is handled exclusively by Federzoni under Mussolini 's watchful eye . The Duce has played his hand so well that millions of Italians believe him when he says , as he often does , that he is not a tyrant or dictator , but the servant of the people . Yet if he is their servant , he has served them badly , for his imperialism is an impasse and his promise of speedy prosperity a delusion for which Italy may pay dearly after his death , if not before . Not even Mussolini has gone so far as to aver that Italy has the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in this generation . That such a position should be hers through moral and historical right has been his contention . But specious distinction between " right to have " and " ability to obtain " are foreign to the emotional surge of a nationalistic awakening . Italy sees her inferior rank among the nations as an injustice which she can and will remedy at an opportune moment by a tour de force . Such a gesture , obviously foredoomed to failure , would spell suicide , would postpone true progress indefinitely . From the Duce , Italy will accept in numerable delays in the advent of her great day , but he alone can both nurse and keep in check the chauvinism he has created . Imperialism , besides being fraught with dangers , aggravates the nation 's basic problem , the discrepancy between growing population and lack of raw materials . Steady , unchecked growth of man power renders acute the need for foodstuffs of which domestic agriculture does not produce an adequate quantity and for raw material , particularly coal and iron , which she dOes not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the idea of birth limitation makes little hcadway ? unaided by official patronage ? against ignorance and religious prejudices . Fascism resigned itself at first to palliative meas. ' ures , searching for and exploiting domestic raw 119. - terials and aiding the farmer ' to increase grain yields . Disposition of some of the excess popul3. ' tion was sought by scientific methods of internal migration and by the use of reclaimed wastelands ' This inward-looking , farsighted nationalism was having excellent results when Mussolini decided upon imperialism . One of his first steps was to launch a campaign of official encouragement of prolificity . Excess population , the curse of Italy and source of her poverty-stricken weakness , became overnight by the touch of the Duce 's magic wand , a blessing . Men would be needed in war to win and hold an empire or as colonists to populate it . Colonies would furnish raw materials . - His reasoning might be excellent if Mussolini were sure of getting colonies and if those he obtained were rich and exploitable . But if , despite his threats and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not succeed in driving any bargain for them , no successor will be able to do so . Italian diplomacy depends upon his personality and bag of tricks . Imperialism is nothing more than a recruiting formula for Mussolinianism . Without him , its true weakness would appear . His successor would face , a profoundly disillusioned and embittered people whose material problems , despite all their good will and work , would be graver than ever . Mussolini , distrusting his fellow men and thinking of his own safety , building for himself today and not for Italy tomorrow , told his nation : " The Italian people needs to be led , not educated . " And they allow themselves to be led , following the Duce as their ancestors followed Count X or Duke Y for personal safety , for the satisfaction of personal interest , because they are dazzled by the spangles on his uniform , because their wives and children need bread , because they can not resist martial music , because they want to be on the strong side . As they rushed-from Socialism to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1924 and finally into Mussolinianism , so will they rush into something else . Mussolini is doing everything in his power to deny to the people exactly the type of self-training and moral education they most need . He has torn - 11 ) genuine unity and that which remains , being superimposed on the people instead of coming from within ; is worthless . Each Fascist had learned for a time to be faithful to an idea , an ideal within himself , unity was a total of willing cooperating Parts , of living cells : each Mussolinian is faithful to the ruler of the moment , who happens to be Mussolini . The Duce can count on such unity , but Italy can not . While he lives there will be more Matteotti aftermaths or Caporettos . But afterward , if the Mussolinian edifice crumbles as it Surely must at the first serious crisis , how will his successors save their powers except by a desperate attempt to perpetuate unity where it was created , on the battlefield ? Someone has said : " Mussolini 's death would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mussolinian Italy can understand . Rome .                     