@@487249

O Fprofound significance to the whole world is the out-come of the British elections . It is one of those events which like a sudden flash of lightning illumine the darkest skies with a radiant promise of the morrow . To liberals and progressives everywhere the gains of the Labor Party , utterly unexpected in their magnitude , must bring fresh hope and encouragement . Fighting against all sorts of odds , with their treasury exhausted , with cries of " socialism " and " beware the capital levy " being used against them everywhere by the united fdrces of wealth , privilege , and conservatism , the Labor Party appears to have won forty-seven additional seats where thirty was the highest number the most enthusiastic had dared to prophesy . More than that , they won in districts in London where it was not believed that they had any chance whatever . Their policy of refusing to amalgamate with the Liberals was triumphantly vindicated . The Liberals , despite the Asquith and Lloyd George reunion , won - forty seats less than the Labor Party , which remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with so prompt and deserved a punishment as that which has overtaken the Baldwin Government . Planless , cowardly , and utterly inconsistent in their foreign policy , incredibly shortsighted and mistaken in their appeal to the country on a false domestic issue , the Conservatives have been fairly overwhelmed . They have paid the price for intrusting their fortunes to a sincere but dull and superficial business man , and for undertaking to overthrow in a three weeks ' campaign that historic British policy of free trade to which Britain owes its prestige and power and for decades owed its industrial domination of the globe . It is precisely this triumph of free trade as well as the progress of the Labor Party which makes this election so momentous for the whole world . Never was there a greater need for the one conspicuous free-trade nation to nail its colors to the mast . When all Europe condemns itself to needless losses and hardships because of the endless new frontiers and vicious new tariffs which are the aftermath of the war , so shining an example of sound economic policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mankind . The free-trade victory is , we believe , decisive . Elections may follow one after another in England  --  it looks as if they would  --  but we can not believe that any other statesman will be found for a long time to come willing to test his fortunes on this issue  --  certainly not without long preparation . To Mr. Baldwin the hour seemed particularly tempting because of the unrest and huge unemployment . Would the voters not jump at the chance to stimulate employment by artificial barriers ? Plainly he had thought nothing through . The very fact that , taking his proposals at their alleged value , they would only revive industries employing 140,000 men , when there are nearly 1,500,000 unemployed , made his case hopeless with all thinking voters . Surely we shall not again see an approach to protection from that angle , whatever else the future may hold in , storee The result ; 0174Ii Ballwi ; J:4 pOlitical incapacity and total tiatsCotic.eiotrdp. , 4 he desires of the electorate has resulted in-a : situation vsh , i , ch , .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severest test of modern A system of government developed by and for the two-party system and presupposing a majority after every election is now confronted with the fact of three great parties none of which is able to control the House . It would be idle to prophesy the outcome of a tangle which is almost without precedent , indeed is without an exact precedent . It would be rash for the Labor Party to take office when it holds but 190 out of 615 seats . Fortunately its leader , Mr. Ramsay MacDonald , who so readily sacrificed what seemed to be his entire political future in 1914 by his opposition to the war and his steadfast adherence to his pacifist principles , is not the man to feel any personal inclination or temptation to become the first Labor premier . A minority party taking office would carry on the government only under the great handicap of knowing that its opponents by joining hands could turn it out on any measure . The very insecurity of its existence would make against efficiency and against any domestic or financial program looking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Labor Party would , in addition , suffer from its unquestioned need of longer parliamentary experience  --  we have no fear as to its ability to produce the necessary administrative talents to carry on the several departments of the government . Its membership is mixed ; success has brought dangers as well as responsibilities , and some of the men who have risen from the lower ranks of Labor have much to learn and have many preconceptions and needlessly bitter class partisanship to divest themselves of . It may become a political necessity for the party to assume the management of affairs under these conditions , but it would not be likely to help it at the next election . Yet the temptation to assume control must be very great . There is work to be done which they must itch to do . Leaders like Mr. MacDonald and Mr. Henderson , who will doubtless find a seat in the House before very long , must ache to get their hands upon the Foreign Office and to lead the way to an adjustment of the European situation without the settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prosperity . At the same time , they must see that if they take office now their efforts to clear up the mess created and left by the governments which have followed one another since 1914 will put upon them a task so great that any failure would react upon them . Indeed , it is openly stated that the Conservatives would like to see Labor take office , believing that it could not make sufficient headway to save itself from discredit at the hands of an electorate praying for prompt and early relief from the sufferings to which it is subjected . Let no man underestimate the gravity of the British situation . We agree with Mr. Baldwin that England is quite as deserving of the sympathy of the world as is France . It is not the habit of Anglo-Saxons to exhibit their wounds like an itinerant beggar and to dwell upon their need of sympathy . But the menace of the future in England , quite aside from unemployment , is such that one can at times only wonder whether British industry can ever really recover from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not inevitable . None the less , we hope that Labor will at least avoid the compromise of a coalition government , just as it steadfastly refused to coalesce before the poIl . Let the Liberals and Conservatives combine if they will . A Ramsay MacDonald government which included Messrs . Lloyd George and Asquith would be an anomaly and would speedily become a byword . The President and the Progressives IS EITHER the organization of Congress nor President Coolidge 's two messages to it tells us much that we did not already know . Mr. Coolidge 's recommendations confirm the verdict , already rendered , that he is our most conservative  --  not to say stand-pat -- President since William McKinley . The organization of Congress shows what we have known since its election more than a year ago  --  that it contains an unusual percentage of progressive members but that their effectiveness will be impaired by inexperience and lack of cohesion . Interest in Washington this winter will lie in the tug-of-war between the ? two forces : progressivism in Congress and reaction in the White House . Mr. Coolidge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obedience . They were the characteristics necessary for a young Republican who sought to get ahead in Massachusetts in the days of Winthrop Murray Crane 's dictatorship ; they carried Mr. Coolidge into the Governor 's chair , but they could not have carried him further . The rest was a streak of  --  for him  --  golden luck . And now , in his message , Mr. Coolidge naturally reverts to the only political bag of tricks he has : caution , conservatism , and obedience . To a country seething with complex problems and intolerable situations , Mr. Coolidge offers the gospel of stand-patism . He can not do otherwise . He has nothing else to offer ; and besides he realizes that his one hope of a nomination for the Presideney next summer is to offend as few nersons as nossible and to sit on the lid as hard as he can for the next six months . As a sitter on the lid we can think of few abler men than Calvin Coolidge . He learned long ago to stand without hitching , and he can as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a continuation of the Harding policies  --  what were they , by the way ? ? will be Mr. Coolidge 's chief endeavor . We shall continue our policy of drift with regard to Europe . With the exception of a favorable reference to a world court  --  out of deference , no doubt , to Mr. Harding 's advocacy of it ? Mr. Coolidge 's messages contain not a single constructive recommendation in regard to foreign relations in a world of chaos . He stands with Mr. Hughes , of course , in refusing to consider cancelation of the Allied war debts to us-in return for the possibility of averting an economic collapse in Europe . He would hold to an I. 0 . U. which ( except in the case of Great Britain ) there is no hope here or hereafter of collecting rather than reestablish a market for American products . In reaffirming the policy not to recognize Russia in the present conditions , Mr. Coolidge says hopefully that he sees there " encouraging evidences of returning to the ancient ways of society . " Mr. Coolidge 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trustful devotion to the " ancient ways of society . " It is the gospel of stand-pattism in the presence of the greatest industrial experiment of modern times . In domestic policies Mr. Coolidge deserves praise for his recommendation in favor of a constitutional amendment to end the issue of tax-exempt securities . In backing Mr. Mellon on this issue the President takes a courageous and statesmanlike stand . Among his recommendations Mr. Coolidge places first and foremost the Mellon plan for re-ducing taxation and spiking the soldiers ' bonus . Opposition to the bonus is good conservative doctrine , but in a candidate for renomination it marks political courage . The other proposals are mainly wasteland : the tariff wall should not be attacked ; all the railroads need is consolidation ; agricultural prostration is dismissed with a suggestion to farmers to diversify their crops and resort to cooperation ; the fuel emergency is passed over with some kind words for the inadequate recommendations of the Coal Commission . It would be too much to expect a thrilling battle between the progressives and the President . Mr. Coolidge will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is dangerous ' work to be done , he will intrust it to somebody else . The progressives in Congress , on the other hand , are full of fight , but have no permanent philosophy nor even any present program upon which to unite . Interest hitherto has centered chiefly in the progressive bloc in the Senate , but as William Hard points out in his Washington letter on another page , more is likely to be heard this winter of the progressive bloc in the House , because of the solid delegation of ten from Wisconsin and the discipline and unity that is to be expected from this group . It is doubtful , of course , if the House progressives obtained any substantial advantages as a result of their much-advertised fight in connection with the speakership . The House is a clumsy and autocratic body where a new man , even of outstanding ability , has little chance ; where no minority , no matter how ably led , can accomplish much . The country will only be piling up disappointment for itself if it expects much in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress . There is sufficient progressive strength to present an Pmharra acing. nnnnsitinn and thus to win comp enninro. mises . But more than that is improbable . The chief hope will be in an educational campaign for the country and in the possibility of laying foundations for a broader and deeper progressive movement . The Menace of Mexico R EDUCED to its simplest terms , the De la Huerta coup is an attempt to stab the Mexican revolution in the back and to return Mexico to the political heirs of Porfirio Diaz . His manifesto , which omits all mention - car Article 27 and makes land distribution contingent on a foreign loan , is conclusive , if direct evidence were needed . General Guadalupe Sanchez , the Vera Cruz division commander who heads the revolt , has long been an evident counter-revolutionary . His insubordinate assaults upon the agrarians in Vera Cruz have augmented the unrest in that state and deeply troubled the federal Government . Americans may wonder why De la Huerta , long an intimate associate of the Obregon regime , should now seek to destroy its three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ De la Huerta the answer is not difficult . He was a good interim president chiefly because he had the support of Obregon and Calles , whose policies he carried out . As Secretary of the Treasury he gradually yielded to the temptations of his office and began building a political machine . The reactionaries , native and foreign , lent him all the support that seemed expedient . An obviously reactionary candidate would stand no chance . So the Cooperatista Party , equipped with all the revolutionary catchwords and apparently named for its members ' systematic cooperation in looting the state and the municipal treasuries they controlled , sprang into being . A press campaign in the United States , in part financed by the treasury funds , stigmatized General Calles as a " red " and a " bolshevik . " In Mexico , on the other hand , while secretly trafficking with all the forces of reaction , De la Huerta was trumpeting his radicalism , verbally indorsing the Calles candidacy , and declaring in the most solemn terms that under no circumstances would he compete ? Lto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Obregon , distressed by the raiding of the treasury , which was increasingly manifest in arrears of pay to public employees and in the hamstringing of the government education campaign , nevertheless desired to avoid an open breach . But his refusal to sanction the fraudulent election by which the titular Cooperatista leader , Prieto Laurens , sought to capture the governorship of San Luis Potosi , precipitated the announcement of De Ia Huerta 's candidacy , " in response to overwhelming popular demand . " When , after six weeks ' campaigning , this proved to be little else than the clamor of the reactionaries and the pay-roll patriots , who included the " red " anarcho-syndicalist leaders , he chose the time-honored Mexican method , open revolt . The real tragedy of this attempt lies in its destruction of President Obregon 's valiant effort to establish a peaceful and democratic succession to the presidency . It had been his highest ambition to achieve this . For three years he has sought to avoid interference in state elections and has aimed to make them true expressions of the popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his judgments infallible . Often he had to choose between injecting his authority , which he disliked to do , or acquiescing in a palpably crooked result . Often his choice lay between degrees of fraud and violence . In many cases . as recently in the state of Queretaro , he had to decide against his own friends and against those of the same political faith . Had he been a Diaz he could easily have filled every public office with revolutionaries of his own stripe and paved the way for an uncontestable presidential election . His candidate had long been Plutarco Elias Calles , Secretary of Gobernacion , without question the one man with the popular support , the strength , and the vision to carry on the almost superhuman task that Obregon has attempted . In every sense Calles was the logical candidate . But while making no secret of his preference , the President determined that the election should be free and that no official machinery should be used to help or hinder any candidacy . Calles therefore resigned his cabinet post , as did his staunchest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morones , head of the government munition works , and others . The federal Government did not lift a finger for Calles  --  the anti-Calles press in Mexico City has not been able to cite a single instance of official pressure . Nevertheless De la Huerta and his following loudly raised the cry of " imposition , " and when they found no popular support themselves sought to impose their candidate by the sword . Yet good may come out of this defection . Pseudo-revolutionists have long handicapped Obregon 's efforts , and while mouthing the shibboleths of the new order have shamelessly betrayed it . Many of them have now eliminated themselves . Here and there disappointed office-seekers and grudge-holders of one sort or another may attempt to profit by the situation . But despite all the disruptive forces the revolt will fail because the plain people are for Obregon , whose government has been a sincere and determined effort against incredible odds to move toward political and social democracy . Yet a very real menace , not only for Mexico but for the United States , exists  --  unfortunately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unremitting vigilance and efforts of all decent Americans . For it is not without significance that within seventy-two hours a New York paper should editorially demand a large army , declaring ; " We are not prepared today for a small war , for such an unwelcome duty as intervention in Mexico , should it be forced upon us . " The Seas of Democracy D EMOCRACY , friends , is not born of crowds , of masses of people indiscriminately hurled together . Democracy is the result of selection , of patient , discerning choice , of slow nurture , of freedom guarded and watched over . The swarming public schools in our great cities are seldom breeding-places of democracy ; from above and from below democracy is too often strained out of them  --  regimentation , prejudice , and punishment dominate the scene . If American children are to learn the democratic spirit , if they are to believe in their own right and the right of everyone else to grow into free and creative and individual persons , if they are to respect tolerance and difference and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the overcrowded public schools controlled by political boards rather than by educators . Unfortunately the places where they may learn these virtues of the free citizen are rare in the whole country . A few public schools here and there have been set apart for experimental work in education ; in the smaller cities the schools are often fairly free from political domination and sometimes open to liberal educational influences ; in New York there are perhaps half a dozen private schools as well which in varying degrees and in different ways are trying to utilize freedom as a training for freedom , and self-expression as an educational tool . Numerically the value of these schools is insignificant ; only a handful of children can be reached by their methods . Educationally their value is beyond estimate . They are the laboratories from which the educational discoveries of the future are likely to spring . A. few of the more " regular " and conservative of these institutions are well endowed and successful . Most of them , however , and especially the more advanced among them , are forced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keeping alive . One of the younger and most interesting of these oases of freedom is the Walden School in New York City , which is valiantly struggling toward an endowment , to maintain itself during the next four years . The City and Country School , against similar odds , is performing an equally interesting and stimulatingly different piece of work . In both schools the children are treated as the friends and companions in work of their teachers , individual preferences and talents are eagerly watched for and encouraged , individual difficulties are problems to be studied not sins to be extirpated . Differences in method are the necessary incidents of a voyage of discovery over seas where most of the charts have been found misleading and thrown overboard . Those who can help these schools have a right to feel that they are helping the Columbuses of education to explore new seas .                     