@@468473

NOT one of the women of this committee ' is known to me personally . Therefore , their combined judgment could hardly be said to be reliable . . . . " Thus , speaking to the press on April 14 , last , Mrs. Alfred T. Brosseau , President-General of the Daughters of the American Revolution , - rushed the upstart women from Massa2husetts and elsewhere who so far forgot themselves as to protest against what ; hey stated to be the policy of the Society in the matter of military and lava preparedness and in using the now ' amous " black list " of Americans who ire never , never , never to be permitted to ; peak before any chapter of the D. A. R. Foolish rebels ! Like many other mis ; aided reformers , they lost their cause iecause they failed in a simple bit of ninor strategy . They omitted to make ? rs . Brosseau 's acquaintance before be-:inning their crusade . Obviously , their very judgment was entirely unreliable. ) bviously , like the Red Queen , Mrs. Irosseau could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a single wave of her ' resident-General 's wand ; Mrs. Baillie , the rebel leader , was cashiered from the order . Revolution was crushed within the society of the Revolution . By an overwhelming vote of two thousand to fourteen the Daughters upheld Mrs. Brosseau and the contention of the Massachusetts State Regent , that : Our society has in no way interfered with free speech . Speakers of the highest order who have been working for the ideals and objectives of our society have always addressed chapters throughout the State . These speakers have contributed appreciably to the stimulation of our objects , which are to uphold the Constitution ; to honor the flag ; to support the present form of government ; to respect sound traditions of nationalism ; to observe law and order ; to maintain the American home ; to reverence God . May a similar fate always overtake such D. A. R. miscreants who neither reverence Mrs. Brosseau nor their God ! Having done this and issued the fiat that " the question of adequate defense of our nation should never be debated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Daughters of the American Revolution , " Mrs. Brosseau next took ship direct to the kingdom of the hereditary foes of the Daughters . And there in London ? hear us and weep , 0 Heavens ! ? on the fatal ninth of May , 1928 , this same Mrs. Alfred J. Brosseau bent servile knees before the lawful successors of the unspeakable King George the Third and was presented at Court to their Majesties George and Mary of the United Kingdom of Great Britain , Scotland , and Ireland . According to the New York Times : " It was all a very delightful experience for an American , very delightful , ' beamed Mrs. Brosseau , after she had curtsied low before King George and Queen Mary to-night . . . . I went in early , ' said Mrs. Brosseau with a slight touch of triumph , ' and I was in the Throne Room from the very beginning of the ceremony . It was the first time I had ever been inside the palace . All I can say in describing it is that it was very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wonderful . ' " To which must be added the detail that the head of the D. A. R. contributed to the dignity and wonder in that she " wore a blue brocade gown with soft iridescent flower figures of pale gold and pale rose embroidered with pearls . " Treason to the sacred Revolution could do no more . The President-General of the Daughters of the Men of Lexington and Bunker Hill and Saratoga and Yorktown stooped Iow before the Crown of taxes , blood , and oppression ; the Crown that massacred at Wyoming and butchered in New London , sparing neither men , nor women , nor children . So fell the angels . But the black lists stand . Not black lists supplied to the chapters by the President-General , the Vice-President-General , or the Treasurer-General or any other General , for that Mrs. Brosseau has emphatically denied . " However , " she went on , " you may rest assured that State leaders are within their legal and moral rights when they advise their chapters regarding speakers whom they consider , because of publicly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This plainly means that the State Regents who are , wisely enough , known to Mrs. Brosseau personally , shall freely go on blacklisting Americans whose opinions on some subjects they do not like . Who are these dangerous radicals who may thus be denied permission to offend the ears of the sacred chapters of the D. A. IL ? Here are some of them ; T print them in sackcloth and ashes : William Allen White of Kansas ; President Mary E. Woolley of Mount Holyoke College ; President William A. Neilson of Smith College ; President Henry N. MacCracken of Vassar College ; President Henry Sloane Coffin of Union Theological Seminary ; Dean Roscoe Pound of the Harvard Law School ; at least three bishops , William F. Anderson , Benjamin Brewster , and Francis J. McConnell ; any number of lesser clergy , including Dr. S. Parkes Cadman ; Judge George W. Anderson who is enthroned in a United States District Court in Boston ; Professor Irving Fisher of Yale , defender of Prohibition ; Dr. Will Durant ; Frank Kent , Vice-President of the Baltimore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Carrie Chapman Catt , triumphant protagonist of suffrage ; Lucy P. Cartier , one of the executives of the National Board of the Y. W. C. A. ? for her " radicalism " ; Mary Van Kleeck , alleged to be a socialist in disguise in the Russell Sage Foundation ; Jane Addams , John Dewey , Clarence Darrow , and Frank P. Walsh , of course . Then come Norman Angell and Norman Hapgood , and Professor E. A. Ross of Wisconsin , and Professor Sophonisba P. Breekinridge of the University of Chicago , John Spargo , the reformed , and James G. McDonald of the Foreign Policy Association , and three ? count ' em , three ? United States Senators , LaFollette , Norris , and ? yes ? William E. Borah himself . The roll of dishonor could go on until it filled this entire page . The pacifists , of course , those despicable creatures who apply to national and international affairs the Commandment " Thou Shalt Not Kill , " are all on the list , headed by such heretics as Sherwood Eddy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others , the reasons for their several selections are all set forth . They are Socialists -- even Norman Hapgood , Irving Fisher , and that pillar of Kansas Republicanism , William Allen White -- or internationalists , or affiliated with some of the organizations on the black lists , for there are , if anything , more societies listed than individuals . I have just counted three hundred and four such dangerous societies on the black list and their range is as remarkable as the variations in the guilty individuals . I admit that many of these associations are dead and buried and that some others are posted twice or three times ? they doubtless deserve the distinction . It is a large company just the same . Thus , among these dangerous anti-American organizations are the wicked Federal Council of Churches in America , and the National Catholic Welfare Council , the Women 's Christian Temperance Union , the Y. M. C. A. , and the Y. W. C. A. , the Federation of Women 's Boards of Foreign Missions , and the League of Nations Non-Partisan Association , all of which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on enthroning Leninism in America . Not one of their officers or members can pollute a D. A. R. platform . Then we have , discovered in all their iniquity , the Philadelphia Yearly Meeting of Friends ( Quakers ) , the National Child Labor Committee , the Pennsylvania State Federation of Labor in toto , the Summer School of Bryn Mawr College , the Voluntary Parenthood League , the National Association of Child Development ; yes , the Federal Children 's Bureau , as much a branch of our federal government as the army and navy . Next , all the Labor banks , the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America ; of course the American Civil Liberties Union , and all the peace societies , even those that regularly go to war ; also thecommittee formed some years ago to aid Senator Wheeler in defending himself against the trumped-up charges of which he has long since been acquitted , and finally the National Popular Government League . Needless to say , all the known socialist and communist organizations are there . Not one has slipped through the net which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to have some other aims than to perpetuate a dead past and to sing the glories of those a century buried . How could such lesser offenders escape when Chief Justice Taft , President Lowell of Harvard , Elihu Root , Newton D. Baker , and President Faunce of Brown University are safely barred because of their membership in proscribed boards ? Be good and you 'll be lonesome was the old joke . Be a D. A. R. and be in cold storage ; be happily immune from wicked new ideas and from ever hearing one word with which you do not agree . Truly a noble life and a brave one ? even though it deprive one of the possibility of a swim in the nearest Y. W. C. A. tank , so that one may gulp in no radical germ in the course of one 's communal ? but not communistic ? bathi ng . But one must not jest with the D. A. R. or any other patriotic organization . They are among the most serious of the earth . Humor and they would not recognize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they do not for the results would be disastrous . Have these societies not the inherited duty to protect us ? If they should begin to laugh their whole solemn structure might come crashing down . Hear things they must not lest they learn that the world has changed . Read they must not lest they learn something about the patriots they exist to commemorate ? Professor Samuel E. Morison of the History Department of Harvard , whose grandmother was one of the original incorporators of the D. A. R. , declares that " the youngest foreign-born child taking his first American history in our primary schools has a better knowledge of the spirit of the American Revolution than the present national spokeswomen of the D. A. R. " " Grandmothers of Reaction " he dubs them . What does he expect ? Does he wish them to discover that the ancestors they worship believed in the right of rebellion not merely for themselves , but for their descendants ? Cold chills would surely run down their spines if they were to discover that an American President , one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , declared that any American had the right to advocate a change in the form of our government and that a little blood spilling in America every twenty-five years would be a good thing so that the government in Washington might remember who were its masters . Could they bear it to learn that this Jefferson was a great inter-nationalist ? Mrs. Brosseau would be especially troubled if she should learn that the rebels of 1776 and their children freely discussed preparedness and were so united in opposition to it that the United States never had a standing army of more than ten thousand men except in war time for the first eighty years of its existence ; that , like the pacifists of today , George Washington said , " My first wish is to see war , the plague of mankind , banished from the earth " ; that while he was President the total military expenditures of the government during the eight years of his administration were less than half the cost of a modern cruiser . Jefferson would sink further in her estimation were she to learn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the beach . But Jefferson was after all not a D. A. R. , but merely the author of the Declaration of Independence and a friend of that heretic Ben Franklin , who said even after the Revolution that " there never was a good war or a had peace . " It must be his excuse that he did not know that a chief fruit of the struggle of the Colonists would be our heritage of Daughters of the Revolution . To-day a Daughter must not even suspect , as Edwin D. Mead has just pointed out again , that " the American Revolution was in a cardinal aspect a great civil strife between liberalism and reaction in the whole English race on both sides of the Atlantic . " Certainly no D. A. R. could be expected to realize that the very finest tribute she could possibly pay in patriotic devotion to the Revolutionists would be to abhor and to attack all censorship , private or official ; to fight for the free speech for which her ancestors battled ; to refuse to bow down before , and only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of revolution was never restricted by the Revolutionists to the year 1776 . But I must not he too sweeping . There are some more protestants within the D. A. R. besides the fourteen who were voted down in obedience to Mrs. Brosseau 's wishes . Thus the Pawtucket Chapter , of which President Mary E. Woolley is an honorary member , refused to recognize her inclusion on any black list . In Oregon also there are malcontents , who undoubtedly are not personally acquainted with Mrs. Brosseau , for they wrote to her as follows : Dear Madam : The Oregon Lewis and Clark Chapter Daughters of the American Revolution of Eugene , Oregon , wish to protest against the attempt that the National Chairman of the National Defense Committee of the D. A. R. is making to classify certain persons prominent in political and social service work , and organizations including the American Association of University Women , the National Educational Association , National Board of Y. W. C. A. , and others , as unpatriotic , radical , and dangerous . When we are informed by our State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duties as citizens and members of the D. A. R. when we allowed Kirby Page and Judge Lindsey to speak in Eugene , we resent the implication , I for we believe in the free and open discussion of all social and political issues , and are opposed to this type of censorship . As descendants of the founders of the WHAT THE BLUE Republic , we feel that we should hold a higher vision of tolerance toward the opinions of sincere persons and should cultivate a more intelligent patriotism than is implied by such pamphlets as " Pacifism Kept Alive by Fifty Organizations " ? a pamphlet being circulated by the Defense Committee . We believe it to be the highest patriotic duty of every citizen to work for world peace and the eventual abolition of war , and therefore are not committed , without reservation , to the National Defense Act as opposed to so-called pacifism . In closing we wish to state that this is not the opinion of a small group within our chapter , but is the unanimous expression of the members at our last meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lewis and Clark Chapter , D. A. R. Eugene , Oregon By the Regent . This fine position is , however , to be contrasted with that of the Daughters in North Carolina . There they have been foremost among the witch-hunters . Fear has ruled them . Thus , in 1926 , Mrs. Edwin Clark Gregory , the State Regent , announced to the assembled State Convention , doubtless to the horror of her hearers , that " North Carolina to-day is the target of the most desperate efforts of the Soviet propagandists seeking the overthrow of the American government and planning for a Red Russian invasion of the South . " That clarion call should have roused the men of the Carolinas as did that to Guilford and Cow-pens . It ought at least to have led to vigorous denunciations of the Government at Washington which sits quietly by and permits the Red hordes to assemble for the overthrow of the republic of North Carolina . Alas , despite , as we shall see , the cordial cooperation of the regulars , the Carolinas remain indifferent . Nothing has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Bolshevists ? nothing save the activities of Mrs. Gregory and of the American Legion who heard her summons and acted upon it . Together they demanded that all teachers be compelled to take the oath of loyalty to the Government and to the principle of private ownership of property . The Legion denounced the National Congress of Parent-Teachers and the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America. , the latter for " sponsoring speakers who are spreading pacifist and unpatriotic propaganda , " yes , even speakers who are " either affiliated with the Third International or have Communistic leanings . " The North Carolina Daughters , under Mrs. Gregory 's valiant leadership , nat urally did not stop at denying to themselves the wrong kind of speakers . They stepped into the breach to protect others from contamination by bringing pressure to bear on the Greensboro Open Forum , which wickedly lent itself to such miscreants as Frank Kent , Will Durant , Dr. Cadman , and others of this type . They also took action against the traitors in our midst who favor such un-American legislation as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bill ? a dreadful measure doubtless drafted in Moscow . In trying to protect others from contamination , the North Carolina Daughters do not stand alone . At Windsor , Connecticut , the Abigail Wolcott Ellsworth Chapter endeavored to prevent an address on peace by a blacklisted speaker . At Boonton , New Jersey , Morgantown , West Virginia , and numerous other places , the patriotic Daughters have applied , or sought to apply , the gag to undesirable speakers undeterred by the critics who declare that , in going outside their own rooms to check utterances they do not like , the Daughters are false to American traditions . II Let no one believe from this recital that the Daughters alone constitute the Blue Menace in the eyes of their critics . If they only were engaged in heresy-hunting and padlocking the lips of speakers , this phenomenon of the complete revulsion of this Society from the principles it was founded to celebrate could be passed over as a case of senile decay . The serious part of the situation is that many other individuals and societies have joined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have identified advanced views on economic issues , as well as the advocacy of peace , with disloyalty and subservience to the Bolshevists . The Daughters , as has been said , have deliberately tied up the issue of free speech with the question of national defense . In this they have been aided and abetted not only by the American Legion , but by some army officers who ever since the World War have justified the fears of the Founders as to the menace to the Republic of a large standing army . As Dr. E. Talmadge Root , Executive Secretary of the Massachusetts Federation of Churches , has publicly declared , " that the military should constitute itself a censor is just what the founders of the Constitution feared most . More nations have lost their liberty through their own armies than through foreign foes . " This post-helium psychology of fear and hate and intolerance which has actuated so many of the military and of the American Legion posts is curious proof of the charge made by many anti-war people before we entered the struggle that , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would take possession of us . Certain of our admirals and generals have since the War uttered precisely the sentiments we learned to hate when they issued from the lips of Von Tirpitz , of Ludendorf , or Von Moltke , and have enunciated doctrines which sound precisely as if they came from the pages of General Bernhardi . Here it is impossible to acquit the War Department of blame . It has declared that it could not move to rebuke Lieutenant-Colonel George Chase Lewis for attempting to prevent the Reverend J. Nevin Sayre from speaking in Oklahoma on the utterly false and unfounded charge that he was using religion and pacifism as a cloak for communism . Assuming that the charge was true , it was still no business whatsoever of an army officer ? whether active or inactive ? to undertake to limit the freedom of speech guaranteed by the Constitution which Lieutenant-Colonel Lewis has taken an oath to uphold . I can not recall any happening like this in militaristic Germany prior to the war . But the Secretary of War , Mr. Davis , held that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter " was expressing his individual views as a citizen " and " did not even inferentially imply that be was expressing the views of the War Department . " Mr. Davis overlooked the all-important fact that Lieutenant-Colonel Lewis invariably signed his letters of protest with his title " Lieutenant-Colonel , United States Infantry , " and that his attack carried weight only because he represented the military arm of the Government . Whether an army officer can ever divest himself of his official position is an open question . Admiral Plunkett may have been speaking in his individual capacity before the New York Republican Club when he declared that we were going to have war with England , but he obviously could not disassociate himself from his rank and title . President Coolidge plainly felt that , for he lost no time in publicly deprecating this and other utterances by uniformed men and suggesting that they always bobbed up when the Military and Naval Appropriation bills were before Congress . It was precisely that sort of saber-rattling by German , French , and English military men prior to 1914 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to the World War . But the War Department 's record does not end with the Lewis case . It has permitted " civilian aides " of the Secretary in the various military areas to attack free speech and to endeavor to suppress speakers , without any official rebuke . For example , Mr. Davis 's civilian aide in the Eighth Corps Area has been most active in mailing the black lists to all reserve officers in his district , connecting men like John Dewey , Robert Morss Lovett , Henry Sloane Coffin , John Haynes Holmes , George Foster Peabody , Bishop Benjamin Brewster , and many others with the I. W. W. and the Bolshevists in Russia . So far as known , Mr. Davis has taken no action though the matter has been called to his attention . In the colleges where military officers are on duty they have repeatedly set themselves up as censors . At the University of Wyoming the Military Commandant ( now relieved ) was made chairman of the committee on speakers , and no one could appear on the campus without his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was responsible for this , the War Department was equally guilty , for it knows that any interference whatsoever by the military in civil affairs is contrary to the American spirit and tradition and bound to react to the injury of the military service . What , however , would be its attitude if one of these reserve officers should take the stump demanding the abolition of the Reserve Officers ' Training Corps , or of compulsory military drill in some of our universities ? It is perfectly obvious that the Secretary of War or the immediate military superior of the officer would immediately find that he was no longer suitable for the military service . To conceive of any officer 's being permitted to criticize the government 's military policies , or to advocate disarmament , is impossible . On such subjects no officer has free speech , and Mr. Davis knows it . He is also aware that when Senator Walsh called attention to the fact that the mails were being used by First Lieutenant John G. McNutt of the Field Artillery Reserves to send to the Association of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offset his speeches , and it appeared that this was done by authority of Colonel George L. Townsend , Chief of Staff of the Eighty-Fourth Division , neither officer was told to mind hisown business and to keep his hands off civilian affairs . The truth is that there is no section of the government which is more busily engaged in propaganda than the War Department through every agency in its power ; hence the officers who constitute the military part of the Blue Menace have reason to believe that their activities are anything but unpalatable to the Department . As for the talking generals , the most distinguished are Amos A. Fries , of the Chemical Warfare Service , and Albert J. Bowley , lately stationed in North Carolina . It was the latter who hacked up or incited Mrs. Gregory to tell the State of the impending Bolshevik invasion . As far back as February 3 , 19. , ' 24 , General Bowley was on the job . To the secretaries of the several chambers of commerce within the State the General revealed the imminent danger of revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work , he said , of Soviet propagandists in America . He even dwelt upon the probability of an immediate negro revolution , actually declaring , " these Soviet emissaries have subsidized some of the yellow Negroes who have more sense ( sic ! ) than the others , and have brought about the movement north in preparation for a black revolution " ! But not only the negroes were guilty . This brigadier-general in the regular army also denounced the Christian Endeavor Society , the Women 's Christian Temperance Union , the Young Women 's Christian Association , the National Council for the Prevention of War , as well as " many Catholic societies , " together with all the forums , chautauquas , and colleges in the country ! When a certain . Chester D. Snell of the University of North Carolina ventured to disagree and to demand freedom of speech , the General thundered : " Young man , it is such pig-headed narrow-mindedness as yours that is carrying us along with propaganda of Soviet Russia . " Naturally the General did not stop there . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Raleigh , where he declared all pacifists were " whelps and cats , " at Columbus , Ohio , and doubtless many other places , this sober and judicially minded leader of American soldiers held forth . On one occasion he demanded by suggestion the dismissal of certain college professors , one of whom had written on the war-myth in American history . He could not mention names , he said , because the War Department had told him not to do so . To one Legionnaire , who had prevented a lecture by Sherwood Eddy , this military defender of the Constitution sent a letter of congratulation . He has since been transferred to Texas where he has undoubtedly discovered by this time that Mexican Communists are preparing to invade the United States in 1929 , or 1930 . It was by the librarian of General Fries 's office that the famous " Spider-web chart " was conceived and brought into being . This document showed the interlocking directorates of the various women 's peace and reform organizations and proved beyond doubt that the inspiration and support of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Association was supported , according to the chart , by Soviet gold . This was a little bit too much for some of the women 's organizations thus libelled . In response to their protest , the then Secretary of War , John W. Weeks , ordered the immediate destruction of the charts , and compelled General Fries " to inform all persons that there are errors in the charts and to request their destruction . " The evil done by the chart lives on , however . It was undoubtedly the basis of some of the black lists , and it . was at the bottom of the attacks upon two Y. W. C. A. secretaries in Fort Wayne , Ind. , because of their membership in the Fellowship of Reconciliation . These assaults resulted in their having to resign their posts , although a group of twenty-five of the finest women in Fort Wayne certified to one of them that " the results of your leadership have been the best single influence on the spiritual life of Fort . Wayne women. - General Fries was not daunted by Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expulsion from the public-school system of the Capital of a schoolteacher whose sole offense was that lie had won a five-dollar prize offered by the Forum for the best definition of Socialism . For that General Fries would have deprived this man of his bread and butter . Here again Secretary Davis was silent . General Fries 's conduct is the more interesting because of the correct attitude of another bureau chief in the War Department , General Robert C. Davis , the Adjutant-General of the army . When asked for information about " subversive groups , " he wrote officially , " I regret my inability to comply with your request as , in time of peace , the War Department is not engaged in the investigation of civilians . " While General Davis spoke for the entire War Department , it is evident that General Fries has , in the past at least , felt himself free to engage in the investigation of any civilians whose activities do not commend themselves to him . Finally , it appears not to be known to Secretary Davis that in the Seventh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " military authorities organized a committee which is urging upon the Kansas State Board of Regents regulations withholding salary from any Kansas teacher who speaks out against the R. 0 . T. C. " It has thus become lose majest ? to criticize in America the military organization of the pupils of our State institutions . How the Kaiser must laugh Someone ought to call to Mr. Davis 's attention these words of President Coolidge : " Any organization of men in the military service bent on inflaming the public mind for the purpose of forcing government action through the pressure of public opinion is an exceedingly dangerous undertaking and precedent . " This R. 0 . T. C. has connected with it a national honorary fraternity called " Scabbard and Blade , " to which only honor students of the R. 0 . T. C. are eligible . It has a publication of the same name which circulates a black list of its own to its members , " for publicity uses if speakers appear in your city to orate against national defense . " One example of its mud-slinging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom there is no nobler American ? as having for twenty years past directed her efforts " to international and subversive channels until to-day she stands out as the most dangerous woman in America . " Here again the War Department , it would seem , might at least express its opinion , for all its reverence for free speech , even though it asserts that the R. 0 . T. C. is not under itscontrol . And it might also take a position on the activities of the various reserve officers who from time to time endeavor to interfere with lawful public meetings and use their military titles in doing so . They are under its control and can be tried . As long as the War Department does not go on record about this un-American conduct it must be assumed that it approves of it . III As for the Blue Menace of the American Legion , it would take an entire article to set forth the facts . Suffice it here that the present commander , who avows himself a hearty believer in free speech , has successfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others , notably in North Carolina and Kentucky . He told Mr. Eddy personally that " he would do all in his power to prevent people coming to hear me ( Mr. Eddy ) and also to have my engagements cancelled .. . . " Mr. Eddy is in possession of a letter of Mr. Spafford 's to a departmental commander urging him to prevent Mr. Eddy 's speaking and , if he failed to do so , " to see that he is followed up with a good speaker who will instill a little radical nationalism . " Many of the posts feel themselves the complete censors of the intellectual life of theircommunities and keep a watchful eye on all schools and colleges . They prevented Lucia Ames Mead from addressing the students of Agnes Scott College in Decatur , Ga . They tried to stop Professor Harry F. Ward at Wheeling , W. Va . They sought the dismissal of a high-school teacher at Woodbury , N. J. , because of her opinions . They asked the Colorado School of Mines to dismiss its student-pastor and they , together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of meetings to be addressed by the Rev. William P. Merrill , Dr. Henry Atkinson , and Dr. Frederick Lynch in Vineland , N. J. They undoubtedly had a hand in the dismissal of Professor Robert Kerlin and Professor John Kinneman of the West Chester Normal College for upholding the right of the student Liberal Club to discuss and criticize the American policy in Nicaragua and Mexico . This list could be lengthened indefinitely . Here in fairness it must be stated that many of the military and non-military padlockers of other people 's lips have been misled by some of the professional patriots who profit directly , financially or otherwise , by their activities in blacklisting their fellow-Americans and keeping up the fear of Bolshevism . First and foremost in this list stands Fred R. Marvin , for some years an editor of the New York Commercial who was promptly dropped when that paper was amalgamated with the Journal of Commerce . In the Commercial Mr. Marvin maintained a " Searchlight " which every day set forth the horrifying doings of all whose political or international or business policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by his dislike of all union labor , and everybody interested in improving the welfare of the masses . To him every such person is directly actuated by Moscow , and he has been marketing his matter in a Daily Data Sheet in which he classifies men , women , movements , and organizations as he sees fit , at six dollars a year ? which figure he hopes soon to increase . Mr. Marvin has inspired much of the " patrioteering " activity . There can be no question that he helped to scare Mrs. Brosseau and a Mrs. Walker who is the Chairman of the D. A. R. Committee of National Defense . He is , for example , the organizer of the Key Men of America , a noble band of head-hunters of which Mrs. Brosseau is a member . Most of Mr. Marvin 's " facts " are stuff and nonsense , bristling with errors ? as is the whole of this " patriotic " literature ? although he claims to " supply the American people with the only complete , accurate , and trustworthy information on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this self-compliment , it is sufficient perhaps to record the fact that a New York jury in July last found him guilty of libelling Miss Rosika Schwimmer , and sentenced him and the defunct New York Commercial each to pay her seventeen thousand dollars . But for his skill in avoiding direct libels he would have been sued many times before this . Mr. Marvin boasts that Frank A. Goodwin , lately removed from the position of Registrar of Motor Vehicles in Massachusetts by Governor Fuller , obtained much of his material for his virulent pamphlet , entitled The Red Peril , from the Key Men . The Common Enemy , a pamphlet sent out by the D.A . R. , according to its title-page is " written from data supplied by the Key Men of America . " The Key Men , i.e. Mr. Marvin , also take credit for inspiring E. II . Hunter , another professional detector of Reds , who for some time has published a broadside entitled What 's What . After inquiry among the textile workers in New England during the War , he appears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are under way . Mr. Marvin , by the way , differing from the United States Supreme Court , discovered that the oil scandals were the result of activities by the socialist and communist movements in this country . He explained that the sale of the oil lands wasdue to the imminence of war with Japan and that the action of Mr. Dohcny was due to the fact that , the Japanese navy having mobilized to attack the United States , the patriotic men in charge of the nation 's safety demanded his help . As Mr. Marvin put it : " There was no scandal . No one sought to rob the Government . " Unfortunately for him and for his friends , Messrs . Fall and Sinclair , the Supreme Court found them guilty of fraud , collusion , and conspiracy ? further proof of the accuracy of Mr. Marvin 's facts and judgments . There are numerous others of this type of agitator , such as R. M. Whitney , lately of the American Defense Society , IL A. Jung , head of the Clay Products Industries Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Military Order of The World War . Captain Darte is especially active in the East and is as fearful as anybody that we shall have full-fledged revolution in America in the dark of the next moon , and so is Joseph T. Cashman , counsel at various times for the National Security League . Then there is Mrs. M. C. Robinson , wife of a Harvard professor , who is now as convinced that the country is being undermined by pacifists , social reformers , and Bolshevists as she was certain during the suffrage campaign that if women were enfranchised it would spell the end of the home , the family , and the nation . Her organization is the Massachusetts Public Interests League ; two of its Meinbers have attacked the management of the Boston Public Library because it rented its lecture hall to Dr. W. E. B. DuBois , the distinguished negro , editor of the Crisis , permitted the Workers ' Educational Bureau , a section of the American Federation of Labor , devoted to the educational interests of working men , to hold a conference in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having to do with the education of the worker . It is , perhaps , eminently fitting in view of its recent record , that Massachusetts should have produced these bluest of the blue . Here we have a direct menace to freedom of education and freedom of thought worthy of the Tzar in the worst days of old Russia . In justice to Mrs. Robinson , it must be added that she , of course , does not seek to make money out of her campaign , but is apparently convinced that our great American government rests upon such weak foundations that it may easily be toppled over by a few communist agitators . Iv This brings us to a final aspect of this singular social phenomenon ? the direct connection of these scares with reactionary business . Mr. Jung , as has been pointed out , is connected with a great industry . Mr. Hunter is secretary of the Industrial Defense Association . Other vigorous patriots are the secretary of the Associated Employers of Indianapolis , the president of the Illinois Manufacturers Association , and Harry M. Haldeman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably the narrowest , and most aggressive group of employer-Faseisti in America . It is very much to be suspected that the interests of some of these organizations in preparedness like that of some of the largest employers in Detroit and elsewhere , is quite as much because of their desire to hold the laboring classes in cheek by force if necessary as to protect us from foreign attack . As the Information Service of the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America points out , " those who work for better industrial relations , for child labor laws , or for social insurance , are likely to find themselves quite as ' subversive ' as the pacifists are declared to be . " There is David Clark , Editor of the Southern Textile Bulletin , who insists that the textile industry in the South has everything to fear from economic Bolshevists . Every single effort to improve industrial conditions in North Carolina originates in Moscow , he knows . The Baltimore Manufacturers ' Record and other organs of business men are equally frightened . Some see in opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country defenseless so that the workers may rise and take over the government . Hence every effort is made to identify pacifism , liberalism , and social reform with attacks upon big business or criticism of our industrial methods . Plainly , the apostasy of the Daughters of the Revolution is not an isolated phenomenon . It is alleged on behalf of the Daughters that it is no more under obligation to hear speakers whose views it does not . like than the Cardinal in Boston is bound to invite into his pulpits an avowed advocate of atheism or birth-control . The D. A. R. is further represented as a club which has the right to ask before it only those grateful to its members . The case is not as simple as that . The D. A. R. members who circulated the black lists urged their chapters not to receive the speakers they dislike and encouraged them , as we have seen , to prevent them from speaking on other platforms . They have not written to their chapters , " Professor Dewey holds social views that we can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if you invite him to address you your chapter will understand that we are in disagreement . " Apparently they have said something of this sort : " This is a disloyal and dangerous man who must not be heard in any event . " Thus some of those on the list have doubtless been injured , professionally and otherwise . " I ca n't see , " wrote William Allen White , " that it makes the slightest difference in my standing as a Republican or in my ability to go out and speak where I please , but I can imagine that men who are less pugnacious than I and more sensitive to what people think of them might be saddened by this kind of a stab in the dark . " It is certainly entirely un-American not only to deny others the right to speak , but to seek to tarnish their characters merely because of differences of opinion , without giving those attacked a chance to defend themselves and to be heard . It is a most obnoxious kind of censorship because it is secret and irresponsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In any civilized community people ought to be able and willing to disagree with mutual respect . Why for example should the League to Abolish Capital Punishment be blacklisted ? Is it pretended that the abolition of the death penalty indicates a desire to overthrow the government , a lack of patriotism , or a failure to reverence God ? Obviously not . It is all a part of the psychology of fear , and those we fear we usually hate . We do not want those we fear and hate to share our inherited rights . We deny to them the possibility that they may be just as devoted to the Republic as ourselves . The writer of this article is as opposed to bolshevizing this country as anybody else . But he can not see why anybody should not be allowed to talk about it if he wants to do so . Who is really so foolish as to believe that anything but an infinitesimal fraction of the people desires any such radical change when we have not a liberal party ? unless the Socialists are to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Usually the answer is that some of the people in a given society are Socialists or Communists . Well , what if they are ? Long before the World War there were probably more communistic experiments on American soil than anywhere else in the world , and our government is stronger than ever , and communism at low ebb . During the war our government itself , when it nationalized railroads and merchant fleets and joined the Allies in rationing all the raw materials of the earth for the Allies and the neutral nations , engaged in the greatest communistic experiment the world has ever seen . For that we do not to-day proscribe the surviving members of the Wilson administration . It was the intention of the founders of our Republic that Americans should be able to advocate any scheme however new or wild , as Thomas Jefferson said , to the extent of advocating an entirely new form of government . If we can not agree with him that even monarchists should be allowed in America to " stand undisturbed as monuments of the safety with which error @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to combat " ; if we can not say with Wendell Phillips , " if there is anything in the universe that ca n't withstand discussion , let it crack , " then we can not pass the test . We fail in our loyalty to America and to its ideals . As George Bernard Shaw put it , " toleration and liberty have no sense or use except as toleration of opinions that are considered damnable and liberty to do what seems wrong . "                     