@@493367

Meet Yourself How to Use the Personality Paint Box 0 meet oneself through the good offices of Jung 's theory of types is to be like the motorist who , after driving a car for years without knowledge of its mechanism , suddenly Comes upon one of these cut-away engines and begins to understand the hows and whys of motor and transmission . A most valuable experience , especially to such as are dissatisfied with their mental powers and self-starters and gearshifts ; and not too difficult if approached gradually and from the proper angle . There are four inescapable and basic human attitudes ? the observant , the expectant , the personal , and the analytical ? in one of which every developed personality finds his most valued interests , does his most effective work , and therefore spends the greater part of his time . They are the four primary character colors which each individual combines and blends according to his taste as he unconsciously paints in the detail of his own personality portrait , and thus reveals his type . For convenience in identifying types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four attitudes upon a separate card , and the request to " arrange them in the order in which they are important to you , " is my favorite introduction to my favorite subject . For the correct arrangement of the four attitudes gives me a character sketch upon which to base a more detailed study of the personality with a fair chance of discovering how the colors have been mixed and applied . THE OBSERVANT ATTITUDE Depending upon Outer or Sense Perception Imitative ? keenly aware of the immediate objective environment , desiring to have what other people have , and to do what other people do . Conventional , but merely from imitation , being quite untroubled by deep convictions and theories of life . Values the Art of Living : material possessions ; luxury ; beauty ; sensuous enjoyment , from food and beautiful clothin , to music , art , and the beauties of nature . Strong in tit , gbility to live in and enjoy the present . Danger of : ins fficient judgment ; credulity and suggestibility , and a tendency to become a mere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Intuitive Perception Original ? keenly alert for escape from the immediate objective environment , intensely abhorrent of routine , liking to have what others have not , or to do what others do not , to be different , or at least to think differently . Therefore unconventional , sometimes " Bohemian , " and always individual . Values Inspiration : either in the form of objective possibilities ? exploration and adventure , enterprise , opportunity , . mechanical invention ? or in the form of subjective understanding , from the so-called " hUnch " or big idea to philosophy , a new view of life , artistic or religious vision and symbolism . Strong in initiative , creative impulse , and understanding . Danger of : insufficient judgment , instability , discouragement , and lack of perseverance . THE PERSONAL ATTITUDE Depending upon Feeling Judgments ? Likes and Dislikes Sensitive and tactful ? indifferent to logic , with no taste for analysis . Values Harmonious Emotional Relationships and Ideals : social life with many contacts and friendships ; or intensive devotion to a few friends , or to art , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strong in human ties , or in positions requiring team work , unquestioning loyalty and devotion , or exalted sentiment . Danger of : insufficient perception ; illogical prejudices , and an inability to be brief and businesslike . THE ANALYTICAL ATTITUDE Depending upon Thinking Judgments Logical ? scientific , executive , judicial , or philosophical . With emotional life accidental , and social life incidental . Values Truth : either in the form of fact , formula and method ; or theory , hypothesis , and abstraction . Strong in reasoning power . Danger of : insufficient perception ; hasty , untrustworthy , often very tactless , inconsiderate or irritable feeling judgments ; and neglect of social life . One 's least developed attitude is often the easiest to determine . " I 'm not sure , " you are likely to say , if you are a well balanced person , " which of these two comes first , but that one comes last ; I 'm not at all like that . " To the initiated , however , this at once reveals the primary attitude , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it can not blend . The observant and the expectant attitudes , based respectively upon the outer or sense perception and the inner or intuitive perception , are radically antagonistic . The observant is at bottom an enjoyment attitude living in the present ; but intuition yields its treasures only to habitual expectancy which by its very nature must utterly ignore the present . And the personal and analytical attitudes , based respectively upon feeling judgment and thinking judgment , are equally incompatible . Wherever thinking is final the personal attitude is undervalued and neglected ; and wherever ' feeling is decisive , thinking is inferior and difficult if not impossible . We may depend therefore upon the rule that when one of the two perceptive attitudes comes first the other will fall to fourth place ; and when one of the two judging attitudes comes first the other will be fourth . Let us consider for a moment the nature of the four psychological functions , sensation , intuition , feeling and thinking , which underlie the four basic attitudes . Sensation is the source of a great wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o. rythin that has ever stimulated our organs of sense . everything quite inseparable from this wealth of sense perception there is an equal wealth of feeling judgment , likes and dislikes . We can sense nothing without feeling for it liking , disliking , or indifference ? the feeling that it is unimportant . Feeling , a purely personal valuation , is attached like a price tag to every object or experience that sensation adds to our store . It may be conscious , vaguely conscious , or entirely unconscious , as has been amply proved by psychoanalysis . And there is also thinking judgment attached to everything sensed , a very infantile , even animal thinking perhaps , entirely undifferentiated from the welter of sensation and feeling , but a sort of thinking none the less : this object is similar to , or different from , that other object in this or that respect . Contrasted with the feeling judgment this is intellectual . It has nothing to do with like and dislike , it has to do with knowing and understanding . To explain intuition , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unconscious " that is not only active , but creatively active . The apparently magical productiveness of the highly differentiated intuition is due to the fact that the intuitive types value and give their directed attention and interest to the inner creativeness which the other types undervalue and ignore . The infant is a little bundle of psychic energy which must find an outlet in the form of interest . Not to be interested is to be asleep or ill , and he has only these four ways of being interested . Sensation vies with intuition which struggles to interpret it , while every perception , outer or inner , is loaded with vaguely realized thoughts and feelings . This dreamlike chaos of impressions simply happens to him without choice or control on his part , until presently he begins to favor one of the two perceptive functions , either sensation for its own sake , or intuition the interpreter ; and one of the two judging functions , either feeling for its own sake , or the thinking which leads to knowing . These preferred functions begin to be differentiated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general psychological welter by a consciously directed attention . The result is that they absorb more than their original share of the child 's interest , at the expense of the two rival functions , which consequently sink more and more into the unconscious . This is the first step toward mental maturity , constituting at the same time the beginning of type development from which no adult mentality can escape . It may be rapid and very apperent or gradual and easily overlooked , but the resulting types of babies are familiar to everyone who has much to do with little children . The favored perceptive function may vie for some time with the favored judging function for supremacy , but eventually one of them mounts a throne from which deposition is practically impossible . Throughout life that function rules the conscious personality , forcing the other three into varying degrees of servitude , neglect , and at worst , unconsciousness . Though none of the functions can become entirely unconscious they do become relatively so , and Jung speaks of the three less mature and therefore inferior functions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much less aware of them than of the primary which dominates our lives . There are then eight different ways of developing from infancy to maturity , since eight combinations are mathematically possible under the given conditions which force the function most antagonistic to the primary to occupy the neglected fourth position , and to exist throughout life in the comparatively unconscious state of early childhood . Each child begins to choose his road when he begins to choose his interests instead of merely reacting to those which force themselves upon him . And these eight roads lead to eight easily observable personality types based upon the relative differentiation and degree of consciousness for the four , psychic functions . We may have : deleted table Although every mature mentality must belong in one of these eight groups , the classification of humanity is not quite so simple as the analysis thus far might indicate . To avoid confusion I have learned to postpone discussion of the two attitudes to which Jung gives the place of primary importance : the extraverted attitude , and the introverted attitude . Every one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and remains extravert or introvert to the end of his days . In his Content of the Psychosis , in which Jung shows that the difference between extraverts and introverts is so fundamental that they do- not have even the same mental disorders ? hysteria belonging to the extravert , while psychasthenia and dementia prxcox belong to the introvert ? he writes , " The difference between these types is almost alarming in extent . . . An Extravert can hardly , or only with great difficulty , come to any understanding with an Introvert on any delicate psychological question . " The cause of the difference appears to be some as yet undiscovered physical variation which leads in the one case to a relaxed , and in the other to a tense attitude toward life . The following table of contrasting characteristics , gleaned largely from Jung 's Psychological Types , will enable most people to decide in which direction their tendencies lie , though of course no one can be altogether upon either side of the line . INTROVERT The forethinker . Can not live life until he understands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , watching the game from the sidelines before taking part in what is new and untried . Mind inwardly directed , frequently unaware of the objective environment , interest and attention being engrossed by inner events . His real world therefore is the inner world of ideas and under-standing . The cultural genius , the man of ideas and abstract invention , who goes from thinking to doing and back to thinking . Conduct in essential matters is always governed by subjective values . Defends himself as far as possible against external conditions and claims in favor of the inner life . Subtle and impenetrable , often taciturn and shy , more at home in the world of ideas than in the world of people and things . Intense and passionate , he bottles up his emotions in the form of carefully guarded high explosives . Typical weakness lies in tendency toward unpracticality , very conspicuous in all extreme types . Health and wholesomeness depend upon acquirement of balancing extraversion . Plato . Schiller . Jung . Helmholtz . Faraday . Lincoln . The two worlds , outer and inner , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are born into the outer world of people and things , bringing with us the great inner world of inherited experience , without which we would be utterly incapable of grasping or interpreting the outer situation . This inherited experience , the very existence of which is denied by the extravert psychologies of Freudian and Behaviorist alike , is called by Jung the " collective unconscious " and consists of " archetypes , " which are to our mental processes what instinct is to conduct . Born with human archetypes , we understand and behave as human beings ; born with an animal 's archetypes , if such a thing were possible , we would interpret life as the animal interprets it , and behave as the animal behaves . Hatch an oriole in a robin 's nest , and will he grow up to mate with a robin and build as the robin builds ? Not at all . Having the oriole 's archetypes he will grasp the situation as his forebears grasped itt mate with his own kind , and build the intricate hanging nest of the oriole . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this hypothesis of the collective unconscious , to which each of us adds his own personal unconscious , we can begin to understand the introvert and the vast scope of the inner world he holds so dear . ' Where the extravert 's fondness for new and untried experiences keeps him always looking for differences , the introvert 's devotion to what is tested and understood keeps him eagerly watching for similarities . The delight in differences keeps leading the extravert 's attention and interest outward into the concrete ; while a passion for similarities leads the introvert 's attention constantly inward toward the abstract , closer and closer to those unconscious archetypes which are the essence of abstraction ? the similarities of countless lives throughout countless millions of years , the real source of all ideas . With his tense attitude the introvert can not go lightly and casually from one interest to another . His impressions strike deeply and abide with him , and he lives in an essentially abstracting attitude ; while the extravert , whose impressions because of his relaxed attitude are all comparatively superficial , goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make up in number what they lack in depth . Naturally the abstracting attitude , involving as it does a close intimacy with inherited experience , must have an immense influence upon the character of the four psychic functions , each of which may be either extraverted or introverted , so that in reality there are sixteen ways of growing from infancy to maturity . Jung has discovered that the primary function alone is extraverted in the extravert and introverted in the introvert , all three of the inferior functions taking the opposite attitude by way of compensation , which explains why nobody is ever wholly extravert or wholly introvert . With the understanding that neither credit nor ' discredit is attached to membership in any type , since each has its failures , its mediocrities , and its successes , we may now assemble our personality paint box and try to discover just how we , our families and our friends have managed to mix the colors . One need not be a psychologist in order to collect and identify types any more than one needs to be a botanist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to learn to recognize extraverted and introverted sensation , intuition , feeling and thinking in their various capacities ? in first place as master , in second and third places as more or less useful servants always imitating the master , and in fourth place , sometimes useful , sometimes a liability , sometimes revolting anarchists . This requires study but the rewards are considerable . The collector of types acquires a new conception of wholesome living , a new basis for the criticism and if necessary the reconstruction of his own life . There are cer tain vital questions he can hardly hope to escape . Does his life afford for his primary function the scope necessary to his individual success ? If riot , mediocrity is forced upon him , for nothing but a highly differentiated function engaged in work which affords it scope can compete with other highly differentiated functions . Success in this world goes only to the primary function which has found the right job . zlre his two intermediate functions sufficiently developed ? differentiated and directed ? to give the necessary balance between perception and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most highly differentiated primary function in the most suitable of vocations may go to waste . Both perception and judgment are necessary to success in almost any line ; and extreme extraversion is always superficial , while extreme introversion is always unpractical . Is his undifferentiated function sufficiently conscious to keep him from becoming neurotic ? For neurosis is due , not to suppressed sexuality , but to the overstressing of the primary function forcing the antagonistic function into the unconscious and . bringing about the intolerable neglect of an essential part of the psychic life , a neglect which drives the personality to war with itself . This explains why neurosis is so frequently associated with genius , since both depend upon the extreme development of the primary function . The remedy lies , not in an attempt to bring the most neglected . function into consciousness , for that would be exceedingly difficult , but in the deliberate cultivation of the secondary function , a conscious living in the secondary attitude . This is comparatively easy , and so enlarges the field of consciousness as to bring the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticism and attention . Besides a better understanding of himself , the collector of types acquires a new appreciation of people unlike himself . Among those who have studied with me are people who have greatly enriched marriage by this increased appreciation of each other . e'Also parents who have learned to understand their children , and children who have learned to understand their parents . " Actually , " exclaimed one young friend , " we are beginning to understand Father ! " Most important of all , however , is the application of these principles to education , not only throughout school life , but especially in the pre-school period when the child 's type is being permanently established . Of course not everybody is hospitable to the Jung psychology . It is amusing to note the reactions of the different types to the type theory . Introverts recognize the truth of it immediately , often hungrily , as if it were what they had been wanting all their lives . The sensation extravert sees nothing in it at all ; the feeling extravert thinks , or rather feels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ought to brush up on one 's psychology ; the thinking extra . vert is sceptical , sometimes hostile , until you begin to show him concrete examples ; the intuitive extra . vert grasps it as quickly as the introverts do , but values it only casually . " Is n't that interesting ! " exclaimed one of them upon glancing over my charts . " Ca n't you just see yourself and all your friends ! " Then she laid the matter aside and never came back to it . Indeed the extraverts are too occupied with living to be greatly concerned with theories about life except when the introverts have adopted those theories and proved their usefulness . When the introverts have demonstrated that Jung 's theory of types is as important to human relations as Newton 's Laws of Motion are to physics , or anesthetics to surgery , or electricity to industry , then the extraverts will take it up and apply it to the uses of civilization as only the extraverts can , making of it the basis for a reorganization and modernization of education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     