@@468435

IG Business " has been in the saddle in this country for more than a generation . It sits tight and steers straight and , thanks to its mount , it makes goal after goal . It was hoisted into the saddle by organization . Were it not for organization neither the United States Steel Corporation nor the Roman Catholic Church would be what it is or where it is to-day . Nearly every industry , every great institution , every profession has been subjected to organization save medicine . Every forward movement of civilization has been initiated by individuals and effected by groups . Organization in medicine at first sight would seem to deny the rule of the jungle , the hovel , and the palace . But in reality it makes not only for the self-preservation of the physician but for his self-betterment . An individual can practice medicine successfully but not satisfactorily . In the first place , the field is too extensive for him to survey alone and the equipment required for its cultivation is too varied and complex for one man to operate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haller was . In the second place , the price the patient has to pay for individual medical service is a hard- ; hip for the majority , and particularly for those of the so-called middle class . It can not be denied that man 's right Ind duty to be healthy and happy can be ' acilitated and enhanced by organization . That makes it the more difficult , o understand why the medical profes ; ion has not organized . Some will say . hat it has , and cite the American Medial Association to prove their case . Butthe primary object of that guild has been the improvement of medical education and the elevation of the whole profession . Though much altruism has seeped into it in latter years , we must admit that it was founded and fostered for the benefit of the physician and only indirectly for the doctor of to-day is in training and equipment quite unlike his predecessor . When the passing generation of physicians took up the study of medicine no scholastic equipment was necessary save ability to read and write ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conferred upon him without ever having attended a clinic ' , lecture , or demonstration . All he had to do was to sign up with a preceptor , pay for two courses of lectures , each of four months ' duration , and pass an examination . Now be has to have a definite amount of schooling before he can register as a medical student ; he must work in college , clinic , and laboratory for thirty-six months ; and to feel really qualified for his job , he must supplement this with eighteen months ' residence in a hospital . The American Medical Association helped us to realize the lamentable inadequacy of our medical training and brought about this reformation . To-day physicians are as well trained in this country as they are anywhere ; but they persist in practicing medicine individually , and the result is increasing dissatisfaction on the part of the public and growing discontent on their own part with the rewards of their profession . There are few other fields of human ac- tivity , save teaching , in which the material reward is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and intelligence . No one ever succeeds in medicine unless he has some native ability , and few succeed unless they have also a dominant urge to work and great strength to permit them to do it . No other profession makes such demands upon time and vitality . Hence , comparatively few physicians make what is called a great success , or in other words , make sufficient money to be able to loaf and invite their souls occasionally and to put their children on the high road to self-realization . One hesitates to say again that only the rich and the poor get proper medical service . Like all popular sayings , it contains an exaggeration . It is only a portion of the poor who receive appropriate treatment , those who are prudent and intelligent enough to go to a hospital when they are ill or to a clinic when they are indisposed . The rich choose their physicians so often for their bedside manner that they frequently get second-or even third-class service . The bedside manner is not inconsistent with intuition , insight , and judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true that the man who is neither rich nor poor ? the self-respeeting , self-supporting , substantial member of the community ? is often denied the medical service to which he is entitled because he can not afford it . The trouble is not that the physician exacts a fee beyond the patient 's means , but that the patient must go to so many physicians before he can find out what is the matter with him , and then to so many more , or their subordinates , to get cured . If the first physician consulted by him combines insight with experience , he may be able to make a right diagnosis , but it will often be little more than a shrewd guess . This is not because modern medicine is ignorant ; it is because a single individual can know so little of what medicine has learned . We frequently hear it lamented that the good old family physician exists no more . It is as easy to get sentimental about the family doctor as it is about the pangs of despised love . He would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he used to ride in . One of the great glories of medicine is that it has been able to conquer so many devastating diseases ; another is that it has made the majority of painful experiences painless ; but not the least of them is that it has taken its practice from the realm of guesswork to the realm of certainty . We have not traveled the whole road yet , but we are well under way , and we can hasten our arrival by rational organization which will enable us to do team work expeditiously and efficiently and thus serve the patient better than any individual possibly could . We physicians might add to our prosperity by taking a look at other professions , and the first one that we should scrutinize carefully is the law . All lawyers , who are neither obese nor indolent , achieve material prosperity if they are temperate in everything save work and if they become associated with well-organized firms . One member of such a firm makes himself competent in corporate law , another in the trial of cases , another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trusts and wills , another in finance and its vagaries . A client who goes to such a firm to get a divorce is not turned over to the corporation expert ; if he goes to have his will drawn he does not meet the trial lawyer . And when he goes there to have the articles of incorporation of a company or a consolidation written and submits his request to the corporation specialist , he does not expect to get information and instruction immediately . In such an instance the matter is turned over to juniors for investigation . When their work is done , it is submitted to the Chief . He acts upon it with or without conferring with his associates , and in due time the client gets what he is after or is denied it . On the other hand , a man who is ailing goes to see a physician and expects to be examined on the spot and immediately told what he should do to feel well again . It is preposterous . The physician is constantly given credit for insight and knowledge that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are methods of examination that reveal or deny the existence of disease with such accuracy that he can rely upon them . The trouble is that he alone is neither competent to make them nor to pass upon them . He would have to have several lives to acquire such competency . II As an illustration of the point I am making , let us take the patient who consults me as I write these lines . His complaint is of dizziness and disturbed equilibrium , followed by nausea and vomiting , occurring at irregular intervals . I know that this association of symptoms is frequently due to encroachment upon the contents of the small semi-circular canals which are carefully packed away in one of the most protected portions of the skull and whose function is to maintain bodily equilibrium . I hear his story and make what is known as a physii cal examination , which reveals that a constant accompaniment of the disease which his symptoms seem to indicate ? namely one-sided deafness ? is lacking . Moreover , he tells me that there seems to be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of attacks . I note also that his face is lacking in symmetry , one side being distinctly larger than the other . I think I know the nature and seat of the lesion that is causing his symptoms , but before I am justified in sharing that knowledge with him and advising him to submit to the only treatment that holds out a prospect of relief , I have to get the report of a physician competent not only to examine the hearing apparatus but to make a test which requires much skill and elaborate equipment . I must also have an X-ray of his head , and if this is to be of any value , it must be done by aman who is expert in making plates and interpreting them . I must likewise have chemical and microscopic examinations of his blood and spinal fluid and complete analysis of the gastro-intestinal tract and its contents . In other words , this patient must spend two or three hundred dollars and perhaps much more before he can find out what he should do , and all because I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus parade my limitations ? Because they are shared with me by every member of the medical profession , and because I am convinced that we can surmount them . This patient is a man of letters . He considers himself fortunate when he earns eight thousand dollars a year . He has a family , and he is ambitious to see that they are properly cared for . Had he twice as many fingers and toes as he has they would not suffice to count the number of physicians he has consulted . The experience that he should have when he seeks medical advice is somewhat as follows : He should go to the consulting rooms and laboratories of Smith , Jones , Brown , and Levy . Here he would be received by a discerning , affable person who would seek to get enough information about his symptoms to lead him to the appropriate hopper of the medical mill . Before he is taken there it should be ascertained whether he is a wage-earner or a wage-payer . If he is a wage-earner , the firm should then and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If he is a wage-payer , one hundred dollars should be collected with similar dispatch , and he should be told that he may anticipate supplementary charges should his case require extensive investigation . Then the patient should be given an appointment with a member of the firm in whose province the symptoms would seem to be , who would examine and pass him on to as many others as are necessary to get a complete report . The patient is now ready for the verdict . The man who gives it to him should know not only the disease but the diseased , and he should always have in mind that man 's fears are magnified by illness , his hopes minimized . When it has been decided what treatment the patient should follow the person who effects it should have nothing to do or say about what it will cost , nor should he profit by the payment save as it increases the revenue of the firm and thus his percentage of the receipts . There should be one charge for the wa geearner , a minimum , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his percentage of the firm 's revenue just as the trial lawyer has . He may say that he consults his own interests by practicing individually . Doubtless this is true but , save in exceptional instances , he is dependent upon other doctors for his clientele . Bricks are even more essential to the house than bricklayers . If the needs of patients are properly and masterfully met by the surgical members of medical firms , the surgeon who insists on practicing individually , unless he be possessed of unique skill and great resourcefulness , will sooner or later find it to his advantage to do team-work . At present the golden apples of medicine are within the reach only of the surgeon and surgical specialist . Possibly that is a reason why there is an excess of them and a dearth of physicians and therapeutic specialists . As things are arranged now it happens frequently that the physician who should get the lion 's share gets the lamb 's . A man seeking relief from headache goes to an eye specialist who , finding certain changes in the optic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him to a neurologist who locates the tumor and advises that its removal be attempted . The ophthalmologist and the neurologist get twenty-five dollars each the surgeon gets twenty-five hundred . It may be said that the surgeon could also have made the diagnosis himself . There is one man , possibly two , competent to do this in a country of one hundred and twenty million inhabitants . It is an old story that the physician has the little end of the stick , the surgeon the big ; but that is no reason why this state of affairs should not he changed . Were it done properly , the kind of group-practice I have in mind would do away with fee-splitting . It is unethical for a surgeon to hand a percentage of the fee he gets for an operation to the physician who brought the patient . When one meets , on the street or in a club , a surgeon thus addicted it is good form to see him first . The worst feature of fee-splitting is that it promotes bad surgery and precipitates unnecessary operations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is discussed are those whose pockets are well lined , just as the harshest judges of the oversexed are those who have no sex urge and those who have it but have been denied opportunity to display it . It may be said that group practice is adapted to ambulatory patients , but not to those who are seized suddenly and even violently with illness . It should be peculiarly adapted to them . There are three reasons for diagnosticating acute disease correctly and promptly : that the patient may be submitted to operation ; that he may be immunized ; or that he may he segregated . The diseases that require segregation may be diagnosticated by the individual ; but satisfactorily to detect and interpret the majority of those who require operation or immunization one must have the services of a laboratory . The municipality or private enterprise provides it , but it would make for the patient 's advantage were it provided by the firm . Suppose one has a chill followed by fever , pain in the abdomen , violent vomiting or a splitting headache , what would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one like it should be called on the telephone , and the affable person who answers should be told what the symptoms are . She will send a diagnostician who will know not only how to examine a chest and palpate an abdomen , but to puncture a vein or prick a finger ; not only how to take a culture or tap a spinal canal , but how to examine the specimen . Or if it is not in his province to do all this , he will have a colleague who makes a specialty of doing what is outside his field . The man who makes the examination may be the one who should take care of the patient , and he may not be . The case may turn out to be one of pneumonia . Then what must be found out as soon as possible is the variety of organism called pneurnocoecus that has caused it . The ideal doctor to take charge of the patient , then , is one who can foresee danger signals before they are apparent to the average eye , and who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use them when necessary . There is nothing new about this plan . The most successful medical organization in the world , the Mayo Clinic , is conducted in this way . It is a huge affair now , with scores of physicians and hundreds of assistants , but a few years ago it was a very small group . One of the reasons it has taken on such vast proportions is that the quality of service which it renders is unexcelled . No one , I fancy , maintains that the Mayo Clinic has injured the reputation of American medicine and surgery or that it has stolen the bread and cake of the profession . I venture to say that every physician of that institution receives just compensation . If such an ornament to our profession and our country could be developed in a climate and location not particularly attractive or convenient , why could it not be done elsewhere ? It can be . All that is needed is head and heart , the former for administration , the latter for co-operation . The training and experience of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy to see that such work deprives him of something which nourishes his vanity . As team-workers , men must share praise , adulation , appreciation ; and their individual skill , discernment , intuition , sense , and judgment do not stand out so conspicuously . Thereare many men in the Mayo Clinic who are either in Class A , or on the way to it , and are known only to the profession . Yet they have no clamor for the approbation of the laity ; their hands arc not weak , and their work is rewarded . Team-work encroaches also upon a privilege that many of us seem to enjoy , that of being a dictator , but it transfers the bulk of our work from the realm of guesswork and conjecture to one in which certainty and exactitude may be at least approached . And above all it insures that patients shall be thoroughly examined . It is probably no exaggeration to say that seventy-five per cent of those who seek medical counsel receive it without having had to remove their clothes . It is still considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the poke before making the purchase , but we seem to imagine that abnormalities of concealed human organs can be detected , not only through their natural covering , but through clothing ! The chief obstacle to successful group practice is the temperament of the doctor . The more of a " prima donna " be is , the less desirable he will be as a member of the firm . Physicians come to power so early in life that it often takes longer for them to acquire a salutary amount of humility than it does for others whose work is " checked up " from the beginning . For this reason candidates for medical firms should be caught while still plastic and malleable . Group practice , they will find , will tend to correct some of the physician 's deformities such as jealousy , envy , and covetousness . It is a great culture medium for humility . Group practice III will accomplish another thing sadly needed in this country . It will develop doctors who know how to care for sick people ? therapeutists they are called . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but in the field of treatment we do not make such a brilliant display . The number of physicians one encounters in a lifetime who are skilled in the use of water , beat , light , electricity , massage , exercise , and diet , and who know how to utilize the fundamental principles of psychology is astonishingly small . Yet if these measures are put in one pan of the therapeutic scales and drugs in the other , the drugs kick the beam promptly . The more experienced and expert one becomes in the practice of medicine the fewer drugs one uses . Aside from immunizers , antitoxins , and parasite killers , a man may practice medicine satisfactorily to himself with two drugs , opium and digitalis ; and if he knows how to use properly the physical measures I have just enumerated he can practice it satisfactorily to patient and public . One of the commonest complaints I hear as I go among physicians throughout the country is that the osteopath and masseur , the irrigationist and vibrationist , the hydropath and the naturopath , the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in many instances getting them . My colleagues have only themselves to blame . Osteopaths and chiropractors have an erroneous conception of disease , but their ministrations help nature cure disease . No one who has had opportunity to see water used to combat disease will deny its potency , and the benefits that result in chronic disease from the proper use of massage , active and passive , and manual and mechanical movement are often enormous . Something good may be said for all the non-medicinal therapeutic measures . But the physician must know how to use them , and he must tell the world , not with immodesty and vainglory as the quack tells it , but with dignity and assurance , that he knows not only their virtues , but when and how to use them . A few months ago an able young lawyer addicted to overwork and overeating developed paralysis of one side of the face . Inflammation of the sheath in which the motor nerve of the face is enclosed had practically severed its continuity . He consulted an eminent physician who advised him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a shield the eye whose lids would no longer close , to take salicylate of soda , and to have electricity applied . There being no improvement after three months , he was easily persuaded to go to a chiropractor , who promised to cure him in a few treatments . The promise not being fulfilled , one of the partners of the firm which employed him took him to a young doctor trained in an institute where non-medical therapy is taught . The doctor put him on a diet that took off twenty pounds overweight , submitted him to daily application of massage and electricity , made him practice grimace-making before a looking glass ( aiding the crippled side of the face with his fingers ) , and advised him to put a support in the sagging corner of the mouth while he slept . The result is that to-day the function of the nerve is fifty per cent restored . Three months hence the patient will have gained another thirty per cent , and if neither patient nor doctor falters he is likely to make a satisfactory recovery . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who gave him medicine and desultory directions about electricity he probably would carry a profound facial deformity to the grave . The treatment of disease is the art of medicine . As in all arts , a certain proficiency in it may be acquired , but to become a virtuoso one must have a genuine flair for it . The therapeutist of the medical group should be selected with great care . The essential qualities for him to possess are personality and a logical mind . The ideal doctor-group should have as many trained assistants , not physicians , as it can use . The more the assistant knows about what is popularly meant by " medicine " the less fitted he will be for the job . The men and women who use water and massage most expertly in Aix-les-Bains are peasants who work in the fields when the " cure season " is over . The men and women who give carbonic acid , baths , fango applications , resistance movements , zander exercises , and various other applications in scores of the cure places of Europe know nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their contacts some of them become experts . They are trained attendants who are humiliated rather than puffed-up if someone , seeking to engage their favor , addresses them as " doctor " ? a ruse which works here with chiropodists , bath attendants , masseurs , and irrigationists . The therapeutist of the doctor-group would have to Leach most of the assistants himself ; for aside from a few sanitaria there is no place in this country where adequate and proper training is given . It is enormously to the credit of Yale University that it has taken steps to remedy this state of affairs . The department of therapeutics of any university that does not compel its students personally to experience the application of non-medicinal remedies does not fulfill its duty . The only way to learn how to use such measures is to try them out on one 's self . The therapeutist of the group should spend one holiday in Marienbad , another at Nauheim , another at Aix , another at Lourdes , another at Salssamaggiore , and so on . Should he choose to help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few weeks in Lamalou . After he has familiarized himself with European spas , he should remind himself that his own country has at least one , and probably more , that is unexcelled . Until the potentialities of Saratoga Springs are transformed into actualities we shall be nationally humiliated . It is strange with what indifference , even antipathy , many of us look upon the restorative powers of light , heat , water , electricity , and the different forms of active and passive exercise , and stranger still how little we know or strive to know about what is meant by " diet . " Medical schools are silent about it , and in hospitals it is in the hands of a person called a " dietitian . " Therefore , the young physician must get information about itby his own effort . The first thing he should do is to provide himself with a rosary of different shaped beads . On the round ones he should say every morning , " One man 's meat is another man 's poison . " On the square ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variety and amount of food . " On the triangular , " Some do and some do not eat too much . Those who overeat and under-exercise ? women ? outlive men . " And on the flat beads he should pray twice a day , " Let me not be tempted by fad or faddist . " He will now be ready to find out for his patients what they should find out for themselves were they not indolent or stupid : namely what kind and amount of food agree with them . " Yes , " says the patient goaded by the accusation , " but how do I know that my blood pressure wo n't go up if I take salt ? " No one knows . Sodium chloride agrees with some persons , not with others . When I hear a confrere extolling the virtues of a salt-free diet I remind him that the man in New York who practiced medicine most successfully both from a material and scientific standpoint during the earliest years of this century gave patients almost as a routine measure salt and soda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of each . To be successful as a dietitian , a physician has to know what the man who tends a furnace or stokes an engine knows . Some fuel burns rapidly , some slowly . Some has far greater heat-producing capacity than others . Some produces ash and clinkers , others not . Then there are questions of draft , of stoking , of removal of ash , of banking , of smothering . Some furnaces burn more than others and produce less heat ; some require much attention , others little . It all resolves itself into a matter of the furnace , the coal , the draft , the clinkers , and the ash . The stoker must know about them for his house , the doctor for his patient . It is too much to expect that a man shall be abreast of the times in his knowledge of the causes and symptoms of disease and at the same time be a psychologist with a predilection toward telling persons who have lost their health how and where to find it . The born diagnostician is never a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in pathology , the more pessimistic one becomes about the potentialities of treatment . The specialist needed now by the medical profession is the therapeutist . He should know something about disease and everything about its possessor . Above everything , he should realize that hope is man 's friend and fear his enemy , and that we all have the same desire : Vivere ardendo e non senlire it male . IV When the group replaces the individual the public will get better medical and surgical service . It will be within the means of all save the poor , who ? it is universally admitted ? are cared for now in every self-respecting community . The rich , / suppose , may continue , if they wish , to have individual doctors who " understand their constitutions , " who are " such a Iamb " or " such a comfort , " and who are more skilled in finding out what the patient wants than a hat he has , more determined to see that he gets it than to make him learn the rules of health and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of health to know how to find a " good - doctor . It will be easier to find a good group than a good individual , and when it has been found the seeker after health may be satisfied that a bad doctor will have little chance of getting into it , or that if he should get in he will not stay long . Few stupid men are taken into partnership in the greatest of our banking houses , and one can not imagine that an incompetent lawyer would be tolerated for long in an equally great firm of corporation lawyers . Individual doctors are often chosen for their manner ; groups will be chosenfor their matter . When a patient sets out for the Mayo Clinic he does not know which of the one hundred and thirty-seven doctors he is going to see . The one who will finally minister to him is the one who is most capable of dealing with his particular disease . When group practice becomes popular , a man falling ill in a hotel , a newcomer to a community , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subsidized room clerk , the interested drug store , the wily advertiser , or the nepotistic clergyman to find a competent doctor ; nor will the absence of an individual doctor on holiday or on duty cause consternation among apprehensive parents . The sick man will be able to get the address of a medical group from the telephone central , just as one can now report a fire or call the police ; or Academies of Medicine and County Medical Societies will provide the information . It would , of course , be testing the truth to say that every group will be competent , for a number of medical crooks or incompetents might organize . But that would simply be another of life 's hazards which we have to endure . Group practice would also do away with the hokum and buncombe , the pretense and esotericism of medical practice . There would be fewer people " threatened with pneumonia " and fewer patients with a " touch " of typhoid fever . There would not be so many doctors who " just saved my life , " but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those to whom the detection of disease is a problem to be solved like any other physical problem . A sick person wants to be made well , or as nearly well as possible ; not only to have life prolonged but to have it free from pain . If he has confidence that this can be done , his improvement is facilitated enormously . Thorough examination is a great confidence-inspirer ; few things destroy confidence more quickly than to be told , " You will be all right in a few days " when the statement is not based upon searching examination . The day of the oracle in medicine has gone ; the day of the investigator has dawned . Competency is what patients want in a physician ; if they can get it blended with kindliness , culture , and understanding all the better . They get it thus blended from " born " doctors and from doctors who have experienced shattering illness . If the group-doctor selects his coadjutors prudently , they will get it from the group . If a patient wants a doctor to coddle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants one to cure him he should go to a group . The reason why hospitals and pay clinics are so successful is that they i practice group medicine . The reason why such a small proportion of physicians are successful and affluent is that they have not fully emancipated themselves from being mystics and medicine men . Organization has thrust efficiency upon medical education , and now it should do the same for practice . V I admit that group practice is not the I ideal method of practicing medicine . The ideal way ? and I wish it were not 11 generally impracticable ? would be for the physician to have his own laboratories and as many assistants to make examinations and investigations as necessary , leaving for him that upon which so much of the success of practice depends , namely the personal relation with the patient . One can take care of a patient without caring for him , but there never was a good doctor who did not find something in a sick person that aroused his sympathy , excited his admiration , or moved his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Every candidate for the profession should be asked before taking the Hippocratic Oath , " Do you like children and dogs ? " If the answer is in the negative administration of the oath should be delayed while the candidate is told that his chances of becoming a good clinician are slim . The person who likes children and dogs will be tender to those who suffer or fear , and this tenderness brings the physician greater rewards than money or position ; it earns him the affection , esteem , and confidence of his patients . Not of all of them , but of enough to compensate him for the time , sympathy , and understanding which be lavishes upon them . If the practice of medicine consisted only in detecting disease and applying measures to combat it , group practice would he ideal ; but frequently the person , not the disease , needs examination and treatment . To accomplish this the physician must have a heart as well as a head . There is no reason why the therapeutist of the group should not have them . But it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group system is that it might minimize the personal relationship of patient and physician . If we are to have the group system for efficiency 's sake ? and I believe we must have it ? group physicians must be always on their guard against impersonalizing their service . They must remember that a considerable proportion of the physician 's work is not the practice of medicine at all . It consists of counseling , orienting , extricating , encouraging , solacing , sympathizing , understanding . There is nothing in his education that prepares him for this work . To do it successfully he must have a natural inclination for it ; and he must learn from experience and from intuition . It is not only the malign microbe that the physician has to combat ; it is the unclean spirit . The successors of the twelve disciples ought to have power over the latter , and doubtless if clergymen were able nowadays to win the confidence of human beings to the degree that physicians do , success would attend their efforts more frequently than it does . But although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignorance , and misrepresentation , so many of them look upon the source of the sufferer 's symptoms as sin that the confidence of the patient is alienated rather than gained . The chief reason why physicians are consulted so frequently about matters seemingly beyond their province is that there is a tradition that they are deserving of confidence , and one of the glories of the profession is that its members seem to be deserving of it . What they are told in darkness they do not speak in light , nor are they commanded to preach upon the housetops what they hear in the ear . One of the hardest tasks of group physicians will be to maintain this high tradition , based as it is upon the personal relation between doctor and patient . Even so , I believe that the advantages of group practice will heavily outweigh its possible dangers . One of our great national assets in this time of prosperity is that there is comparatively little discontent in the brawn of our nation . There is discontent , however , in its brain . Anyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time contribute enormously to dispel this discontent may do so by endowing hospitals and clinics to which persons able to pay fifty dollars a week may go when they are ill or threatened with illness and get complete , competent medical and surgical service . There should be at least twenty such hospitals in New York City alone , and the physicians who serve them should be adequately compensated , not by the patient , but by the hospital . Such a plan would do away with the baneful financial relation of physician and patient , promote the personal relation , and give the man of moderate means what he is entitled to when he falls ill : the most competent medical and surgical care that the community lie adorns or encumbers can provide .                     