@@486129

A GLORIFIED organ of Main Street  --  thus one is tempted to describe the Kansas City Star , probably the most influential daily to be found west of Chicago . Upon its own townspeople its hold is copper-riveted , for it sells about 130,000 copies within urban and suburban limits that hold 450,000 people . More than that , Kansas City regards it as much an institution to be proud of as the new Union Station , or the Elks Club , or the splendid boulevard system . The merchants ' associations , the chambers of commerce , and the boosters ' clubs are as satisfied with it as with the flag under which they all live . It is part and parcel of the municipality , and he would be rash , indeed , who would attempt to say whether the Star made Kansas City famous or Kansas City the Star , or even to try to figure out just how much each has contributed to the development of the other . I t is at least clear that the Star owes its high estate to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William Rockhill Nelson , who indelibly stamped his dynamic personality upon Kansas City . " The Star , " says William Allen White , " was the daily W. R. Nelson . " Mr. Nelson was , Mr. White avers , an enigma to the other papers , to the politicians , and more or less to the whole town : " To be a gentleman ; to be a mugwump ; to refuse honest money for a peccadillo about professional ethics ; to devote more space to Henry James than to Jesse the train robber in Jesse 's home town , and still to be a big , laughing , fat , good-natured , rollicking , haw-hawing person who loved a drink , a steak , a story , and a fight  --  strong men shuddered and turned away from the spectacle . They could n't be sure whether he was crazy or they were . " But in the main these strong men did come to know , to like , and to admire Mr. Nelson even when they could not understand his reasons for suddenly depriving himself of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his newspaper . That was truly committing the deadly sin of being idealistic and " impractical " in a community whose own ideal was to watch Kansas City grow and to make it hum . They came , however , to understand that the very idiosyncrasies of W. R. Nelson were a city asset . They passed easily over his interest in Henry James and other " highbrows , " realizing that a good merchandiser often puts fine paint on the exterior of his shop and little touches within that do n't bring in the dollars but create an " atmosphere , " just as Bouguereau nudes used at one time to be indispensable to help the traffic in hotel bars . Then the business world of Kansas City did appreciate that there was no better booster than Mr. Nelson for city planning , for parks , boulevards , good roads , pure and sufficient water , and the best possible sanitary methods . These ire things that every resident of Main Street appreciates , and advocacy of them treads upon nobody 's toes . On the other hand the Kansas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nelson should assail the traction ring or the gas companies as well as the liquor interests . In his repeated fights against municipal corruption and intrenched special privilege the public gradually recognized that he played the part of a brave and unselfish man . Main Street finally came to applaud him when he stood up for the freedom of the press as when he refused to be dictated to by an advertiser who complained of the Star'seditorial policy toward him and threatened to withdraw his advertising . " Out you go , and out you stay , " Colonel Nelson replied , and his decision was never reversed . Being a pioneer by nature he was able to look into the future and so he became very rich by his fortunate investments in real estate , something that gave his enemies the opportunity to say that his championing a greater and more beautiful city was due to his desire to advance his personal.fortunesa charge as unjust as it was malicious . A short time before his death the forces of corruption and privilege tried to besmirch his reputation with a jail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reform the administration of justice in the local courts . It was not the desire to make more money that led this restless , middle-aged contractor and bridge-builder into newspaper work , but a genuine desire to serve his community . Unlettered himself , though a user of forceful , cogent , and pointed language and a coiner of characteristic and vigorous phrases , he never wrote a line , but relied upon others to express what was teeming within him . His employees readily caught his spirit and reflected it clearly . The Star succeeded precisely as it embodied the qualities of its owner , including his rugged honesty , and precisely as Mr. Nelson would have succeeded in anything he went into by reason of his homely , forceful character , and the sheer weight of his personality . He typifies perfectly what a liberal-minded and brave American newspaper proprietor of limited education and vision could achieve in the Middle West in the last decades of the nineteenth century . It was in 1880 that Mr. Nelson founded the Star , and by 1884 he was in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  his worship of Grover Cleveland . For Mr. Cleveland he fought , like the New York Evening Post , or the New York Times , or the Springfield Republican , always unselfishly and with the clearest-cut vision that as a daily newspaper-owner he should never take office . He carried his community with him just as he did twenty-eight years later when he threw himself whole-heartedly into the Roosevelt Progressive campaign . There was an extraordinary contrast between Cleveland and Roosevelt ; in many respects they were at opposite poles , and for many of the Progressive policies Mr. Cleveland felt only intense opposition . Temperamentally they were as wide apart as the Pacific and the Atlantic . Yet to both Mr. Nelson gave an almost school-girlish hero-worship . He was not profound enough or well enough schooled to have deep abiding principles  --  his turning upon the liquor interests was primarily due not to a moral revulsion or to horror of their trade , but to their attempt to defeat a city charter which he was championing . Roosevelt appealed to him on many grounds ; did they not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked : " Now , Colonel , would n't you feel better if tonight you could think that in all this town you had not one enemy when you turn on your pillow to rest ? " " No  --  no , no , by God , " Nelson replied , " if I thought that I would n't sleep a wink . " A sound credo for any editor who would serve city and country ! But , if this virile man had his occasional periods of intense devotion to national politics , the success of his daily ( or rather of both his dailies , for he bought the Times in 1901 and it has been published ever since as the morning edition of the Star ) , like that of many another daily was built upon its absorption in local affairs . It used to be declared of the rich and prosperous Brooklyn Eagle that its staff was schooled always to remember that if a prominent Brooklynite stubbed his toe on Fulton Street that was more important for the Eagle than the election of a Governor . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its community with most painstaking fidelity . But that community early ceased to be Kansas City , Missouri , or Kansas City , Kansas , alone . It is said of it that " Kansas , western Missouri , Oklahoma , northern Texas , Colorado , and New Mexico have grown up on it . " No one can spend a couple of hours in the waiting-room of the Kansas City Union Station without realizing that one meets in it more and more varying types of American citizens than in any other one place in America . Kansas City is the gateway to the Southwest , and Colonel Nelson understood this . Kansas in particular was under his wing ; it is only within recent years that the Capper press has arisen to challenge the Star 's predominant editorial influence in the Free Soil State . Colonel Nelson 's appeal was always a middle-class , a bourgeois one ; hence it waked welcome echoes beyond the home town . He was distinctly on the side of men in the fight between property and men  --  and yet he had great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beneficent autocrat . He recognized the good labor organizations have achieved , but as an unusually generous employer he resented labor-union demands upon himself . He wanted to have the power to treat his employees well without any walking delegates coming to him to tell what he ought to do or must do . Plainly , therefore , his social creed was distinctly that of the middle-class liberal of his period . But , as recorded above , he eagerly embraced the " radical " Progressive platform of 1912 and in spots went even further than it did . Mr. Roosevelt he later appointed a contributing editor ; under the spell of his leadership Mr. Nelson broke away from older traditions to become a fierce exponent of a militant , " prepared , " armed America , without realizing how inconsistent that was with the tenets of true democracy , or how repulsive and hostile it must be to both his middle-class and laboring-man audience , or what a break it represented with the soundest American ideals . Now how have the death of Mr. Nelson and the liberalism-destroying World War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today ? Having been placed in the hands of trustees under his will to be held until the death of his daughter , Mrs. Kirkwood , and then to be sold to create an art foundation in Kansas City  --  what could be more characteristically American than Mr. Nelson 's leaving his great estate for the development of art , something that every good , red-blooded Kansan looked down upon in 1880 as the creation of weaklings and idlers , something that was most conspicuously absent in the surroundings of his lifetime ? ? what does the Star teach us as to the possibilities in America of a trusteed , if not endowed , newspaper ? Well , primarily , it gives us no encouragement . The Star of today is but a part of what it used to be , particularly since the retirement from its staff of Mr. Dante Barton , its former chief editorial writer . Although every effort has been made conscientiously to walk in the footsteps of William R. Nelson , that original personality has not been replaced and we see once more , as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when a vigorous editor-owner disappears and there is no direct spiritual successor . The management of the Kansas City Star is the same , yet it is hard to read it and to believe that this daily once had a nationwide reputation for force and vigor of utterance . It has become more than ever the paper of , by , and for Main Street . The World War has dulled its liberalism ; it is kindly and has plenty of zeal for righteousness and goodwill , but it is no longer ardent and passionate , not even in its defense of the now doomed and discredited Kansas Industrial Court . It even finds it necessary , as after the last election , to print an editorial pointing out the measures it espoused which were approved at the polls . In the spring election of 1922 , the Star 's mayoralty candidate , an able Republican , was defeated by some 13,000 votes . The truth is that its devotion to Colonel Nelson is at once a help and a hindrance , while its knowledge that its career under its present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obviously having a deteriorating effect upon it . It is even charged that this has led the present management to place far more stress upon money-making than has heretofore been the case . Colonel Nelson 's memory has , however , fortunately prevented its lowering its high typographical standards . If there are those who wish to see how respectable American newspapers looked before the days of Pulitzer , the second James Gordon Bennett , and Hearst , before the coming of 8-column ribbon headlines or comic strips of the Mutt and Jeff type of intellectuality , they need merely buy a Kansas City Star . Its present managers follow Colonel Nelson 's injunction never to issue a comic section or a pictorial supplement . Our most prominent Eastern newspapers could take lessons from it in its admirable condensation of their usually overwritten news stories . It is living proof that our American dailies could abandon their typographical eccentricities if they would , and still make money . The Star 's news is also as good as it was in Colonel Nelson 's day and it has distinctly increased the value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In its devotion to baseball it is loyally American , and it prints some good cartoons . It is in its editorial page that its effort to cling precisely to Colonel Nelson 's policies is a chief hindrance . For times have changed enormously , and a newspaper can not in this hour remain merely static and retain its prestige or influence . Colonel Nelson himself was not of that type ; he could switch easily from the relative conservatism of Cleveland 's day to the " radicalism " of Roosevelt . Today a critical reading of the Kansas City Star 's editorial page inevitably produces the impression that the paper 's expression is not free and that it is not measuring up to the opportunity of leadership which should be its privilege as it used to be . Whether it is in part the dead hand of the war , whether it is in part a lack of editorial acumen and virility , or whether it is the effort to formulate in each case merely what Colonel Nelson might say , the effect is there . More than that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For instance , it is still for large armaments for preparedness  --  after the World War has shown their total futility to protect anybody in Europe  --  and so it gave about an inch of space to the visit to Kansas City of the head of the Disarmament Council , and refused to send out his message over its radio , the use of which it has since turned over to Jack Dempsey , the pugilist , with his inspiring message as to how quickest to pound a man to pulp . Its belief is that a nation 's ideals are of no value except as they are backed up by armies and ships , but it is so fearful of the soundness of that doctrine that it will not give its readers a chance to read the " fallacies " of its opponents . It denounces the teaching of peace in the schools but it will give room to no replies . In other words , its present code of ethics makes it commit the grave sin of compressing or suppressing news about people or things it detests bitterly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not partisan , yet its partisanship is obviously of the intensest whatever and whomever it supports . Undoubtedly , it still has liberal impulses which make it stand against child labor and for workmen 's compensation and other social reforms , but it no longer advocates unpopular causes with the fervor of William R. Nelson , if it takes them up at all . During the war it was in the forefront of the heresy hunters and those who believe the absurdly un-American doctrine that the political and economic beliefs of men like Eugene V. Debs can be changed or be made less effective by locking them up in jail . Its abominable persecution of Rose Pastor Stokes was a case in point and an utter disgrace to it . It warmly supported Governor Allen in his effort to close the mouths of Kansans under the Industrial Court Act ( which one of its editors is believed to have drafted ) ? and was promptly rebuked by its Kansas following . In 1921 it had 78,143 readers of its daily and 89,542 readers of its weekly edition in Kansas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American newspapers , it made the discovery that even with its large circulation its advice was once more not taken ? Kansas went Democratic in the 109 ' ) Vnr 1 o nlr of anv nfhar nanr-rnatrn-nnlifan paper Kansans buy it  --  an extraordinarily active and effective circulation department , which employs men to do nothing else but call on its outlying subscribers and ascertain their views , adds to the number of its readers  --  but they reserve the American right to think for themselves . Most of them seem to believe that the Star is as vigorous a crusader as one could expect of a rich and successful moneymaking enterprise owned by an estate . In this they are wrong . Its editorials are brief  --  but two columns or less daily , and without distinction or charm . Rarely do they betray the hand of the expert or the knowledge with which Mr. Barton frequently illuminated , and contributed to , the discussion of industrial matters . The appeal to Main Street is to be found in entirely safe editorials on October Conversation , A Little Margin of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frock Coat , Autumn 's Court Is Open , A Young Millionaire 's Escapades . In its issue of Sunday , October 1 , 1922 , of its four editorials , the first dealt briefly with a remark of Senator Borah 's on the need of unity in Europe . The others were entitled The Secret of Eternal Youth , In the Old Home Town , and Personal Liberty and Hogs . There is extraordinarily little to suggest to the reader that American labor is desperately unhappy or that the plight of the farmer , so distressing to himself , is keeping the Star 's editors awake at night . Not even the Ku Klux Klan 's activities stir them to passion or to a moving appeal ; they conclude a half-approving editorial on it in these words : " Many good citizens have been attracted by the appeal of the Klan to remedy certain specific evils . But the Star earnestly urges those who contemplate responding to the Ku Klux admonition for a religious test in politics to consider the disastrous effect on the national life of the general adoptionof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has set itself to usurping some of the functions of our State governments . As for other issues of the day , it has always championed the direct primary and prohibition as it has upheld Attorney General Daugherty 's rulings against liquor on American ships and his vicious anti-strike injunction . In its stand on European politics , the Star is opposed to the Wilson policies . It writes in italics of what we should have had to do in Armenia had we taken a mandate for that territory , and it heartily rejoices because after we have done our part in producing the present unhappy conditions in Europe we have withdrawn from every effort to restore the Continent to a normal life . Indeed , one searches its editorials in vain for any adequate appreciation of the gravity of the European crisis , of its daily increasing seriousness , of the steady disintegration of the Central Powers with the consequent injury ' to France , Italy , and England , or of any understanding that if Europe collapses the effect can not be other than disastrous to America which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of every ten bales of cotton it raises to countries now fast approaching bankruptcy . As for Russia , every conventional American shiver as to the teachings of bolshevism passes down the Star 's virtuous Middle-Western spine ; it can not understand how anybody could dream of turning his back upon what it calls " the cooperative ( ! ) system on which the world outside of Russia is organized . " In other words , the Kansas City Star supplies most excellent Main Street fodder . It sees no deeper under the surface than its Rotary or Kiwanis Club neighbors . It its inherited tradition it is compelled to treat the United States of today just as if the world had not been turned over and stood upon its head since 1914 . To it , erstwhile apostle of Rooseveltian progressiveness , the election of 1922 with its wonderfully encouraging note of political independence , its amazing evidences of discrimination on the part of the voters of many States , with its swinging back of the pendulum in Montana , Arizona , Kansas , Minnesota , and many other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideals of liberty and free speech , was nothing but " A Hell-Raisers ' Election " ? the " flocking of voters to the men who promised to kick the table over , even though these men could not possibly bring any real help " ! Obviously the Star will continue to prosper . But woe to it if a prophet with a vision should come to Kansas City ! Perhaps it might be well if it were sold now to provide art treasures for the public . The prospect stirs the imagination . But if it should then fall into the hands of a Hearst the evil it might do would perhaps offset even a liberal popular education in beauty and in the craftsmanship of the greatest interpreters of life through the arts and crafts . What should happen is the taking over of the Star by some group of public-spirited men and women who might feel perhaps like suppressing its partisanship , and could agree on building a daily journal which should be a great community organ and interpreter of all the currents of life of the various human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Probably we can not hope for the coming true of such a dream . The Star succeeds because Main Street is satisfied with it . When Main Street progresses , when those who live upon either side of it have gone stages further , then shall we have in it a lodestar and not merely a mouthpiece of narrow and mediocre respectability . 