@@488314

A FLAT , sandy , sun-bathed plain sprinkled with a sparse monotony of pine , punctuated here and there with vague swamplands and thick , rich forests intricate with interlacings of hardwood , scrub , and vine , and jeweled with thousands of sparkling lakes , streams , and fountains ? such is Florida , a paradise for invalids , sportsmen , and naturalists . To the east the far-flung coast line harbors still other waterways , great salt rivers and lakes formed by shallow sandbars and peninsulas lying parallel with the mainland . To the south stretches the vast region of the Everglades , eight thousand square miles of swamp and partly submerged prairie bristling with rapier-edged saw-grass eight feet high , a panoplied wilderness only recently penetrated- by white men , through which Indians have traveled swiftly from time immemorial . The west coast , curving widely around the gulf , crumbles away at its southern end into the archipelago of the Ten Thousand Islands , a land of mystery , a labyrinth of woods , swamps , mud flats , beaches , bays , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Most of the southern shore , too , is a little-known wilderness . Florida preserves for us , though probably not for long , our last remnant of virgin soil . No other State thrusts down into the Tropics . No other contains so many kinds of climate and soil , such an elongated and diversified coastline , such a widely distributed and easily tapped water supply , such varied luxuriance of native and naturalized vegetation . As a final unique gesture there are the Keys , that exotic flourish beyond the mainland 's southern tip , of coral and limestone reefs and prickly island jungles , swept and sculptured into jagged grotesqueness by wild tropic tides , eternally being built up and dissolved away by wind and sea  --  remote repositories of curious and entrancing forms of life . In 1513 came Ponce de Leon seeking the fabled island of Bimini , its fountain of youth and its mythical treasure far surpassing the known splendors of Mexico and Peru . Then for three hundred and fifty years the smiling region remained a wilderness , tossed from Spain to England , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to France , finally from France and Spain to the United States . It became a territory distracted by Indian wars , then a State entering the Union only to secede a few months later , then a State once more , enfeebled by civil war and racked with war-born hatreds and maladjustments . In its history there has been little continuity or coherence . Of British and Spanish occupation hardly a trace persisted . During the Revolution the State was a base for loyalist plots . Seven thousand Tories fled there . The wilderness beyond the frontier became a refuge for fugitive slaves and other outlaws . To the more accessible regions there was a trickle of immigration from the North , from Alabama and Georgia , mainly a low grade of white squatter , but conditions were not such as to attract wealth or culture . Such germs of social life and refinement as existed at all were concentrated in the great cotton plantations and the few small towns in * Reproduction forbidden . Quotation limited to 300 words . Copyright , 1923 , The Nation , Inc . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and such wealth and fashion as the State could boast . The least-developed territory admitted to statehood , Florida was at the outbreak of the Civil War the poorest of the Southern States , with the fewest towns , plantations , and slaves . It had no social , political , or religious traditions such as went to the founding of Massachusetts , Maryland , Virginia , or South Carolina , and no homogeneous group of citizens bound by common ideals to develop it in any particular direction . Immigration for the culture of oranges and the taking up of land for homes began seriously about 1870 : In the eighties were discovered the great potash fields of the southwest . And long before that St. Augustine and the St. Johns River had been centers of winter travel . But it was in the nineties , with the beginning of the great railway systems , the East Coast of which Henry M. Flagler was the presiding genius , and the Atlantic Coast Line carried down to Tampa by Henry B. Plant , that Florida 's history as a modern State actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the huge , elaborate hotels so well known to all tourists , at least from the outside , which were to be the last word in comfort , elegance , and expense . Plant died before completing all that he had planned , but the Flagler system pushed on , passing beyond the last small pioneer settlements to tame wildernesses and plant palaces in lonely deserts and jungles . Palm Beach arose to snatch from St. Augustine its social eminence as the Winter Newport . By 1896 the railroad had reached Miami , dropped another hotel into the wilds , and proceeded on its way to perform one of the most appealing of modern engineering feats  --  the Overseas Route that joins Key West and the intervening keys to the mainland , snaring wild islands and binding turbulent seas with concrete and steel , and stopping finally only because there were no more keys to conquer . Now began a period of sensational economic development . Tourists overran the State . East coast , west coast , and center sprouted resorts like mushrooms . A thousand and one agencies sprang up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of invalids and pleasure-seekers that had to be housed , fed , clothed , doctored , nursed , entertained . A secondary throng of floaters arriving to help serve the first . A great stock-taking and overhauling of regional resources . A hectic competition of road-building and developing schemes . Great swamp areas drained and turned into fertile farm and fruit lands . The most ambitious of these projects , the draining of the Everglades , has been going on for some eighteen years , and is not yet completed . While tourists continued to be enthusiastically cultivated , settlers and investors were and still are a greater need . For in spite of the large volume of immigration from other States , there are still only 17.7 inhabitants to the square mile , and planned improvements are constantly outstripping taxes and bond is-sues . Hence an endless , vociferous campaign of real-estate enterprise , of building and boosting , of speculations and bonuses and invitations to free trips with luncheons and eloquence throWn in . Perhaps because of an inferiority complex due to her long history of frustration and her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pride and faith in herself , an enormous appetite for wealth and power . Her climate is unrivaled , her soil unsurpassed . She can produce three crops a year and some that can be grown nowhere else in the country . To her long list of products and manufactures  --  fish , sponges , cigars , lumber , turpentine , potash , tobacco , citrus fruits , peaches , pineapples , potatoes , tomatoes and other vegetables , sugar and forage grasses  --  items are constantly being added . For her growing commerce she is busily deepening harbors . Nothing less than everything that any other States has , with a few slight exceptions such as mountains . and glaciers , and as many things as possible that other States have not is her economic ideal . A great world playground . But this is not enough . A great agricultural commonwealth unrivaled in the quantity , quality , and variety of its products . But this is not enough . A great focus of world trade with opulent cities strewn along its splendid coasts , cities that shall combine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atmosphere and 100 per cent opportunities for luxury and pleasure . If anything has been omitted let the reader supply it and be sure that Florida includes that too in her vision of greatness . Material greatness , of course . For Florida , mixture of infant prodigy , spoiled prima donna , and nouveau riche , has the engaging and disheartening qualities of all three . Forced into adult ways beyond her years , what wonder that she frequently lapses into corners to play with dolls or make faces , what wonder that like the slattern beautiful only for company she decks herself gorgeously according to her lights , in her tourist centers and rich agricultural regions , with wastes of slovenly , burned-out , swamp-gutted rural destitution and decay between . Nothing can exceed the forlornness of some of her aspects , with windowless cabins and crazy lean-tos in the midst of a sandy waste containing a few stricken pines , anemically sharing a bog with weedy , undaunted razorbacks and discouraged cattle mournfully nosing among inhospitable cypress roots . Then there are Florida 's beautiful schoolhouses  --  for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a prodigal hand . Only the best is to be good enough for them . And naively to her the best is always something to be seen , touched , and financially rated . But school terms are short , teachers few and poor , and money for their salaries not always forthcoming . Here is the antithesis of the little red schoolhouse pf New England tradition with its meager equipment dedicated to high purposes . Nothing distinguished has yet emerged from Florida , whether in statesmanship , scholarship , letters , or arts , and whatever comes in the future will have to struggle through a pall of American provincialism , economic ruthlessness , and Protestant obscurantism . Florida took William Jennings Bryan to her bosom with the instant mutual recognition that they were made for each other . But Florida is a melting-pot of all the States . So what one finds there is after all not only typically Southern but a composite of small-town and rural Americanism with an infusion of pioneer crudeness and youthful bumptiousness . The States and sections of the country are , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in politics , which are narrowly local and unprogressive . Florida , after years of agitation , still retains the antiquated open rangefor cattle , still finds in abuse of the Negro the master key to political office , and would still be farming her county prisoners to the highest bidder had not recent sensational disclosures , made by another State , of the murderous brutalities practiced upon her unhappy convict slaves forced her only a few months ago to abolish the lash and sweep the leasing system out of existence . There are in fact many Floridas within the boundaries of the State , and some of them know little of some of the others . There is , for instance , the proposed political division along geographical lines which frequently comes up for discussion . The northern part of the State was settled long before the rest , the center is but of yesterday , the south barely of today and partly of tomorrow . United only in their common jealousy of California , whose minutest blizzard , seismic tremor , or other liability or peccadillo are enthusiastically featured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are jealous of each other . The north has the State capitol and all the public institutions . In 1885 , when the present constitution was established , representation was according to population which was much denser in the northern counties , and no change in the ratio has since been made in spite of strenuous efforts of the southern counties to bring it about . In the last twenty-five years the increase in population in the southern half of the State and in its political and economic consciousness has been phenomenal . South Florida feels that it is different , unique indeed among all parts of the Union in climate , aspect , agricultural and structural possibilities . It is developing a regional self-consciousness and dreams of a regional culture . So one hears talk sometimes of a separation into two States ? North and South Florida  --  and even into three  --  part of northwestern Florida to become part of Alabama so that Alabama may have a larger access to the sea and the north gulf coast a better representation . The jealousies of Florida , however , exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ west coast and individual resorts in the same or different regions . Miami and Jupiter " merely cling to the outer skirts of Palm Beach , " a booklet informs us , which compares Palm Beach to Egypt , Venice , Honolulu , Algiers , Mandalay , Constantinople , Greece , and Mecca , " the Mecca of the pilgrim with his face turned toward Society , and perhaps praying equally as fervently as his Bedouin brother , " a Mecca , moreover , to which one does not merely travel in a Pullman but makes " a journey of de luxe idealism . " But tourist Florida is not all extravagance and fashion . It may be a small room with a kitchenette in which a Northern farm couple are passing a thrifty and comfortable winter . One sees them mainly in the center and on the west coast  --  for the east goes after bigger game  --  but actually they are everywhere , strong , ungainly , weather- and work-worn , or cadaverous and pale , sitting about on park benches , pitching horseshoes in shirt sleeves , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stationery provided by paternal boards of trade . They are from Vermont , New Hampshire , Iowa , Michigan , Kansas , from everywhere where farmers in winter sit by the stove behind the snowdrifts . They have found a better way to wait for planting time . " Like it ? Wall , I guess I do . Four feet o ' snow to hum , " and they smile , crinkling little red eyes , sharing with you the picture and the subjective shiver in the rosy well-being of sun-warmed blood and appeased " rheumatics . " Yes , they 'd like fust rate to settle if they was twenty years younger . " But there ' t is . Ma ' n ' me 's too old to start fresh . " Sometimes they do settle , fail wretchedly , and are fortunate if they can return to their frost-bound Northern haven . Sometimes with efficiency and luck they reap a golden harvest in spite of the real-estate man . For these and for the many others who need the sun Florida is all golden . Then there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the railroad folder and the realtor 's snappy blurb , unimproved , unmanicured , devoid of sleekness and comfort , full of hardship , danger , adventure , and beauty , now being pushed ever farther south and fast disappearing . The stories of these men are hidden from the public gaze in the journals of museums and scientific societies . Only one that I know of , Charles Torrey Simpson , a veteran explorer of thirty years ' standing , has emerged into the open with a delightful book , " In Lower Florida Wilds , " which is at once a paean to the wild life he knows so well and a protest against its passing . Through its pages one may come to see in the vanishing tropic and semi-tropic forests , the rich , wild hammocks , Florida 's unique treasure , whose like is not in any other State , and will soon be little more than a memory in this . His is a voice crying for the wilderness fast turning into tomato farms , pineapple fields , and cocoanut groves , and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human of trees , whose primitive methods of land building are giving way before the concrete sea-wall , the dredge , and the suction pump ; the flamingo , the roseate spoonbill , the gentle , colorful race of tree snails , and other wild things that die in the presence of civilized man . Still another Florida , least known of any , through which most travelers and natives walk blindfolded or upon which they bestow the cursory attention and facile generalizations of the " car-window sociologist . " This is the colored man 's Florida which differs more from all the other Floridas than they do from each other . What does Florida mean to its Negro inhabitants ? It is " the best of the bad States , " one will tell you . On the whole it used to be better before there were so many people and so much competition . Of course this means some increase in economic opportunity , but also increased discrimination and bitterness . In Miami , the wonder city , pride of South Florida , where some of its citizens dream @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this extraordinary situation , extraordinary even for the South : a curfew regulation . No Negro except those needed as night bell boys , porters , and the like by hotels , allowed out of the colored section of the city after 9 p.m . No Negroes permitted to act as public chauffeurs , or , in the winters at least , in any but unskilled jobs connected with building . In winter , when building is at a standstill in the North , northern workmen , " snow birds " or " white doves " in Negro parlance , flock south . Work must be found for the white doves , so out go the blackbirds . It is hardly within the power of any builder to retain his colored workmen , even if he wishes to . Pressure is too strong . In summer when pressure relaxes one may find Negro workmen again on the job , but the uncertainty and seasonal character of the work discourage them , as it is intended they shall . Miami is proud of its " solution " of the race problem . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand it to the Southerners , " remarks many an admiring Yankee , " they know how to treat the niggers . " Odd this , for Miami is anywhere from 75 to 85 per cent Northern . What becomes , then , of the pleasant myth that the presence of somany Northerners in Florida has perceptibly lightened the Negro 's lot ? It continues to be a pleasant myth . Miami is of course the extreme . As everywhere in the South the Negro 's condition varies greatly in various sections . Places are " good " and " bad " from the Negro point of view , and it is not always easy to know why some should be one and some the other . Thus Miami is bad , Tampa is good . St. Augustine is good , Jacksonville less so . In the northwest there is a certain amount of peonage  --  white peons as well as black , caught in the net of tenant farming with all its attendant evils in remote rural districts where conditions are always at their worst . If the white schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools have not even architecture to boast of . Brick buildings are rare and matter for some pride . In all the State there is not a single standard colored high school . In all South Florida there is only one high school , so called , for colored children , the one at Tampa , which shares a somewhat down-at-heel brick building outside the city limits and its principal with a grammar school . The equipment for this school did not include chairs . The money for these was recently raised by colored citizens . They still have no desks for some classes . They have themselves put in electricity , so they can use the building for evening meetings . Chemistry is in the curriculum , but it has to be taught theoretically because there is no apparatus . School terms are everywhere shorter than those of the white schools , which are themselves in some cases shorter than they should be . There are several counties that have no colored schools at all . The Florida Agricultural and Mechanical College , the State College for Negroes at Tallahassee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Negro reading room in the Public Library building containing some eight thousand volumes , which can not grow ' because there is no budget for its expansion . This is the only public library provision for Negroes in the State . The colored public school system is supplemented by several large educational institutions supported by denominational and individual contributions . These schools are the soil for a certain timid and delicate growth of optimism that is beginning to raise a somewhat paradoxical head among Florida Negroes . It consists of the feeling that although racial conditions are growing worse , they are also growing better . Violence and , lesser forms of oppression have of late years increased , but there is also an increasing number of Negroes technically and intellectually equipped to improve the primitive social conditions under which most of the race lives . There is the rising financial status and the growing spirit of racial responsibility and self-help , so much needed , which is fostered by these schools . If increased education and prosperity sometimes bring with them an increase of persecution , this is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it all in all , Florida is physically and spiritually both the desert and the rose , and , strangely , when it appears to be one it often turns out to be the other . Its gray sands and malarial swamps are potential treasure houses of fertility and health ; its bustling surface life , its expansive self-satisfaction hide a profound mental and spiritual sterility . There is no reason why we should expect it to be different from other States . Fine climates do not necessarily make fine peoples , and the best States in the world , like the most beautiful woman of the French proverb , can give only what they have .                     