@@493406

Up from Barbarism Precocious Children and " Normal " Adults UP FROM BARBARISM " is the motto that should be deeply carved on every schoolroom door . At present the child measures his intellectual advancement by the grade he has reached . " I 'm in Five B , " he tells you complacently , believing he has told you all . It is n't fair . He has a right to know better . He has a right to know that each individual passes through every stage of evolution , from the lowest life-form to whatever height he is capable of achieving . At birth he is in an animal state . By the time he learns to talk , he has reached the barbaric state through which childhood ought to take him . If childhood fails to take him through it and land him in the state of civilization ? if education fails to educate him ? he remains a barbarian . Then we ought to give him an honest yardstick by which to measure his progress up the evolutionary ascent . And here it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and directed , we may regard ourselves as civilized ? educated . But in so far as interest and attention are merely reactions to environment , we must acknowledge ourselves childish and primitive . Observe the child of two . Waking in the morning with neither guiding purpose nor sense of responsibility , he sees the woolly dog he took to bed with him , and reacts to the presence of the toy , which captures his interest and determines his conduct as effectually as an inclined plane determines the conduct of a drop of water . It absorbs him utterly . When his mother deprives him of the toy in order to dress him , there is a stormy protest . It hurts to be torn from a gripping interest , so she puts him in the grip of another interest , a process known as " diverting the child , " much valued by mothers . The bath is even more interesting than the toy , and he reacts again in the normal way , stormily refusing to come out with the mother " diverts " him again , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removing the stopper from the tub , a ruse which is instantly effective . Rather than be carried away through that mysterious and terrible hole , which has such an insatiable appetite for the contents of the tub , our small barbarian scrambles hastily out in a most primitive state of mind . Not at all does he control interest and attention ; from morning till night interest and attention are seizing and controlling him . How different the awakening of the mature man ! Nothing accidental about the alarm clock , though his first reaction to it may be somewhat primitive . His responsibilities are uppermost in his mind , andhe begins his day according to a very definite guiding purpose to which he gives his undivided interest and attention , deciding how long it shall be sustained in one direction , and when and to what it shall be transferred . What is it ? this faculty which enables one to direct oneself ? It can be described only in terms of interest . I have no control over my conduct except as I am able to guide interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less and fix it upon that which serves me more . For interest determines not only every act , but every thought . It is the engine which drives me . If I can not or do not learn to run it , I am childish and primitive ; if it is low-powered or out of order , I am neurotic ; if it is high-powered and under control , I am normal , adult and civilized . Then , if what appears to be will-power is merely the interest that is under conscious control , what is interest ? Freud calls it libido , and believes its origin to be wholly sexual ; Jung also calls it libido , but defines libido as psychic energy with which the human soul is charged , much as the earth is charged with electric energy , and which can be converted into innumerable forms analogous to the innumerable forms into which electricity can be converted ? of which the sex impulse is but one . And civilization is the product of this psychic energy ? libido , love , interest , call it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reactions with unconscious motives to deliberate action , the motives of which are fully conscious . Thus , the more highly civilized the man , the greater the quantity of the libido available to consciousness , the more perfectly does he control the libido-flow , the more easily can he take up a new and desirable interest or drop the interest which has served its purpose . The test is his ability to change the direction of his interest to meet the ever-changing situation in which he finds himself , and to live under all circumstances a rich and zestful life . When a man whose libido has long been flowing into his business , a ceaseless , powerful and effective current , is able to retire and turn the full force of his interest effectively into other channels , he may be regarded as a highly civilized person . Also the proficient mother who is able to turn her interest undiminished into other channels when her children no longer need her ; or the woman who , having made a successful career for herself , can marry , turn domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home making and child trainIng . Such libido transformations are supreme tests which few of us have been trained to meet , but which any of us may sooner or later be obliged to attempt , with mental disintegration as the alternative of success . Culture , happiness , and many other mistaken aims of " education " are merely the by-products of interested living , quite impossible without a full , free and powerful flow of interest into things which interest alone makes valuable ? worth working for . Nothing can have the slightest value until somebody puts value into It by bestowing libido , interest , love , upon it . Even our children , most precious of all possessions , are valuable to us in exact proportion to the interest we bestow upon them . The more freely interest flows , therefore , the more valuable life becomes , the more worth living . If it ceases to flow , we value nothing and are psychologically dead . Then to go through life without the ability to control interest is about as safe as motoring with disabled steering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the laws of interest discovered by Jung in his investigation of psychological types , or the fields of interest he has charted , or the main highways and the many by-ways he has mapped out , as well as the causes of engine trouble he has described . The field of possible interests , embracing as it does two worlds of equal . magnitude , neither of which could be fully explored in one human lifetime , is more than ample . The outer world of people and things affords inexhaustible material upon which the outwardly flowing libido of the extravert may be bestowed ; while the inner world of ideas affords quite as great variety and scope for the inwardly flowing libido of the introvert . Connecting these two worlds , and giving us free access to both of them , are the four main highways : sensation , intuition , feeling and thinking , our four ways of bestowing libido , of being interested , of understanding and loving life ? our four basic mental faculties , or functions . There is no such thing as a whtllesome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them in a more or less rhythmical swinging back and forth between the outer world of so-called " reality , " and the inner world of ideas without which the outer reality would be meaningless . And here lies the educational dilemma , for there is no such thing as growing to mental maturity without becoming a specialist and concentrating the greater part of the libido in a single channel . Mature achievement is possible only through extreme devotion to one of the four psychic functions , inevitably narrowing the field of interest . The ' definition of a specialist as one who " knows more and more about less and less " describes only too well the inescapable peril of growing up and becoming civilized . The great problem , then , of scientific education ? when we have such a thing ? will be the handling of this impoverishment of interest , which is strikingly illustrated in the development of gifted , or so-called " precocious , " children . A precocious child is a child who begins this process of specialization somewhat earlier than is usual , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , feeling and thinking ? in any one of which he may elect to specialize , there are necessarily four varieties of precocity . Henry , Hebe , Ethel and Frank may be briefly described as typical examples . Henry , who specialized in sensation , was an extraordinarily observant and imitative baby , who saw , heard and learned everything which a mere awareness of environment could teach him . At the age of eleven months he would say " prehistoric fauna and flora , " or any other beautiful-sounding phrase that he was asked to repeat , imitating even the inflection of the speaker perfectly . He carried this imitativeness into his play , demanding a toy broom with which to imitate his mother , a toy automobile with which to imitate his father , and toys of all kinds with which to do as the other children did . Extreme acquisitiveness and ultra-conventionality were the result . His sensation became a highly differentiated function , directed and controlled by clearly conscious motives ? the desire to possess and to enjoy . Thinking and feeling were hardly more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of daily life , never holding his interest and attention except as they served sensation , or were briefly sustained from vaguely conscious or wholly unconscious motives ; while intuition , source of all imaginative activity and originality , was atrophied by neglect , serving only to torment him with the groundless suspicions and superstitions that are the typical sabotage of intuition as suppressed by the sensational types . Hebe , who specialized in intuition , was an impulsive and enterprising baby , so full of initiative that no one could predict what she would do next . Left alone at the age of one year , she was likely to be found on top of the sewing machine or in some other position of high advantage . Her play was imaginative rather than imitative , and she had little need for toys or playmates , so easily did she fill her life with imaginary friends , kings , queens , mythical palaces and make-believe adventures . With the quick understanding of the intuitive child , she learned to read long before reaching school age , adding the world of books @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and quite neglecting the actual world about her ? Henry 's world ? except as it was interesting to understand . Her amazingly intelligent questions covered a wide range , so great was her interest in the new and unknown . But , though she learned with lightning rapidity , her interest ended with the learning , and turned to distaste with the first suggestion of routine . " I know how now ; I do n't want to do that any more , " was her attitude , the typical attitude of the highly differentiated intuition where thinking and feeling remain in arrears ? mere childish reactions with unconscious motives , or consciously in the service of the " specialty . " Sensation , source of most of the ' fundamental enjoyments of life , but always antagonistic to intuition , sank largely into her unconscious , where it persecuted her with vague and spasmodic cravings for the very satisfactions she consciously scorned , and tormented her with a haunting desire for the efficient routine which her conscious personality loathed . Ethel specialized in feeling , which from infancy was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keeping as many harmonious human relationships as possible . Sympathetic , tactful , popular , her purpose was pure sociability , and she hated an argument and found people who " talked shop " very tiresome . Her propensity for changing the subject , so characteristic of the feeling types , served the very definite purpose of keeping the conversation from becoming so serious as to take attention from the personal and emotional atmosphere she aimed to create . Her sensation and intuition , except as social aids , were merely childish or primitive reactions with unconscious motivation ; while thinking , that essentially solitary and unsocial source of logical clear-headedness , suppressed to the utmost , revenged itself ( as an abnormally suppressed function invariably does ) by bringing an element of morbid disharmony into her personality . Horrible " thoughts " came welling up whenever she was alone ? unbearable thoughts about the very people she held most dear . She could not bear to be alone ! Frank , who specialized in thinking , was a reserved and unsocial child , who at an early age objected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a paper route and let it be known that he was in the market for odd jobs . From the age of ten he led a planned and purposeful life of work and study . His thinking , like Henry 's sensation , and Hebe 's intuition , and Ethel 's feeling , became a highly differentiated function of adaptation , consciously directed with sustained interest and attention upon a motive that was fully conscious . But his motive was neither enjoyment , nor originality , nor sociability ; it was logic . He aimed to live the absolutely reasoned life . Sensation and intuition , except as they fed his thinking , were merely reactions ? very disturbing reactions , at times ? with unconscious motives ; while feeling , because of its incompatihility with his thinking , was the most suppressed , disturbing and inharmonious element of his personality , coming to the surface in the form of a quite unintentional tactlessness and temper which deprived him of essential human relationships , eventually even alienating his wife and children . Taken together , these four people illustrate the process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face ? doors " education " must keep open , or at least , ajar . According to the Jung psychology , the highly civilized man is not one-sided ; he has an educated " capacity for one-sidedness , " - which is quite another thing . To be capable of one-sidedness in at least three of these four directions , while preserving the wholesome reactions of the child and the primitive whenever one-sidedness serves no useful purpose , is not an impossible educational ideal . It can be achieved . And when it is achieved , the field of conscious interest is so enlarged as to give the fourth and least-developed function ample opportunity to react normally , and to work effectively and in harmony with the conscious personality . Whoever is interested in education , whether as a parent , a teacher , or a self-creator , has only to become type-conscious to realize that the various types must approach from utterly different angles the difficult problem of " growing up . " We begin to understand why a system of education designed to meet the needs of all children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Training Henry with Hebei or Ethel with Frank , is like sending the goldfish to school with the canary . 