@@486152

S O Rip Van Winkle is aroused at last  --  to the extent at least of permitting the impression to go forth to the press that the White House has finally heard the clamoring voice of humanity , the " cry of the world . " What his diplomats have for months been urging upon him , what the bankers have pointed out to him , what newspapers like The Nation have been demanding of him for two years past , what the inescapable logic of the European situation dictates , President Harding at last seems to discover . We say seems because we shall not be certain of the event until it takes place . We can not forget all the other promises that have been made by Mr. Harding only to be forgotten . There was to have been an association of nations once , but for that the time has never been right . Now , when Europe is nearing its final disaster , when Bonar Law solemnly warns Parliament that Germany is rapidly approaching a complete financial and economic collapse , Mr. Harding suggests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is nothing to indicate that his adamant Secretary of State is aligned with him  --  it is said that the Secretary of State thinks well of the Hughes Administration except when Mr. Harding interferes with it . So this promised American intervention , the mere rumor of which has almost doubled the dollar value of the mark , may be delayed , forgotten , and put aside for a while longer at the behest of a President all too infirm of purpose . But  --  long postponed we do not believe that it can be . Opposed as we still are to political alliances and to our entry into the League of Nations , we are convinced that the hope of the world lies in American intervention in Europe along economic and humanitarian lines . We believe that it would be the height of wisdom if the President should now offer a loan of one and one-half or two billions of dollars upon certain terms and conditions , because , if a refinancing of Europe does not soon take place , America will have to spend more than two billions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We have repeatedly stated in these columns that the whole aspect of the European situation would be changed if the President were to speak , to express our willingness to help . The tonic effect upon England and Europe of the mere publication of these unfathered stories tells its own story and bears out those people who like ourselves have maintained that the moral prestige and the economic power of the United States are still such , despite all the talk of our having cravenly deserted Europe , as to put us into the position of being practically able to enforce any policy upon which the Administration and the Congress may agree . We are well aware , of course , of Poincare 's recent speech in which he again declared that France will go it alone and enforce her own " sanctions " if the Allies should not go along with her . But bluffing is not confined to any one country . If we feel profoundly certain that the United States must succor Europe , if only out of enlightened self-interest , we are also entirely of Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its offer of help a demand for a sharp change in European policy . The American people will not subscribe to a great European loan if it is merely to enable France to continue her militaristic attitude and England her imperialism , because if there is no alterationof their position toward pending problems any aid given by us will but postpone the evil day ; it will be merely a palliative without curative value . We can not improve upon Senator Borah 's words : If these countries will signify their readiness to reduce and adjust reparations to a point which would permit Germany to pay and live , to reduce their land forces , to ratify the disarmament treaties , to recognize the Government of Russia , to expose the secret military conventions now obtaining between one of the great Powers and a number of small Powers , to waive the right to take possession of the Ruhr , then there would be something upon which to begin to work out a plan of salvation . But if the policies which have obtained for four years are to continue , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do so would be simply to aid in crushing and dismembering Germany , to retard the recovery of Russia , to maintain huge armies , and to abet the unconscionable imperialistic policies which now threaten the world with another war . Here lies in wait , it is true , a great test of statesmanship , but " nothing risked , nothing won . " The demand of the House Committee on Naval Affairs that the President seek a further limitation of naval armaments , ought to be additional stimulus to Mr. Harding to call a conference of neutrals , Allies , and former enemy countries alike . It could readily be made a step toward the desired association of nations , and if France should then wish to play the part of dog-in-the-manger it would present the best possible opportunity to confront her with the solidified public opinion of the world . The task is great , we admit , and the time before disaster so brief it does not allow of another five months of treaty-making . That is a reason why the delegates should include a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in having , as we believe , the support of the bankers upon whom would fall the burden of floating our share of a great international loan , for the banking world now realizes the gravity of the German situation and sees that something must be done and done quickly . Moreover , Mr. Harding has a trump card to play by stipulating that of any loan made to Germany a large portion must be immediately available for France . Not even Poincare could turn his back upon an offer of a half billion American dollars , for his country is today plainly insolvent . Obstacles ? Of course , numberless ones . But the prize to be won by overcoming them is the safety of civilization in Europe . The very dangers and difficulties ought to be all the greater stimulus to Washington . It is unfortunate , we grant , that the State Department is dominated by so rigid a mentality as that of Mr. Hughes , who thinks chiefly in terms of oil and property-rights . But a beginning must be had . We have the faith to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be so great that each succeeding step will be easier than the preceding . Let Mr. Harding recall the tremendous world acclaim that greeted Mr. Hughes 's clear-cut proposals at the opening of the Washington Conference . At a new meeting of the nations England will stand with us and all the neutrals . But we shall have far more compelling allies than they , for behind our spokesmen as they rise to speak will stand the specters of Famine , Pestilence , Revolution , Despair , and Death . The choice will be obvious , and no single nation will be strong enough to block it . " 1 T looks as if someone had dumped a wagonload of brick I on the sidewalk , but no one knows whether it will be built into a church or a pig-sty " ? that was one delegate 's apt summing-up after the Cleveland session of the Conference for Progressive Political Action . The material was there for an effective third party frankly based upon a union of the producing classes , but the master-artisans hesitated to start building . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to build . The result may be that some dark night their bricks will be stolen . There was no hymn-singing in this conference , no sense of battling at Armageddon . If there had been , the conference anthem would have had to be : " We do n't know where we 're going , but we 're on our way . " The delegates were farmers and union officers who were scared by any hint of socialism , or even of a forward-looking economic philosophy , who shuddered at the phrase " class consciousness , " but who had a profound conviction that Wall Street was in the saddle and that the only way out was for labor and the farmers to get together and elect their own men . That , after all , is the kind of vague revolt out of which political movements are built . The pity of it was that these men did not have the wider vision which effective leadership will require . Of course there were other reasons why these delegates wanted to move slowly . The railroad men who dominated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go slowly about a third party until they were sure that there was no chance of making " Bob " the Republican candidate for President in 1924 . Also , just before this conference William Z. Foster had held a successful " amalgamation conference " of local railroad unions in Chicago . His success , which was greatest among the defeated shopmen , had frightened many of the older trade-union leaders . They were not quite sure what an out-and-out labor party might hold in store for them . Hence , in part , the rigidity of their tactics at Cleveland . They opened the conference by refusing to seat the Communist delegates  --  which inevitably caused a fight and gave the handful of Communists far more prominence than they would have had among the delegates on the floor . They continued by attempting to steamroller through a modest program which omitted all mention of coal , child labor , amnesty , civil liberties , or even injunctions . Whereupon the rank and file overruled the leaders . Not that the rank and file of this conference represented any radical submerged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " inclined , as a delegate from Oklahoma put it , to " feel pretty gun-shy in a handsome place " like the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers ' auditorium . Most of the labor union representatives were comfortable-looking and gray-haired , obviously men of prominence in their communities . They stayed at the best hotels , and plainly saw no reason why they should not be expected to do so . Labor-union men in America , especially railroad-union men , are not so very different from other small townsmen . The surprising thing was that they had a calm conviction that they were the people who won the " radical " elections in the Middle West last month . If the small townsman turns against the old-party machines to elect La Follettes and Brookharts and Shipsteads and Wheelers something profound is happening in America . Indeed these comfortable Westerners had a contempt for Easterners who are still inan earlier stage . " In Montana , " said Senator-elect Wheeler , " we have bankers who are more progressive than your workingmen in the East . " The real fight of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " which is a euphemism for a third party . Had the time come to break away from the old parties , or was there still hope of winning control of them ? The Minnesota delegates , bursting with pride at their election of the first Farmer-Labor United States Senator , loudly proclaimed that they were sick and tired of fishing for favors from the old-party leaders . The Nonpartisans from Nebraska announced that they did not need a third party ; they had indorsed and elected a Democratic Governor by 60,000 majority , and a Republican Senator by 70,000 . The delegates from the national Farmer-Labor Party insisted that the nonpartisan method meant concentration on one or two outstanding candidates to the detriment of the mass of the ticket and left the organization in machine control . A North Dakota farmer drawled that " Wall Street would control the old parties just as long as you leave them in Wall Street 's hands . The thing to do is to take the parties away from them . Now , take our case , " he said . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chairman of the Republican Party of North Dakota . " Whereupon the conference roared with laughter and cheered . Eventually , by a vote of 64 to 52 , with the railroad vote a unit for nonpartisan action , the conference voted against a sweeping program of " independent political action . " It might seem as if such a cautious conference had accomplished nothing . That would be a mistaken impression . It did not give birth to a new party , but until the railroad-men are ready to take the plunge there is little use in lesser groups breaking the traces . This conference did strengthen the cement which is binding together the farmers and workers of this country , and laying the foundation for a producers ' party . There was no jealousy between farmers and city laborers . They had worked together in the last election and they intended to continue working together . The conference was one more experience in solidarity , imperfect but important . It also helped lessen the old gap between the foreign-born workers of the East and the American-born workers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind found the tactical solution in an hour of stress , and the railroadmen who had always hated and feared this Jewish Socialist gave him an ovation when he left . When Edward Keating of Colorado , attempting to stifle all resolutions from the floor , recommended non-adoption of a protest against President Harding 's project of registering aliens Charney Vladeck swept the conference into unanimity by a plea which began " My accent is foreign ; my appearance is foreign ; I do n't know how I can appeal to you . " The ice is breaking . American politics is losing its rigidity . But politics never stay long in flux . If these men dally too long politics will crystallize again , and there will once more be two dummy parties , Tweedledum and Tweedledee , neither one with an economic program and neither with any real interest in the producers . If La Follette and the railroadmen wait until after the Republican primaries to crystallize their forces , they may discover that the bricks have been stolen while they were meditating what to build . A STRANGE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not but the other day that his name was upon all lips , his example in all minds , that every good liberal quoted him , and every lover of great verse lived with his works ? Has his influence been transcended ? Has his poetry faded or has its substance , like the substance of so much Victorian work , come to seem not for all time but strictly for one age ? No ; the matter stands quite otherwise . If there is quiet about his name today it is because his thought and teaching have been so absorbed into the very current of our age that we are no more consciously aware of them than we are of our pulses and our blood . We all talk Arnold , think Arnold , preach and propagate Arnold . In the dead and almost fabled sixties of the nineteenth century he discovered Main Street with its " imperturbable self-satisfaction , " its devastating " provinciality , " its dangerous hostility to the " free play of the mind , " to any " flexibility of the intelligence . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who boasts of the output of his factories and the speed of his trains and never stops to consider that these " trains only carry him from an illiberal , dismal life at Islington to an illiberal , dismal life at Camberwell . " It was Arnold who diagnosed the central Philistine heresy of substituting means for ends . " Freedom , like industry , is a very good horse to ride  --  but to ride somewhere . " He discovered Main Street ; he discovered Babbitt ; he discovered Mr. Mencken 's neo-Puritans , reformers , hundred per-centers . " My brother Saxons , as is well known , have a terrible way with them of wanting to improve everything but themselves off the face of the earth . " He added : " I myself have no such passion for finding nothing but myself everywhere . " He used a rapier rather than a bludgeon ; the nicknames which he gave to the enemies of the " children of light " were inspired by an elegant wit and high-bred malice . There is no one among us who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of claptrap . " But we are all thinking , saying , proclaiming precisely that in somewhat other terms . How tonic it would be to have all our warm young liberals reread " Culture and Anarchy , " which was published in 1869 , and " Friendship 's Garland , " which appeared two years later ! How magnificent it would be could they be turned aside from transitory dreams and schemes and panaceas and embrace the ideal and the work which alone , as Arnold pointed out , could cure the evils which he and they alike combat ? " the work of making human life , hampered by a past which it has outgrown , natural and rational . " His immediate contemporaries belittled his publicistic activity , the criticism he exercised upon civilization in its totality . The Manchester people thought that machinery and money would save the world ; even Mr. Frederic Harrison sneered at Arnold as being a " kid-glove philosopher , " what we would now call a vicious high-brow . Arnold was saddened but not abashed . He knew then what recent history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world except that " free play of the mind " for which he was always pleading , nothing but hard and lucid thinking , nothing but the separation of concepts from myths . The hostility of cultivated Philistia tended , then , to emphasize primarily his criticism of literature . But even this criticism when it was at its freshest and keenest , as in the essays on The Function of Criticism , on Academies , and on Pagan and Medieval Religious Sentiment , embraced worlds of both perception and reasoning which the ordinary critic of letters had never permitted himself to tread . The second volume of the famous " Essays in Criticism " is thinner in substance and more rigid in temper . Arnold 's estimate of Wordsworth was highly personal and of Shelley irritable and absurd . But in these writings , as well as in the delectable " Lectures on Translating Homer , " he triumphantly illustrated the fact that literature must be treated with the living mind and the living spirit , that it can neither be labeled nor measured . And throughout the minor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest humanism . Thus he revered Dante as a man and as the chief practitioner of the " grand style " in its mood of severity . But when a British editor desired to endear the Florentine to Manchester by constructing for him a conventional history , Arnold serenely brushed the man aside . " I can quite believe the tradition which represents him as not having lived happily with his wife . I can even believe an assertion of Boccaccio that Dante 's conduct was at times exceedingly irregular . We know how the followers of the spiritual life tend to be antinomian in what belongs to the outward life . " He smiled at the notion of turning Dante into the hero of a " sentimental but strictly virtuous novel . " You have but to test Arnold at any crucial point like that . Not for nothing was he throughout life a disciple of Goethe . Not for nothing did he stigmatize The barren optimistic sophistries Of comfortable moles whom what they do Teaches the limit of the just and true . Like the Marcus Aurelius of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , serene . " His poetry , in the decline of Victorian lusciousness , got the reputation of being a little hard and cold . People repeat this criticism , we suspect , without rereading the verse . It has , in many passages , a mellow brightness as of moonlit hills or fountains under stars . But it has also passion , as in the highest lyrics , Philomela and Isolation , or in the great last section of Tristram and Iseult , and it has magic in whole poems ? In Utrumque Paratus , the strangely neglected Switzerland lyrics , the divine songs of Callicles , and in single lines such as that incomparable one from Sohrab and Rustum : And youth and bloom and this delightful world . It has , finally , despite querulous gainsayers , constant seriousness and satisfactoriness of substance . Granting that the son of Arnold of Rugby was more troubled over the decay of Christian dogma than we are , it should be remembered that that decay symbolized for him a fact of equal gravity to ourselves  --  the loss of a rational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never doubted how a new world was to be built  --  by justice and by reason , not by claptrap and myth . Of victory in that conflict he was never sure , of its inevitableness and glory always : Charge once more , then , and be dumb ! Let the victors , when they come , When the forts of folly fall , Find thy body by the wall !                     