@@430866

UNTIL the " discovery " of Sanskrit led to the foundation , a century ago , of the science of comparative philology , all peoples were traced back through the Tower of Babel to the Garden of Eden , where even the serpent spoke Hebrew , the mother of all human tongues . But when it was realized that the languages of India and Persia , and most of the languages of Europe , were descended from some common language that no longer existed , speculation soon arose as to the origin of that language and the culture of the people that spoke it . The early home of the Aryans , now better called IndoEuropeans , was variously located in India , in Bactria , or elsewhere in Asia . Their civilization was described with a wealth of detail and color and with an idyllic charm that contemporary research can only envy . Life was about like that of an out-of-the-way Swiss dairy farm , save that everybody was good and happy and at least all adults were poets . But new elements and principles were brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter half of the nineteenth century , of the biological and anthropological sciences , especially the revival of the doctrine of evolution and its extension , actually or symbolically , into almost all modern learning . To be sure , the assumption of an Indo-European " race " has gradually tended to yield to discussion of the Indo-European " type , " but attempts to treat the Indo-Europeans from the point of view and with the methods of physical anthropology have by no means been abandoned . Their bodily characteristics are often described with confidence , and their racial affiliations are investigated as though it were only a matter of the interpre- tation of proved facts . Likewise , the discovery , within historic Indo-European territory , of numerous relics of Neolithic civilization has offered a strong temptation to view these finds outright as products of the prehistoric Indo-Europeans . And many writers have hoped to unearth the answer to the question in the field of archeology . But the term " Indo-European , " or " Aryan , " . represents a linguistic conception , and " the Indo-European people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linguistic investigation . Not a line of Indo-European literature has been preserved , and not a single skeleton , inscription , utensil , weapon , or other object has been identified as Indo-European . The problem is fundamentally a linguistic one , and fts solution must be looked for primarily in the province of comparative philology . By the processes of linguistic paleontology , comparative philology has built up a fairly satisfactory picture of IndoEuropean civilization , and we know not a little of its language , religion , political organization , and daily life . Largely by the same processes , comparative philology seems to be on the way to determine the location of the original home . Most philologists now look to Europe rather than to Asia ; to the present writer the balance of probability appears to lean toward the great plain of eastern Europe that comprises , roughly , Poland , Lithuania , Ukraine , and so much of Russia as lies south and west of the Volga . Physical anthropology and archeology may in time throw a revealing light upon the culture and the geographical location @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will always be difficult to determine from the examination of a skull or a stone ax what language their owner spoke in life . If the skulls or the axes of the Indo-Europeans differed in form from those of other Neolithic peoples , we do not yet know in what way . Here lies the great gulf between comparative philology and her two sister sciences , a gulf that will not be completely bridged until we can identify the Indo-Europeans racially , ascribe to them definite arch e- ological remains , and designate those remains by the Indo-European names . In attempting to restore ancient Indo-European civiliztion the limitations of the medium in which the comparative philologist works compel him to yield at two importal points to the archeologist , from whom , however , he can , yet , obtain only indirect assistance . In the first place , con parative linguistic material carries the investigator bac only to the period immediately preceding the separation the Indo-European languages , a time when , in all probability , the parent stock already showed marked lines c cleavage , both linguistically and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain , for Indo-European chronology is far from fixed and it is probable that all the people did not take leave of the others at the same . time . What k back of this period of disintegration is , save for an occasional speculation , beyond the ken of comparative philo ogy . In the second place , words , as symbols of objects an institutions , do not always carry with them complete an accurate descriptions of the things they designate . To tal a modern example , the word corn means " maize " i America , but it generally means " wheat " in England , " oat ; in Scotland , " barley " in Sweden , and " rye " in German Other and older Indo-European languages likewise give i no common meaning beyond that of " grain , " and we do n know from language what variety or varieties were familia to the Indo-Europeans . A more favorable example will show the possibilities + archeological light upon the Indo-European problem . Th the ancient Indo-Europeans were acquainted with son kind of plow is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Greek , Latin , Old Irish , Old Icelandi Old Bulgarian , Lithuanian , and other languages . But tl word itself does not tell us whether the prehistoric Ind , European implement was a forked stick or a gang-plo operated by a Ford tractor . In this case , however , the are linguistic side lights . Other stems that mean simply " plow " in several languages are applied here and there to various objects , such as hook-plow , the crooked piece of wood on a plow , colter , plowshare , branch or bough of a tree , horn , stake , stick , sharp wooden peg , pitchfork . This seems to imply that the Indo-European plow was wooden , hooked and pointed , but it does not describe the plow .  | Archeology , however , assists comparative philology in drawing a fuller picture of the Indo-European plow and of Indo-European agriculture . Antiquarian researches show that the oldest type of plow , the so-called hook-plow , was developed out of a wooden hook used as a hoe , and that it consisted of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortened and sharpened branch . . It had only two parts , the pole for drawing and the hook that broke , but did not turn the soil . In early times a handle was added if one had not been left on when the limb was cut from the tree , and numerous stones have been found among Neolithic remains which apparently had been attached to make the primitive plow more penetrating and more durable . Prehistoric wooden plows of the Bronze Age have been found in West Prussia , Jutland , and elsewhere . The plow is extremely old , but it developed very slowly . A rock carving in Sweden which belongs to the Bronze Age shows a plow of the primitive kind , but drawn by two oxen and provided with a handle . The Greeks of the eighth century B. C. must have used almost as antiquated an implement ; Hesiod speaks of the farmer 's cutting an oak in the forest for his plow and of there being two sorts , one in which the several parts were fastened together , and the other made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of today use a plow that can represent but little advance over that of their IndoEuropean ancestors . It seems clear that the Indo-European plow was made originally of a single natural limb of a tree , but the fact that before the separation the Indo-Europeans had names for cattle , yoke and wheeled vehicle indicates the probability that the plow was drawn by oxen .  | But the plow is only a part of the important etymologica evidence by means of which it is established that the Indo Europeans , or at least many of them , were tillers of the soil There are also common words , chiefly European and Arme nian , for harrow , furrow , seed , arable field , sickle , chaff millstone , etc . The Indo-European problem is not mate rially concerned , however , with the recent general theory that agriculture precedes the nomadic life and the domesti cation of cattle . Nor is there any longer much value in tilt narrower and more philological discussion in which it is maintained on the one side that the Indo-Europeans were nomadic and cattle-raising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is little reason to doubt that some og them were the one , and some of them the other . There have been various explanations of the fact that common Indo-European words of agriculture are so largely restricted , in their distribution , to Europe and Asia Mino ? in other words , that they do not appear more frequently in Indo-Iranian . The best assumption is that the Indo Europeans , while still one people , were divided into two groups , the one nomadic , but occasionally cultivating the soil , the other distinctly agricultural . Such a division o one and the same folk has been pointed out by Herodotu for the ancient Scythians and the Persians , and it exist today among African tribes . With this assumption for tilt , Indo-Europeans agrees the enormous importance of th , cow in the early life of the Hindus , an importance which is obviously inherited from a much older tradition ; thus Rig-Veda word for " leader " or " chief " originally am literally meant " lord of cattle , " and a word for " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ances tors of the Indo-Iranians were apparently the nomadic cattle-raising element of the original stock . It is apparent that all this is of great importance wit regard to the cultural niveau of the ancient Indo-European and the location of their home . The steppes of southern Russia , for example , were especially adapted to the cattle  | raising of nomadic peoples , but central , northern , and western Europe was heavily covered with virgin forest until medieval times ; one recalls Tacitus ' gloomy picture of the monotonous forests of Germany . Indo-European agriculture probably began and long continued chiefly in wooded country , especially on the borders of forests and in the alluvial soil of river valleys . It is doubtful if much land was cleared for tillage , for trees had to be felled , if felled at all , with flint axes or the adventitious use of fire . But if comparative philology is indebted to archeology for such aid as has just been illustrated by Indo-European agriculture , there are , on the other hand , in any account of prehistoric civilization many features @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remains of Neolithic culture are preserved to us only in graves , in the communal rubbish dumps known as kitchen-middens or shell heaps , and by stray chance here and there in the earth , in caves , lakes , and swamps . Only a small proportion of objects could have been put in protected places , and a still smaller proportion could have remained intact to our day . There are numerous and sometimes striking exceptions ( prehistoric loaves of bread have been found in Sweden ) , but for the most part articles made out of such materials as wood , wool , leather , reed , bark , and bast have disappeared . Organic remains have seldom survived except when they have been charred by fire , and comparatively little is left from Neolithic times save stone implements . Such gaps are often filled by comparative philology . When the people of the Later Stone Age did not live in caves or pits , they dwelt in huts or houses of wood ( the Indo-Europeans did not know building with stone until the invading Greeks and Romans learned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traces of these houses have survived . Nevertheless , all the essential parts of an Indo-European house of the period can be designated and its structure described by comparative philology . Some philologists are inclined to hand over to physical  | anthropology their main hope for a solution of the IndoEuropean question , and few have written on the subject without a discussion of long-headed and short-headed races ( dolichocephalic and brachycephalic ) . More often than not they have assumed the Indo-European stock to have been tall , blond , and long-headed , much the type of the modern Scandinavians or the early Germans as they were described by classical writers . But the cephalic index is merely a ratio . The greatest length is always assumed to be one hundred ; if the breadth is seventy-five or less , the skull is dolichocephalic , otherwise it is brachycephalic . This criterion by itself is obviously unsatisfactory by reason of its limitations . To be sure , two-fourths is equal to three-sixths , but a box three inches by six inches is larger than one two inches by four inches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value . Moreover , whether it be among the living Chinese or in the Neolithic graves of Europe , long skulls are nearly always found with short skulls , and vice versa . The phylogenists are disposed to admit that there is a large degree of non-hereditary variability in the form of the human head , and that the cephalic index is dependent upon many causes . Even in cattle the mountains and the coasts seem to develop different types of skulls . And it may be that the Scandinavians , to whom so many scholars have pinned their faith as the type of the ancient Indo-Europeans , owe their long heads , not alone to race , but partially , at least , to hyperthyroidism and ultimately to the iodine of the seas near which they have lived , and from which they have obtained a considerable part of their food . Certainly environment plays a sufficiently important role in these matters to confuse the issue and to prevent . cranial measurements from serving , in themselves , as complete and accurate criteria of race . Likewise have failed or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physical characteristics from such vague testimony as that offered by Homeric adjectives , or Assyrian inscriptions , or Pompeian mosaics . And when to these considerations is added the fact that so far not a single human skull has been identified as coming from the IndoEuropean homeland or as belonging to an Indo-European inhabitant of that land , it will be seen how futile is all discussion of a prehistoric Indo-European " type . "  | It is of course possible that the answer to the question will yet be dug from the earth . It has been claimed that the skulls of the old Romans did not differ in form ( mixed long and short ) from those of the Etruscans , but that they were materially larger . Similar indication of great cranial capacity on the part of the Indo-Europeans seems to have been found among the Iranians northwest of India . Indeed , some physical anthropologists believe that they have discovered close relationship between the Neolithic inhabitants of Europe and the Indo-Iranian type of Asia , and look , in this way , to the designation as Indo-European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' This achievement has not yet been realized , but such efforts represent the kind of investigation that keeps alive the hope of ultimate success . The philologist still trusts that the physical anthropologist may provide the IndoEuropean labels for the finds of the archeologist , but the probability is very slight that the racial type of the primitive Indo-Europeans will ever be ascertained . Indeed , from a period so remote as to preclude identification , they may have been a conglomeration of various types and had no racial identity . Meanwhile , however , we have the valuable and positive archeological testimony that the proethnic Indo-European civilization of Europe is impenetrable , and that central European implements indicate indigenous origin and continuous development . With almost every advance of Continental archeology the European prehistory of the IndoEuropeans retreats into remoter antiquity . But the time has not yet come for an amalgamation of comparative philology and anthropology , even for the tern- porary purpose of a specific investigation like that of the home and the civilization of the Indo-Europeans . Language , culture , and race are seldom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of view the Indo-European question is hardly ripe for discussion . Prehistoric ethnology is a difficult field in which few certain results have as yet been reached . And comparative philology is inclined to hope that further linguistic researches within and without the Indo-European field , and especially in languages that have recently been discovered or whose Indo-Europeanism is in question , languages such as the Finno-Ugrian , Tocharian , Hittite , Lycian , Lydian , Luvian , may throw new light upon the movements and relationships of prehistoric peoples . And there is always the hope that additional IndoEuropean languages or other linguistic evidence may be revealed .  |                     