@@493356

They Want to Know FOR the most part human beings have , of course , cared enormously what it was all about . Without a certified plan of the universe and of their personal relation to it , they did not see how they could live in it loyally and adequately . This certified plan is what they have ordinarily meant by religion . Recently the newspapers have circulated a " religious " questionnaire which dealt entirely with beliefs about God , immortality and prayer and with specific acts such as church-going . People who admitted such beliefs and who went to church were classified as religious . People who did not were classified as irreligious . The test was supposed to divide the sheep from the goats . Yet the sophisticated youth of today and many of their elders reject it . Religion concerns truth , but first of all it concerns life . We are not born with any knowledge which equips us to live adequately and truthfully in the world ? to synthesize truth with life . Our regular education has not - repaired the deficiency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to achieved truth . It is our first business as human beings to find out how to live . It must be done by personal experiments in living . The people who believe in God and immortality and practice church-going and prayer are not of much help in this respect . Their religion is mixed up with verbal illusions and moral scruples or pretensions which disqualify its devotees from trusting themselves to life and profiting from the experience . Religious education from their point of view is much more a matter of instruction and exhortation than of individual initiative and discovery . The brethren have to choose between belonging either to the shepherds or to the sheep . Hard-boiled youth are justified in rejecting a religion of opinion or of conventional conduct . The bank whose checks religious tradition is still asking human credulity to cash is bankrupt . It was a venerable institution , and many pious people still honor its paper . Yet its remaining assets are not sufficient to meet its increasing liabilities . The elders founded it early in recorded history when , as a way out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusions about the nature of the universe . These conclusions proved to be useful . Life was in those days an extremely chancy affair . It was not safe to travel except on highways whose signposts furnished directions chiefly in the form of warnings . The lack of common religious convictions imperiled moral and social order . In order to discourage dissent ? equivalent in their minds both to aberration and dissension ? the elders gradually built a temple of divine authority whose treasures would form the perennial source of absolute certification . This structure of authority presented a different fa ? ade to the world at different times , but its assets were always composed of the same kind of yellow metal . The present generation conspired to terrify the next generation into conformity of belief . Disaster would overtake the disbelieving sinners . They might be burned alive in this world . Or their dead bodies and living spirits might be burned in the next world for thousands of years . Or they might be cast out into the wilderness and deprived of rights which good people would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even though they were not punished for levity or disorder before they died , they would in the end cut themselves off from salvation . Since the Reformation and the rise of modern science , many circumstances have combined to impair the credit of this institution . Although the new sectarian churches issued more bills than the church universal , the denominations were smaller , and they - were more easily counterfeited . They circulated only at a tacitly acknowledged discount . By the end of the nineteenth century many rumors of its insoliiency were being passed around , but not until after the War was the alarming news broadcast by the papers . Radical scepticism , unaccompanied by any sense of sin , foreboding of punishment or conscious surrender of salvation , is now a widely diffused and aggressive social microbe . The elders can do nothing to immunize society against its ravages . The Christian churches by attaching the same pretensions to disputed dogmas as their predecessors did to undisputed dogmas have themselves undermined the authority of authority . The state has contributed to the downfall by refusing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has completed the bankruptcy of dogma by satisfying the craving for truth without falling back except incidentally on authority . But this new science does not take the place of the old . It is interpreted both as the inveterate enemy and the indispensable ally of religious faith . The improved description of natural processes is admitted to be the most trustworthy form of existing knowledge , but whenever young people inquire what in the light of this science the world is all about , and how they can best live in it , the answers are contradictory and impov-erished . If the confused wayfarer turns inward and prays for trustworthy guidance , he may meet his most disheartening defeat . The still small voice which has presided over the conduct of so many pious and benevolent souls is being hushed . It no longer speaks with its former assurance . The young learn from books and newspapers that their infirmities , their self-deceptions and their defeats no less than their moral aspiration speak through the inner . voice . Conscience or duty , once the stern daughter of the voice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hand-pumped organ for the sublimation of - personal and cosmic worry . Assuming then that young people wake up to find themselves in a world without a plan and without authoritative instruction , how do they propose to get their bearings ? At present , so far as we can see , they do not bother much about it . They are quite content to eat and drink , swear and sing , work and love and now and then pretend to be sorry for themselves . Yet without any relapse towards subordination to doubtful authority , they can try another route . ' Scepticism can not rob them of life itself and their animal faith in life . Perhaps , as Mr. Hemingway says , they can learn by living . They are not sure that they can learn by living , but they feel sure that they can not learn without living . The only way to find out is to try to behave as if they are able to live and learn . Their scepticism , instead of being a handicap to the acquisition of this experimental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their elders , who began by learning the sacred truths and then lived by the alleged light , were predisposed to distrust life and to fool themselves about some of its unmanageable aspects . But the only chance which sceptical youth has of finding its bearings is to trust life , to live honestly , freely and thoroughly , but at the same time inquisitively . The truth which authority can not impose upon life must be wrung from life itself by the help of an exploratory habit of mind which they will bring to the process of living . The growth of their religious insight will depend upon the exercise in conjunction with living of a disinterested , inveterate and impassioned curiosity . By assiduously spraying such curiosity upon every moment of their experience , they may hold it up long enough to extract its secret and divide some of its invisible contents . They will not discover the clue to life by investigating the universe at large and writing their own encyclopxdias . But they may learn something about the universe , which the Encyclopedia Britannica omits , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are alive ; they are individuals or selves of some kind ; and they are conscious . Truth is a function of consciousness . To know how to live they must be conscious of themselves . Perhaps if they substitute for an unwary animal faith in life a methodical attempt to become aware of their own special contacts , their own special biography and their own special promise as individuals , they may move towards the desired synthesis of life with truth . This proposed method of conscious self-exploration will immediately encounter one formidable objection . It will be accused of being merely a disingenuous attempt to revive the barren and discarded practice of puritan introspection . The objection is plausible . There is an analogy between the puritan efforts to obtain self-knowledge by a process of conscious self-purgation and the proposed transformation of the good life into methodical self-exploration and self-inquisition . But there 152 , THE NEW is also a difference . Unlike puritan introspection , the new method would consciously protect its operations against deception . The puritan of old was incapable of objectifying his inquiries into his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which had closed his mind . He conceived his nature as unregenerate . It could only become regenerate by the grace of God . There was nothing which he could do to liberate it . He could subject it to discipline , and he could be on his guard against it . But it was what it was , and he had nothing to gain by being inquisitive and watchful about its behavior . This conclusion vitiated his method of self-inquisition . Instead of emancipating his possible better self from the limitations of his existing personality , he barred the way to such emancipation . In this respect both the puritan and the ordinary automatic sleepy individual commit the same mistake . They allow their imaginative picture of themselves to be determined by wh , 4 : they already are or seem to themselves to be . They hypnotize themselves into inertia and self-satisfaction . Their conscious attitude towards themselves presupposes that their possibilities of growth are limited by the merely accidental limitations of their existing personality . The indispensable condition of the successful practice of the kind of curiosity about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the utter refusal on his part to permit any identification between the desirable and possible reality of his own life and the collective facts of his prevailing behavior . Hard-boiled youth have thrown overboard the old conclusions about the world with comparative ease . But if they really try to dispense with conclusions about themselves , they will have undertaken a task which will occupy all their vigilance , all their courage and all their energy . For every act , every feeling and every thought in which they indulge without exercising a lively curiosity about what it is and how it reverberates will inevitably seek to compensate for its partiality and its subjectivity by pretending to be conclusive . The ordinary personality is in fact a bundle of uneasy and half-baked conclusions about itself . The young people who really want to know must begin by plunging a sword into their individual collection of plausible pretexts for self-satisfaction . The most paralyzing and the most ignoble , but at the same time the most seductive conclusion of all human beings , disappears in the maze of their existing personality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ruthless to ourselves when he said that he brought not peace , but the sword . Systematic self-surgery opens up the only chance of synthesizing individual life with truth , the only chance of finding out about the world by equipping ourselves to live in it . Of course human relations help , and the arts help . But the art of living by the light of truth is one which the individual must practice for himself and by a technique all his own . The beginning of it is the // appeal to a methodical curiosity to rescue his moral imagination from its bondage to that poor fragmeni of his potentialities which is already actualized.                     