@@487228

Croats , and Slovenes agrees to maintain all the obligations contracted by previous governments . 2 . The Kingdom of the Serbs , Croats , and Slovenes agrees that citizens who up to November 3 , 1919 belonged to territories of the former Austro-Hungarian monarchy which in accordance with the treaties of peace with Austria and with Hungary and with the present treaty are recognized as forming part of the Kingdom of the Serbs , Croats , and Slovenes , shall have the right to opt for Italian nationality within one year from the coming into effect of the present treaty ; and it exempts them from obligation to transfer their domicile outside of the aforesaid Kingdom . These citizens shall have free use of their language , and free exercise of their religion , with all the rights inherent therein . 3 . Doctorates and other university degrees already obtained by citizens of the Kingdom of the Serbs , Croats , and Slovenes in Italian universities or higher schools , shall be recognized by the Government of the Serbs , Croats , and Slovenes as valid in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar degrees of the Kingdom of the Serbs , Croats , and Slovenes . A later agreement will regulate the validity of higher courses taken by Italian subjects in that Kingdom , and vice versa . ARTICLE VIII . In the interest of sound intellectual and moral relations between the two countries , the two governments will , as soon as possible , fix the terms of a convention seeking to encourage a more intense development of intimate mutual intellectual relations between the two countries . ARTICLE IX . The present treaty is in two copies , one in Italian , the other in Serbo-Croatian . In case of disagreement , the Italian text will be valid , being in a language known by all the plenipotentiaries . In faith whereof the undersigned plenipotentaries have signed this treaty . Done at Rapallo , November 12 , 1920 . ( Signed ) GIOVANNI GIOLITTI CARLO SFORZA IVANOE BONOMI MILANO VESNITCH ANTE TRUMBIC KOSTA STOJANOVIC The Little Entente Agreement T HE following " Defensive Convention " between CzechoSlovakia and Jugoslavia , translated from L'Europe Nouvelle ( Paris ) of November 28 , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two Powers and Rumania , which has been heralded as pointing to a realignment in Central Europe . Firmly resolved to maintain the peace won at the cost of such great sacrifices , the peace sought by the covenant of the League of Nations , and to maintain the order established by the Treaty of the Trianon concluded June 4 , 1920 , between the Allied and Associated Powers on the one hand and Hungary on the other , His Majesty the King of the Serbs , Croats , and Slovenes , and the President of the Czecho-Slovak Republic , have agreed to conclude a defensive convention . To this end they have named as their plenipotentiaries : For His Majesty the King of the Serbs , Croats , and Slovenes , M. Nintchilo Nintchitch , doctor of law , Minister of Commerce and Industry , Minister of Foreign Affairs ad interim ; for the President of the Czecho-Slovak Republic , M. Edward Benes , Minister of Foreign Affairs ; who , having communicated their full powers found in good and due form , have agreed as follows : ARTICLE I. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contracting parties , the other party agrees to support the party attacked in the manner provided for in Article II of the present convention . ARTICLE II . The competent technical authorities of the Kingdom of the Serbs , Croats , and Slovenes , and of the CzechoSlovak Republic , shal ' determine , by common accord , the arrangements necessary for the execution of the present convention . ARTICLE III . Neither of the high contracting parties may conclude an alliance with a third Power without previously informing the other . ARTICLE IV . The present convention shall be valid for two years from the day of the exchange of ratifications . When this period has expired , either of the contracting parties shall have the power to denounce the present convention . It will , however , remain in force for six months after denunciation . ARTICLE V. The present convention shall be presented to the League of Nations in accordance with the covenant of the League of Nations . ARTICLE VI . The present convention shall be ratified , and the ratifications shall be presented at Belgrade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plenipotentiaries have signed and apposed their seals . Done at Belgrade , in two copies , August 14 , 1920 . ( Signed ) DR . EDWARD BENES Dn . N. NINTCHITCH The Blockade of Thought N an interesting protest against the intellectual blockade 1 . of Russia by the Entente Powers , published in the Petrograd Trood , organ of the Petrograd Council of Trades Unions , Professor N. Kamenshtshikov describes the recent achievements of Russian science . If the Russian achievements in the field of social science seem to the Allied imperialists to be dangerous and likely to infect Europe with bolshevism , then we may ask enlightened Englishmen in what respect are the achievements and discoveries of the Soviet astronomers , mathematicians , physicists , meteorologists , chemists , and other scholars dangerous to world civilization ? Why are we unable to transmit to the rest of the world for detailed investigation the discoveries of our observatories , which are of international importance , such as the Pulkov Observatory , the Main Physical Observatory of Petrograd , the Magnetic in Pavlovsk , the seismographic station of our Academy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific instruments and implements which our scientific institute ordered long before the blockade ? These instruments are already made but they are not sent to our scholars . And finally why does the Entente which reproaches Soviet Russia for the violation of international law , violate the decisions of international congresses of scholars which call for general scientific intercourse and an exchange of the results of scientific research between the scientific institutes of the whole world ? The Entente does not allow scientific magazines , books , bulletins , telegrams about discoveries , circulars of international scientific institutes to pass into Soviet Russia . That these acts of the Allies are tending to strangle thought and knowledge can be proved by a great number of facts . . . . On September 1 , 1919 , M. Selivanov discovered a new comet in the constellation of Cepheus . On September 3 a wireless was sent out to the world from the Tzarskoi Selo radio station in the Russian , German , French , and English languages . A special communication was published in all Soviet papers . We do not know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , nor do we know whether this comet was observed by others . We do not know even to whom belongs the priority of the discovery . Later our astronomer from Pulkov , M. Tikhov , found a new method of defining the type of comet by comparison of spectra . He thus showed that this new comet belongs to the type discovered by Brooks in 1911 . We are unable to transmit this discovery to the scholars of the world for further investigation and verification . During the last opposition of Mars in 1920 the Pulkov Observatory on May 9 discovered on Mars a cloud of fog . The cloud was of such dimensions that all the habitual details of Mars disappeared in it . This indicated that an enormous tempest had broken out on the planet . . . . Our famous astro-physicist , Kostinski , has this year for the first time in history made in the Pulkov Observatory a photographic picture of the satellites of the planet Uranus . This achievement is of tremendous world importance because it will lay a foundation for the verification of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a verification had already been made several years ago in the Berlin Academy of Science , when the same Kostinski made the discovery of some of Mars 's satellites . The seismographic station of our Academy of Science registered on June 5 , a great catastrophic earthquake in Alaska and northern Japan . Our seismographs thus broke the blockade , registered the earthquake and even the place of it . I must make mention of the discovery and observation of new stars , of changes in the brightness of the parallaxes of some stars , of the vacillation of latitude , of the discovery by theacademician Bielopolski of the rate of speed of Jupiter 's satellites . . Can one remain quiet at the following fact which reveals the real " Kultur-Traegerism " of the civilized Allies ? Before the blockade the Pulkov Observatory placed an order in England for a large reflector with a diameter of one meter , one reflector 32 inches in diameter , a spectrograph with a 7 meter focal distance , and an objective of 13 meter focal distance . All these enormous instruments were ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imperialists did not allow them to be shipped to Russia and took them off the ship . . . . For 1921 our observatories have not a single yearbook and for 1920 we had only two copies for all Soviet Russia , one in Pulkov and the other in Moscow . The Kazan Observatory had to copy this yearbook  --  a volume of about 500 pages . These yearbooks are generally distributed by the international institutes five years ahead for use in regular research work . We are compelled to abridge our programs of research because we lack photographic plates . We shall soon have to stop all our work in celestial photography and the work of our seismographs , some of which are the most sensitive in the world .                     