@@486273

T HE appointment of General Charles G. Dawes and Mr. Owen D. Young to serve as American experts on the committee which is to investigate Germany 's financial troubles is another step toward our non-political participation in the restoration of Europe , though it must be said that if the Reparation Commission had wished to find out the status of Germany it could have done so long ago . That body has been a tool of the French  --  nothing more or less ; if it is now going to proceed in a detached scientific way , we have advanced . As to the new negotiations between Germany and France , there may be some hope in them , but once more M. Poincare blocks progress by his statement that there can be no talk of a revision of the treaty and no readjustment of reparations except through the Reparation Commission . Fortunately , there are growing signs that M. Poincare is learning to change his mind . With the promise of a British Labor ministry in office before long , he does well to reconsider his positions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this holiday season we have released the last of our political prisoners sent to jail under war-time federal laws . One man remains in the toils , it is true , whom the Joint Amnesty Committee included in its appeal , but the circumstances in his case put him on a different footing from that of the men who went to jail because of conscientious beliefs which they were courageous enough to declare in an era of hysteria and blindness . But while we are thankful for the vindication of American honor that has been achieved , and although we give full praise to President Coolidge for his part in it , we can not but feel a certain sadness that this act of justice has come only after some of the men have served more than five years in jail , after prisoners convicted in similar circumstances in Europe had long since been released , and after the opposition of official Washington had been worn down by a prolonged process of attrition and erosion . Neither can we forget that the fight for victims of free speech and opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political prisoners but there are 127 men in Washington , Kansas , Oklahoma , Idaho , Illinois , Pennsylvania , and California ( ninety-seven in the latter State alone ) imprisoned under absurd and unjustifiable anti-syndicalism laws . We must now voice an aggressive demand for the release of these men and  --  unless the Supreme Court declares such statutes unconstitutional  --  for the repeal of the laws as well . T HE action of the Republican National Committee in yielding to the demands of Negro voters and the exigencies of the Coolidge candidacy by restoring the unfair and unjust representation of the Southern States in the Republican National Convention can not be too strongly censured . It took years of agitation , and President Harding 's assistance , to get rid of this scandal on June 17 , 1920 . Its restoration now is proof positive of the alarm of the presidential machine and of the determination of the President 's backers to dominate the convention . There could be no stronger argument for the abolition of the party convention as it now exists . For there is not one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a system which has no other purpose than to make easy the control , by bribery and corruption , of delegates who represent only a handful of voters . R EVE AL I N G as to the undercurrents of the De Is Huerta conspiracy in Mexico is a tiny paragraph in the State Department 's announcement of December 11 as printed in the New York Times : " The American consul at Frontera , Tabasco , Robert L. Rankin , telegraphed the Department at 10 a.m. , December 10 , that the garrison at Frontera revolted at noon December 9 in favor of De la Huerta . The commanding officer was killed and a number of Bolsheviks were executed . " Thus a United States consul and the official machinery at Washington help propagate the assumption that any Calles.adherent is ipso facto a " Bol-shevik . " The Americin 5rpsk ; too , : has Anp , nfully whooped it up for reaction in its nevus firpt , day it reported nine Mexican atates , in , revolt . Wit4 ; tele4 " st one accession daily eveky. 9. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t , ? ta.tes has : . i.eftid Tribune declared in a special dispatch on December " ' 17. that De la Huerta " is in control of the whole Yucatan peninstla " and that the governor of the state of Yucatan , Felipe Carrillo , " the leading Mexican exponent of Communism , " had fled . The facts are that after ten days the revolt , except for isolated mutinies at widely scattered points and a few individual defections , is still confined to the armies of General Estrada in Jalisco and Colima , and-of General Sanchez in Vera Cruz . This is not to say that the effects of De la Huerta 's treason  --  especially the material damage  --  are negligible . But the rebels can not expect to win . As indicated by documents printed in our International Relations Section , the organized workers have rallied around Obregon , who in this grave crisis and with the country an armed camp , has kept his democratic faith by refusing to curtail the liberty of the press . p RAISE be ! Even in the church the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bishop Manning rebuke Percy Grant and soundly lecture Dr. Guthrie than Dr. Parks gets up in his pulpit to announce his heresy as to the Virgin birth . More than that , hundreds of other clergymen through their modernist association fling down the gage . Surely this shows once more the folly of trying to sit on a church lid ; it proves that , even within the church , men  --  s consciences are alive and that their thoughts refuse to be bound by the heresy hunters . - . Therein lies the one hope of the church . If it stands still , if it is to be Bryanized , it will die . As for the Episcopal bishops , they have been dared by Dr. Parks to try a fellow of their size instead of putting the Bishop of Texas up to picking on an unknown rector in his diocese . Bishop Manning will find it difficult , indeed , to put on trial the rector of one of New York 's most fashionable churches , representing so many millions and so much power . T HE interchangeability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combating a real effort to make headway against the " system " in Washington requires no better demonstration than the action of Senator Bruce of Maryland , Democrat , in voting for a Republican when there was danger of the election of a progressive Democratic Senator to the chairmanship of the Interstate Commerce Commission in place of Mr. Cummins . Wall Street pins its faith to Cummins ; if he goes down , if a so-called radical succeeds him , it will lie awake o ' nights in anguish as to what may happen to the Esch-Cummins law and the railroads . Therefore it is not surprising to learn that Senator Bruce was overwhelmed with telegrams of approval for his action . We shall , moreover , not be surprised if other Democrats are found , if necessary , to bolt their own nominee for the chairmanship . We hope they will be , for the Bruce bolt has stirred public opinion not a little in the progressive West . Anything which demonstrates anew the essential twinship of the existing major parties will be of value the country over . Meanwhile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Congress is rapidly going to the radical bow-wows . Thus Louis Seibold , political correspondent of the New York Herald , telegraphs in . alarm thtet2C9nh.ress will soon be wrecked if the mk-tioritytItgialRans and ' the minority Democrats do not iiiinip4Wery ' s't'rike liands ? ? t-a : ? *event the La Follette group " fron:unakingAiailked Nialf-wOilld eventually result in lines deleted they should not ally themselves with these radicals who have recently done so well at the polls . Mr. Seibold reports that there are enough of these " to help Mr. La Follette achieve his ambition of destroying both the major parties . " Who would think from this that Mr. La Follette has never yet bolted his own party ? S 0 Frank B. Kellogg has been confirmed as our Ambassador to Great Britain and that high office sinks lower than in the lifetime of any living man . President Coolidge has broken not only with the elder tradition that men of statesmen 's stature should represent us in London ; he has abandoned the more modern idea of having a literary man sPeak for us at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a conventional second-rate lawyer , an ex-Senator discredited and overwhelmingly defeated by his constituency , and we have heard no sound reasons advanced for his appointment save that he is a " lame duck " and should have a nice big office to wind up his career . We can not even follow the current gossip that his selection is connected with the Coolidge candidacy . If Mr. Coolidge 's backers have any sense , they must know that to identify his cause in Minnesota with Mr. Kellogg is to injure it irreparably . M HE death of John R. Rathom of the Providence Journal I recalls one of the most despicable episodes of the en- , tire war period  --  the wholesale lying of that newspaper as to its alleged discoveries of unwarranted activity by the German representatives in this country . Miinchhausen was a tyro by comparison ; yet ' these stories went all over the country and are doubtless still believed by multitudes . Mr. Rathom himself came into tremendous vogue as an after-dinner speaker and was engaged by the World 's Work to write a series for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plots to kill our people , sink our ships , dynamite our factories , and disrupt our national life were run down and thwarted . More thrilling than fiction , and withal the most patriotic service to America since the war began . It is the modestly told story of a brave editor and resourceful reporters who beat the Germans at their own game . After one article the series suddenly stopped and it then appeared that on February 12 , 1918 , Rathom , under the compulsion of the United States Government and by advice of counsel , signed a confession ( printed in The Nation for November 17 , 1920 ) admitting the falsity , or such exaggeration that it equaled falsity , of almost all his alleged revelations . To a number of deliberate misstatements he pleaded guilty . Thereafter Mr. Rathom 's career as an after-dinner speaker and newspaper romancer ceased . The World called him at the time a " faker " whose confession is " one which for comprehensive avowals of downright falsehood has few parallels in the annals of mendacity . " Yet this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Providence Journal and , mirabile dietu , continuing to sit as a member of the executive committee of the board of directors of the Associated Press . O NE happy result which is the immediate consequence of Labor 's gain and Premier Baldwin 's loss in the British elections is the decision to abandon the construction of a naval base at Singapore . The cancelation of the proposed tour of the Earl of Cavan to Singapore and Australasia is regarded as tantamount to throwing the project over , the British press pointing out that as no succeeding cabinet , Liberal or Labor , would be likely to indorse the enterprise , Mr. Baldwin has - concluded that the $50,000,000 involved can be better used to relieve the economic distress and widespread unemployment at home . Thus Great Britain is saved not only from a huge economic waste but from an action which would have called for similar expenditure by other countries and must have measurably increased the provocations to war of which the world is already too full . Fortunately the Dutch Government 's proposal to erect counter-fortifications in the East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and need not be revived . If now Secretary Hughes will recall our naval mission to Brazil , which is so upsetting South America , the world will have taken some substantial steps in the direction of peace and good-will . T HE chess game of diplomacy never stops . The players sometimes pause long over their pieces , but they finally move them in just such a formal cheek-and-countercheck game as of yore . Mussolini found himself excluded by France and England from the Tangier conference ; so he turned to Soviet Russia and likewise made an alliance with fascist Spain which threatens control of the Mediterranean trade route . Let no one romanticize over the sympathy a these three dictatorships ; similarities in their form of government have nothing to do with this alliance . England and France are trying to edge Spain out of Morocco and to exclude Italy from a conference of Mediterranean Powers . Naturally , Italy and Spain turned to each other ; naturally also Mussolini looked to the pariah nation of Europe for help against the two dominant Powers . So the chess game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good reason to believe that Mr. Baldwin 's reported assent to part of the French policy in the Ruhr was not unrelated to the moves of Mussolini . L , - OANS of 400,000,000 francs to Poland and of 300 000,000 to Jugoslavia have been approved by the committees on finance and foreign affairs of the French Senate . The proposed 100,000,000-franc loan to Rumania is postponed for further consideration . The New York Evening Post reports from Washington that France also plans a 500,000-million franc loan to Hungary , and the Paris correspondent of the New York World explains that " a large portion of the proposed loan to Hungary will be sunk in metallurgical works undertaken and controlled by the Schneiders , the powerful magnates of the French war industry . who recently acquired the famous Skoda works , the Austrian Krupps , ( now in Czecho-Slovakia ) , where the big guns were made that smashed the forts of Liege at the beginning of the war . " These loans are to be spent for munitions either now on hand or to be manufactured in France . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Europe . America is not , to be sure , in a position to adopt a very much holier-than-thou attitude . John F. Sinclair , the Minneapolis investment banker , has pointed out through the North American Newspaper Alliance that Poland 's foreign debt has already grown to $270,000,000 , in which is included $24,000,000 owed to the United States Grain Corporation , $51,000,000 to the American Relief Administration , $57,000,000 to the United States Liquidation Commission ( for militarysupplies ? ) , $4,000,000 to our Shipping Board , $24,000,000 to our War Department , and $2,000,000 to the Navy Department . Some of these loans might bear explanation  --  they are all post-war issues . FA VEN a good law can provide a foolish or timid or tyrannical government with dangerous technical weapons , as for example the Cable law which holds , among other things , that an alien woman may not acquire American citizenship through marrying an American , but must become naturalized herself . The unreasonable use to which such a reasonable piece of legislation can be put is shown in the case of Anna Lerner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this country since she was six years old ; she is now twenty . Her father died before he could take out naturalization papers and she is still too young to acquire citizenship herself . Two years ago Anna Lerner went to Russia to join the Kuzbas industrial colony , and there she married Noah Lerner , another colonist , an American citizen , and a World War veteran . Her husband came home ahead of her ; early last summer he sent back passage money , and Mrs. Lerner went to Riga to sail for the United States . The American consul at Riga refused to visa her passport ; the head of the visa division of the DeparLthent of State rejected her application ; and finally Secretary Hughes himself has decided that Anna Lerner is a dangerous alien who had best be kept out . In everything but a technical sense this girl is American . Her family all live here , her three brothers are citizens , her husband lives here , she was brought up and educated in Philadelphia , she speaks no Russian . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be rejoining her husband , she would be coming home . Well , she may not come home . She is a Communist ; she went to Russia , and to the limit of her eighteen-year-old abilities tried to help Russian industry to its feet  --  and Secretary Hughes is afraid that Anna wants to overthrow the Government of the United States . F -1 ACH year the Dial makes an award of $2,000 to the 4 contributor during that year whose total literary production is in the opinion of the editors most striking and most full of promise . Sherwood Anderson received the first award , T. S. Eliot the second , and the third has just been given to Van Wyck Brooks . In " Letters and Leadership " Mr. Brooks has set forth fine and distinguished ideals for the practice of letters in America . It is true that he almost completely lacks humor , and that he expects of American literature the qualities which at present would be but little representative of American life  --  order and a conscious striving toward intelligent perfection . In " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solely with the purpose of finding out how far he has fulfilled , or been permitted by his native culture to fulfil , the obligation of leadership imposed upon him by his art . For Mr. Brooks the consciousness of this obligation is at once the penalty , the reward , and the measure of the artist . The sporadic robustness , the experimental and often crude groping after some vague accomplishment which is so much a part of the growth of American letters are qualities which do not interest him . Nevertheless , the ideal of a perfect if somewhat cool culture , led on and nourished by the practice of letters , is a noble one and deserves the steadily increasing following which Mr. Brooks has won for it .                     