@@486392

0N December 4 a tight-mouthed , dry Yankee gave his legislative valedictory to the second session of the Seventieth Congress . Dull and solid , it reflected the philosophy of a party and the character of a man , a man who rose to the Presidency by virtue of an untrue newspaper account of a police strike and the bad digestion of his superior , and who became a political myth with benefit of the great , conservative newspapers . Observers did not expect the present session to be a model of progressive legislation , but whatever chance it had of progressive accomplishment has been lessened by the President 's message . There he stands between the progressives in Congress and the great business interests he protects . He has been denounced as timid and vacillating , but in every section of his last message is the grim determination to protect the " American system " of private enterprise from the attack of the Congressional minority which believes in social control . He puts himself squarely on record against government operation of Muscle Shoals and Boulder Dam for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breath and the Kellogg pact in the next ; he throws a sop to the farmers in the form of a recommendation for a revolving loan-fund for cooperative marketing . But the real heart of his message is contained in the first sentence : " No Congress of the United States ever assembled , on surveying the state of the union , has met with a more pleasing prospect than that which appears at the present time . " Lame-duck sessions of Congress are frequently sterile , and this particular session is likely to be more sterile than usual because of the prospect of a special session after March 4 . Mr. Hoover 's eleventh-hour promise to call a special session if a suitable farm-relief measure could not be passed before his inauguration will serve as an oxygen-tank to every filibuster . The more the filibusterers talk the better will be their chance of an encore . If they can outtalk and outmaneuver the most vital pieces of legislation which come before the Congress , their reward will be a new session without the obnoxious time-limit . The Boulder Dam bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notches farther down on that calendar comes the fifteen-cruiser bill . After these measures will come the Kellogg peace pact and the bevy of lesser bills which their proponents will attempt to jam through the tense , overcrowded days just before March 4 . Washington opinion is almost unanimous in agreeing that the cruiser bill will pass easily in the short session in spite of the opposition of peace societies . Legislators who vote for it will salve their consciences with the excuse that this fifteen-cruiser bill with an appropriation of V74,000 , - 000 is only the tag end of the gigantic Wilbur program which called for an appropriation of $740,000,000 . But this salve will be a most insufficient ointment because the present cruiser bill comprises the most important and provocative part of the Wilbur program . The Wilbur proposals called for a five-year building program to be headed by the construction of twenty-five cruisers , but the proposals included only fifteen cruisers during the first three years  --  and the present bill provides for all of these cruisers . What a hilarious farce it will be when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , solemnly drag forth the Kellogg pact with its pledge that " the high contracting parties agree that the settlement or solution of all disputes or conflicts of whatever nature or of whatever origin they may be , which may arise among them , shall never be sought except by pacific means . " Senator Borah of the Foreign Affairs Committee will shake hands with Senator Hale of the Naval Affairs Committee and will hold the treaty until the cruiser bill has passed . The militarists , flushed with genial triumph , will vote for the treaty , and the guilty " liberals , " searching for moral compensation , will fall in line . Also , a great many Senators will vote for it because they believe that the defeat of the treaty with all its defects would create so much hostility and bitterness in Europe that the cause of lasting peace would suffer . On this point we agree with them , and for this reason only we hope the Kellogg pact will be ratified . It is a faulty , feeble , hypocritical compromise , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something better and more concrete . What will the Congress do with Boulder Darn and Muscle Shoals ? The Boulder Darn bill won several preliminary votes in the Senate during the last session , and Ashurst of Arizona will have difficulty in smothering it by filibuster because it is the unfinished business of the new session . But President Coolidge is quite likely to kill it by his veto . The bill does not make government operation mandatory , but it gives wide latitude to the Department of the Interior to develop government-operated plants , and even this small concession to the public-ownership advocates may be too much for Mr. Coolidge . The Norris bill for the government development of Muscle Shoals was technically killed by the pocket veto of President Coolidge on the last day of the former Congressional session , supposedly because the President flew into a temper over the rejection by the Senate of a minor political appointee , but the indomitable Senator from Nebraska refuses to admit that it is killed . He does not propose to bring it up again in the short session because he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's veto , but he maintains that Coolidge 's pocket veto is void in a Congress which has two sessions . He is carrying his contention to the United States Supreme Court . Meanwhile Muscle Shoals is being partially leased to the Alabama Power Company at a figure which does not even cover the government 's overhead expense , and President Coolidge declares that he is opposed to the construction of the additional dams on the Tennessee River which are required to make the project a great community asset. , What of unemployment and injunctions ? The President says not a word about them , and it will be miraculous if the Congress succeeds in the short session in enacting any useful legislation on these subjects . The Wagner bill calling for federal employment exchanges has some adherents and the revised and improved Shipstead injunction bill is still alive . But what chance have social-welfare bills on the calendar of a Congress which has just received a new mandate from the American people to support the status quo ? Hope for Nicaragua ? HE proposed loan of $12,000,000 to Nicaragua follows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ macy in the republic for the last twenty years  --  a policy which is hurting our reputation and legitimate commercial expansion all over Latin America merely to benefit the special interests of a small group of money lenders and concession grabbers in Wall Street . There has been the same two-faced jobbery in this financial maneuver as in the return of our marines to Nicaragua in the winter of 1926-1927 . William W. Cumberland , formerly our financial expert in Haiti , was sent to Nicaragua in the autumn of 1927 , with the acquiescence of President Diaz , to report on the finances of the republic . Mr. Cumberland recommended that our bankers lend Nicaragua up to $30,000,000 ? $12,000,000 immediately  --  establishing in return a financial dictatorship . Mr. Cumberland sent his report to the Department of State on March 10 , last , but it was not made public . Certainly not . We were then in the midst of an unauthorized and unpleasantly stubborn war against Sandino on account of which the Administration was receiving criticism from unexpected quarters . With the fortunes of the Republican Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could n't risk further attack on its Nicaraguan policy . But the existence of the Cumberland report was known and there was a threat of a demand for information by various Senators and Representatives as soon as Congress reassembled . So just after the election , and before Congress had , met , the report was made public . It did n't land right . Even the usual defenders of an imperialist policy in , the Caribbean balked at so bald an announcement right on the eve of Mr. Hoover 's " good-will visit " to Central America . It was a bit too raw . The New York Times gave a dignified rap on the knuckles to the Administration , and if Mr. Coolidge had had a secret idea that he would n't mind embarrassing his one-time Cabinet officer just a mite he now realized it would n't do . Four days after the report was published brief statements came from both President Coolidge and Mr. Kellogg indicating " Thumbs down " on the Cumberland recommendations for the rest of the present Administration . What Mr. Hoover may do remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade sometimes blinds him to higher conceptions , it may serve to change our Latin-American policy for the better . For the ruthless imperialism we have exercised ' in the Caribbean has hurt our trade and , bona fide commerce all over Latin America . Our merchants and other business men of a legitimate sort can not make headway in an atmosphere of hate and distrust . The fact is that Nicaragua does n't need a loan at this time . By Mr. Cumberland 's own statement half of the proposed $12,000,000 would go for refunding existing loans which the country is already carrying on a satisfactory basis . The only reason for refunding would be to supply a handsome commission for some Wall Street loan sharks . About a fourth of the loan.would go for claims , mostly due to our forcible intervention in Nicaraguan politics . These claims can be cared for out of existing revenues if the country is let alone . This leaves 25 per cent of the loan for productive purposes , to which Thomas W. Lamont has said we ought generally to limit our advances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes is destined for the construction of highways . Doubtless these are needed , but they would best come gradually . In Haiti the large sum spent for roads has resulted to a regrettable extent in motor speedways for North Americans who honk the donkeys of the poor natives off into the mud . In any event such construction ought to be done by taxation . For its own good and ours Latin America ought to cultivate the habit of taxing itself more and borrowing less . Finally , the Cumberland loan is proposed on terms which would make Nicaragua a financial peon to Wall Street . The financial control of the country  --  including the budget and a veto on all legislation regarded as likely to reduce revenues ? would be placed in the hands of three men . Two of them ? a majority  --  would be citizens of the United States nominated by our Secretary of State , acting presumably according to the wishes of the bankers floating the loan . The Bank of Nicaragua , which has just been redeemed from the foreign control exercised under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanent captivity to North America . For these kind services our pawnbrokers and racketeers of Wall Street would be allowed to charge $400,000 , which is nearly 3% per cent , an exorbitant commission for floating a loan of $12,000,000 . Meanwhile Mr. Cumberland 's plan calls for adequate upkeep for the recently- reorganized constabulary , or national guard , from a fund which would be a charge on the government revenues second only to interest on the public debt . As the People 's Lobby puts it , this would " give the bankers first call on the nation 's resources and the protectors of the bankers second call . " There seems to be a probability that the proposed loan to Nicaragua , at least on the terms proposed by Mr. Cumberland , will be shelved for good . We hope so , but believe that Congress should investigate our entire course in the republic for the past twenty years . American Notables T HE publication of the first volume of the new Dictionary of American Biography was celebrated by a dinner given recently to several hundred scholars in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than six hundred pages and records the lives of 666 persons arranged in alphabetical order from Cleveland Abbe to Maurice Barry-more , is the first tangible result of the work begun three years ago under the direction of the American Council of Learned Societies , which is administering a fund of $500,000 contributed for the purpose by the New York Times Company . Allen Johnson , editor-in-chief , expects the last of the proposed twenty volumes to appear seven years after the publication of the first . Such a work has long been needed , but no American biographical dictionary of anything like comparable scope has ever been undertaken before , and it could be , prepared only by a large staff of organizers and editors working in cooperation with experts in every field . Undertaking as it does not only to give an outline of the life of every American who has distinguished himself in any line of endeavor , but to define briefly the nature of his achievement , it will be for students of the American past what the Dictionary of National Biography , already affectionately known to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. , has been to all who have concerned themselves with English history or literature . Though all living persons are , for obvious reasons , excluded , inventors , industrialists , business leaders , etc. , will receive recognition equal to that given to writers , preachers , statesmen , and soldiers whom tradition has made the more usual subject of biographical treatment . Thus , for instance , the first volume includes , in addition to such well-known names as those of Louis Agassiz , Benedict Arnold , George Bancroft , and John Jacob Astor , sketches of the careers of Frank Abbott , a pioneer in dentistry , Adrian C. Anson , famous baseball player , and William Taylor Adams , who wrote the well-known stories for boys which appeared under the pseudonym of Oliver Optic . The work aims to give a complete conspectus of American notables , and in order that men whose achievements were of the sort not usually recorded in biography shall not disappear in oblivion , lists of names to supplement those drawn from the ordinary sources of biographical information have been drawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sport , science , technology , etc . Such a compilation as this can , of course , be thoroughly tested only by long use , but a cursory examination of the first volume indicates that it attains in every respect the high standard which the editorial and advisory boards would seem to guarantee . The sketches are not only concise and informative but very often vivid and colorful as well , so that the book might properly be called a dictionary not only of biography , but of personality also , and it will probably be read for pleasure as well as for information by all who have any interest in American characters . Scholars will , of course , find it invaluable , but its service to them will be no more important than that which it will render to the general reader , who will find himself turning to it hardly less often than to the encyclopedia or the dictionary if he wishes to make his reading of American social or political history as fruitful as possible . Space is naturally allotted in accordance with the importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information available concerning him , but the shorter sketches are often the most valuable . The great names may usually be found in an encyclopedia and , if one wants still more information , there is usually an individual biography to be consulted , but hundreds of people have contributed something to American civilization without having achieved an eminence sufficient to justify a " Life and Times " or even to win for themselves a mention in any general work of reference . Their names bob up in unexpected places , but no information can be found concerning them without an amount of research into newspaper files , local histories , and the like which involves a serious waste of the scholar 's time and is quite unthinkable for the general reader . There is no research scholar who has not been baffled , and no intelligent reader who has not experienced a sense of impotent irritation , when the ordinary sources of information failed him upon occasions like this , but when the work at present under discussion is completed it will contain accurate information about hundreds of persons concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that fact will be responsible for its unique value . All copies of the Dictionary of American Biography will be printed on rag paper to insure their permanence and will be issued through Charles Scribners ' Sons . The subscription price ( payable in instalments ) is $250 . Chivalry and Labor Laws I N several recent legislative hearings certain well-groomed ladies from the National Woman 's Party have fought shoulder to shoulder with the manufacturing interests against special labor laws for women . The manufacturers have welcomed this feminine support with great gusto and the press has given generous headlines indicating that the women reformers are divided among themselves . Behind the public hullabaloo there has not been an adequate body of facts on either side of the discussion . The trade unionists and social workers who support labor laws for women have given reasoned testimony for their belief based upon long experience , but the left-wing feminists have talked well and marshaled enough individual instances of sex discrimination to impress the public , As The Nation has frequently pointed out , the leaders of the Woman 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor laws which apply to women as a sex . The question at issue is largely one of social philosophy . The left-wing feminist tends to see society as a sex struggle in which man exploits woman , while the laborite looks upon the same milieu as a class struggle in which employer exploits worker . The rub comes when the two struggles overlap and labor concedes the sexual status quo by appealing to the chivalry of the employer and the community for special labor laws for women . The intelligent labor champion does not make this appeal because he likes to make it ; he prefers to win justice for woman as a worker through organized power but he will take justice for woman as a woman if he can not get it in any other way . The appeal for woman as the weaker sex arouses the ire of the left-wing feminist . Chivalry is for her as bad as poverty because it perpetuates the prejudices which have kept women in subjection . Moreover , she claims that women workers actually lose by special labor laws because such laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This claim has been analyzed with great care by the Women 's Bureau of the Department of Labor in a new study , " The Effects of Labor Legislation upon the Employment Opportunities of Women . " The published facts knock into a cocked hat the arguments of the Woman 's Party that shorter-hour legislation for women in the manufacturing industries has taken away opportunities to work . The investigation shows that most women who are gainfully employed are not affected one way or another by special labor legislation for their sex , but in five important manufacturing industries which employ women in large numbers the legal limitation of hours for women only has " not brought about any degree of substitution of men for women . " The investigation proves that in the matter of laws against night work for women the Woman 's Party has some justification for its claim that men have supplanted women as a direct result of the laws . Likewise certain laws designed to protect women have caused the substitution of men in such tasks as running street cars and operating elevators . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than law to eliminate women workers from night shifts , street cars , and certain types of elevators . On the whole the cases of individual injustice to women workers caused by special legislation seem unimportant compared to the resultant improvement of industrial standards .                     