@@493309

France 's Financial Predicament SINCE the close of the war , and particularly from 1921 to 1924 , Germany has been the center of interest for students of international economics . Inflation of currency , government bankruptcy , depressed trade , unemployment , and finally the Dawes plan , have made that unhappy country a place where economic and social phenomena displayed themselves in such bewildering variety and such great intensity as to attract and at the same time baffle the student . Unfortunately , all is not yet well with the Germans , though there is some improvement . Unemployment has decreased , government finances are better , reparation obligations are being Ind by payments to the account of Agent-General Gilbert ( albeit with the powerful aid of the 800 million mark loan ) , and the tension is somewhat relaxed . Problems galore are undoubtedly ahead , but for a time France may occupy world thought . Rising prices , new loans at home and abroad , and discussion of her debts to England and the United States are in our minds . Premier lierriot and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late , but their struggle is a heroic one . Without forecasting the outcome an analysis of what they are facing is possible . First in importance is to realize that the difficulty is not one of general economic depression . French icon and steel production is greater than in pre-war days , agriculture is in good condition , and the textile industries are thriving . The output of coal is large . There is no unemployment , nor has there been any of importance since the end of the war . Reconstruction work in the war areas is largely , though not entirely , completed . This intense activity nay be healthy and normal , or it may be a feverish and dangerous condition comparable to that in Germany during 1922 , but its existence is not open to dispute . It is so generally agreed that French troubles are financial and closely identified with actual or prospectiVC currency inflation that we need not attempt proof . We may , however , refer briefly to the signs of distress , since they arc escaping attention in the United States . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ = 100 ) rose to 394 for 1923 , to 483 in March , 1924 , and then , after a temporary decline , again rose to 487 in August , 496 in September , and 507 by the end of October . An internal loan only now being floated shows that the government assist pay about 8.60 percent for funds . The recent $100,000,000 loan sold in America yields 7.53 percent to the investor who purchased at the issue price , and of course costs the French government considerably more . On the Paris market government bonds have steadily declined . The 1918 Fours which earlier in the year were at 60.50 were re-candy at 50.55 . The 1920 Sixes have fallen to 75 from a recent high of 88.15 . The official index of 56 securities with fixed yield shows a level of 61.3 for August , 59.4 for September , and 57 for the end of October . Yet these depressing signs appear at a time when we are told that the budget is greatly proving , and while francs are rising on the New York market . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weather prospects good and the trouble merely with the barometers ? Since current observation centres so much on inflation , it is well to remind ourselves that this much abused word and its companion , depreciation , may be used in three different ways . A currency may depreciate in terms of the standard money of the country ; i , e , gold . This is reflected clearly in the price of gold in terms of the currency in case there is a free gold market . In the United States gold sold for greenbacks at 258 in 1864 , In October of this year gold sold in London at 92 shillings per ounce , which may be compared with a " par " of 77s. 9d . That the French paper franc is thus depreciated is of course well known , although the extent of the depreciation and daily fluctuations are not a matter of record , since there is no open gold market . A currency may depreciate in terms of the money of another country . This is reflected in the foreign exchange quotations , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months ago , when the quotation in New York fell rapidly to 3.42 ? to rise later to 6.84 and finally steady itself at about 5.25 . Since the recent $100,000,000 loan it has gradually risen to about 5.50 at the present writing . Finally , a currency may depreciate in terms of commodities for which it is exchanged , a fact that is shown by a rise in the general price level . As al-react ) , noted , this form of depreciation is continuing in France . There are , then , three kinds of currency depreciation , but for only two of them do we have records . At present one ? the New York quotation for francs ? shows an improvement . The other ? the French commodity price level ? is unfavorable . What may we conclude ? These two are closely interrelated , but they may and do possess distinct characteristics . A rising franc in New York is not surprising . There is no reason to assume that short time fluctuations reflect with any accuracy sober judgments of the future of French finance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a judgment , and if we examine these New York rates year by year the downward trend is evident . Such movements , however , may be controlled as was done by pegging during the war , by the extension of private credits Hee the one for $100,000,000 arranged with J. P. Morgan and Company last March , or by public loans like the recent one in America . Funds thus secured may be used directly to support the market , or may have a definite psychological effect , even though not used . While the exchanges may be thus affected even over extended periods , the process is clearly one that is not in itself a permanent solution . The foreign debt of France is increased by the loans , and at later dates francs must be used to buy dollars in larger amounts than ever as interest payments on the foreign loans fall due . Such measures may be justified as a temporary relief , and may for an indefinite period strengthen the market . During this breathing space domestic problems may he met and solved , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign exchanges are not and can not be completely divorced from the internal financial problem . Although the franc is strengthened abroad and M. Clementel may now give his attention to domestic finances , he does so with a realization that if he fails the exchanges will topple . The basic difficulties are serious , centering first of all about the budget . Much well meant advice about balancing budgets is futile , because it overlooks the fact that so large a fraction of the expenditure is for debt charges . These constitute 16,548,000,000 francs , or 48 percent of the total expenditures for 1924 . This part of the annual burden can not be lessened except by outright default or repudiation , or by an arbitrary reduction in interest rates which would he disguised repudiation . When to this heavy and irreducible amount is added the pension charges which likewise are hard to alter , the field within which economies may actually be effected is seen to be very much reduced . With each new loan it is still further narrowed , and whenever payments are begun on the debts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charges and other fixed items will be larger than ever . There is another factor that adds to the difficulty . Prices are rising and continue to rise . This means higher direct costs to the government for all materials purchased . Also the employes of the government demand higher and higher pay with which to meet the increased cost of living . Reductions in expenditure arc not easy . Suggestions for /electing the situation are numerous , but many of them are directed at symptoms rather than at causes . Such is the proposal that the people of France be encouraged to use checks rather than bank notes , thus copying the English and American practice . It is argued that a serious cause for present concern is the difficulty in keeping the note issues of the Bank of France within the legal limit of 41 billion francs , which has almost been reached . An authorization to raise this legal limit would probably be interpreted as a sign that further and perhaps indefinite inflation can not be avoided . The substitution of checks in the circulation might remove this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not stop the rise in prices , which is one of the basic problems . If there be any relation between the volume of circulating medium and the price level . the use of one medium ( checks ) rather than another medium ( bank notes ) would not affect this level . Only a little less futile is the proposed forced loan . It has been suggested by M. Clementel that limited companies shall in future be compelled to invest their " legal reserve funds " in French public funds . That this would stabilize rentes by stimulating the demand for diem is the argument . Yet such a proposal is nothing more nor less than a forced loan . It would encourage concealment of profits and the exportation of capital on a tremendous scale . To some the stabilization of the franc or even the deflation of the currency would bring relief . But let us see . At present business is active , for prices are rising ? the usual effect . Government receipts , though inadequate , arc large and increasing because prices rise . Each manufacturer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ francs , and so can pay a generous number of francs into the Treasury as taxes . If the currency is deflated , which means a fall in prices , each Frenchman will receive fewer francs for his product , and so can pay fewer francs in taxes . But the larger part of the government 's expenditures are fixed in amount , and any decline in the number of francs received means still more trouble . Moreover , this deflation or even a stabilization of the franc at its present level would probably precipitate a business crisis with an extended depression , which also means lessened tax receipts . Some think that Premier I lerriot considers a capital levy . If the French would quietly assent to such a levy it might bring relief , but such acquiescence is not to he expected . Elsewhere such rumors or even considerable increases in ordinary taxes have caused the flight of capital , and similar results may be expected in France . Critics of such unpatriotic evasions , whether by Germans , English or French , should not forget that even Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ber the admonitions of the McKenna Committee last spring that the only way to keep capital in Germany is to make conditions there attractive for it . To some there is hope of large payments by Germany ? but this is not the dream of those who have followed developments in Europe during the last six years . Europe is a land of anomalies . For a time defeated Germany was a land of prosperity , while victorious England suffered from depression . France , with her ravaged areas , has been a country of intense prosperity and no unemployment . A Dawes plan , ostensibly to devise a way of securing payments from Germany , may prove to be merely a way by which the German economic equilibrium is restored , but with no important aid for France and the other Allies . There is no doubt that most unprejudiced critics are convinced that the French problems must be solved with but little aid from reparation payments . Scylla and Charybdis loom on either hand . Debt charges and other irreducible items threaten the Treasury on the one side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the other sick are rising prices . While they bring some relief its else form of increased revenues from active business , they necessitate larger and larger outlays for running expenses , and cause larger and larger note issues by the Bank of France . Business demands inure and more as prices rise , while the government always finds loans at the bank a possible relief from its distress . For the French predicament we can have nothing but sympathy , and for their struggle admiration . Criticism of the past is futile , and assistance in thei present is becoming as vital as it was for Germany . Yet aid based only on emotion may be worse than none at all . Help from America , if intelligently given , will be preceded by an analysis of the real nature and extent of the French difficulty . As yet there is no reason to believe that a real solution is in sight .                     