@@432842

I PASSED the months of March and April , 1919 , in Paris . Can you guess by what remote symbol my imagination was obsessed during those two months ? ? the Tower of Babel ! For the first time it seemed to me that I understood the profound significance of that passage in the Bible , which had always left an impression of enigmatic and slightly bizarre obscurity in my mind . I am almost tempted to say that during those two months I saw with my own eyes the confusion of tongues and dispersion of peoples actually come to pass in the very heart of Paris . Not until some later day shall we learn how many mistakes were made and how much time was lost by the representatives of all mankind at Paris , because they had not one , and only one , language with which all were familiar . But a more serious matter than the confusion of speech was the confusion of mind . What a chaos ! Those things which , to some , were good and righteous and just , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrines which during the war had been anathematized most vehemently , which had been made synonymous with Germany and her cause , reappeared , scarcely disguised , at the Congress , in the train of the victors , like official advisers of the policies to be followed in the reorganization of Europe and Asia . President Wilson 's Fourteen Points , accepted on the conclusion of the Armistice , by victors and van-700 quished alike , as the basis of the peace to be arrived at by mutual consent , proved three months later to be nothing more than an immense misunderstand . ing . Being a little vague in their author 's mind and in the original draft , they were , day after day , ridiculed , discredited , distorted , sometimes applied in part , sometimes laid aside , now interpreted in one sense , and the next day in a sense directly contrary ? and most frequently adopted with compromises which changed their meaning or reduced them to mere ironical plays upon words . In this endless confusion , discussion , instead of allaying discord , aroused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day one felt that the peoples concerned , whose unity the peace was supposed to reconstruct , were becoming disgusted with one another , and asked nothing more than to be left to themselves , each with its selfishness and its animosities . ( I have often wondered what the capital of France would have been if the enemy 's representatives had been admitted to the Congress , as they were to the Congress of Vienna , a hundred and five years ago . ) After the confusion of tongues followed the dispersion of men : The nations turned their backs on one another , and departed , each to its solitary fate . Such seems to be the tragic epilogue of the most tragic of wars . And yet , only six years since , in the early months of 1914 , Western civilization seemed to be a unit . We believed that we knew what we meant when we spoke of ' good and evil , ' ' right and violence , ' justice and oppression , ' liberty and despotism . ' And when Germany , in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we believed that we were in accord . But that was , again , a delusion . No sooner was the Armistice signed than the confusion of tongues became universal . How did it happen ? Why ? What is this new Tower of Babel , which sees the ancient miracle reenacted at its feet ? Such is the fateful question of life or death with which Western civilization is confronted . Let us try to solve it without fear and without shrinking ; for it is a problem the solution of which demands , not only profound thought , but a fearless spirit . Numerous are II they who lay the blame for this confusion of tongues upon Mr. Wilson and the idealists , of whom , in Europe , at least , Mr. Wilson was momentarily the idol . Some have essayed to represent the world-war as a war of principle ; but all those pleasing doctrines , more or less celebrated , for whose advancement the war was supposed to have been fought , could ha4. , e no other result , according to this school of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion of things political and military , in which it was necessary to grasp realities and not to go hunting phantoms . And the realities were the inevitable conflict of ambitions and interests , the , unconquerable selfishness of nations and states , the supreme and final judgment of force . On the other hand , right , justice , the principle of nationality , the liberty of the peoples are the phantoms : mere words , when it comes to the great // conflicts of history which force , and force only , can decide . This current was much stronger at the Congress than one would have said , judging by appearances alone . It was concealed ; but it was functioning vigorously beneath the official phraseology , which was more or less courteous to the Fourteen Points and their author , but quite out of tune with opinions of the American President and his activity expressed in private conversations . But the strength of the current appears in the decisions of the Congress . The peace is the more or less harmonious result of divergent predispositions and ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all ? the one which has exerted the greatest influence and which has imparted its character to the various treaties concluded down to the present time ? is that which might be called the ' Napoleonic ' idea . The peace concluded at Paris in 1919 did not , like that concluded at Vienna in 1815 , undertake to reorganize Europe , according to a plan mutually agreed upon by victors and vanquished : it attempted to reduce to impotence the enemies of the victorious alliance by territorial amputations , by imposing disarmament upon the vanquished , by the creation of a certain number of new states , whose duty it shall be to hold in check the powers which were responsible for the world-war , and especially the most dangerous of them ? Germany . This peace resembles those which were made by Napoleon during the last years of his reign ( and which lasted so short a time ) far more closely than it resembles the peace of Vienna , which was based on the principle of legitimate sovereignty . It is no exaggeration to say that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tempered by a certain respect for the principle of nationality . Whenever it was possible to take advantage of that principle , to create new states or strengthen old ones , it was done . It is clear that such a peace , however excellent it may be in itself , bears very little resemblance to a peace based upon such principles as President Wilson and the idealists had in mind . It is clear , also , that the attempt to conclude a ' Napoleonic ' peace , under cover of a discussion of principles which are its very antithesis , was certain to cause great confusion . The opponents of President Wilson are right , in a certain degree , when they say that , if the question of principles had not been raised ; if the peoples had not been led to believe that ' justice ' and ' right ' could decide such a conflict ; if everybody had boldly faced the ' realities , ' the confusion of tongues would not have come to pass , and the treaty of peace would have been more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was possible not to raise the question of principles , and if , as many people in Europe seem to think , justice and right , self-determination of peoples , the principle of nationality , the League of Nations , are all an invention of Mr. Wilson and the small knot of dreaming idealists , or something more profound . There lies the whole question . There is no doubt that , if Western civilization were disposed , following the example of certain periods and certain nations , to bow , always without discussion , to the decrees of the God of Battle , as being just in themselves , President Wilson and all the other idealists would have been embarrassingly in the way . Their action could not fail to put bounds to the sovereign and absolute rights which victory conferred over the political map of the world . But such a conception of war and of victory is possible only in civilizations completely under the domination of the military element . Only men of war can look upon war as a game , the result of which is accepted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort of professional convention . According to this theory , winning a war is the same thing as winning a game of cards . The victor is entitled to enjoy his victory in the same measure in which his adversary would have enjoyed it if the war god had pronounced in his favor ; just as the lucky gambler is entitled to pocket the cash of the opponent , who , had fortune been different , would have taken his . That is why Napoleon , who was a great soldier , but a soldier pure and simple , thought himself entitled to destroy and remake enemy states , just as his adversaries would have utterly destroyed his Empire if they had beaten him . But this theory of war can no longer be entertained by the people , the masses , the civil elements , in an ancient civilization like that of Western Europe . Nations can not be interested in war as a game forming an end in itself , but must look upon it as a means of gratifying certain passions or of defending certain interests . Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the very reason that war may readily do violence to it . Victory is capricious : it passes from one combatant to the other while , in most cases , the human intellect can not grasp very clearly the reason for the change . Professional soldiers may accept these freaks of fortune ; but peoples , on the contrary , will never agree that their property ; their independence , their liberty , their existence hang on the result of a battle or a war ; that is to say , of events to which no one possesses the mysterious key . One understands , too , why the whole history of civilization is an effort to erect for states and peoples , under varying forms , guaranties against the caprices of the god of war , and to withdraw them from the blind regime of omnipotent force . The solutions of this problem which have been put forward , while differing widely in form , can all , in substance , be reduced to two : either to limit the development of force itself , in such wise that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these solutions because they can never seriously threaten the essential wellbeing of the vanquished ; or to allow force to develop freely , but to subject it to a moral discipline which will prevent it from violating right and justice . The first solution is the easier . To it many civilized peoples have had recourse in the past ? in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries , for example . The great writers on international law of the eighteenth century ? Vattel , for instance ? maintain that , if there be just and unjust wars , the justice or injustice of war is a question which concerns only natural law , that is to say , the conscience of sovereigns , and their responsibility at the bar of history and of God . In practice and in reality , these writers advised each belligerent , as a matter of convention , to regard the adversary 's cause as no less than his own , and never to claim to be the representative of righteousness against force and violence . This doctrine , superficially considered , may well seem to us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these authors justify it ? They said that , without this convention , there was neither code of law nor authority to decide the question of right and wrong as between the belligerent states ; that each people would be the judge of its own cause ; and so each would be convinced that it alone was in the right , and that all the offenses were the adversary 's . Consequently wars would come to be endless and universal . They would be endless because neither party would yield until its powers were exhausted ; and the one that did yield would yield only to begin again as soon as it was in a position to do so ; for justice demands that all wrongs be redressed . They would become universal , because every people , being convinced that it was defending no mere political interest but the supreme blessings of life , would seek to make sure of every prop it could find . Thus conceived and justified , we can not deny that this doctrine is profoundly and humanly true , but only on one condition : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the belligerents . It would be absurd to ask a state to admit that its enemy 's cause is as just as its own , when it is called upon to fight for its existence against an adversary who is determined , if victorious , to annihilate it . Thus it was in the eighteenth century . The monarchies of that day waged a limited , conventionalized warfare which the strategists of the nineteenth century held in great contempt . But this conventional warfare was simply one method of making force less dangerous even in its most unjust caprices , by limiting the resources at its disposal ; and of rendering useless the dangerous discussions concerning the justice of wars and of their results . The nineteenth century shattered this limited , conventionalized conception of war : the French Revolution and Napoleon substituted for it what Marshal Foch calls absolute ' ? that is to say , unlimited ? war , which recognizes as legitimate all possible methods of annihilating the enemy as rapidly as may be . This is a purely technical conception of war , evolved by military circles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thanks to the upheaval of Europe caused by the French Revolution . But the conscience of the nations was not slow to react , at the Congress of Vienna . That Congress was , despite certain errors , ? as with respect to Belgium , ? a very serious attempt to make the states of Europe and their relations subject to a body of principles which would have the effect of immunizing them from the most dangerous caprices of force . We forgot this too readily in the midst of the civil wars which rent Europe asunder during the nineteenth century . Indeed , people came finally to believe that the principle of nationality was invented by the Prince de Talleyrand , the better to deceive all the world . But the Prince de Talleyrand was a more profound intellect than his futile detractors imagine ; he was , in truth , one of the most profound intellects in the political history of the century ; and posterity has thus far failed to realize the immense service he rendered to Europe , by finding this principle of unity still living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ingenious generalization , to the needs of a period which had taken from monarchy a part of its consecrated character and created other forms of government . Legitimate sovereignty , conceived as the consecration of governments by lapse of time , was to the Congress of Vienna a sacrosanct principle before which force , even victory itself , must of necessity bend the knee . At that Congress it played the part which the Fourteen Points should have played at Paris . By accepting it as the basis of the new order of things , the Congress of Vienna avowed , much more frankly and definitely than the Congress of Paris , that force alone , as Talleyrand said , creates no right . respect for these principles upon the passions and selfish interests which might have sought to violate them . In its eyes justice and right were not empty words : they were , on the contery , living , but still sadly confused , realities , which it ardently desired , but knew not how or where to obtain . As the principles capable of imposing respect for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the states had at their disposal increased to a fabulous degree . The doctrine . of ' unconditional ' war , the military institutions of the French Revolution , the development of industry and of wealth , created gradually the most gigantic armies that the world had yet seen . Thereupon a terrible tragedy began in the history of Western civilization ? a tragedy which the great writers on international law of the eighteenth century , unconscious prophets , had predicted to their heedless grandsons . The first act of this tragedy was 1870 , the last and greatest of the wars growing out of the turmoil in which the Revolution of 1848 had involved Europe . For the first time a great power declared that it considered as of no effect a treaty imposed upon it by force , at the end of an unsuccessful war , because it violated an indefeasible right of the people of Alsace and Lorraine . For the first time the doctrine that there are such things as rights of populations , superior to force , of which governments can not dispose , issued from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to become the guiding principle of the politics of one of the great states of Europe . It was a tremendous revolution in the history of Western civilization ; but , like all revolutions , it should have been carried to its extremest consequences . A now body of international law should have been created , with its doctrines and its organs , which should have defined the rights of peoples before which force must lay down its arms . If we admit that a treaty is invalid when it violates these principles , and if we permit a people to define its own rights in its own way , then will come to pass what was foreseen by the great writers on international law in the eighteenth century : no treaty will have any value whatsoever , and a state of war will become permanent and peace an absolute impossibility . Every state will declare to be of no effect , as contrary to right and justice , all treaties which do not happen to suit it . It will simply have to adopt the definition of right ' and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any given time . Europe did not realize the perilous situation which was destined to develop gradually as a result of this great incomplete revolution . France maintained as against Germany , arrogant in her ever-increasing strength , the principle that the right of the peoples is to be regarded as sacred ; but she dared not go further and lay the foundation of the new international law which would have justified her protest by making it more definite . Weakened by the violence which she had undergone , by internal disturbances , by the distrust which encompassed her , by the ineradicable contradiction between the tendencies which had rent her for three centuries , she retired within herself , in an attitude of immutable but passive protest . Europe looked on at this species of inactive duel between right and force , with a curiosity not exempt from a sort of malevolent irony , as if it were a matter which concerned Germany and France alone . But gradually an increasing sense of discomfort spread throughout Europe . Cast a glance at the forty-three years between the treaty of Frankfort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 706 THE CRISIS OF WESTERN CIVILIZATION pervading those years , which should by rights have been among the most brilliant in history ! Why was it that the vast riches accumulated in that long period of peace gave to the world neither tranquillity nor happiness ? It was because during that period Europe enjoyed only an apparent peace . The war declared on July 18 , 1870 , really continued without remission . The treaty of Frankfort was no more than an armistice . A peace which , in the eyes of the vanquished , is but an iniquitous imposition of violence , is a mere truce so long as the vanquished has some chance of shaking off the yoke and of making an attempt to wreak vengeance , either alone or with allies . The sole guaranty of the treaty is the force which imposed it . In fact , from the treaty of Frankfort sprang the unlimited rivalry in armaments and the diplomatic contest for alliances which resulted in the world-war ; both were simply desperate efforts to preserve by force a situation which force had created by imposing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not come to an end with the world-war  --  far from it . We must have the courage to see and to speak the truth . That war , waged for the triumph of justice , threatens to extend this tragic situation throughout Europe . It has shown us how strong , even in their lack of definiteness , are the sentiments which we express by the words justice , right , liberty of the people . Except for these vague phrases , and except for the emotion they have the power to awaken , no state would have been capable of arousing the various peoples to the enormous effort of the war . The strength of these sentiments was so great that even the aggressors tried to utilize it . They did all they could ? in part successfully ? to make their people believe that they too were fighting for justice and for liberty . The very enormity of the act of violence of which the world was a victim for four years , and the extent of the danger incurred by all the belligerent states , were sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of justice and right . But the exaltation of sentiment was not accompanied , either during the war or afterward , by any serious effort to give precision to the meaning of the words . In what sense should we understand the right of peoples to dispose of themselves " ' What must we understand by ' nationality ' and by ' self-determination ' ? And what are to be the principles and the instruments of the international law of the future ? These are the points upon which no one has sought to acquire precise information . All the peoples are left at liberty to define right and justice as they please ; consequently they have found in their consciences only a very weak resistance to the dangerous passion which victory was fatally certain to arouse in them . This passion , most dangerous in itself , and by reason of the paroxysmal heights to which victory has excited it , is the one which seemed to be a great force , whereas it is in reality a great weakness , of the Western world ? its bland and artless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so important for a true comprehension of the terrible crisis in which Europe is now struggling , that I shall dwell upon it for a moment , at the cost of making a slight digression . Western civilization has made great strides in the past century : its learning , its wealth , the power which it has achieved with the aid of its discoveries and its inventions , have intoxicated it . At the same time that it called upon justice to regulate the relations between nations and to reign over the world , it gradually lost all idea of what was possible , and of the limitation of its powers in all spheres of activity . The world-war , a ghastly mirror wherein Western civilization might detect all its deformities , was a decisive proof of this tragic contradiction . It was to the powers attacked a war of right and justice ; but it was also , for everybody involved , a series of frenzied assaults upon human nature , in order to obtain from it the impossible ; as if the impossible had become the simplest and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historians will be at this amazing blindness ! We took millions of men , educated in peace and for peace ; we tore them , day by day , from their homes , from their families , from their private affairs , and , after a few weeks of instruction , we hurled them into the horrors and terrors of the bloodiest war that has ever ravished the earth ; we subjected societies accustomed for three or four generations to the enjoyment of full political and economic freedom to the most arbitrary despotism . Certain men , all of them raised to power during this period by the hazard of the most trivial parliamentary combinations , disposed , during three or four years , of the property and the liberty and lives of millions of other men , with the boundless power wielded by Louis the Fourteenth or Diocletian ; yet no one was surprised . Day by day it was necessary , in order to carry on the war , to consume the wealth accumulated by three generations . In four years Europe destroyed the ingenious system by which it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dense population ; it converted the credits which it possessed all over the world into debts ; it lost a part of the clientele which throughout the world fed its industries and kept its agriculture alive ; it condemned itself to depopulation and to prolonged destitution . But the masses went through the crisis , being fully persuaded that the world was the richer for it , and that Western civilization was capable of causing wealth to flow even from destruction . Victory carried to the point of frenzy this blind confidence in the possibility of the impossible . The war cams to an end with the complete destruction of two empires and the almost complete destruction of a third . A fourth empire had already disappeared during the war . These four countries governed almost one half of Europe and Asia . Nothing takes longer and is more difficult to create than a government ; but how many people have seen and measured with their eyes the enormous abyss which is yawning in Europe and Asia ? The great majority regarded all these occurrences as perfectly natural ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the consequences of this catastrophe would affect the whole world . It was well acquainted with the ministers and diplomatists who were to meet in Paris ; it knew that they were men , because it had spewed them out and assailed them with insults , like servants , a hundred times before that day ; yet it expected , and still expects , from these men , with naive confidence , a miracle which only gods could bring to pass . The peoples have believed , and still believe , that a few ministers and diplomats , assembled in Paris , pen in hand , before a map , could in a few weeks reconstruct the work of centuries , create a new order out of the chaos and void left by the crumbling of four empires , and restore peace and prosperity to the world after such horrifying destruction ! VI Everybody recalls this frenzied excitement of the nations after the victory , because everybody took part in it , more or less . The craving for peace and justice was not extinct in men 's hearts ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the world were sorely vague and ill-defined , and they became still more confused through the action of the passions roused by victory , especially through the action of that exalted confidence in their own omnipotence which victory inspired in the various governments . It was so easy for each people to persuade itself that whatever it desired ? even vengeance and oppression of the vanquished ? was right and justice ! The statesmen , skeptics by profession , had never had a very lively faith in the principles of liberty and justice about which they had prated so much during the war ; they believed in the superior rights of force , all the more strongly because they imagined that they possessed it ; and because they were subjected , after victory , to the influence of the military element . In fine , the confidence of the peoples in their omnipotence ? the prevailing malady of the age ? being over-stimulated by victory , was destined inevitably to infect them . Napoleon did nut believe in the boundless power of his will until after the legendary triumphs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when men were more distrustful of themselves than we are . Nothing on earth could have made the men who negotiated treaties in those days believe that there would come a day , toward the end of a war , when they would be as gods , creating states and nations by a frown . And yet not one of them had the slightest difficulty in deeming himself a god , for at least a year of his life . Thus it is that the peace of Paris , in the end , contrary to all preconceived ideas , bears a much greater resemblance to Napoleon 's great treaties than to the peace of Vienna . The subtle , ingenious , and sometimes chimerical schemes of force had much more weight therein than the application of any moral prin ciple . We can not say that the principle of nationality , which should have played in the Congress of Paris the role played at Vienna by the principle of legitimacy , was altogether neglected . But the attempt was made to combine it with the self-seeking designs of force by creating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great states too often composed of divergent and more or less hostile national elements . The peoples looked on at what was being done because they had no comprehension of it ; indeed , they could have none , for they themselves had no precise conception of what they demanded in the name of right and justice . But the sentiment which they meant to express by those words still exists , and is beginning already to manifest itself anew . The tragedy predicted by the great writers of the eighteenth century is bound to continue , spreading now from France and Germany to the whole of Europe . There is no room for illusions : the Germans will adopt toward the treaty of Versailles the same attitude that the French adopted toward the treaty of Frankfort . They will say that it violates the principles of President Wilson , and the rights of free peoples , as they define those rights to suit the necessities of their cause , that it is , therefore , null and void , and that they submit to it simply because it is imposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissatisfied , for any reason , with the treaties which have reconstituted Europe will do the same ; so that there will be no ether-guaranty of public order than force . The consequences of such a situation it is easy to foresee , at least in their general tenor ; and they seem likely to be especially serious in the states which the treaties of Versailles and Saints Germain have built upon the ruins of the former Austrian Empire . In the construction of these new states the mixture of the principle of nationality with the crafty schemings of force is more evident than in the mere transformations of former states . There have been constituted states which are half-national , like the great states of the West , and half-imperialistic , as were the former Austrian and Russian empires , in the hope that they will checkmate the expansion of Germanism . The future will tell us in what measure this hope can be fulfilled ; but without seeking to assume the mantle of the prophet , one may for the moment wonder what authority these states will possess over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be able with comparative ease to impose their sway upon a different race , because they have the prestige and authority born of lapse of time ? according to Talleyrand , the most potent source of legitimacy . Although the awakening of the spirit of nationality in the Austrian Empire began in the first half of the nineteenth century , the prestige of the crown of the Hapsburgs was able to hold together until 1914 Slays , Hungarians , and Germans , in a single state . But it would be rash to believe , for example , that Professor Masaryk 's republic will enjoy the same prestige in the eyes of Hungarians and Germans that the Conference of Paris has ascribed to it ; that the Hungarians and Germans will regard it as their legitimate government and will hold themselves bound to obey it . Sacred in the eyes of the Czechs , as the expression of their nationality , and therefore legitimate , the new republic will be , in the eyes of the other nationalities , a foreign government , imposed upon them by force , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself at liberty to rebel whenever it has the power . Thus the foundation of these new states , so far as their non-national subjects are concerned , will be mere brute force , unless they discover some means of satisfying the national consciences of all the nationalities included within their boundaries , as Switzerland has succeeded in doing . Aside from this possibility , which at this moment seems most problematical , these states will be compelled to apply to their non-national subjects a system of government much more harsh and oppressive than that of Austria . And this will be still another paradoxical result of a war in which so much blood has been shed in the cause of liberty of the peoples ! So , then , the confusion of tongues which has come about at Paris is the consequence of a deep-seated and serious disease which is undermining Western civilization . This disease is manifested in an impotent aspiration toward a world-order based upon justice . This aspiration is vigorous and sincere , for it has sprung , not from a morbid degeneracy of sentiment , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization would be enslaved , and would in time be destroyed by the most monstrous aggregation of the elements of force which the genius of man has ever been able to create . But this aspiration is impossible of fulfillment , for the doctrines and institutions essential to such fulfillment are lacking . The Congress of Vienna discovered one principle which was capable of bringing a little order into war-ravaged Europe . The Congress of Paris has not discovered such an one , because all those of which it tried to make use were vague expedients of the moment . The crisis is serious , and can not be averted unless Western civilization shall find some principle of union ? a common language , an Esperanto of the spirit if not of the flesh . Now such a principle can be found only in the principle of nationality , understood and loyally applied in its strict , definite signification , as a principle of right , after the style of the principle of legitimacy ; or in universally accepted doctrines ? supra-natural , so to speak ? which will make it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peoples to live under the same government . This is what the Bolshevild are trying to do in Russia , when they seek to maintain the unity of the Empire by substituting for the dynastic principle the idea of the fraternity of the proletarian masses ; that is to say , by substituting one universal idea for another . The attempt will probably fail ; but it is not , in itself , so mad as people See/11 to think , especially from the standpoint of the Russians , who rushed to save the Empire from dismemberment after the overthrow of the dynastic idea , which , down to the world-war , held in check all separatist and nationalist tendencies . In this way we can understand why so many of the Tsar 's generals have taken service with the new government . I shall not try to draw aside the veil of the future and guess which of the two solutions has the better chance of success . But I do not cpnsider that I am putting forward too bold a hypothesis if I say that neither will be able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which it stands in need , so long as men 's minds shall continue to be swayed by this overweening confidence in the omnipotence of the modern man , and by the intellectual confusion to which such confidence gives birth . So long as this confidence and this confusion shall endure , the tongues of men will become more and more confounded upon earth , and the generous doctrines of universal fraternity will serve only to kindle anew the flames of war . Such has been the tragic destiny of Europe from the French Revolution to the Russian Revolution : as soon as an idea of fraternity among men appears , wars , within and without , break forth anew , implacable and never-ending , How is this contradiction to be explained ? Did not the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries derive this inspiring idea from Christianity , which inn-dated the world with love and benevolence ? Aye ; but they modified it by taking from it the profound pessimism which characterizes it in Christian doctrine , and substituting therefor an exalted confidence in human nature and in the unlimited power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Men have never felt themselves to be broth . ers in good-fortune , in pride , in ambition , in success , in the emotion born of conquest and of enjoyment of earthly blessings ; but in the face of danger , in misfortune , in times of trial . Christianity could bid men to regard one another and to treat one another as brothers , because at the same time it told them that they were weak and imperfect creatures , needing to assist one another and always menaced by the enemy they held concealed within themselves . The nineteenth century , on the contrary , told men that they were brothers , but told them at the same time that they were destined , one and all , to be monarchs of the universe . And in order to be monarchs of the universe , men and nations , M-stead of embracing like brothers , threw themselves upon one another , arms in hand . But the crucial days are drawing near ; the peoples which make up Western civilization may to-day rediscover a deep-rooted sentiment of brotherhood in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fallen . This is not the material poverty , dire as it is , which threatens directly the less wealthy peoples of Europe , and indirectly those most favored by fortune : it is the slavery to mere matter , which lies , an intolerable burden , upon us all . In order to attain the summit of power , in order to become rulers of the universe , we have created , by fire and the sword , instruments of formidable strength . They were intended to serve us as slaves : to give us wealth , power , freedom of spirit , dominion over time and space , ubiquity . They have given us certain of these almost divine privileges ; but they have become our masters . Created to serve us , they rule , as tyrannical despots , all of Western civilization , awaiting the moment to devour it , a living victim . What was , in reality , the phenomenon of over-production before the war , which was one of the causes of the awful catastrophe ? It was simply production and consumption over and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization , and was forced upon whole peoples , in order to keep their economic system in operation . It was not the machinery which functioned to satisfy our needs : it was we who were fain to work and increase our needs in such measure as was necessary to keep all the existing machinery at work . The war broke out . It has been defined as a war of materiel . The definition is exact enough , ? at least , in a certain sense , ? because weapons played a greater part in it than in other wars , to the disadvantage of the human factor . As in peace men were slaves of their trade , ? of the lathe or the locomotive , ? so in war they were slaves of the trench and the cannon . The length of the war , the torrents of blood that were shed , the prodigious expenditure , the superhuman fatigue of the troops these are other consequences of this tyranny which the instrument exerts over its creator . And , the war being at an end , do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself in new and unanticipated shapes ? The most brilliant of civilizations threatens to be wiped out for lack of coal ; intellectual life is strangled by the price of paper ! The masses are in revolt to-day against this shocking tyranny ; indolence , strikes , the hope of obtaining higher wages for fewer hours of work , are simply frenzied attempts to break the chain of this new slavery . But to-day , as always , the slave who tries to break his fetters , in an outburst of rage , does no more than wound his bruised limbs . The secret of the way to recover freedom lies deeper than this . It is necessary that the instruments turn about and serve the master who created them , instead of directing him ; and they will not so turn until the day when the master shall cease to ask them to give him a power incompatible with the laws of life and of human nature . The questions of peace within and of peace without lead to the same conclusion : the first essential condition of salvation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the limits set by nature and by actualities to the longings and ambitions of Western civilization . The task is hard : all the spiritual energy of our age will scarcely suffice to accomplish it ; for we must needs overcome many passions , selfish motives , and prejudices . Let religion , art , literature , science , and politics unite to accomplish this mission and to save Western civilization from the blood-soaked destruction which otherwise may well befall it anew . Let the League of Nations organize speedily , and with the necessary force to conquer the distrust and hatred which encompass it . Let it succeed , above all , in solving the capital question ? that with which all others are connected : the question of armaments . It is in this matter of army organization that the frenzy of the unlimited , the disease of which Western civilization is dying , has manifested itself most violently and most menacingly . It is in the matter of army organization that the sense of what is possible , and of what I have called the human measure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the unlimited rivalry in armaments between the great powers shall be renewed , at the present stage of economic exhaustion , political turmoil , and uncertainty between peace and war in which Europe is struggling , it is hard to see by what miracle we can avert a general war , which will bring the whole world , victors and vanquished , down to the same level of misery . The result of this policy will be bankruptcy , famine , and either a social revolution or a horrible despotism . There is but one way to escape this danger : a general agreement between all the powers , Germany included . The principles which should underlie the agreement would seem to be two : an engagement on the part of the great European powers not to exceed a certain maximum of military and naval armaments , which should be the same for all , whatever the size of their pop . ulation ; and the creation of a code of maritime law , under the guaranty of all the powers , which will make the sea the common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of reaching this agreement , they can not be beyond the moral and intellectual powers of Western civilization ; for we could not live on except on the condition that they are overcome . But if we do overcome them , the League of Nations will be the temple of justice , erected by wisdom , confronting the Tower of Babel , erected by pride ; and in the shadow of that temple men will learn again to speak a common tongue .                     