@@486176

DISTINCT PROGRESS toward a real disarmament congress has been made at Geneva . What is more , it is not to be limited to land disarmament , for France , Japan , and Italy have insisted that no distinction whatever shall ? be made between military and naval armaments in the pro- gram on which the special commission of preparation for disarmament will begin work on February 15 . No fewer than fifty-four nations have thus committed themselves to a study of the questions of armaments and what may be termed military resources . That it is a far cry from this to actual disarmament we are ready to admit , but it is none the less a great thing that for the first time in the history of nations a survey of this kind is being made . Moreover , everything that keeps alive the discussion of disarmament is of value . Invitations are to be sent to Russia and the United States and Germany to take part . The invitation to us puts Mr. Coolidge in a hole . That muddy-minded gentleman who talks disarmament on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Tuesdays , Thursdays , and Saturdays  --  when he does not speak up for both on the same days  --  has declared himself opposed to a discussion of disarmament on sea in connec- tion with the limitation of land forces . He will now have to recede from his position or leave the United States outof the congress . If he should take that stand , it would be necessary for public opinion to assert itself without a mo- ment 's loss of time . We took the lead in the Conference for the Limitation of Armaments in Washington ; we must not be absent from the one at Geneva . Meanwhile , Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt has made a most admirable sug- gestion that we negotiate at once a Locarno pact of our own with Japan and thus decrease further the military and naval rivalry between the two countries . WHEN THE PERMANENT COURT of International Justice decreed that the Council of the League of Nations should have final arbitral power to decide the dis  --  pute over the boundary between Turkey and Iraq it set the League a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Turkey and Iraq lies Mosul , and the boundary line must either give the oil and wheat of that small chunk of valuable real estate to the Arabs of Iraq to be exploited by their merciful mandatory Great Britain or it must give them to the Turkish Government which promised the people of Turkey way back in. 1920 that Mosul , and wholly conflict  --  ing , solutions : ( 1 ) Mosul should go to Iraq provided Great Britain would continue as mandatory for twenty-five more years . ( Great Britain was more than willing. ) ( 2 ) Other  --  wise the territory should go to Turkey . ( 3 ) Or , finally , if all else failed , the territory might be divided . At that time no one would consider number three , so the choice remained between the other two pleasantly diametrical proposals . But Turkey 's representative on the League Couneil re  --  fused to pledge himself to accept the Council 's decision ( the opinion of the majority was known to favor Great Britain ) ; and war hovered over the Near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , breathed shrapnel and poison gas , and talked about British respon  --  sibilities . Tewfik Rushdi Bey withdrew from the Council . As we write , however , signs of reconciliation appear . Tewfik , after an interview with Briand , has hinted at the possibility of a compromise . This might be accomplished by a division of the territory or by special compensations to Turkey on the part of the British . The latter course is the one toward which Great Britain is most favorably disposed . THE APPEAL of " law and order " ? with the harrow  --  ing specter of a " red " ' reign as the alternative  --  has won another election . This time it was in Australia , and the exact slogan of the stand-patters was the alliterative phrase " Communism or the Commonwealth . " It was suf  --  ficiently effective so that in the parliamentary elections the coalition government of Mr. Bruce  --  supported by the Nationalist and the Country parties  --  has slightly increased its Lead in the House of Representatives and has a working majority in the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the shipping strike and to the fact that Mr. Bruce was able to tag his opponents as communists without adequate rebuttal . Nevertheless , a correspondent of the Manchester Guardian says that the Labor Party has largely reestablished itself since its losses during the war . This is evident from its position in the parliaments of the six states of the commonwealth . In 1918 the Nationalist Party controlled all ' the state parliaments except that of Queensland , whereas now Labor is in the saddle every  --  where except in Victoria . Incidental to the recent common  --  wealth elections it may be noted that the new compulsory voting law  --  under which failure to cast a ballot is punish  --  able by a fine of ? 2 ? raised the number of those going to the polls from 60 per cent in 1922 to 90 per cent this year . TN A RECENT ISSUE November 11 we gave some I authoritative facts and figures setting forth the aston  --  ishing industrial recovery of Russia . Across our desk now comes the balance sheet of the All-Russian Textile Syndicate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This corporation is the American agent for the Soviet Government 's textile trust which manufactures 96 per cent of Russia 's cotton , wool , silk , and linen goods . The balance sheet is duly certified by one of New York 's leading firms of certified public accountants , and it is further announced that Simpson , Thatcher and Bartlett are the general coun  --  sel . The total assets on September 30 , 1925 , were almost $14 ? 000,000 . During the fiscal year ended on that date over $44,000,000 of raw cotton , dyes , and machinery were purchased in the United States . In all 298,000 bales were shipped to Murmansk and thirty-one steamships were char  --  tered to transport the merchandise . For the previous year 220,000 bales were shipped . Meanwhile the parent com  --  pany in Moscow estimates the production of finished cot  --  ton goods for 1925 at 65.4 per cent of the 1912 total ; of woolen goods , 82.7 per cent ; of linen goods , 107.3 per cent . Where less than 300,000,000 meters of cotton goods were manufactured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year . Linen has jumped from 35,000,000 meters in 1921 to 115,000,000 in 1925 . THE ECONOMIC SITUATION in Porto Rico is critical , as is evidenced by the protest recently submitted to President Coolidge by Santiago Iglesias , on behalf of the Free Federation of Workingmen , as well as by the last report of Governor Towner . The Free Federation of Work  --  ingmen asks that the island be put under the Department of the Interior . The nationalist movement sees the only chance for salvation in complete independence . The " Alli  --  ance , " compromising between the statehood ideal of the Republicans and the modified independence platform of the Unionists , while declaring for " sovereignty within the sov  --  ereignty of the United States , " has limited its ambition to ' obtaining the right for Porto Rico to elect its own gover  --  nor . This means that the " Alliance , " which holds all but four seats in the Legislature , would control the governor and all government appointments so long as it could main  --  tain its political domination of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finding out that its supremacy alone is not the cure-all that it pictured to the voters a year ago . It had a scare when , on October 30 , in the midst of the opposition to its sales-tax law , a new party was launched by the big agricultural interests combined with the Chamber of Com  --  merce . Much disturbance was observable in " Alliance " circles until November 5 , when , after a secret conference between the leaders of the new movement and the " Alli  --  ance " heads , it was announced that " the interview ended amid the greatest harmony and cordiality . " To PRINCETON UNIVERSITY and especially to Lewis Fox , a Princeton senior , goes the credit for initiating what we think was the most completely representative stu  --  dent conference ever held in America . Everybody knows that the delegates from some 250 colleges and universities came primarily to discus 's the World Court . Their action as well as the votes in the colleges where a campaign had previously been conducted by an able committee of the Student Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What pleased us about this discussion in the colleges , and more especially at Princeton , was that even the advocates of the court did not claim that by so cheap a price as joining it could America purchase the costly gift of peace . This note of sober realism even in propaganda is all too new in America . The students ' fear of one-sided statements was well shown at Princeton where pains were taken to present many sides ' of the peace problem . The World Court issue itself was publicly debated by Senator Lenroot and Clarence Darrow , and in the dis  --  cussion groups problems of armament , imperialism , the effect ' of the Locarno treaties , etc. , were frankly faced . The students were n't afraid even to have a Socialist among the eminently respectable leaders of their discussion of world affairs . T HAT AMERICAN STUDENTS want to keep on talking over their own problems as students and as citizens was proved by their action at Princeton in forming a na  --  tional federation . Usually we feel like applying birth con  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over  --  populated by them . But this organization commends itself to us both by its purpose and the spirit and intelligence of its founders . They want to promote friendship with stu  --  dents of other lands but do not dream of importing a for  --  eign youth movement ready-made to this country . They proved themselves sincere in wanting to break down the racial prejudices that lead to war by beginning at home . They elected Miss Holloway , an able Negro student from Howard University , to their executive committee . And the significant thing is not that there was some Southern oppo  --  sition to this election but that there was much Southern support of it . Finally , by seating Felix Cohen of the Col  --  lege of the City of New York , the students showed courte  --  ously but firmly that their organization was to represent students and not faculties . Whatever its future , the new federation has begun well . WHILE WE WILL not go so far as to say that the wishes of the students should be decisive in deter  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we do feel that such opinion is entitled to much weight . When that opinion has been expressed by a vote of 2,092 to 345 , as in the referendum of the College of the City of New York against compulsory military training , the reason for heeding it becomes the more impressive . Yet the faculty of this college has voted to retain compulsory drill with only one professor , Morris R. Cohen , taking a public stand on the other side . This attitude , as we have pre  --  viously suggested , is probably due as much to fear  --  fear for their jobs , fear for city appropriations  --  as to personal belief . Hope , therefore , rests in the students alone . We trust they will not flag . We want to see them carry out the proposal for a referendum among their parents , which we believe will not vary greatly from that among the students . In addition we hope the students will put up a continuing , earnest , and aggressive fight upon compulsory soldiering . If the older men responsible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York ? are so devoted to war , let them have it a plenty . GOVERNOR WALKER OF GEORGIA is publicly exult- ing over Governor Silzer ' of New Jersey , and he is well entitled to do so . Two years ago there was arrested in New Jersey Silas Parmore , a Negro fugitive from Georgia , against whom a charge of murder had been laid . Declaring that he would be given over to a mob if he were returned to Georgia , he fought extradition , and Governor Silzer was sufficiently impressed by his argument to warn the authori  --  ties in Georgia that Parmore must have a fair trial or no other fugitive would be returned from New Jersey under his administration . Now Governor Walker writes that he is sure that Governor Silzer will be " pleased to receive official notice that Silas Parmore has been tried by a jury in Georgia , given a fair and impartial trial , and found not guilty by a jury of twelve white south Georgia citizens . " Governor Walker insists that " the State of Georgia and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We are ? happy to record this incident as proof of the improvement of the administration of justice in the South and to express the hope that before long the Governor ' of Georgia and all the Southern executives will be able to report not only the acquittal of innocent Negroes but their acquittal by a jury of their peers , as required by the Constitution . A Negro should have the right to trial by a mixed jury , at least , and should not always face one ' of white men . We are happy to add that in three cases of alleged criminal assault on white women in North Carolina that State admirably pro  --  tected the accused from mobs , proved that one Negro was entirely innocent of the charge , and that another was guilty of simple assault , while the third has been sentenced to death by regular procedure . N0 SOONER do President Coolidge and the Morrow commission assure us that all is well with aviation and that we are leading the world , or at least just as well off in material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes a report of a House of Represen  --  tatives special committee headed by Mr. Lampert to declare that " an alarming situation still exists in the army and navy air services . " Taking direct issue with the President , the committee declares that we rank " not higher than third nor lower than fifth among the nations of the world " and it asserts that although more than $40,000,000 has been spent in the improvement of the service it has deteriorated in both morale and equipment . What shall the layman think ? What shall the public say ? We have had now three reports by committees or commissions and we have the tes  --  timony brought out before the Shenandoah inquiry and the Mitchell court martial . They present a mass of contradic  --  tory and directly diverging statements . We ourselves are of the opinion that neither the army nor the navy will ever make a go of aviation . They will do stunt flying well , but when it comes to developing the science of aviation they will always be throttled by the conservatism and red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ navy . To stop a frightful waste of money the people ought to ask for the abolition of military and naval aviation altogether . THE NEW YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY has wisely bestowed upon I. N. Phelps Stokes the first gold medal it has ever awarded , besides holding a public reception in his honor . For Mr. Stokes has just published in five thick volumes his extraordinarily valuable iconographic history ' of Manhattan Island . During the last fourteen years he has spent much time and money in recording the life of New York City not only in the form of a diary of the im  --  portant happenings in the rise of the metropolis but in the presentation ' of a mass of material , notably maps and illus  --  trations , all recorded with unquenchable enthusiasm , the passion of the collector of ancient things , the judgment of the detached historian , and the skill ' of the scholar . But this is only one of Mr. Stokes 's notable services . When the State Library at Albany was largely destroyed by fire Mr. Stokes headed a group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Governor he obtained guards and helpers . As the present State historian relates it : For two days he directed the work and thus saved priceless treasures . Twice during the first day of rescue work Mr. Stokes was carried from the manuscript room , unconscious from the smoke , and each time upon reviving he insisted upon returning . Like a gallant officer he led his forces , under hopeless odds , against the enemy  --  fire , water , wind , smoke , and ice  --  and saved 80,000 manuscripts together with George Washington 's fire-scarred sword . All of which achievements Mr. Stokes has done his best to hide with a cloak of modesty . THE WALT WHITMAN exhibition at the New York Public Library is striking evidence that the " good gray poet " has at last achieved in America the particular sort of eminence which leads to public monuments and to recogni  --  tion by institutions . The cases of editions , manuscripts , translations , and mementos assembled at this exhibition are indeed so numerous and so full that Whitman might seem for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unassailable . But the assaults have not ceased ; the Whitman war still rages . Last week we commented upon an article wherein Ernest Boyd charges Whitman with having debauched a literary generation in Europe and America . Now comes a copy of the Americana Collec  --  tor , the first item in which is an open letter to the trustees of the New York Public Library , insisting upon the " un  --  timeliness " of the exhibition . It is untimely , says the author , Charles F. Heartman , because the world in general has yet to learn that the poet was not good even if he was gray . When the world becomes aware that the author of " Calamus " was abnormal , Mr. Heartman implies , it will cease to read him ; and he quotes with approval the librarian of " an Eastern college " who testified " that students who asked for Whitman 's books always received a pri  --  vatissima . After being thus enlightened most of them do n't care any more to read the books . " In other words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debauch mankind . We had not been informed that certain natural enough sus  --  picions as to Whitman 's private character had been scien  --  tifically confirmed . And even if they had , we are forced to wonder how long any artist would have to wait for his fame if that fame depended upon a clean bill of moral health . Shall we stop reading Shakespeare until we know for sure whether or not the sonnets were written to a man ? Must those who have read Freud on Leonardo da Vinci hence  --  forth forswear The Virgin of the Rocks ?                     