@@493412

A Journal of Opinion The Week EARLY last summer , China seized the Chinese Eastern Railway , until then under joint Rus-sian-Chinese control , deported the Russian director , arrested numerous other Russian officials and proceeded to operate the railway as its own . Russia responded with an ultimatum and began to move troops , but on the intervention of the American government , both sides agreed to abide by the Kellogg Pact and attempt to negotiate a settlement . Since then , there have been abortive negotiations and intermittent raids across the Russian-Chinese frontier , with each side accusing the other of aggression . Now Russia has definitely launched a punitive expedition . The Red Army has occupied Manchuli , on the border in North Manchuria , and pushed a hundred miles over the frontier to Hailar , in Heilungkiang Province . It is now within striking distance of Harbin , the commercial metropolis which Tsarist Russia originally built , and ruled until the Chinese took advantage of the revolution to regain it . TO DEAL a real blow to China , Russia must take Harbin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chinese forces in North Manchuria are weak , but to retain possession it must be prepared to overcome the full force of the Manchurian army which Chang Hsueh-liang can bring up from South Manchuria ? an army not to be despised . Even-though it may be Soviet Russia 's intention only to punctuate a demand for settlement of the railway dispute on acceptable terms , the result may be a real war . Furthermore , Harbin is less than 150 miles from Changchun , the beginning of the South Manchuria Railway and the Japanese zone . And if there is any fighting in or near that zone , Japan will be a participant . It has never allowed its interests in South Manchuria to be disturbed , and it has given clear indication only recently that it will not do so now . Manchuria has once more become the danger spot of the world . MEANWHILE , China has been engaged in its own domestic war in the Yangtsze Valley , where the forces of Feng Yu-hsiang and allied generals have been trying to overthrow the Nanking government , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . Although they have not succeeded , they have seriously impaired both the prestige and the power of Nanking , as well as the country 's prospects for economic recovery from the destruction of years of revolution and civil warfare . But there are indications that the threat of an alien invader may bring an end to internal hostilities . If it is an end , and not just a pause , Russia 's invasion may turn out to be not an unmixed evil . As against Russia , the gain will be moral rather than military . Railway facilities in China are too poor to enable China to use her full military strength in her northernmost reaches . In the end , she must either compromise with Russia or resort to passive resistance . SINCE Russia 's minimum demand has been the restoration of the Russian director of the Chinese Eastern Railway , a settlement means a defeat for China , a defeat not easy to swallow just when she is planning to give the same kind of challenge to the Western Powers that she did to Russia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China 's assertion of its intention to recover national independence , by unilateral action if necessary . Its announcement that extra-territoriality would be abolished , with or without the consent of the Powers , on January 1 , 1930 , is another such assertion . Russia 's retaliation is the first reverse that Chinese nationalism has suffered . It may give the Chinese pause , but on the other hand , Russia is in a better position to retaliate than is Great Britain or . the United States . Incidentally , it is worth noting that the first power to make use of force to defend imperialistically acquired rights in China is the avowed champion of downtrodden Eastern peoples against imperialism . HOOVER and Stalin monopolize Europe 's attention today . From the standpoint of the continental observer of affairs , the two most interesting present developments are America 's current attempt to prove that its post-war theory of capitalism is correct , and Russia 's struggle to effectuate the principles of Communism . The latter effort has recently come to a head in dramatic fashion , in the demand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside Moscow , that they be allowed to abandon the effort to live in that country under present conditions , and return to Germany . For a time , it looked as though a serious conflict between Germany and Russia might ensue , but the Soviet government ended the difficulty by agreeing , on Monday of this week , that these peasants should go home to Germany . To understand the significance of what has been happening , it is necessary to review the history of the attempt to put Russian agriculture on a collectivist basis . BY 1926 , 235,000 Russian farms , covering 2,000,000 acres , had been turned into one-tenth that number of collective farms . This , eight years after the Revolution , was less than 1 percent of Russia 's 25,000,000 farms . By 1927 , the number had risen to 415,000 , covering 3,000,000 acres . By 1928 , 979,000 farms , covering 10,000,000 acres , had been collectivized , and by 1929 , 2,670,000 farms , covering 47,000,000 acres , had been concentrated into units averaging 300 acres each . In three years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the farms of the Soviet Union have been brought under collective control . Reckoning each farm as worked by a family of five , there were in 1926 about one million persons engaged in collective agriculture , while in 1929 there were more than thirteen millions . The same year , however , in which the greater part of this process of collectivization took place , the Soviet government , acting on its decree of July , 1928 , assigned another 30,000,000 acres for Soviet state farms ? so-called grain factories , averaging 100,000 acres . Of this assignment , about three million acres have now been organized into thirty such farms . ON the productive side , statistics for the period July to October 20 , 1929 , show that the government already has collected 8,894,000 tons of grain , as against 3,295,000 tons for the same period in 1928 . The most notable impression left by these figures is the terrific tempo of the process of collectivization during the current year . Last year , but 4,500,000 peasants were working collective farms ; today there are 13,000,000 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Next , it appears that grain collection has prospered almost incredibly under collectivization . A closer examination , however , shows that the increase of more than double in the amount of grain collected from July to October , 1929 , against the same period in 1928 , is a consequence , not of increased productivity by the large farms ? which as a matter of fact have n't had time to be organized ? but is a consequence of the process of " collectivization " itself . This process , described in detail by the vanguard of the 400 Russo-German peasants who have already reached Germany , may be summarized as the confiscation , by taxation , of all the grain supplies of those peasants whose farms were destined for collectivization and who refused voluntarily to enter the collectives . Thus , almost at one stroke , and within the shortest possible period of time , the Soviet government hopes to eliminate its stubbornest enemy , the Kulak or " Fist , " the so-called wealthy farmer . TWO commentators in this issue of The New Republic discuss President Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. C. F. Anderson , with an optimism which we wish we could share , sees it as welcomed in the chancellories of Europe , and as marking an important milestone on the road to peace . But , in fact , the President 's suggestion was received in most quarters with disheartening apathy or with active opposition . The English Tories , the French , the Italians , have all rejected it , and English Liberals have approached it with a timidity which is tantamount to disapproval . Of the chief powers , only the Germans have accepted it with enthusiasm . Unless Mr. Hoover takes active steps on behalf of his suggestion ? something to which he is both temperamentally and politically opposed ? it will be put back on the shelf . MR . GEORGE YOUNG 'S general argument , in favor of American participation in a " public " blockade , is one with which our readers are familiar . When he urges that the seas should be demilitarized , he moves in a direction in which The New Republic is prepared to go as far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confronted by a practical reality of the moment which has little relation to this ultimate objective . The immediate task is to allay the suspicions of nations which are still maintaining vast armies and navies , still to some extent in the grip of hysterical fear of one another . The utmost that can be hoped from the London conference is some reduction of armament , which will relieve the taxpayers , plus , perhaps , a greater degree of international confidence , which will mean a greater degree of cooperation in activities tending to make war less likely . Toward such a development Mr. Hoover 's food-ship proposal might contribute by bringing the United States into closer touch with the League in all other activities against an aggressor nation except a food blockade . Mr. Young 's proposal , however , seems likely to touch a responsive chord in the hearts of a minority of liberals , and that is all ? at least , for a long time to come . THERE are two possible interpretations of the action of Governor Young of California in referring the Mooney case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor is afraid of the public sentiment , hostile to Mooney , and is passing the buck , the result being another long delay while a fresh investigation is made on top of his own , which has now taken about a year to do two hours ' work . The other explanation is that Governor Young , having made up his mind to set Mooney free , simply wants some formal backing for his act . The New Republic believes that the second of these explanations is correct . The other would involve a cruelty and cowardice which are not justified by anything in the Governor 's record . MR . LEWIS B. TEBBETT 'S letter in this issue of The New Republic embodies an impression which is widely enough held to be worth examination . According to him , the growth of stock values by $40,000,000,000 during the past six years caused our industrial prosperity , because people spent these profits for goods and services . The sudden disappearance of this purchasing power as a consequence of the crash will , he believes , produce an equivalent industrial depression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was actually withdrawn from Wall Street to spend for other things than stocks . If a man bought at or near the bottom and sold out at the top , or on the way up , without acquiring any more stocks or securities , he had the money to spend . Relatively few persons did this . Some bought stocks and have not sold them even yet . They collected no purchasing power on the rise and lost none on the fall . Their actual incomes are at least no smaller than before . Many bought on the way up , and kept speculating with their profits , only to be obliged to sell during the crash . Their pyramided gains had never been withdrawn or spent . They merely came and vanished like a dream . A large part of these paper profits were sluiced out of the tremendous stream of credit devoted to speculation , and they poured away when the credit was withdrawn . Neither the gain nor the loss much affected the demand for industrial products . We should be greatly surprised if the profits of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a tenth of their paper value . On the other hand , the restriction of credit for building construction caused an offsetting loss of real income by workers in industry , which may now be regained . GEORGES CLEMENCEAU , after the war , made the mistake of denying the reality of ideals and the power of illusions . Rendered completely cynical by fifty-four years of French politics , he had come to believe in nothing but force . By the exertion of force ? by imposing an impossible indemnity , by occupying the Rhineland for an indefinite period , by encouraging separatist movements in Germany , and principally by building a wall of greater and lesser alliances about her ? he tried to assure the hegemony of France and to found a stable European order on the basis of inequality and injustice . He regarded Germany as a criminal beyond redemption , fit only to be imprisoned for the lifetime of this and future generations . His defeat for the French presidency in 1920 did not involve the defeat of his policies , but this work was accomplished later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , from his retirement in Vendee , he has watched his enemies , the friends of moderation , returning to power ; he has watched followers deserting his leadership , while his wall about Germany crumbled away , stone by stone and section by section . After his death a salute of 101 guns boomed forth in Paris ; there was a procession of marchers under the Arc de Triomphe ; all possible honors were paid to " Old Man Victory " for his services during the war ; but the principles on which he attempted to base the peace were being quietly disregarded . l ' ? ZOW that the Senate has adjourned for a brief period without passing a tariff bill , it is well to register its services to the country during the past six months . The fashion is to express irritation at the Senate for its delay in carrying out the plans of the administration . What really happened was that the House , under perfect party control , had promptly and in a " businesslike " manner passed an outrageous tariff bill , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President was thought to be opposed to this bill , he resigned his leadership by failing to express an opinion either for or against it . The old guard of the Senate was itself realistic enough to modify some of the more indefensible schedules . The Republican progressives and the Democrats , who can function so well in the Senate because it is really a deliberative body and lacks the close party discipline of the House , then came forward with the only good leadership seen in the whole controversy . They knocked the original bill into a cocked hat , and created a situation in which there will be either no new tariff law , or one to which the President can point with comparative self-respect . If the Senate had not done what it has done , the future of the administration might easily have been wrecked by an indefensible tariff , and the country would have been severely injured . The Progressive coalition has gone far to get Mr. Hoover out of the mess into which he sank when he injected the tariff issue into the campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            