@@493222

prosperity a population many times larger than it does now . The boundary settlement , while falling short of the full requirements , does at least lay the foundations for a project in which all liberals have been keenly interested . And now that the Zionist plan is entering on a new phase , liberals should continue theirinterest and their practical aid . From this week 's crop of Russian rumors : General Denikin has refused a pension and the Order of the Bath from the British government because of its trade negotiations with Soviet Russia . A dispatch from Helsingfors says that workmen in 78 Petrograd factories returned 70 Mensheviki as against l5 Bolsheviki in a local election . The French Labor Party ( C. G. " I. ) may vote to join the Third International after all . Lenin has given up Italy as a bad job and Bolshevik propaganda there has been abandoned . The French Foreign Office learns that 40,000 Russian troops are concentrating along the Lithuanian border for another drive on Poland . Agents of the Standard Oil Company are in Moscow negotiating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Caucasus and else ? where . Rumania is adopting " measures indicative of war " with Russia over the possession of Bessarabia . Japan is sending into Siberia 1,500 new troops for every 200 withdrawn , and her troops occupy ports in Kamchatka as well as the Maritime Province and Sakhalin . Reactionary Russians arrested by the provisional government of Vladivostok and the Maritime Province produce certificates of their employment as Japanese secret service agents . THESE are scattering returns from various parts of the world : The Italian Senate has ratified the Rapallo treaty by a vote of 262 to 22 . The Assembly adopted the plan for a permanent court of international justice , but without compulsory arbitration ; established an international commission to receive the secured pledges of states without credit and authorize them to issue gold bonds in payment for goods they require ; and voted to demand of the larger nations a commission with arbitrary powers to end the world-wide opium and white slave traffics . The Polish government has made the Treaty of Versailles guarantees of the rights of minorities law of the land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Jews ; and is to court martial General Balahovich for atrocities committed against them . The Swiss Labor Party has refused to join the Third International , by a vote of 3so to 213 . Mustapha Kemal Pasha declares that Armenia is now " under the tutelage of Moscow . " A Bolshevik has entered the Armenian cabinet , and 10,000 Russian troops have crossed the border from Transcaucasia . Great Britain is building 6 destroyers and 9 submarines while the United States has under construction 66 and 53 respectively . The Hungarian authorities are taking steps to intern all alien Jews . There is renewed gossip that the Prince of Wales intends to marry an Irish girl . The League 's military commission has advised that Poland be given military control of Danzig . King Constantine has arrived in Athens in a triumph of popular rejoicing . Government and labor figures place the number of Great Britain 's unemployed at one million . The American Red Cross estimates that two million Russian refugees are in various parts of Europe , over half of them in Poland . M. Viviani @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's determination not to admit Germany . Adolph Joffe , Soviet negotiator of the peace with Poland , protests against the use of Allied troops in Vilna , and adds that he has conclusive evidence that Poland is providing General Zeligowski with men and munitions . Daniels in the Lions ' Den THE question of what Secretary Daniels is up to requires an answer . A much criticized pacifist causes consternation throughout the world by urging a naval competition with Great Britain , by rejecting the idea of a five years ' naval holiday , by brandishing a still greater program as the possible supplement to the gigantic program already under way . To the suggestion of a few years ' grace at the conclusion of a world war , of a few years in which to estimate conditions , he replies with vague but terrifying statements that if the three leading Powers limit their building there will he an " alliance in the old sense. ? If he can not hare universal reduction under a league , he would rather challenge Britain and Japan to build against us . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make an agreement which might be criticized . Like all forcible-feeble men , Mr. Daniels is trying to bully the opposition . Most particularly he is trying to bully the American people . He is trying to demonstrate to them that their own votes last November mean an enormous burden of armaments . He is trying to sabotage the Republicans by making them sponsor staggering taxes under pressure of a jingo back backfire by Mr.Daniels himself . These tactics of his are not new . They are according to a pattern which he employed before at one of the most critic-al moments of modern history . Two years and over ago the President was preparing to sail for the Peace Conference.A feature of his program was an improvement in the international regulation of sea power . It was inaccurately known as the " freedom of the seas . " But Mr. Lloyd George had succeeded in securing the assent of the victorious Allies to a drastic amendment of the Fourteen Points by which Britain reserved complete liberty of action on questions of sea power . Mr. George was also jockeying for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mandate on a jingo outcry against a Wilson peace . At that moment Mr. Daniels became the spokesman of a bright idea . He threatened England publicly with a race of armaments . His bright idea was that England would at once surrender to the threat , and eat out of the President 's hand . But Mr. Daniels did not know England or Europe , or the ways of worldly men . Never having lived in a country that brings its food from overseas , nor in a country that had gone through the nightmare of the attempted submarine blockade , he expected his threat to work . It worked , but in exactly the opposite way from what Mr. Daniels had hoped . Mr. George , instead of rushing to Mr. Wilson for a new code of maritime law , rushed to M. Clernenceau for a promise of support . It was given quid pro quo , and the Peace Conference began with Mr. Wilson already isolated . Instead of the working arrangement with Britain , which alone could have secured a liberal peace , the American delegation confronted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the French interest in land power . From all of that Mr. Daniels seems to have learned nothing . Nor has he considered the logic of challenging Japan and Britain at once . America faces two oceans . Britain and Japan are allied , but their alliance expressly excludes Britain from a conflict between America and Japan . Mr. Daniels seems to think that if he outbuilds Britain he will somehow achieve security . On the contrary he will simply drive Britain into closer and closer naval alliance with Japan . For no matter what he says about his intentions , both Britain and Japan will look at the ships and not at the words spoken about them . They will see in those ships a common danger and the need of a united front . They will do exactly what Russia and England did before 1914 when Germany began to do what Mr. Daniels proposes to do . It is the sure road to ruin . There can be no greater folly than to suppose that in building against Great Britain you are competing ship for ship with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinks that relative paper strength means anything , it is indulging in a bureaucratic delusion . To lay down ship for ship against Great Britain is to set in motion a quest of alliances all over the world . The material for them exists . Having made an enemy of Russia , betrayed China , outraged much of Latin-America , with our position as creditor as an incitement to popular animosity throughout Europe , we should soon find that instead of a navy equal to any other we had a navy that had to face the greater part of the world . It is not too late to halt the madness . Not even the frantic Mr. Daniels , will claim that England is going to attack us in the next five years , and the American navy , assuming that it is tolerably efficient , is more than a match for Japan . If Congress will adopt Senator Borah 's resolution for a five year 's naval holiday , if President Harding will act sincerely upon it and begin negotiations , there will be at once more security for America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five years and it may never take place . If the Democrats believe one syllable of their talk about the value of a cooling-off period , they will grasp at the chance to vote for the Borah resolution . Five years untroubled by competitive navy bills , by official scares , spying , and jingo debates : in that time much can be done . There can be an Irish settlement . There can be a workable peace on the continent . There can be a negotiation of our differences with Japan . There can be a strengthened and purified League . But none of these things can be if the three great naval Powers of the world are preparing for Armageddon . For with such danger in sight , the jingoes must necessarily be top dog . They alone will seem to talk the language of national defense . Five years respite : there will be a chance to shatter the hideous frivolity of those who are talking lightly of an Anglo-American war . Do those who contemplate it have any conception of what it would mean ? They do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the devastation and anarchy of such a war , they would say to the Hearsts and Bottomleys : It shall never happen ; there is no question that can arise between the English-speaking peoples , no political interest , no commercial rivalry , no question of honor , right , justice and all the rest in which we will even consider a threat of war , whether as a bluff , or a piece of propaganda , or as international poker playing . There are very few things indeed in the sphere of politics that have the quality of an absolute dogma . But the unthinkability of war between Britain and America is such a dogma . The havoc of such a war would surpass any possible damage from any conceivable compromise . Compromises there will have to be , Britain and America touch at so many points in the world that there arise between them fundamental problems of power and interest . The control of the seas is one of the most fundamental because the solution of the problem goes to the source of international order . It can never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be approached in an atmosphere of security . And the only final security is a knowledge in both peoples that they never intend to fight . Tinkering the Coal Problem THAT there is a coal problem of the most serious import is recognized by the Senate Committee on Reconstruction and Production . National development , they say in their preliminary report , " depends on an ever-increasing supply of power . Heat is as necessary for production , in fact , for human existence , as is . fir and water . ' Yet the production and distribution of coal is badly organized and subject to manipulation at the expense of the people . " " An exceptional demand nor only brings about reckless and unwarranted repudiation of contracts made for delivery of ( 20.11 but the sub ? stitution of inferior quality at higher prices . " Our investigation into the coal situation has convinced us that the private interests now in control of the production and distribution of coal , in spite of efforts by some , are actually unable to prevent a continuance or a repetition of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that all coal operators and dealers he compelled by statute to file reports as to tonnage , quality , prices , etc. , " for possible use by the . Department of Justice and other Governmental agencies . " We have no quarrel with these findings and recommendations . They are good so far as they go . By all means , let us get rid of coal contracts " so drawn as to he breakable in delivery , in quality and in price . " By all means , let us have as much light as possible on discrimination and profiteering . But all the world knows , the root of the evil lies much deeper than mere business irregularities and occasional profiteering . The coal industry , as it now stands , is grossly inefficient and our whole national industry is taxed and handicapped on account of this inefficiency . No mere system of reporting , no sporadic prosecution of profiteers , will lift this burden from our economic life . This national coal supply of ours , as essential to us as water and air , we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Here a great company , equipped with the most perfect appliances , is producing its tens of thousands of tons ; there a miserably financed local concern is taking out a few tons by methods a half century out of date . In some districts concentration of hold ? ings permits the most systematic development and the removal of a maximum of the coal in the ground ; in other districts the extreme division of the superficies ? and consequently , under our prim ? itive Anglo-Saxon law , of the coal seams underneath ? handicaps the operator and encourages forms of exploitation that leave most of the coal in the ground , an irretrievable loss . Vast tonnages of coal are shipped crisscross through overlapping market areas ; still vaster tonnages are shipped needlessly to be consumed by electric power establishments near the points of consumption instead of near the sources of coal supply . And in this general chaos , it is impossible to organize the employment of mining labor in such a wax to give the mass of workers anything like full time and the decent living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers , if steadily employed in the mines best equipped to make labor count , could raise all the coal we need . Colossal waste of natural resources , equally colossal waste of man power : that is the essence of our coal problem . And that problem is not going to he solved by any measures that fall short of a full recognition of the public service character of our power and heat supply . National ownership of the coal seams and their systematic exploitation under conditions making for the utmost regularity and economy is the solution which the American people will be forced to consider , sooner or later . The Committee on Reconstruction does indeed admit that " to assure the mining , transportation . and distribution of coal at fair prices is a public duty which the government can not escape . " But it reserves governmental administration as a " last resort , as governmental activities should always be directed toward encouragement of private initiative and enterprise . " We agree that private initiative and enterprise are creative forces to he conserved and stimulated in every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existing economic system or any other conceivable system could operate without the active and intelligent exercise of the personal qualities that enterprise and initiative imply . But private initiative is nit necessarily fostered by the exclusion of governmental ownership and administration . Quite the contrary , perhaps . To place the coal resources of the nation under public ownership would indeed eliminate the private enterprise that now engages in opening mines and operating-them . That is to restrict the field of initiative , no doubt . But this fact is not decisive . Consider the multiplicity of private enterprises dependent for survival on adequate and fair ? ly distributed coal supplies . Every time a manufacturing concern is placed at a competitive dis 