@@219938

Author Sinclair Lewis , whose position as National Champion Castigator is challenged only by his fellow idealist , Critic Henry Louis Mencken , has made another large round-up of grunting , whining , roaring , mewing , driveling , snouting creatures-of fiction- which , like an infuriated swineherd , he can beat , goad , tweak , tail-twist , eye-jab , belly-thwack , spatter with sty-filth and consign to perdition . The new collection closely resembles the herd obtained on the Castigator 's last foray , against the medical profession ( Arrowsmith , 1925 ) and a parallel course is run , from up-creek tabernacles , through a hayseed college and seminary to a big-city edifice with a revolving electric cross . But the Arrowsmith plot is altered . This time the Castigator , instead of exerting his greatest efforts in harrying a fine-mettled creature to refuge in the wilderness , singles out the biggest boar in sight and hounds him into a gratifyingly slimy slough . The tale has an obscure hero , another Lewisian lie-hunter who , to purge the last bitter dregs of pity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a black pulp by the K. K. K. before he is released . But the boar is the chief sacrifice and its name has the inimitable Lewis smack , Elmer Gantry. * <P> The Story . Elmer Gantry of Paris , Kan. , was born to be a talented garbage contractor or meat salesman . But his pious mother and the Baptist Church have given him everything except any longing for decency and kindness and reason . " So they , and his well-developed thirst , lust and cowardice , drive him into the ministry . The first page finds him drunk in a saloon near his alma mater , Terwillinger College . Needing a fight , he lurches into a soap-box crowd that a pimpled Y. M. C. A. pipsqueak is converting , and flattens the hecklers . The Baptists gasp . " HellCat " Gantry , the black-maned campus bully with his boasted amours and loud contempt , get religion ? The pipsqueak fawns and prays . A bully bigger than Gantry , " Old Jud " Roberts , praying ( and weeping ) fullback from Chicago , holds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " revival . " HellCat " confesses publicly . The half-baked atheism of " Hell-Cat 's " only friend and roommate , Jim Lefferts , is no match for raw afflatus . Unwittingly the atheist supplies all that the convert needs for his " Call " and ordination . The Holy Spirit enters Elmer Gantry , in a timely jolt of Bourbon . <P> A too-strenuous visitation of the same spirit causes Elmer 's ejection , three years later , from Mizpah Theological Seminary . But he has known the intoxication , stronger than drink , of speaking from a pulpit ; has learned , among other rewards of the profession , the ease with which a pastor , who is a baritone solo incarnate , can seduce the parish kittens . A few years of selling farm implements and indulging in small town waitresses are an ideal prolongation of Elmer Gantry 's novitiate for his first great phase , evangelism .                     