@@490094

Return BOREDLY the big ship , cramped with tugs , makes its way up the river . Along the rail the born New Yorker is pointing out the Woolworth Tower ( on the Singer Building ) and the Singer Needle ( on the Municipal Building ) . The steward for cabin B-169 is hunting for the passenger who got the extra , extra service throughout the voyage and is now as if swept from the face of the earth . The aforesaid passenger , w h a miscalculated as usual and has only eighty cents left , is hiding in the smoking room and praying that blindness overtake the steward . The Harvard junior who , after an eight-day voyage , only last night discovered the presence on board of the unbigoted young woman in the striped dress , is making frantic attempts to get her away from her aunt for a moment , for the purpose of future betrayal . The young woman is nervously amenable , but the aunt is vigilant . The mail that came aboard at quarantine is being distributed . There are nineteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a special delivery for Miss Euphrosine Dennewitz . Ralph P. Burland , of Des Moines , is saying , " Say , when I saw that statue , I tell you , " making it unanimous , although the others said it from ten to twenty minutes earlier . Luncheon appointments , none of which will be kept , are being made on all sides . A number of actresses are testing the rails on the upper deck , with a view to the proper display of crossed legs . In his stateroom Professor Jeremiah L. Cady is just finishing his typed statement of i I , 000 words on the operation of the Dawes plan , which he will hand to what he calls the " newspaper boys , " he having been a newspaper man himself once . It will neither be printed nor read by the newspaper boys . The ship is turning in towards the pier and it is already possible mistakenly to pick out waiting friends . Howard P. Penlenton detects the figure of his wife and hopes that the red-headed Belgian will have enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being swept through . Inspired members of the crew are dragging ropes against passengers ' feet and otherwise maiming them with travelling gangplanks . Miss Dennewitz has lost her umbrella and is loud in argument with several ship 's officers : Numerous elderly ladies with pure linen tablecloths from Saxony wrapped around them are wondering what the next hour will bring . Ninety cologne baskets are jammed with a poor Scotch that Broadway does not dare to sell . The ship is made fast . Fourteen hundred people , broadened by travel , step ashore . The Week DESIGN for the Roosevelt Memorial is accepted and an expedition leaves Chicago University Armageddon . Mayor Hylan makes fifty speeches at Coney Island and another water main bursts on the Avenue . Mr. Scopes , found guilty , goes home to Paducah , Kentucky , and Mr. Dudley Field Malone is discovered by Mr. Will Rogers at the " Follies . " An English doctor urges dis-play of women 's Iimbs as a health measure and Biarritz issues an ukase against hare knees among bathers . The Ancient Order of Hibernians , meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says English will rule the world . Commissioner Enright says the police automobile escort is not to guard Miss Ethel Shutta , dancer , but Mr , Ziegfeld 's cash , and a man is robbed of $20,000 in the B. M. T. station at Forty-ninth Street and Seventh Avenue . A New Yorker complains that his wife has provided for him only twenty-four breakfasts in twenty-six years and it is announced that , in Vermont and Georgia , a wife 's earnings are her husband 's by law . The Episcopalians arrange a condensed version of the Ten Commandments and Representative Upshaw promises to introduce in Congress a bill against evolution . Dire Foreboding THE Intimate of Fourteenth Street , East , spoke rtlong and feelingly . He wound verbally in and out of district clubs , through organization headquarters and back , even down to the much-maligned Man in the Street . After three hours of conversation , this was the burden of the conclusion reached by the Intimate of Fourteenth Street , East : Nothing but an Act of Providence or of Al Smith can stay the Honorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the City of New York . Al Smith , said the Intimate of Fourteenth Street , East , was not inclined to interfere . He has need of an united party for subsequent political maneuverings . As to Providence , the intimation of the Intimate of Fourteenth Street , East , was that It knew better . NOW , as to the whys and wherefores of this conclusion , much might be noted . There is the uncertain position of Judge Olvany as leader of Tammany , due to his short term of service as yet . There are the uncompromising figures which prove Brooklyn a greater voting center than Manhattan . There is the stalwart figure of Mr. John McCooey , of the neighboring province , standing firm against the editorials of the World , the paper which prints Mutt and Jeff , and the Times , the paper which prints nothing of the sort . Finally , there is the weakness of the candidates behind whom Tammany would like to form , but can not . Senator Walker too well identified with the element sportive ; Surrogate Foley , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rigors of a campaign ; Justice Wagner too long out of touch with the common man , by virtue of his elevation to the bench . Yes , concluded the Intimate of Fourteenth Street , East , it 's going to be Hylan for another four years . The leaders may not like it , but a lot of the boys are going to be thankful because they 'll still have jobs . THE coming of Eugene Goossens as guest conductor of the Symphony Society may presage an English orchestral invasion . There is at least one young English director whom we 're curious to see in action , if only for the story that his colleagues tell of him . This musician started his career about a dozen years ago as conductor of one of the smaller English orchestras . Having a markedly English name , he decided that he could n't win the respect accorded to the Richters , Steinbachs and Mucks who then impressed the British populace . After much serious thinking , he changed his surname to one that he fancied would awe his customers . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name of the young Englishman was Hindenburg . He is conducting successfully now under this original label , and if he ever comes over we shall point him out for you . LOST PROPERTY CUSTODIAN : Note , I ai n't seen yer wife , but here 's a dandy pet alligator that 's just been turned in . ' THE NEW YORKER Officers THEY order the professional soldier much better in England and on the Continent The army officer is a somebody there , in the wars of Empire , large and small , a useful somebody , and in the salons of more civilized capitals a decorative somebody . We have nothing of the sort . By comparison our army officers are merely job holders in uniform . Government employes , as are the mail carriers and the prohibition agents . In Washington they have some social standing , but as the late Ward McAllister remarked , in Washington it is impossible not to have some social standing . ? A true figure of the British officer paused briefly in town lately , Major General Sir Fred-crick Maurice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being Celtic enough to l ? - ? ? with that Colonel Roosevelt were back to tell the town what he thinks of the design accepted for the Roosevelt memorial , which is to be erected as part of the east facade of the Museum of Natural History , on the west , or provincial fringe of Central Park . The design follows classic lines closely , featuring Ionic columns . This in the memory of the man who , above all others in public life , consistently fought for native expression in the arts . One recalls that Colonel Roosevelt wrote to the American Institute of Architects deprecating the use of the lions which doze at the entrance to the Public Library and advocating the placing there of bisons instead . He made some retired , who was Director of Military Operations during a good portion of the War . He came to lecture on disarmament  --  taking the view that complete disarmament is impracticable  --  before that optimistic Institute of Politics at Williams College . His stay here is to be quiet . He has accepted few invitations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This might have been expected , however , for General Maurice has a reputation for having been the hard-working type of officer . Even the indefatigable luncher , Lieutenant-Colonel Repington , portrayed the General as a conscientious staff officer , striving to be argus-eyed so as to envision the many British fronts of wartime . ENERAL MAURICE was a strange figure in VI Colonel Repington 's pages , among so many sprightly ladies and gentlemen who took heed to their social obligations first and the war afterwards ; almost as strange a figure as was that bluff soldier , his chief , General Robertson . The latter worthy soul , fallen once among gentlemen who were discussing an admirable sample of the feminine limb , was asked if he did not deem it beautiful . His reply was Wellingtonian. " just like any other demmed leg , " quoth he . Slogan IT is Mr. Walter L. Clark , whom my friend , Van Gogh , speaks of on page nine , who made me miss a train last Friday . For rushing , as usual , through the Grand Central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Information oasis . And when the crucial time came I read what I had snatched , a brochure on American art , proudly boasting : " The only art gallery in the world located in a Railroad Station . " It is a suggestion , if one must have a slogan , to lead the New York Central 's real time-tables with : " Travel on the N. Y. Central . The only railroad in the world with an art gallery over its terminus . " reference to the appearance of this beast , as memory serves , and emphasized its peculiar value as being distinctively our own . On all possible occasions , in private conversation or public discussion , the Colonel urged earnestly the need for our art smacking of American soil . He was vehement in this advocacy . One remembers the husky emphasis with which he warned that art not native to the soil could have little permanent value . The memorial to the man who insisted thus on American art , rather than imitation of foreign models , is to be as severely classic as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bank of Dubuque , Iowa . Collars And Bags IT may be stated generally that styles are for the multitude and fashion for the few . Which brings us to collars ; men 's collars , if you please . Lesser males have long been victims of the commercial astuteness practiced on the unknowing by large manufacturers of men 's collars . Four times a year a fiat from Troy changes the height and form of the neck adornment all our best-dressed clerks wear thereafter . It is done with die precision of a squad movement in the army . Those who have their collars and shirts custom-made are subject to no such changes . They select a style according to their own needs and taste , and remain true to it for a long time . In those circles wing collars , the adjuncts of formal wear , are subject to more frequent variation of style than the kinds favored for business and informal occasions . It is interesting to note , too , that one department store in town has been so daring as to import a shipment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been seen about for some time . The Oxonian trousers , at which the elder Briton still gibes , are twenty-five inches around the bottoms and this width is continued almost to the knee before any tapering towards the waist begins . When the wearer THE NEW YORKER is walking they give the same effect as did the divided skirt which was a feature of feminine riding habits a decade ago . THE LIQUOR MARKET : Further improvement in the Summer gin market . Large block of imported Booth Dry , in square bottles @ $3o , recently issued , is reported over subscribed already . Reaction on alcohol market , slight . Our private wire from Washington advises recent increases in Prohibition Enforcement costs are forerunners of Mr. Coolidge 's supreme effort to dry the country . Politically , this should retain dry votes and enlist wets in the later acknowledgment of defeat . Report is strong factor in bull movement . Cradle of Liberty PHILADELPHIA , with customary ignorance of events of the day , is going right ahead with its plans for the celebration of the Sesqui-Centennial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American independence . It is necesbary for any such endeavor to have a director , who in the case of the Sesqui-Centennial , is Colonel Davis Charles Collier , a gentleman who possesses those qualities impractical in Philadelphia , a sense of humor and spirit . He evidenced the first by scoffing at the ultra-military equipment of the Butlerized police assigned to guard Independence Hall , wherein Colonel Collier had been assigned offices . He showed the second by writing to the high-handed General Smedley Butler , himself , suggesting that in an age which favored disarmament , it would be just as well if his doorkeepers left at home their machine guns , and their bandoliers , and their trench mortars , and the pieces of light field artillery without which no Philadelphia policeman is to be seen in public these days . Then , with the satisfied air of a man who has done a good deed , Colonel Collier settled back to enjoy his cigar , for he is a man to whom a smoke is as the breath of life in his nostrils . It was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and landed . On arriving at his offices next morning , Colonel Collier found this new sign posted : THERE IS TO BE NO SMOKING IN INDEPENDENCE HALL . By order , SMEDLEY BUTLER , Director General of Public Safety . With an unlighted cigar in his fingers Colonel Collier considered this ultimatum for a moment , then : " Independence Hell , " said Colonel Collier , and repaired to the park for his morning 's smoke . Commentary DEATH , striking Mr. William Jennings Bryan , while the myriad spot lights of the nation 's press still played full upon him , uncovers prejudices deeper than those of Dayton . With a single stroke , it paralyzes intelligence more effectively than a thousand Scopes trials . Only yesterday half the world considered Mr. Bryan 's views , pondered upon them , found them good or bad and commented upon them , as they were intimately connected with his personality . They were known to he human views , subject to human error . To-day the curtain is down and , in an enlightened age , no man may criticize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atavistic awe of death may have faded and the world will again say what it really thinks of the Great Commoner  --  but for a while the ayes have it . It has taken so many million years for man intelligently to discuss life and its origin ; how many million more years will it be before we see death as so normal a happening that a man may die without the cloak of superstition falling about his personality , protecting his defenselessness from everything but praise ? Prominent MY lifelong search to pin down that gentleman who is often mentioned in the morning papers as " a prominent clubman " is at an end . I found him only last night , tiptoeing through the West Forties . We turned in the same doorway and it chanced we stood side by side at the bar . " Say , " my friend , the bartender questioned him , " do I know you ? " " Sure you do , " he answered genially . And to prove it he took from his pocket , and sorted out , thirty-five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back , each the entre into a different " blind tiger . " " I did know him , " the bartender whispered later , " hut I wanted him to show you his cards . " It costs the gentleman ten thousand a year to support his clubs , I am told . THE best dramatic criticisms , of course , do not always find their way to their designated columns in public prints . It was , thus , Percy Hammond who wandered into the night with a friend after an early wartime opening and remarked kindly , " C'est la guerre . " And recently , when the final curtain at last fell upon what our producers are pleased to term a Summer musical comedy , appropriately enough presented on a sweltering night , David H. Wallace was heard to observe : " It is n't the heat , its the bromidity. "                     