@@493363

The Ewe Lamb of Widow Jazz LADY JAll was introduced to select musical society two years ago in JEolian Hall , but contrary to the usual impression her sponsor was not Paul Whiteman : she advanced , hand and fingers outstretched , on the arm . of Mme. Eva Gauthier toward the close of one of the extraordinary programs of that exceptional artist . At a ' nearby piano there sat ? this is a Thomas Beer scene ? a young man named Gershwin , who presently played Alexander 's Ragtime Band . There is reason to suspect that the slightly flustered debutante with the familiar features mistook his theme for Mendelssohn 's most portentous , but did not falter . If she did suppose herself married into the Blue Book by way of the family of vocalists , if she still cherishes the delusion , she must now consider herself , at best , bereaved . Was Mme. Gauthier 's example speedily or generally followed by her peers ? It was not . Did that realist herself , after one pleasant season 's tour with her protege @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hint . laving made her gesture , a gracious one and worthy of the complete eclecticism of her taste , she felt no obligation by that token to become rumored about as a jazz singer out of a part ; and then , she had not , if she could have , brought herself to sing Do It Again as it wishes to be sung . Sooner or later it would have sunk through the last auditory head that they do these things better at the Palace . When Gershwin , no longer a mere " composer at the piano " but a star in his own right , accompanied Mme. Marguerite ' d'Alvarez in Nashville Nightingale at the Hotel Roosevelt the other day , he was obliging the first prominent follower of Mme. Gauthier 's example . By the time hats Were reached for , all was beautifully clear : where her predecessor had stood and sung , Mme. d'Alvarez , recognizing that something more was called for , acted . Duty calling , she rolled a mean eye and she tapped a wicked foot ? and at that exact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could , bring herself to do a little dance in the half-chorus . If she should n't have , yet it should have been done ; she carried proof to the point of demonstration and then and there the ear could catch the knell of the Broadway song ? as a song in the recital hall . For good or bad it demands both qualities and accomplishments which there are comparative strangers and which , orchestras and the two-piano team . of - Arden and Ohman being available , are more important to it than a voice . It sets an examination at which prize pupils of Sembrich , thin and fat , are hopelessly outdistanced respectively by Miss Gertrude Lawrence and Miss Sophie Tucker , and this is not to be borne by the former . However , even before the Roosevelt recital it was sufficiently plain that the still vigorous and comely relict 's ambitions had best be rested not on the vocalists , not on those fickle Latins who trot out highly impressionistic pictures of her for their American tours but , back in Paris , - leave them in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present , on any but the same George Gershwin , and on the state of his health and inclinations . Of her own set , Berlin has not the technical equipment to serve her more aspirations , Kern has other uses for his spare time , gaudy Handy is content to spread wide and without " improvement " the tradition of the spiritual and blues singers , the growing company of talented arrangers arrange for lack of the power to originate , the " serious " group ca n't write jazz and the jazzists ca n't write . Without Gershwin , on the other hand , it is improbable that that introduction , two years ago , would have taken place ; Whiteman would have had no piece de resistance for his own glorification-party a few weeks later . Meanwhile he has entitled himself to a share with Kern of the credit for raising the standard of popular music a good twelve notches , alone in one orchestral work and with Grofe in another lie has demonstrated that his native language can convey something far beyond musical anecdotes , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the operetta One Hundred and Thirty-fifth Street ? he has actually employed the most blatant jazz to carry . a premonition of tragedy . Yet everything he has written other than musical comedy numbers has been work of love . If the Rhapsody in Blue turned out a best-selling phonograph record no one expected it less than he ; he counted ? and again and rightly in the case of his piano concerto ? on a heavy financial loss , and must anticipate as much in any future experiments of the kind . At the same time he can apparently bank on success for any show he sets to music ; such work moreover expresses and accordingly satisfies his humor , malice , energy and his sense of rhythm , such a perfect piece of song-making as his Do ; Do , Do in the current Oh , Kay ! ( a song so catchy and so at home in its original surroundings that it is with a shock one realizes it is quite " straight , " has a totally unsyncopated melody ) represents the bringing into play of no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rightness of its miniature structure does credit to the musical architect . There is , then , enough in this highly lucrative work to give an artist the feeling of a difficult task well executed , and Gershwin has no other incentive to push farther or higher than growing imagination and ambition , and those confronted by the fact that labor of love is less lovely when it is overtime ? a fact which takes out of point the examples of men of means who choose work as against daily idleness . It is probable that the five new piano preludes which he played for the first time at the Roosevelt did not cost him an excessive amount of overtime , but were presented for what they are worth , recent by-products of his plenteous invention , and not to prove anything whatever . One was a frank salute to Chopin ; one criticized the crudity of the ragtime in Debussy 's Golliwog 's Cakewalk in just the way one clog-dancer would choose to criticize another 's step ; one was built on a theme written but not used for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be a song deprived of its words ; one started on the docks in New Orleans , to find itself shortly joyously footing it in Madrid . Yet every one should be published , none could have been written by another composer ; the set exhibited the hard transparent surfaces , the fire-refracting facets and the cool blue depths of a circlet of well cut aquamarines and diamonds . No evidence is lacking , in short , that if he chooses to go on Mr. Gershwin has only fairly started , that the end for him lies around a number of corners . Just how many corners he may round can not easily be prophesied . So far he has been faithful to his schooling , has put to new uses but yet retained the accents they like in the dance-halls . Were he utterly to drop those , what would remain ? Certain of his peculiar brilliancies , if he were to tackle the larger musical forms again under such circumstances , would have less opportunity to divert attention from the weakness in thematic development which he has thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if remediable by further technical study , presents hardly less of a problem for that fact . And were that mountain surmounted , actual greatness is another matter . He has not attempted the loftiest heights , and perhaps he is waiting or perhaps he is wise ; at any rate here we go beyond what one has the right to ask save from the admittedly great . The immediately interesting if not exciting question is what possibilities he can point out in a despised argot , that we failed to suspect before he began using it . Mr. Ernest Newman sets jazz down as too feeble and limited a means of expression for anyone to touch who has anything to express . If it were to be pointed out to Mr. Newman that Gershwin 's concerto was supposed to express something of considerable local interest , namely The Spirit of Young America , he might reply that according to the testimony of the composer that spirit must then be the Charleston and the blues ? in which case it was most thoroughly expressed ? but that the question remained whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another angle , or look at quite something else again , one would seize anew on jazz . Foregoing available rebuttals to Mr. Newman 's imagined comment ( which from previous experience is milder than natural ) , one may yet observe that for any reasonable doubts on the question Gershwin is responsible . May he press his case .                     