@@486384

Count Bethlen 's party , as Mr. Gedye predicted , won an overwhelming victory in the December elections . The Toting was done in instalments . On December 8 candidates were elected in 103 districts , in all but four by public balloting . The Government won 102 seats . Waddler , a Democrat , was the only Oppositionist elected , even Count Julius Andrassy being defeated . On December 10 , 91 more districts voted by open ballot ; five opponents and 86 supporters of the Government were elected . Among the successful opponents were Count Albert Apponyi and Anton Sigreey , moderate Legitimist supporters of the Hapsburg succession . Hejjas , the terrorist , was elected as a government supporter . Vienna , November 21 T HE " Kingless Kingdom " of Hungary , where elections are being held in December , is generally recognized to be an unfortunate country . If the interests of a people are to be identified with those of its rulers , this judgment would have to be revised . No regime in Europe has been more successful in turning national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the world as a land of peace-loving , hard-working peasants , crushed by the Treaty of Trianon , yet harboring no revengeful thoughts . It is a country which has been martyred by ? Bolshevism , say its official propagandists , yetwhich is now wisely ruled and happy in its parliamentary institutions  --  a country which enjoys the repose implied by its absence from the columns of the foreign press . Its only desire , apparently , is to be left alone by its neighbors and eventually to return to the monarchy which it abandoned under pressure in 1920 . It is a cleverly drawn picture , but not one which is recognizable by students and friends of the Hungarian people . They see Hungary as a nation in shackles in part forged , in part reriveted by its present rulers . It appears to them as a country artificially maintained in a state of almost feudal medievalism in the interests of an oligarchy , its press muzzled , its people forbidden freedom of speech and opinion  --  a country in which this oligarchy spends large sums in artificially nourishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their realization . The Magyar rulers seem to impartial observers to be holding in an Eastern bondage an unfortunate subject population which alone of Central European peoples fails to participate in the new liberties acquired by its neighbors . I do not wish for one moment to minimize the injustice done to Hungary by the vindictive Treaty of Trianon . Desirable as it was that her non-Magyar subjects should be freed from compulsory allegiance to the Thousand Year Kingdom which in a thousand years had failed to assimilate them , it was not right or expedient that on all debatable points their wishes should have been made law . The boundaries of Hungary were drawn with little regard to her national claims or to her economic needs . It may be doubted , however , whether the bulk of the Magyar population thus placed under alien rule has suffered more than those left to the tender mercies of the Magyar oligarchy . In Czecho-Slovakia , Rumania , and Jugoslavia , if he has been oppressed in the matter of language and education , the Magyar peasant has shared in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Hungary there has been nothing but a mockery of land reform ; the adult peasant labors on the land of his lord from sunrise until sunset for the sum of tenpence per day , his wife and children for sixpence or sevenpence . Yet the Esterhazy family owns more than three-quarters of a million acres of land , of which Count Paul Esterhazy alone owns 300,000 acres . More than eight-and-a-half million acres-33 per cent of all the arable land in Hungary  --  is owned by only 1,130 landowners . If you visit any Hungarian landowner , keep your hands thrust deep into your pockets , unless you wish to have them kissed by the first cringing peasant who realizes that you are a guest of his lord . Before every motor-car on the rough tracks that do duty for roads in Hungary the peasant stands with bowed head , hat in hand . Count Michael Karolyi , the well-meaning but unsuccessful president of the short-lived Hungarian Republic , is always spoken of by the present rulers as " the Traitor " ? and justly , for did he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its rulers understand by " Hungary " ? the interests of the oligarchy ? Since Bolshevism ousted him and gave place in its turn to the White Terror , every precaution has been taken to fasten the yoke more firmly on the neck of the peasant . Though school attendance has decreased and school hours have been reduced the number of teachers has been nearly doubled , the additional personnel having for its main task the teaching of nationalism . In their free time the smaller boys learn the elements of soldiering in " Pathfinder " organizations ; from the ages of 14 to 21 , by the law of 1923 , youths are forced to join the " Levente " and to attend its drills . This organization is supervised by officers of the old army , and is simply a militia disguised as a gymnastic association . Thus is the prohibition of military training set at naught . Where formerly a gendarmerie post of six men sufficed for six to ten villages , there is now one such post in every village . No wonder that 65 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on government servants . Liberty fares little better in the cities , where misery ? invisible to casual visitors who admire the flamboyant beauty of the wealthy quarters  --  is so extreme that in Budapest alone there were recently sixteen suicides in one day . In the courts prosecutions for speaking against the Regent , Admiral Horthy , are numerous , - and savage sentences are inflicted . Perhaps the most useful weapon for stifling public opinion is the law making it an offense to say or write anything which might damage the name of the country abroad . It can be imagined , perhaps , to what an extent this is stretched to cover any utterance disagreeable to the ruling classes . The press is under special disabilities ; the sale of any paper on the streets can be prohibited ' by a simple departmental order . In the same way , a paper can be suppressed for any length of time ; there is no trial in the courts and no remedy . To glance at three outstanding examples of the work of the law courts in the past twelve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a former Home Secretary , asserted that the Regent , Admiral Horthy , had been privy to the White Terrorist plot to murder Somogyi , a Socialist editor ; he stated that , as Home Secretary , he himself had cognizance of the orders given by the Regent to prevent the punishment of the murderers . Finally , he declared that Count Bethlen also knew of these matters and that his ? Beniczky 's  --  statements were absolutely true . He was sentenced to three years ' penal servitude after a trial which took place for the most part in camera , but was released after a few months . Count Bethlen made no statement on the matter . Last winter , after strong pressure had been exercised by the French , Prince Louis Windischgraetz , M. Nadossy , Count Bethlen 's all-powerful Police Minister , and other Hungarian aristocrats were put on trial for the forgery of franc notes . They declared that they had acted from patriotic motives in the interests of Hungary ( that is , the oligarchy ) . Count Bethlen testified at the trial as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a gentleman and I know him to be incapable of having acted from sordid motives . " Before the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Count Bethlen admitted that he had learned of the proposed forgeries as early as 1921 , and had given instructions that they were , to be stopped . The sentences imposed on the forgers were amazingly light and have just been reduced . This summer Rakosi and Weinberger , two Communist leaders , and their associates were put on trial . These two men had held office ? under the Communist regime in Hungary and had returned from Russia to try to organize a new Hungarian Communist Party . Nothing worse than this was proved against them ; they were sentenced to eight years ' penal servitude apiece , double the sentence imposed on the franc-forgery ringleaders . During the trial prison doctors proved that the prisoners had been brutally beaten by the police to extract confessions ; the judge brushed aside the admitted evidence as unimportant , saying to the defense , in effect , " Well , all right , they were beaten . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This torture of prisoners is , in fact , an accepted thing in Hungary . As to the past horrors of the White Terror , these do not bear description . The White Terror murderers are unpunished , though they are all known , and one of the worst of them , Ivan Hejjas , who had nearly 200 persons , including his own brother-in-law , done to death in the wood of Orgovany , is standing as a candidate at these elections . How is it that liberal opinion abroad knows so little of the real Hungary ? Soon after the advent of the present regime Count Bethlen received the sage advice : " Get the City and Wall Street behind you , and the British and American press will be bound to follow . " Every demand of international finance was complied with and foreign capital attracted to the country . The direction of press propaganda in Great Britain and America was placed in skilful British hands . Every endeavor was made to propagate the legend of " Count Bethlen , Hungary 's Strong Man , " and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and invested capital would be lost . Hence it would be dangerous to publish anything unfavorable to his regime . The Hungarians saw to it that any British or American journalist coming to Budapest was carefully nursed ; lavish hospitality , apparently spontaneous , was dispensed on a regular system , and the visitor shown just what it was desirable for him to see . Some visitors have even found very useful financial tips being tendered them . Resident Hungarian correspondents of British papers , if they were not already connected with the Hungarian Foreign Office , could always be dealt with by the methods applicable to all other Hungarian subjects . Determined and skilful attempts were made by British agents of the Hungarian Government to discredit with their papers in London and New York all When writing to advertisers please mention The Nation                     