@@493346

Add President 's Message IN the hope of being appointed drafter of presi- i dential documents in place of the lately resigned Judson Welliver , the , writer recently drew up certain passages which he thought should be included in the President 's message to Congress . But the job has been filled , and not by the writer . These passages probably are not acceptable to Mr. Coolidge and nothing like them will be found among his recommendations . Nevertheless they are here published , so that those who care to read may compare what is with what might have been , and draw whatever conclusions seem to them appropriate . " In a recent address to the New York Chamber of Commerce I called attention to the great prosperity of the country , to the progressive elimination of waste in industry , to the higher rate of productivity which , I said , made possible increased wages with reduced prices and hence a higher standard of living for the workers . I regret to inform you that on account of misinformation received from the Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not in existance a reliable index of average money wages , but the best information we have indicates that they are somewhat lower now than in 1920 . The price figures which I quoted were of wholesale prices , which have fallen considerably more than retail prices or the cost of living , and of course the wage-earner buys at retail . " It does , indeed , seem to be true that the money wages of manual workers in factories , railroads and construction have on the average fallen somewhat less than the cost of living since 1920 , and that the purchasing power of these workers is therefore perhaps 20 percent higher than before the War . There remain , however , serious dangers in this situation . Many thousands of soft coal miners have not kept pace with the general trend . Perhaps millions of salaried workers have not followed it . Certainly millions of farmers are no better off than in 1924 . And although the purchasing power of the individual factory worker has increased since 1920 , there are fewer factory workers employed . So that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchasing power of the ultimate consumer 's is growing rapidly enough to absorb all that industry can turn out under improved methods . This creates an ever-present danger of what is commonly called ' overproduction ' with its attendant industrial depression . The fact that such a depression has not yet arrived may perhaps be attributed to the rapid extension of instalment buying ( through which the customer is tempted to acquire more than his current income will pay for ) and to the abnormal activity of the important building construction industry . Neither can continue indefinitely ; there are already signs of the end of the building boom . Whether for these causes or for others , industrial depression is almost certain to arrive some time , and probably within a year or two . And it is our duty , not merely to congratulate ourselves on past good fortune , but to prepare thoroughly against worse conditions which may be in store . " Again and again we have been overtaken by depression and unemployment totally unprepared . Again and again investigating bodies have discovered that emergency measures taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of much service . Again and again they have pointed out that preparation should be made in times of prosperity . After a brief study of these reports , I therefore recommend the following measures . " An adequate appropriation should be made for the Federal Employment Service , which should be restored to its war footing in order that we may keep track both of jobs open and of workers seeking employment throughout the country , and bring the latter to the former as far as possible . Of course close cooperation should be effected with whatever state employment agencies or cooperative industrial agencies are in existence . - But let me remind you of the fact that a systematic service is necessary in order that we may know the elementary facts about unemployment when it arrives , and may apply scientific measures of relief . " Having thus reduced the number of unavoidably unemployed to a minimum and learned the essential facts of the situation we may consider compensation to those out of jobs . Genuine unemployment is not the fault of the wage-earner , but is a risk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be insured against just as we insure against fire , accident and death . Great Britain has applied a national plan of unemployment insurance under the state , with employers and employes as contributaries , which , in spite of far more severe depressions than we have encountered or may expect to encounter in this country for many years , has stood between her workers and destitution , and possibly has prevented serious upheavals . In this country fruitful experiments have been made with unemployment insurance in separate industries by agreements between unions and employers , which are to be commended . But if within the calculable future we are to apply this remedy to all alike , governmental action must be taken . Under our federal system such legislation probably lies within the province of the several states , but the Congress may promote the movement by establishing a spe- . cial commission to study it , and perhaps also by authorizing federal grants-in-aid to such states as may undertake the responsibility , thus helping them to bear whatever contribution may be apportioned to the public . The origins of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences are all nation-wide in great measure , and should receive national consideration . " Far more fundamental than relief of unemployment , , however , is its prevention . While the federal government alone can not obviate the business cycle , it can and should do something to stabilize business . The policy of the Federal Reserve Board , through its control over open-market purchase of securities and over re-discount rates already exercises a stabilizing influence on credit . In addition , the government as a purchaser of supplies and services , a purchaser beyond comparison the greatest in the nation , may by concentrating its demands as far as possible in periods of slack times and low prices benefit both itself and the whole people . It may thus follow the policy many times urged by economists upon private business concerns . " There are numerous possible governmental projects , desirable in themselves , which may thus be utilized to shore up markets in danger of collapse . I have already referred to the approaching end of the building boom . It so happens that the federal government is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Washington many of our most Important activities are still housed in temporary war construction , which is a heavy fire risk and will soon disintegrate . A large public building program in the capital is fully justified . In addition , many of the post offices throughout the country are cramped for space and badly ventilated and lighted . Lack of modern standardization in post office building and equipment is the chief obstacle to the installation of a scientific efficiency rating system for postal employes . I therefore recommend a national post office building program with a single appropriation under the experts of the department ? not with appropriations for the several localities favored by individual Congressmen . This , I well recognize , would involve a fundamental change in the habits of Congress , but it is a change demanded by the public good , and one which will redound to party advantage since it is part of a comprehensive effort to avoid or mitigate depression . " I also call the attention of states and municipalities to the possibility of furnishing public credit for the construction of good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but not provided by private enterprise because there is no profit in it . " Another large development is possible which may be of incalculable benefit to the people for many generations . A rapidly improving technique in the electric power industry makes possible the carriage of electric energy for long distances over high-voltage transmission lines , the linking of separate systems together in great power pools which facilitate a ' balanced load , ' thus producing large economies , and the generation of electricity in quantities near the source of power ? whether coal mine or falling stream . Privately owned utility companies are rapidly exploiting this possibility and are profiting from it . Private enterprise alone , however , will not bring to the public the advantage it should derive from this basic development . For instance , plants which should be built and facilities which should be installed in order to round out a truly economical giant power system may be so costly , and may bring so little return until a market for the current is found , that private interests will not undertake them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Here is a golden opportunity for governmental enterprise to finance construction which will be a true economy . In addition , there is the problem of control of rates , which is partly a state problem and partly an interstate one . In so far as federal cooperation with the states , either through an interstate treaty or otherwise , may help in safeguarding the public interest here , it should be exercised . We need a Federal Giant Power Commission to investigate the whole matter and recommend the necessary action . In the meantime I would caution Congress not to give away national rights on national property in already existing facilities ? such as those at Muscle Shoals . " Unfortunately it is not possible for the government to bring about adequate increases in wages , and hence in purchasing power , throughout the whole nation . But it can begin at home , by granting fair pay to its own employes . While I have been publicly rejoicing that wages of factory workers have gained on the cost of living , I have not hitherto mentioned the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much as the cost of living since 1914 , and no federal employe has benefited as much as those in private industry . Equitable adjustments should immcdiately be made . While we are on this subject , let me recommend more generous pension legislation , and the adoption of the praiseworthy measure urged by the arsenal and navy yard workers which would make national productivity one of the main considerations in fixing their basic wage scales . " Legislation establishing control of the bituminous coal industry , going perhaps somewhat further than that recommended by the Coal Commission , would tend to check its overdevelopment , and thus reduce unemployment and aid the union in establishing higher wages . Control of the anthracite industry , with standardized accounting practice and publicity of accounts , would assist the establishment of higher wages there without higher prices to the public . Any help which it is within the power of Congress to offer to the growth of legitimate unionism will perhaps be more effective than anything else in enabling real wages to keep pace with production . Unfortunately , however , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For my part , I pledge my assistance in restraining the department of Justice from abusing the injunction in labor disputes as it did during the railroad shopmen 's strike of 1922 , and I will take pains to appoint federal judges who understand industrial relations . " Purchasing power may be increa:yed not only by higher wages but by lower prices : ' Here the government may help in several directicns . Material reduction of the tariff , where that will not seriously injure large established industries or where the present duties have not brought them prosperity , would remove the double burden of an indirect tax , paid with every purchase , from millions of our citizens . Many of these have incomes so small that they do not pay income taxes , and can secure no relief from a reduction of income levies . I recommend abolition of sales ? and nuisance taxes on widely used articles as a means to lower prices . Let me also call your attention to the fact that the government saves in its own purchases sometimes as much as 600 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by the work of the Bureau of Standards . This Bureau sets up scientific standards and specifications for articles required . It then tests the commodities offered for sale to see whether they comply with the specifications . In this way the whole process is put on a simple and systematic basis which results in enormous savings . If the public could use the same methods , its purchasing power would be much increased and the quality of the goods it bought much improved . The results of tests of specific commercial articles now made by the Bureau are not accessible to the public . I recommend that they be made so . You will find advertising agencies and manufacturers of inferior products opposed to this measure ? but never mind . " It is evident that most of the proposals I have made will cost the government something . I believe in economy . But economy differs from penury . Governmental expenditures are to be weighed in the light of their return to the nation . Every one of these undertakings will be productive . They constitute spending only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the spring is spending . " Of course if a people were very poor , penury , might be a hard ? though an inefficient ? necessity . But that is not our situation . We have great riches and , today , are enjoying prosperity . The problem of economy is so to utilize our surplus that to . morrow we shall be richer , not poorer . " In order to take advantage of our present prosperity , and to tap the private surplus for the public good , I therefore recommend that income taxes be not reduced , and especially that surtaxes be not reduced . In addition to the expenditures hitherto outlined , we should retire the national debt as rapidly as we may , so that it may not prove a burden on future years , when perhaps our means of paying it will not be so abundant . I am confident that those who have money to pay in income and surtaxes would find no use for it of greater advantage to the nation ? either in spending it for luxuries or in investing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation itself can find for it in measures such as those previously outlined . " I apologize to the Congress because even in this space I have been unable to develop fully any of the topics mentioned , or even to touch upon numerous other tasks which the government should undertake . But such has been the inertia of the government during recent years , that its proper work has piled mountain high . Let me urge upon you that the rapidly failing prestige of government in the United States ? a tendency whose danger it is difficult to over-estimate ? is due , not to its doing too much altogether , but to its doing far too little of the work which only government can do , and too much of the work which must of necessity be left to the individual conscience . "                     