@@430859

THE processed high aim of American undergraduate colleges is to fit men and women for " leadership " ; yet in the average American college the able student ? the student best endowed to become a leader ? is not only robbed of the guidance he merits , but is actually hindered in making progress on his own initiative . In the fourteen years in which I have been a teacher I have attended faculty meetings regularly in some college once a fortnight . I have , moreover , visited a hundred and twenty or thirty other American colleges and universities , and I have attended faculty meetings in a number of these . Yet in my entire experience I have never heard any college faculty discuss for five minutes the problem of helping the able student . I have heard faculties discuss at great length and with much vehemence such questions as how late fraternities should be permitted to dance ; how late in the evening " coeds " in the dormitory should be permitted to use the fudge kitchens ; what style of paddle might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might oversleep and miss classes without being dropped from college ; how badly he must need credits in order to be permitted to change from a course in which he is failing to one in which he believes he can pass ; how many credits he might be permitted to " make " between the close of final examinations and commencement , in his frantic efforts to " complete the course with satisfaction " and receive his degree ; what part of a course in the history of Greece a belated senior might count as a prescribed foreign language after he had failed in firstyear Spanish ? all these matters I have heard college faculties discuss . The members have usually admitted that they ought to be giving their attention to questions of greater importance , but the questions of greater importance have never been treated as if they deserved very thoughtful consideration . Stripped of all euphemistic phraseology , the truth is that if a student is to receive the maximum of attention from an average American college he must be to some extent a mental or a moral deficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; if he fritters away his time in a pool room or in the company of cheap girls ; if his chief concern is spending money that somebody else has earned ; if he is late at classes or forgets his appointments with the dean : if he has striven with all his feeble might to escape the inconvenience of mental concentration , and has succeeded , then the college will discuss him , vote upon him , provide him with " make-up " instruction , write letters to his parents about his " precarious situation , " and give him attention in a dozen other ways when he neither deserves nor appreciates attention of any kind whatever . Such meticulous effort to have every intellectual slacker conform outwardly to established standards results in an official recognition of poor work . No matter how conscientious a college teacher may be , when he is obliged day after day to think and to talk about inferior students he inevitably modifies the character of his teaching to suit their obvious needs . I have recently asked seven hundred and forty-two young men and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the beginning of their high-school course to the end of their sophomore , junior , or senior year in college . Fifty-three said they had so worked . Of the remaining six hundred and eighty-nine , some said they had worked at the beginning of their course , but had early found something pleasanter to do ; others said they had at first wasted so much time that they were later forced to exert themselves in order to catch up ; and still others scoffed at the intellectual honesty of anyone who professed an inclination to work with consistent seriousness . But on one point virtually all of them agreed ? namely , that they could get along without working if they wished to do so . Such personal testimony , given in circumstances that would encourage frankness and truthfulness , only corroborates the college teacher 's conviction that students do relatively little serious work . The laggard escapes because he does not wish to expend energy unnecessarily , and the student with the capacity and the will to work in most instances adapts himself to the easy circumstances created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort because effort is very evidently not required . Now in such a state of affairs , what becomes of the leader , " the exceptional man , the enthusiast , the personality that is to flower out and determine the ideal of the age or the community " ? A leader , it should be remembered , must possess self-control and self-direction . But these powers come to full fruition only through the warmth of concentrated mental activity , through the strong and persistent rush of consciousness that even the ablest minds experience only after they have freed themselves from voluntary or enforced indolence . And the student who is endowed by nature to become a leader is robbed of any such process of liberation when colleges not only permit , but require , him to sit in a classroom day after day . and listen to instruction that is adapted to the capacity of inferior men . Every week I am filled with pain and a poignant sense of unfairness when I catch the expression of helplessness and disgust on the faces of my best students while I use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear to the mental sluggards some simple idea that the better , more conscientious minds understood instantly . Except for an occasional half minute of mental activity , the good students are left by force of circumstances to use the class period in planning deviltry , in experiencing an intellectual coma induced by the hypnotic routine of the recitation , or in reflecting upon the futility of human endeavor . In deploring this state , I am not forgetting the righteous demands of the weak student . No one who is unselfishly interested in education would be patrician enough to rob him of his opportunity to find himself . But is not the student of greater ability also entitled to that clear awakening which we call " finding himself " ? How have we helped matters when we lavish all of our thought upon the weak and the indifferent at the expense of the able and the zealous ? When the abler man finds himself he finds more , and when he gives what he finds to his fellow creatures he gives more . And if he fails to find himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , what dynamic force will remain to lift up those who are too weak to rise unassisted above the dead level ? To be sure , not every undergraduate college should give its chief thought to good students . There must always be large opportunity for victims of untoward circumstances . I do urge , however , that some institutions should have the courage to give their best students special attention , even if such a policy resulted in the utter neglect of the weak and the listless . State colleges and state universities probably could not enter upon such a program . They are too intricately bound up with the fortunes of taxpayers and politicians . But colleges that are unhampered by popular control  |p729  could undertake the task with the assurance that they might work out their own destiny undisturbed , and that their success would ultimately result in a distinctive service to men of every capacity . Any college daring to risk social martyrdom by thus espousing the cause of education would find it necessary , first of all , to depart from methods of advertising now current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the quality of the students who seek admission to their freshman classes , and it would be exceedingly difficult to say anything that would be an exaggeration of the facts . But it must be remembered that the colleges get just the kind of students they invite . Their methods of advertising are , in the main , beneath the dignity of such a cause as higher learning , and they place greatest emphasis on things that are relatively least important . The advertising incorporated in college catalogues may not be open to this charge , but college catalogues are not the chief sources from which prospective students gain information . They gain it from semiofficial sources ? from " literature " on college life , from undergraduate publications , from " authorized " accounts of class parties and fraternity dances , and especially from accounts of intercollegiate athletic contests . Whether or not such advertising is sought with full premeditation , the institution that acquiesces in its use without offering anything to neutralize its effect becomes firmly associated in the prospective student 's mind with the idea of social pleasure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an institution is firmly associated in the public mind with what a member of the faculty may say on the labor question or free speech or free love , even if he speak solely on his own authority and disclaim any intention of representing the opinions of the institution he serves . Now I believe in college recreation ; I delight in going to undergraduate parties myself . And especially do I believe in the value of athletics . I have no thought of launching a conventional diatribe against an activity that contributes to student solidarity , encourages fair competition , and serves in a score of ways as an antidote for undergraduate provinciality . But the use , either official or semiofficial , of athletics to advertise the academic departments of an institution is dishonest in principle and vicious in its ultimate effects . " But college is like business , " one of my former students said to me recently . " You see , the successful automobile manufacturer must look after his advertising department as well as his production , and in college your advertising department is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted ; " but in the automobile industry what does the advertising department advertise ? " " Why , " he replied , " the production end of it , of course . " " And , " I inquired further , " if athletics are to be regarded as the advertising department of a college , what department do they advertise ? " He hesitated a moment and then replied , in a good-natured effort to get even : " Well , Professor , when I was in college you did n't teach me to reason straight enough . Of course , I see now that athletics advertise the advertising department . " How greatly such advertising may misrepresent the professed chief business of an institution may be seen in the following instance : A state university in the Middle West secured a new football coach . In order to let the world know that a new era was dawning for this institution , a committee prepared an illustrated circular which set forth vividly this new coach 's athletic prowess . By utilizing sectional basketball tournaments that the high schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this circular in the hands of virtually all the pupils who were then attending high school in that state . Some of these boys and girls at once decided to attend this university .  |p730  Among them were many who could give no reason for doing so , other than that this physical giant was going to " bring the institution to the front . " Now this state university is honored by having at its head a man of great capacity and unusual personal charm , and it numbers among its teachers many men who are known to thinking people throughout the entire country . Yet when I questioned some of these boys and girls who had decided to go there to college , I found that many of them did not know the name of the president ; that they could not name any teacher in the institution ; and that they did not know what courses , or even what subjects , they would have the opportunity to study , once they were there . Some of them vaguely contemplated studying subjects which had never been in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following autumn , the obscurity of their own purpose kept them from being greatly disappointed . But if a mail-order house had resorted to the same methods in securing them for customers , their fathers would have prosecuted it for securing money under false pretenses . The mere principle of such advertising might , however , be treated with less seriousness if the results in practice were not so destructive . But by the simplest logic one may see that the weakest prospective students , the least thoughtful ones , are the ones lured blindly to college by some incidental interest . They enter the freshman class , they require assistance of every conceivable sort , and with great difficulty a few of the many succeed in remaining in college . It frequently happens that one of these few secures the superintendency of a small school ? " where only administrative ability is required " ? or becomes , through politics , a township trustee or school chairman . He wishes to bring his high school " to the front . " And the only way he knows of bringing it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the front . So he goes back to his college , secures a good basketball or football coach , and , in order to have him rank well in the eyes of the educational world , makes him a " regular member " of the high-school faculty and assigns him to the teaching of English or history or some other subject that he can " read up oh . " In three or four years this coach , filled with a degree of loyalty that even the stony-hearted must admire , sends his pupils , a little poorer in quality than he was himself , back to his college to " root " for the things he has taught them by example and precept to believe are more important than " mere scholarship . " Then in a year or two , or three or four , they go out from college only to start the cycle over again . The colleges can change all this if they will . Not only the high-school teacher , but high-school social life , high-school ethics , high-school standards of sport , high-school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world ? have been transplanted from the colleges . And if the colleges will tell the public openly and firmly that they will not tolerate students who are unfit to profit by college training ; if they will then cease spending endless hours with students of this class when they do come to college , and if they will help all other students to see that the first aim of college life is not pastime , but mental discipline , they will soon be sending to the high schools a different kind of ideal and receiving in return a different kind of student . A college that wished to consecrate itself primarily to the education of able students would find it necessary , too , to free itself from the curse of quantitative standards . No one would deny the importance of high quantitative standards ; it is better to have them than to have no standards at all . But the effort to determine every educational value with a yard stick or a bushel measure leads us into strange absurdities . For example , if a pupil in high school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zeal whatever for becoming edu/ cated , yet completes in some fashion " sixteen units of work , " a very large per cent of the colleges in America will admit him . If a pupil has very good teachers and unusual capacity and a consuming zeal to master himself and his environment , yet has only thirteen of these mystical units , a very large per cent of the colleges of America will reject him without discussion . It may be that in the first instance the pupil has studied English , botany , art , manual training , history , mathematics , typewriting , agriculture , music , and stock judging ; yet if he has sixteen units in these subjects he is " prepared . " It may be that in the second instance the student has studied English for four years , mathematics for two , Latin for four , and French for three , and wishes to specialize in the Romance languages ; yet if he lacks the three miscellaneous units in typewriting , high-school band , and stock judging , he is not " prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed a machine for dealing with " requirements " that precludes any really personal consideration of the fitness of candidates for admission . Recently a brilliant boy of sixteen , an honor boy in one of the best schools in America , came to me and said : " I wish to enter Blank University . Will you please tell me how to get in ? " I took the catalogue and struggled for an hour and a half through approximately twenty thousand words of fine print devoted to the requirements for admission . When I had finished I was unable to tell the boy whether he could get in or not . I was sure , however , that those pages and pages of requirements , with all sorts of cautions and special notices , were designed to satisfy the consciences of the Committee on Admission after they had accepted worthless boys . They could serve no other good purpose , for they would be just as unnecessary in determining the fitness of really intelligent boys as a pedagogical scale would be in deciding whether Lloyd George or Marshal Foch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is written the fact that they were prepared with the incapable and conscienceless pupil in mind . And so busy are colleges in determining whether such pupils have enough " units , " that they have no time to give to searching out and encouraging candidates who , are known to possess intellectual : strength and intellectual curiosity . But it is after the student has entered college that he suffers most from standards that are primarily quantitative . After he has matriculated , the one thing needful in order to secure a degree is a sufficiently long list of credits on the college records . In order to secure these credits , he must go to recitations or lectures or other fixed academic exercises so many times a week for a period of four years . If he wishes to secure his degree in three years , he may in some instances do so , provided he attends as many lectures and recitations in three years as he ordinarily would in four . In some institutions a man who does work of the poorest grade is required to attend a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prove his fitness to graduate by doing some more work of the same grade ! In certain other details , too , the requirements for graduation vary in different institutions , but in their emphasis on quantity they are very much alike . Educational officers , in their commendable zeal for popular learning , have developed our colleges into vast machines for receiving " raw material " ? these are their own words ? and " turning out " a " finished product . " And in their efforts to prove that the machine is capable of increasing its production constantly , they have sometimes lost sight of the fact that their original purpose was to educate individuals . In two important respects emphasis on quantity results in an injustice to the superior student . In the first place , it does not encourage him to do his work well . He may study superficially for the mere purpose of being able to make a passable recitation the same day . He  |p732  may borrow notes , he may skim through assigned reading ? he may resort to every intellectual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every one of the credits in the time prescribed . A man who sat near me in some of my college courses never took a note of any kind . He amused himself by drawing cartoons of the professor and by reading novels concealed behind his notebook . A few days before final examinations he borrowed notes that his classroom neighbors had made , studied them and the prescribed readings with some thought , and then passed his courses with such distinction that he was honored with a part in the commencement program . No one could blame him for his methods . The courses in which I knew him were " geared low , " whereas he could find joy only in working at high speed all the time . The college did him an unpardonable injustice by forcing him to do nothing when he was eager to attempt anything which promised intellectual resistance . It worked on the theory that the only way to educate a man is to teach him , while he knew , without being told , that the only way to educate a man is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learn . Secondly , emphasis on quantity demands of the student no intellectual enthusiasm . I do not speak of a vocational aim ; a student may or may not have that and still feel a strong sense of direction . But a student can not derive most from his college course unless he feels that somehow all of his work is shot through with significance . And colleges are very lax in bringing students into any such wholesome state of mind . The typical undergraduate attitude is , " We 're here because we 're here . " Or , if not quite so void of purpose as that , it is one of mild receptivity , well exemplified by a college junior who wrote : " The whole world says education is the thing . There must be something to it , and I am willing to give it a chance . " In all fairness to colleges , most of them do little to warm the student . through and through with intellectual or spiritual zeal , little to lead him to ask the why of his presence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into open contempt for a great ideal or a great enthusiasm of any kind . Now it would not necessarily be calamitous if only the follower were in this mental state ; sooner or later he might be led out of it . But colleges force it upon the prospective leader . He must march with the procession , whether the procession 's progress affords him any intellectual exercise or not . The grade schools have recognized the justice of individual promotions , but the colleges would be " lowering standards " if they recognized the special abilities of unusual students and excused them from a year of consort with men of inferior ability and infirm purpose . Yet why should they not do it ? Or , if the four-year standard is as low as it ought to be for men of high ability , how is it possible for the weak student to become educated in exactly the same period ? If one man thinks three times as profoundly as another , if his emotional life is three times as variously enriched and is capable of enlarging itself and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be forced to mark time by conforming to requirements that are necessary only in measuring the mediocre ability of the other ? The superior student suffers , moreover , because the tradition of quantitative standards robs his teachers of an opportunity to give him the assistance he merits . Everyone who is familiar with higher education in America knows of college professors , as well as college presidents , who have been dismissed from their posts because the enrollment failed to grow . It seems never to have occurred to those in authority in such instances that a teacher might have two dozen students who possess the zeal of disciples , and through them influence more people eventually than the teacher who measures his auditors by the hundred , or that a teacher might render a greater service to his large classes by  |p733  thinking more and lecturing less . " How many lectures , " a Frenchman asked a distinguished professor at Harvard , " do you give each week ? " " Ten or twelve , " the Harvard scholar replied . Then , " the Frenchman observed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor ones . " It is not that the conscientious teacher objects so seriously to having some expert accountant tell him just how many hours he should devote to preparing an acceptable lecture on ? let us say , " The Absolute in Religious Belief . " This could be borne with equanimity if only one 's best students were not made to suffer . But the teacher knows that he has a given amount of routine work to do ; and he knows that his good students will not bring absolute disgrace upon him if he neglects them , while the poor ones will . So when the large amount of classroom and administrative work is done , he turns , as a matter of professional self-defense , to the assistance of the shamefully poor students and tries to forget the standards of quality about which he has dreamed and talked so long in vain . Closely akin to the evil of quantitative standards is another that the college which wishes to train leaders must successfully combat ? namely , pseudo-democracy . In American college communities , being " democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in the swim , " being without unusual qualities or unusual tastes . It usually means , too , a spirit of intolerance for men or ideas that are at variance with the popular conception . This intolerance works to the advantage of the man who is below the average level , for he is forced to improve himself up to the general standard ; but it works a great hardship to the man who is above the average . Any man who has superior mental ability is likely to have certain pronounced characteristics that do not contribute always to an easy life of good fellowship . He may not wish to spend all of his spare time in the company of his nearest friends ; yet if he isolates himself , or reveals an inclination to do so at times , he is called a snob or a highbrow . He may not be interested in college journalism , or college music , or college dances ; yet if he possesses ability in any of these fields of activity and does not use it for the glory of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disloyal . If he enjoys conversation with his teachers or with intellectual women who are older than he is , his fellows " simply can not understand it . " Whatever may be the qualities which set him apart from the crowd , his friends persist in exerting influence , bringing pressure to bear , warning him that the highest duty of a student is to be a " good scout , " until he yields up a large degree of his individuality , or is forced into the life of a social recluse . He must be like the rest or be no one ; and when he yields to the pressure to be like the rest he surrenders the essence of his own soul . The receptive moments of his highest spiritual self , the prodigal flashes of divine enthusiasm ? these do not spring from the miscellaneous chatter of his friends , or from the " jazz " music of the playerpiano . The miscellaneous chatter and the " jazz " music should be tolerated , but so should the man whose tastes pull him at times toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy is that the most democratic of democracies must have leaders . And these leaders , if they are to render the greatest service , must possess superior ability and superior ideals . The good statesman , the good representative of the people , is not the man who tries merely to reflect the will of the people , but the man who , having the welfare of the people at heart , sees better than they do , and holds before them an ideal that is just far enough above their level to make them aspire to it . And an education that will develop men to represent the people best is not an education that  |p734  everybody ? even the unwilling ? can have without effort , nor an education whose atmosphere rings with the glad , irresponsible shouts of the incompetent and intellectually unambitious , but an education far enough above popular ease and popular mediocrity to be only within difficult reach . It must encourage not only the best that is in the poorest man , but the best that is in the best man . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to do ; it would have to lift itself above the provinciality that too frequently surrounds institutions of higher learning . This provinciality is not the result of geographical isolation ; it may affect the " liberal " young instructor in a metropolitan university as well as the traditional graybeard in a freshwater college . It is a mental attitude of passivity or of open resistance toward all ideas that have not been authoritatively admitted to the life of the particular college community . It is the habit of mind that men call " academic " when they use the word in its worst possible sense . An illustration : In the course of one afternoon I attended meetings of a national educational association and of an association of business men . In the educational meetings the men " played politics , " they attacked one another with caustic tongues , they refused to be convinced , they refused to listen whenever possible , they made sharp retorts ? evidently brought ready-made from classroom and faculty meeting ? and they persisted in teaching their fellow workers rather than trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association the men were outspoken but courteous , they were respectful , they listened eagerly , they asked questions designed to develop illuminating discussion , and they weighed suggestions with an open , inquiring mind . In the first instance , the men were troubled over many small things ; in the second , they were troubled over nothing at all , but were intent upon solving problems m good spirit and in good time . Now superior students ? potential leaders ? can not survive in an atmosphere of intellectual smugness . Their lofty spirits either succumb to it or rebel against every intellectual virtue unfortunately associated in their minds with it . More important still , the superior teacher in whom they would discover such a leader as they aspire to be themselves will not remain in such an atmosphere . By chance I know a dozen of the great teachers living in the world today . I am also acquainted with a hundred or more standard colleges . ' Yet I can not conceive of more than two of these teachers as being comfortable in these colleges . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not contribute in the least to a reign of intellectual terrorism . But they would demand elbow-room . They would not have their work judged by its conformity to some made-to-order ideal , and they would refuse to spend their time currying favor with those in authority . They would insist on doing what the integrity of their own character suggested ; they would wish to act with good sense and high-mindedness , whether or not their acts seemed " regular " ; they would demand a freedom that , in the souls of the great , creates a solemn responsibility to one 's highest conscience ; and they would ask the college to have the greatest of all faiths in them ? the faith to wait while they worked with silent enthusiasm toward some cherished but remote ideal . If colleges are to guarantee to the superior student the kind of teacher he requires , college corporations must reveal some of the idealism and devotion which they always expect of those who serve them . The way of the teacher is peculiarly beset with temptations to yield to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spends his time with young men and women who treat him as a mental superior , and daily the college corporation that pre/ sides over his destiny treats him as a cheap kind of employee . Thus he suffers by being looked upon at the same time as an intellectual authority and an economic nonentity . From the beguiling dead level of his students he can not be saved altogether ; it is one of the natural hazards of his position . But he can be saved from the deadening humiliation of feeling that he is a mill-hand instead of a consulting engineer . He looks over into the world of commerce and sees " soulless business corporations " eagerly giving men an opportunity to develop their special abilities , to try their wings , to find new ways of furthering the interests of the corporation they serve . Yet when the college corporation which employs him has promising men in its service it will allow them to go unencouraged , it will sacrifice the work they aspire to do rather than go to the trouble of inquiring sympathetically into their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " by the infrequency with which they ask for anything . Surely no one expects " the exceptional man , the reformer , the enthusiast " to find inspiration at such a source . In order to train such a man , college corporations must abandon the " hard-headed business methods " which business men apply to education , and adopt some of the idealistic methods which business men apply to business . Such unleveling requires nothing of a college that it can not give . It necessitates no vast expenditure of.money , no reorganization of the material equipment of the institution , no surrendering of any tradition that is worth keeping . It does , however , require sufficient detachment to see the problem in the large , and sufficient sense of humor to see some of the absurdities to which our serious-minded regard for precedent has led us . For the teacher , it means keeping educational practice in the highest possible state of mobility ; it means dodging the pressures that make teaching conventional and dogmatic . For officers of administration , it means responsibility in developing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the basis of educational procedure . For both teachers and officers it means an unpopular task , since nothing is more unpopular than an attempt to transmute the traditions of an existing order into the spirit of a new life . But any expenditure of energy would result in immediate specific benefits . It would reduce the percentage of indifferent students in undergraduate classes and thereby contribute to a higher respect for learning , and it would send a new strain of blood out into secondary education . Through these specific changes it would help at least a few men to the highest of all educational experiences ? the quickening of the spirit . And when even a few able men are quickened there is less danger that the people will perish because their leaders are without vision .  |p736                      