@@493334

The Week IF THE coming world conference on disarma- ment were not tarred with the brush of the League , there could be no question but that America would both participate and play a leading role . The enterprise is not only one which under ordinary cir ? : cumstances we should be proud to think of as " typically American , " it fulfills , and more than ful ? fills , an ambition which President Coolidge himself has several times expressed with the approval of the nation . Moreover , the signing of the Locarno Pact ' for the first time gives a reasonable chance of suc ? cess for the effort . It is true that America is not di ? rectly concerned with the problem of European land armament ; but we are very much concerned with the future welfare of the European nations , which is bound up with the question of war and peace . Moreover , the less we are directly involved , the more useful we can be in reconciling the demands of Others . Participation in the conference of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or binds us to accept the limitations suggested if we do not wish to . This is true of the actual conference and even more so of the preliminary session for plan ? ning the agenda , the only one to which we have as yet been formally invited . WE believe these facts are clear to all sensible men and we therefore hope that the press is wrong when it reports President Coolidge as being still in fear of possible objection by the irreconcilables . We trust he will not , as a sop to them , make our par ? ticipation unofficial , or have us represented merely by diplomats already abroad or army and navy of ? ficers . No members . of the diplomatic staff , how ? ever able , are in a position to play the part which the American representatives can and should play . As for army and navy officers , the experience of the Washington Conference in 1921 showed that , how ? ever well meaning , they are temperamentally and by training incapable of doing anything in a conference for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No other enterprise in which this country is likely to participate in the next few months can be one-half so important ; and there is no reason to send to it less than the strongest nonpartisan civilian delegation we can muster . THE long debate in the Senate over American par ? ticipation in the World Court has opened with its supporters showing a commendable candor . We hope its opponents will follow the same course , and will not hide their destructive purpose behind a cloud of reservations deliberately planned to be un ? acceptable . The friends of the Court have admitted frankly that it is connected with the League of Na ? tions . They deny , and we think properly so , that the existing relationship is one which will vitiate the work of the Court , permit political pressure to be exerted , or in any way embroil the United States in League affairs . They maintain that the Harding-Hughes reservations are ample to protect our sov ? ereignty , and that it would be folly to demand of the other nations a drastic alteration in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American adhesion immediately rather than a few years hence when the irreconcilables may be out of power , or have changed their views . These arguments seem to us sound ; and we believe that unless by violent misrep ? resentation of the facts the country is thrown into an unjustifiable panic , there is every likelihood that a two-thirds majority of the Senate will vote for our entrance during the present session . FINANCE ministers and fiscal plans tumble over each other so rapidly in France that there is hardly time to assess the promise of one before another follows . Yet evidence accumulates that neither in France nor America is it sufficiently appreciated that there is no way of stopping French inflation short of bringing about a real balance of the budget through increased current receipts or decreased cur ? rent expenses or both . More borrowing , whether internal or external , whatever the security , will merely aggravate the disease . The plan of the northern industrials , for instance , to raise for the government 10,000,000 ; 000 francs in the United States by pledging their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would merely increase the gov ? ernment 's obligations to pay without increasing its current income . If the industrials object to paying taxes enough to cover the government 's present ob ? ligations , how will they like paying the interest on 10,000,000,000 more ? Even so good a financial critic as Senator Smoot seems to cherish the delu ? sion that France can pay us what she already owes if only we lend her enough in addition . A further loan might be justified to assist stabilization of the currency , once the budget had been firmly balanced ? as in the case of Germany ? but the loan of one cent to France before a real budgetary balance had been assured would be an injury to both parties . PASSAGE of the administration tax bill virtually unaltered by a tremendous majority in the House of Representatives finally brings the Mellon plan of " tax reform " by untaxing the rich to the last stage short of fulfillment . It is a triumph of political ? cal control by an economically powerful minority of the population . Through supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of party machinery and of a national election , and finally in the reorganization and discipline of the House itself , the ways have been greased for this pet meas ? ure of those with large incomes . So overwhelming is the victory that no effective criticism of the bill was expressed even by the " opposition " party , a majority of the Democrats having jumped on the bandwagon . The Senate still retains a vestige of independence , and opposition is threatened there . But , if rumor is correct , the Democratic Senators will furnish a form , of opposition which can only make a bad matter worse . They apparently do not oppose reduction of surtaxes , or reduction of tax yield , or slower retirement of the national debt ? the chief faults of the House bill . Rather , they want more reduction in the lower brackets , a still smaller yield , and a still slower retirement of the national debt . Thus , by giving to taxpayers a re lief unnecessary now , they would increase the long-run tax burden on this generation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ postpone the ability of the government to incur additional ex ? penditures for any other purpose . They would be lucky , indeed , if they did not create a deficit and thus bring about in the near future an alternative between inflation and higher taxes again . SENATOR JAMES J. WALKER , New York City 's new Mayor , has made the statement that one of the major problems to which he will give his attention is city planning . The promise does him credit ; no municipal question is more pressing , and most of all in New York . There geographical limi ? tations plus the erection of skyscrapers have pro ? duced conditions where traffic congestion is already almost unendurable , and rapidly growing worse . It is impossible to ascertain the amount of money lost in moving goods through crowded streets , in need ? less transshipments , and in the payment of huge rents based in turn upon ground values augmented by pressure of population ; but such losses are un7. doubtedly vast . To them must be added the per ? sonal factor : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fight his way into the subway morning and evening , the increased cost of living , the impossibility of creating satisfactory hous ? ing at reasonable prices . If an engineer were per ? mitted to " play God " and make over New York for the sole purpose of serving the needs of its popula ? tion as well as possible , he would undoubtedly de ? clare the skyscraper a curse , forbid the erection of more , raze some of those already standing , and fix a limit on the number of persons allowed to live or work in any square mile , a limit decidedly below that now reached in some quarters . Mr. Walker , of course , can not operate in any such ruthless fashion ; the enormous superstructure of realty values of many billions erected in New York upon the existing condition of congestiOn would make . impossible any drastic action even if he wished to take it . The most he can do will be to set in motion forces which will work over many years toward decentralization and the creation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If he can do so much , he will have performed a service greater than that of any other man who has held his office in a generation . STRIKING confirmation of the New Republic 's warning that the building boom is approaching its end was received at a recent meeting of the indus ? try in New York , when Mr. Walter Stabler of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and other representatives of great loaning institutions gave the most positive assurances , supported by statistical studies , that there was a large and increasing num ? ber of vacancies in business buildings and high class apartments and that rents have started on a down ? ward course . Even if the conclusions were not true , such an attitude on the part of responsible finan den would lead to a curtailment of new projects . But they are true . It was furthermore shown that speculative builders in their scramble for profits had encouraged all sorts of dishonest practices ? graft , stealing of materials , use of materials not up to specification , alarming reduction of quality , issuance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of grossly exaggerated values . All this as ? sumes an importance beyond the threatened loss to investors when we remember that the building boom has been one of the chief props under our general prosperity and that its collapse may start in mo ? tion the cycle of depression . And the significance becomes tragic indeed in view of the fact that while the speculative regime has thus been permitted to play fast and loose with its opportunities , the scarc ? ity of good housing for the lower income groups has remained as severe as ever , because the profit to be made in it is either non-existent or too negli ? gible to attract the efforts of practical business men . Thus once again is illustrated the virtue of private enterprise and free competition . SEVERAL conclusions are strengthened by the ' hole sad story of building . One is the desirability of good standards and specifications , with adequate testing of materials , brought out in the article by Mr. Chase and Mr. Schlink in this week 's New Republic . Architects and builders now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? tion ? because there is no practical method of test ? ing available to them . Another is the desirability of Some form of industrial control in the interest of everyone which will apply the spur to a lagging in ? - industry and the brakes to an overspeeding one be ? fore dangerous shortages or surpluses are devel ? oped . Stabilization of the business cycle implies not unlimited competition , but industrial integration . More important still , however , is the need of pub ? lic credit for housing designed for the lower income groups . Such housing is not supplied in times of depression by speculative builders , and it is not sup ? plied in the most active boom . Credit is not avail ? able in either phase from private sources at low enough interest rates in large enough quantities . Now that the building industry is facing a period of ' slackened activity there is every reason why the Movement for housing financed by public credit should be encouraged . The time is favorable also for the progress of sound city and regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ month its twentieth anniversary . Founded in 1905 as ' the Intercollegiate Socialist Society , it has had a notable part in arousing interest in social problems on the part of young men and women in colleges . A list of officers and members of the ex Tcutive committee from its founding to the present recalls the names of early radicals such as jack LOndon , Upton Sinclair , Morris Hillquit , Owen R. Lovejoy , J. G. Phelps-Stokes . Other names which appear are those of Ernest Poole , Walter Lipp ? mann , Juliet Poyntz , Vida D. Scudder , John Spargo , Charles Zueblin . The Intercollegiate Socialist So ? ciety existed . for the purpose of interesting college men and women in the study of socialism . Four years ago it changed its name to the League for Industrial Democracy , and its purpose to more mil ? itant efforts for a new social order . Its work , still largely with college groups , is now in the active charge of three directors , Norman Thomas , Paul Blanshard and Harry W. Laidler . The twentieth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , December 30 . THE Board of Trustees of the College of the City of New York has confirmed the action of the fac ? ulty in retaining compulsory military training . They have done so although 2,000 students and 3,200 parents voted against it by six to one . The action of the Board seems to us both unfair and unwise . Military training in the colleges bears no practical relation to national preparedness . Our war experi ? ence proved this , when it was found that students who had had such courses were only able to enter the military training camps on an equality with other men . The only value of the training is " cultural " ; and there is no more reason for forcing a student to take such work against his will than there is to exercise the same compulsion in regard to any other college course . Indeed , even the cultural value of military training as it is administered in the col ? leges is , in our judgment , open to grave question .. Its purpose , as is shown by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our issue of December 16 , is to destroy " the principles of sportsmanship and consideration for your op ? ponent . " It is also to break down the impulse to ? ward individual initiative , toward thinking for one ? self , and to substitute a blind obedience to consti ? tuted authority even when the orders given are obviously Wrong and stupid , and the result of obedi- ence may he death . The ideal which animates the American military machine , like every other mili ? tary machine , is precisely that Prussian autocracy to annihilate which we were supposed to have en ? tered the War . In continuing to force all their students to go through the military sausage-grinder , the authorities of City Colloge have truckled to jingoism in a manner which we regret and they should be ashamed of . THE sentence imposed on Colonel Mitchell is about what was to be expected . From the point of view of the army martinets , his campaign has never represented anything else than a horrendous viola ? tion of discipline ; the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if he were not properly spanked , and spanked he has been . Nevertheless , the man ? nr of the trial has been such as to leave a bad taste in the mouth . To call Colonel - Mitchell lack ing in patriotism , an " Aaron Burr , " is a gross libel : he has deliberately thrown away a brilliant career for no other purpose than to seek to strength ? en his country 's military resources and reform their administration . The attitude of both army and navy officials has from the beginning been such as to suggest little desire to find out whether Mitchell is right or wrong , and a great desire to punish him for his " insubordination . " By attacking him per ? sonally they have sought to weaken the effect of his allegations which they are unwilling or unable to disprove . We hope that Congress will feel itself as little satisfied as we are with the perfunctory attempts thus far made to get really to the bottom of the Mitchell charges . WAR Department engineers , surveying the Ten ? nessee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater than that to be gained in the United States by the harnessing of Niagara . Its exploitation would create a great , series of lakes and a navigable waterway to the Mississippi basin . With the valuable natural deposits in the region , an industrial development is possible rivalling the Ruhr in Germany , for dominance of which nations have sacrificed lives and treasure . We suppose that most Americans will greet this news by throwing their hats in the air and cheering on the usual pion ? eering scramble fOr profits . But here is a clear alter ? native which should be seriously considered . We have , as a nation , discovered a new source of com ? mon wealth , a way to increase comfort and happi ? ness for millions . By foresight and control we can get the utmost common benefit out of it ? well planned industrial centers , not too large , with good houses occupied by healthy and satisfied workers with a recognized function in industry , surrounded by prosperous farming regions in which the farm ? ers would have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole serving the needs of the rest of the nation . By letting private initiative seek the utmost profit we can have another Pittsburgh , with real estate speculation , overcrowd ? ed and inferior housing , a suppressed industrial population , a declining agriculture , all paying trib ? ute to the feudal lords of industry . In the result twenty years hence will the vision and capacity of those now in power be weighed . MEMBERS of ' the League of Catholic Women of Detroit have taken an action of which they and their church ought to be heartily ashamed , in ask ? ing the Board of Regents of Michigan University to clap a muzzle on President C. C. Little . Doctor Little 's appalling crime consists in publicly advocat ? ing birth control and the sterilization of the unfit . Since he is a noted biologist and eugenist , the chances are about a million to one that he knows more about the matter than ever so many ladies of Detroit . But were he wrong , he would still be entitled to parade his ignorance where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Board of Regents shares our view and recognizes a right - which , though the Catholic Women of Detroit have evidently never heard of it , still exists ? the right of free speech . IN pardoning Benjamin Gitlow Governor Smith set an example to executives of other states where men are held in prison for acts in connection with the industrial struggle which the War gave the con ? servatives an opportunity to translate into crime . Gitlow is a Communist , with the singular lack of logic which characterizes our legal procedure ' he was convicted of criminal anarchy , in February 1920 , and sentenced to imprisonment from five to ten years . Governor Smith 's message follows the lines of that issued in connection with the pardon of Jim Larkin in January 1923 . He points out that neither Larkin nor Gitlow advocated anarchy , " which is the absence of all organized government , but a new and radically different form of organized government . " Governor Smith does not stand foursquare for freedom of speech . He states his belief that Gitlow , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tac ? tics , but he recognizes that the intermittent impris ? onment which Gitlow has suffered during the last five years is sufficient punishment , for a crime of words . He is sensible enough to realize that a cer ? tain ritual of violence is as necessary to a militant social faith , as other sorts of ritual to other faiths . The gentle Communist often breathes out violence just as the Christian Rotarian does the Sermon on the Mount , and with no more serious intention of putting it into practice . A DEVELOPMENT of first rate importance in American undergraduate life is that of the intercol ? legiate student conference . Hitherto these confer ? ences have been largely confined to religious interest , arranged , directed and supervised by such organiza ? tions as the Y. M. C. A. Now students have dis ? covered that they have other interests in common with those of other colleges and are calling confer ? ences ad hoc to deal with them . During Decem ? ber two such meetings have been held . The most impressive was at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States into the World Court , at which 250 institutions were represented . A few days before this at Wesleyan University a Parley on Education was held to which student and faculty representatives from other colleges were invited . The topic of the discussion , to which Pres ? idents Mciklejohn and Goodnow , Professors James Harvey Robinson and Ben D. Wood contributed , was specifically the college as a place of intellectual life . Later in the month comes the International conference of Northwestern to illustrate again the wholesome tendency on the part of students to take this means of broadening and stimulating the in ? terests of college life into their own direction .                     