@@468214

chological Association , now the American Psychiatric Association . Word had been given out that those who supported the theories of Freud were to be baited and punctured once for all . The adverse clans had gathered for the fun . White made the chief defense and did it in so pregnant and measured a fashion that the confidence of the younger generation was completely gained ? for the method and for White , who was later elected President of the Association . This was a definite victory , which has had lasting results . Another epoch in psychiatric history was marked by White 's remarkable testimony in the Loeb and Leopold case . Here the doctor had a unique opportunity first to make a complete and adequate study of the boys with his collab-orators , Healy and Glueck , he spent several continuous weeks in examining them then , by bringing the results of the psychoanalytic clinic into the courtroom , an equally unique chance to " tell a psychiatric story " to the public . Doctor White testified for seven hours without interruption ? an unheard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence generally stand in the way . Because of the melodramatic nature of popular feeling , because of the violent fears and hatreds aroused by the murder of the Franks boy , he was able to put into general circulation ideas that had before belonged only to the enlightened minority . The man in the street repudiated most of them . But many people hitherto unawakened to " unconscious " tendencies must have begun to ask themselves whether there is not a definite connection between the prevention of crime and the understanding and cure of mental difficulties , and whether both do not depend more on the basic illumination of families and teachers than on the intervention , after the fact , of doctors and judges . HI Doctor White 's method of relating his life story ? which is , in its own fashion , the story of a pioneer ? has the ' impersonality of science . He has none of the artist 's romantic interest in his own destiny : his importance lies in his association with the development of a great medical specialty . The doctor likes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live through the whole constructive period of American psychiatry . When he began the study of mental disease , " insanity " ? a term now recognized as no more descriptive than " fever " or " cough , " and never used by the initiate ? had a vague and opprobrious meaning . The " insane " were pariahs , shut up in " asylums " to live and die under restraint , and the American specialist in this field was seeking the explanation of mental illness solely in the cortex of the brain , or by the methods of internal medicine . But gradually White has seen these asylums transformed into humane and truly scientific hospitals , where the object and the frequent result of treatment is cure . He has seen the interest of the psychiatric specialist , under the influence of the great European thinkers , transfer itself from physiological to psychological mechanisms , acting without the awareness of the patient . Kraepelin was the first great modernist : a descriptive psychiatrist , he approached the symptoms of the mentally ill like a sort of observing naturalist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but they , in turn , gave ground before the psychoanalytical school . The Psychoanalytical Review , started in 1014 by White and Jelliffe , marks the first concerted attack in print of the new psychological ideas upon American practitioners in the mental field . White , by his writings and his work at St. Elizabeth 's has perhaps done more than any other single doctor to get the principles of the new theory into general circulation . And gradually , psychiatry , this Cinderelk of medicine , to borrow Doctor Thoma : W. Salmon 's phrase , has become a ? credited , even distinguished ; taken it : A SPECIALIST IN place " on all fours , " as White puts it , with other medical specialties . " Psychiatry , " he says succinctly in his monograph in the Osler Memorial Volume , " is to my mind the first medical specialty which at all adequately approaches the problem of the whole individual , and I may say that that epitomizes its contribution to general medicine . " With this history in mind , White 's life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen to have a drama of its own . People sometimes ask why he has stayed so long at St. Elizabeth 's , a government institution , when he could have made so much more money and fame , and been in many ways more free in private practice . I wonder if it is not really because he would his early years was centered in the Long Island Cottage Hospital in Brooklyn , to which he had the entree through a childhood friendship with the son of a surgeou . His great delight was to spend his time in the operating rooms , and he can scarcely remember when he Id not intend to be a doctor . A surgeon it was to be , then . His cireum3tances were meager , but he had a drive , m intelligence , an ability , and a quiet letermination that no circumstances 2ould inhibit. his talent for teaching tad scholarly work , now so marked , de-'eloped in these very early years ; in the sigh school he began to assist the pro'essor of chemistry , as later on , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eacher of anatomy ; and again later , at he Long Island Medical College , he : arned his way by small teaching jobs uch as demonstrations in obstetrics . Doctor White 's approach to medicine o-day is synthetic , as distinguished from he analytical approach of the ordinary pecialist , who studies one part of the Pody as if it had very little connection vith any other . White is a specialist a the organism as a whole . " Mental eactions are total reactions . " " The mind is as old as the body . " " The psyche is as old as the soma . " These are some of his aphorisms . He is above all an assimilator and organizer of ideas , and it is illuminating to follow back to a very early identification with the philosophical and biological and psychological approach to life his strong tendency to see human beings as wholes ; to conceive psychic and physical energy not as two separate streams but as manifestations of the same force ; to take account , in appraising a psychiatric situation , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the psyche . This boy , at the age of thirteen , was deep in Herbert Spencer ? perhaps the greatest scientific " influence " of his life ? and he soon caught up with the British scientist and waited eagerly for the later books as they came out . Doctor White often quotes , in speeches , a Spencerian sentence that ties up with his adolescence , his year as ambulance surgeon , his interneship in a Brooklyn hospital , where social contacts were mixed and gregarious and he discovered young his human tolerance and his human curiosity : " Not only is there ' a soul of good in things evil ' but ' a soul of truth in things erroneous . ' Here you have the germ of the psychoanalytical approach to the patient , an approach that rids itself of all human and moral judgment . Where did White get his bent for specializing , as he began to do in college , in nervous and mental disorders ? Perhaps , if he had not been born into the Spencerian age , it would have taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was in adolescence a faithful attendant at the sermons of Henry Ward Beecher . In any case , his absorption not only in the minds , but in the unconscious tendencies of men was definitely revealed long before the age of Freud . The doctor is not a very communicative man , but his secretary produced a letter from his mother , written to another member of the family while White was still a student , which speaks of " Billy " as " taking a private patient with strange falling fits " ( epilepsy ) . The next sentence is revelatory , considering its early date : " He sits up all night by the patient 's bed and writes down the things he says in his sleep . " A year after his graduation White went to the mental institution at Binghamton and stayed there until his appointment by Theodore Roosevelt , at the age of thirty-three , as superintendent of St. Elizabeth 's , where he remains . During the earlier professional years he worked with Boris Sidis on disassociation , and conceived the idea of following a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most illuminating results . " When Freud came along , I was already for him , I had no resistance to his theories , which I think are as fundamental to psychology as Darwin 's to biology . " It has been said , by old-line neurologists , that only those American doctors who came under the personal influence of Freud have accepted the psychoanalytical technic . White has never met Freud , much less studied with him ; but he inevitably accepted the method , as developed not only by Freud , but by Jung , Adler , and the rest , and then proceeded broadly and tolerantly to synthesize it for his own use in his institution . The method is the most thorough , individualized , and time-consuming in medicine , and has so far been largely the privilege of those who could pay for many full hours of the doctor 's time . Yet White has been able to use it with destitute and seriously ill people in a public hospital . A poor old negress , who calls herself a " firewoman " is just as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was worth the sleep of the eager young student . Through this absorbed interest , which White feels and passes on , like some precious serum , to the able young scientists whom he has known how to gather about him , he has made a bureau of our government not only a place where the mentally ill are cared for and often cured , but a remarkable laboratory of mental knowledge ; certainly one of the leading mental institutions in the country . Kraepelin , himself hostile to psychoanalysis , even to the extent that it is practiced in this big laboratory , where it is , of course , only one of the therapeutic agencies employed by the doctors , used stronger terms after spending two weeks at St. Elizabeth 's . " The father of modern psychiatry " called it the foremost mental institution in the world . IV St. Elizabeth 's Hospital stands in a fine , high country site , a few miles from the center of Washington . The grounds are vast ; though they contain a sort of hospital city , housing six thousand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are still studded with old trees , and bordered with ravines and sloping fields . When White assumed the direction of the hospital in 1903 , it was a thoroughly old-fashioned institution , known as the Government Hospital for the Insane . Now , with Doctor White 's new and more humane name ? one that will not bring terror or disgrace to the anxious rela ? tives of the Army and Navy patients , to whom so many thousands of letters gc out every year on stamped hospital paper ; there are nine hundred veteran : of the World War alone ? it is a modern institution , seriously overcrowded , to b ( sure , for the government appropriation : do not keep up with the influx of patient : from the Services and from the District of Columbia , but well staffed with phy sicians and nurses to provide individua care . In addition to the mental wards one finds everything that modern science requires ? a pathological laboratory , medical and surgical hospital , a contagion : hospital , cottages for the tuberculous ? and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need for the amusemen. and the sustainment of its inhabitant ? a moving-picture theater , workroom . for educational therapy , a bakery , qwq and me , who can be helped , if not altogether cured , whose strange ideas and language have a coherence of their own , like some hieroglyphics which need only the interpretation of the scholar and which have a vital bearing on all normal human life . ( One doctor , I remember , was telling the librarian of a thrilling discovery of a likeness between the symbols of the Hopi Indians and those of the schizophrenic . ) At St. Elizabeth 's the distinctions between mind and body , disease and health , normality and abnormality mean little . They are , as White would say , " pseudo-problems . " Doctor White does not love his patients less than the old-fashioned doctor , but he is in addition fascinated by them ; indulgent to them , in the sense of not exercising moral judgments , even about a man who has murdered his wife ; ready to listen to " nonsense " because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I decided that his true mission in life was the diffusion of veracious knowledge about ourselves . A talk with him makes the average physician seem as secretive as the Indian medicine man . White has as much to offer the layman as the scientist . He is no more interested in the poor woman who is nagged by her buried self , or the paranoid patient who believes himself to be a famous character , or the hysterical child who breaks all her fingers to attract attention to a shame she can not voice , than in the eminent lawyer who can not take a subway train because of his fear of crowds , the banker who in spite of superior brains feels inferior to his business associates , the lovelorn bachelor who somehow or other can not marry . Such impediments to dynamic happiness and accomplishment are symptoms of universal conflicts which lie below the level of consciousness , difficulties accepted as inevitable until the new psychiatry came into being . Psychopathology is highly pertinent to modern life because it recognizes man as a social animal , and mental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herd . We can be as crazy as we like on a desert island and almost as crazy as we like on a lonely farm , but in New York or Chicago we must adjust ourselves to the complex civilization we have made or go under altogether . Therefore , White disdains no outlet for his ideas that leads into community life . The tuberculosis expert , the judge , the social worker , the vocational adviser , the teacher , the policeman have even more to learn from him than the mental expert . He has defectives and delinquents always under his eye , and believes that the greater proportion of the people in prisons are mental defectives . The criminal should be regarded as an individual of the primitive or childish order , whose actions are an anachronism on the adult level , not as a scapegoat to be punished to satisfy the unconscious fears and the vengeance motive of the mob . The criminal needs understanding and often medical care . In the prison , but not more so than in the whole institution , the doctor sees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which an ounce of prevention years earlier ? protection for a defective intelligence , understanding on the part of teacher or parent of the needs of a wayward boy or girl would have been worth all the pounds of cure he can give to-day . The awakening consciousnes : of man in himself is a new instrument o civilization , a new tool for fashioning human destiny . " Certainly if the knowledge alread : possessed by St. Elizabeth 's of th springs of human lives ? and any doeto of this school would tell you that it is mere fragment of what will be availabl in twenty years ? were really capitalize in the American community to-day , goodly proportion of the ills that brin people to St. Elizabeth 's would be dor away with . We might think of the life of ti institution as a combination of crisis ar routine . Without crisis , there wou be no revelation of the depths ; routii is the means of adjustment . I saw efficient girl who directs the cutting out of two thousand dresses a year in the receiving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wild little bandit who enticed men into her car and then allowed them to be robbed on a country road . I saw a pretty young girl who seemed to he the right hand of the nurses ; she had been a defective prostitute , hauled out of a " nigger den . " I saw a brutal-looking negro keeping the hospital floors in a marvellous state of polish ; he has the mentality of a child of three , but at this work he is one hundred per cent efficient . White 's object is to find for everybody the right social level , however restricted . Some of his patients will always need a measure of protection ; others will go out into the world again , but infinitely better armed than before . V This , you might say , is the portrait of m institution , not the portrait of a man . William Alanson White is inseparable rom his institution , his patients , his Lima about them . Doctor Brill once said hat the prime requisite for a psychonalyst was an inexhaustible interest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be equally glad to claim : he psychiatrist is a man who can " feel imsclf into " another 's ways of thinking ad feeling . But the novelist can choose is paths of human interest , and the sychiatrisrs imagination and his huLane charity must he ready to occupy self with objects that frequently seem iworthy , or repugnant . The doctor makes no pretensions to ing a great original thinker , But he is the genius , as he sits in that shaded idy , to draw all the threads of his . ily life into a synthesis and to hand ern out again woven into an intelligi- and speculative pattern . If he is a eat man , it is as a popularizer . When is a teacher ? and he is professor of ychiatry in four colleges in the city Washington : the Jesuit University Georgetown , George Washington University , and notably , the Army and Navy Medical Schools when he is a writer ? and the bibliography of his works shows that he has been prolific both in a strictly scientific and a relatively popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is always to carry into the greater world ideas that seem to him fundamental to the progress of man 's knowledge of himself . White 's influence upon our Army , though little known to the layman , has been of great importance . Through his teaching , the regular officer in the late World War was far more able than the ordinary physician from civil life to deal adequately and humanely with the mental derangements due to war stress . As to his writings , ? he does not belong to the " miraculous " school ; he does not draw his illustrations predominantly from sex ; for all his alchemist 's head , he does not go in for magic cures . But he employs speculation deliberately to provoke response and criticism . We have to fashion new tools , he says , to penetrate he unknown . Sir William Oster was a great man in the medicine of his time because , by his combination of rich human qualities and advanced scientific vision , he stood midway between the old empirical doctor and the " testubian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picturesque figure ? a shortish , stoutish , middle-aged man , with a flicker of fire in his impassive , inscrutable face ? in another generation and another field of medicine , seems to take his place as a sort of midway man between the psychiatrist of the past and the future . On his left is the isolated specialist of twenty years ago , marooned with his " insane " patients on a bleak island inaccessible to medical science ; on his right the still shadowy figure of the mental expert of the future , who will , if Doctor White and his kind prevail over the " three Furies , " take his place with the internist at the bedside of many a patient and be as welcome in court-room , schoolroom , university , or factory as in his own psychiatric clinic 