@@493325

THE caucus of Republican members of the Senate has taken rather sharp action against Senator La Follette and his supporters , Senators Ladd , Frazier , and Brookhart , in reading them out of the Republican party . As a gesture of impatience their decision is quite understandable and , indeed , natural . What it signifies beyond this is not entirely clear , however . There is no strong reason why the Progressive Senators should sit in the councils of a party which they have opposed at the polls and may oppose again . In any case their advice would re ? ceive no consideration by the party managers . But their status in the organization of the Senate is an ? other matter . By Senatorial tradition , committee assignments go by seniority , which would ordinarily mean seniority in both Senate and party . The ques ? tion is , can detachment from the Republican party be interpreted as a clear break with past service in the Senate and the seniority privileges it conveys/ The regular Republicans may claim with some jus ? tice that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would set at naught a clear popular mandate to the regular . Re ? publican organization . But the elimination of these Senators from their present places upon the com ? mittees would be an intolerable affront to their con ? stituencies as well as an act of wanton despotism by a temporary majority . It is one thing to pronounce that these men are not Republicans ; it is quite an ? other to deprive them of their status as experienced members of the Senate . WILL President Coolidge attempt to call a dis ? armament conference to meet at Washington during 1925 ? Secretary Hughes has hinted at such a de ? velopment after the Dawes plan is in successful operation . He would like , of course , to add this feather to his cap before he returns to private life in the spring of 1926 . President Coolidge has cast longing eyes at the increased prestige which his ad ? ministration would gain from a successful meeting of nations . Nevertheless , in our opinion the con ? ference will not take place . The President and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the noose of certain and tragic failure which awaits any such enterprise . It can not be too often repeated that limitation of armament and national security are indissolubly linked . No nation will throw away its sword unless it has , not merely the promise , but the iron-clad assurance , of security derived from some other source . Such guarantees the United States is not in a position to offer . Indeed , we are not even willing to participate in them when of ? fered . We have refused and still refuse to join the League ; it is altogether likely that we shall refuse to join , under whatever reservations , in the attempt to outlaw war embodied in the new Protocol . Un ? der these circumstances , an invitation to European countries to join a disarmament conference at Washington would constitute as colossal a piece of effrontery as was ever recorded . ONLY the most ignorant or forgetful can point to the " success " of the Washington Conference as a precedent for a new venture . Everyone now knows that that conference did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an agreement only in re ? gard to battleships ? war mechanisms which many naval experts now regard as obsolete . It resulted ire a limitation which left all the leading powers far more even of these antiquated monsters than they have any use for . It left unlimited such weapons as airplanes , submarines , poison gas ; it left land armies quite untouched . The bad feeling between the United States and Japan , which it alleviated , has been restored in worse form by our new immigra ? tion law . How completely the conference failed to solve China 's problems is illustrated by her recent history . Yet even the moderate achievements of the Washington Conference were secured only by the most desperate struggle of the diplomats , de ? spite the club the United States was able to wield because the leading powers were engaged in an armament race which was headed toward bankrupt ? cy , a race in which we were leading and which only we could afford . These facts force one to realize that not even the famous Coolidge luck could pre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ence held at Washington during the coming year if it ignored ? as it certainly would ? the cognate ques ? tion of security . IN an article published in this issue one of our con ? tributors presents an impressive analysis of the im ? mense weight of responsibility that rests upon the administrators of the Dawes plan . One of the nec ? essary assumptions on which the expectation of pay ? ments under the plan is based is that Germany , re ? lieved from the Ruhr occupation and the threat of repeated invasion , would promptly develop a con ? siderable economic surplus , which could be paid into the Reichsbank even if it could not be transmitted beyond the boundaries without disturbing the ex ? changes . The presumption that such a surplus ex ? ists rests upon inferences from the international competing power of Germany during the period of inflation , arid upon the fact that the mortgage in ? debtedness of German industry was wiped out by the depreciation of the mark . But as our contributor shows , the apparent advantages to German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into effect , and the enormous development of taxation has taken up any slack produced by the wiping out of mortgage indebtedness . Any sums to be extracted from Germany must come from some other source . Our contributor argues that it will come out of the income of labor , and will per ? manently hold the standard of living at a level which will result in an accumulation of grievances that may in the end fill all working class Germany with a blind determination to win liberty at what ? ever cost . That is , the Dawes plan administrators hold peace or war in their hands . THE more open minded defenders of the Dawes plan will admit the existence of this danger . If the alternative presented itself of wiping out the scores of war , letting Germany off with what she has al ? ready surrendered , or of saddling her in her present impoverished condition with the burdens defined in the Dawes plan , all men of common sense would agree that the former was the way of peace while the latter ran perilously toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan and the sta ? tus quo , with the French troops in the Ruhr to stay , with customs lines cutting occupied Germany all from the rest of the Reich , with the infinite provoca ? tions to violence on both sides . Maintenance of the status quo made war inevitable ; the Dawes plan of ? fers at least a glimmer of hope for a peaceful solu ? tion . There is , we believe , sound reason for this view of the matter . Europe is a less dangerous pow ? der mine with the Dawes plan in operation . It is still an extremely dangerous one . And the Dawes plan administrators will have to move with almost superhuman caution if they are to be sure that no act of theirs will fire the magazine . IT is announced that France agrees to give America a share in the proceeds of the Dawes plan collec ? tions , to contribute toward the costs of the army of occupation and the material damages suffered by American citizens during the war . From a legalis ? tic point of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reasonable and inevitable . The American claims for reparations are as valid as any other . They are derived , not from the Treatyof Versailles , but from America 's position as one of the conquer . ing nations , able to dictate terms of peace . Com ? pensation for the costs of an army of occupation , by ancient precedent , is a prior claim upon the revenues collected from the vanquished . Accordingly the Allies were not in a legal position to make any claims of their own prior to the American . ' They need not have permitted America to use the ma ? chinery of the Dawes plan , but if they had not , America would have had the legal right to exact payment from Germany on her own account , which would have thrown the settlement into confusion . SO much for the legalities of the case . But in Eu ? rope it is even less common than in America to judge a situation according to the letter of the law . What the average Frenchman will feel is that America , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million dollar loan without even a momen ? tary straining , insists on taking away from the im poverished Allies a share in the disappointingly small pickings from Germany . This settlement will work , along with the funding of the British debt to America and of the debts of Poland and other bank ? rupt European states , to strengthen the European feeling of solidarity against America . The year have never loved the rich , even the benevolent rich . America does not give the impression to Europe of a benevolently rich state , but of e state that olsserves its wretched debtors with a cold eye and with the avowed intention of seiiing the first opportunity to collect , no matter what the sufferings of the debtors . FASCISM appears to have passed its zenith in Italy . The opposition to Mussolini grows stronger week by week . A campaign of exposure , in parlia. mem , the courts , the press , is steadily laying before the public incontestable evidence of the outrageous violence employed by Mussolini and his supporters to keep the Fasffisti in power and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . The pretence that there is a solid body of non-Fascist opinion be ? hind the dictator no longer deceives anyone . More ? over , Mussolini 's reputation for energy and good sense in meeting the financial problem is decaying . Juggling of accounts , rather than economy , was the device employed by Mussolini to give the appear ? ance of a balanced budget . The dictator 's command of military resources is too considerable to warrant a prediction of his early retirement . But it is plain that the Fascist scheme of government has no ex ? tended future in Italy . The Civil power may be won by brute force . It can not long be maintained by force . IN enacting restrictive immigration laws Congress intended not only to limit the absolute volume of immigration , but also to improve its quality , or at least to increase its assimilability . This is the only meaning that can be extracted from the quota prin ? ciple , with its discrimination against Southern and Eastern Europe . For reasons of administration , as well as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states were exempted from the quota provisions . Canadians and Mexi ? cans may enter the country in unlimited numbers . Our only restrictions on the Canadian and Mexican borders have to do with the most general qualifica ? tions as to health and civic record , and with evasions by non-admissible aliens landed at Canadian and Mexican ports . These evasions , if we are to accept the estimates of Secretary Davis , run to the incred ? ible figure of 850,000 . Suppose he has made a mis ? take of counting in bona fide citizens of Canada and Mexico , the fact still remains that the intention of Congress has been defeated . The absolute volume of immigration has not been materially abated , and as for quality and assimilability , it would he hard to prove that the Mexican peons or the French-Cana ? dian laborers are superior to the Poles , Czecho ? Slovaks or Italians Congress set out to exclude . HAS a state court the right to order a recount of the ballots in a Federal election ? That question must be decided by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unusually interesting case . W. W. Bailey , Democrat and " wet , " ran for Con ? congress in Pennsylvania and was apparently defeated by the Ku Klux Klan in an exceedingly close con ? test . Presumably in order to clinch their victory , or perhaps to forestall legal action on his part , his Klan opponents demanded a recount of the ballots . When completed this showed serious irregularities in the vote , and revealed Bailey as having won . His opponents thereupon challenged the legality of the recount , arguing that a state court has no authority to examine the ballots in the Federal election . This contention , if upheld by the courts , would of course open the door to the gravest election frauds ; for it would make Congress alone responsible for investi ? gating any charges of dishonesty in a national elec ? tion . And if anyone exists who is naive enough to believe Congress would or could safeguard the bal ? lot effectively , we have never heard of him . THE Cincinnati Enquirer has discovered that 213 college professors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it demands in an earnest editorial that they should be discharged on the ground that they are " attached to recognized heresies , " and " may not be able to resist temptations to inject some of their views into their teachings . " " The country and the government of the future will be safer , " thinks the Enquirer , " if they are relieved from all duties as instructors of the youth of the nation . " In fact , this paper thinks that " the controlling bodies of our educational institutions should take stock of their faculties " and that every man who is not a Coolidge Republican or a Davis Democrat should be hunted down and dismissed . This is not a particularly novel point of view . It has been expressed before by various wild-eyed patriots . But one does not often behold the spectacle of an important journal serious ? ly advocating the wholesale suppression of everyone who disagrees with its own social philosophy . The Enquirer is entitled to be Exhibit A as a specimen of the Tory mind intoxicated with its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a concrete issue the recent election has a direct bear ? ing on income taxation . President Coolidge sup ? ported the Mellon plan more vigorously than any other measure , and his triumph may properly he re ? garded as a popular approval of the fiscal ideas em ? bodied in that plan . It is no wonder that the tax ? payers who would have benefited by the reductions in the super-tax are clamoring for an immediate re ? opening of the question . They seem to have the people on their side . But under the sacrosanct Con ? stitution the Congress which defeated the Mellon plan remains in power until March 4 , and the new Congress will not meet until December , 1925 , unless assembled earlier in special session . There can be no certain relier for the super-tax payer before that time . Some hundreds of millions will be paid into the Treasury because of the lag between the expres ? sion of the people 's will and its time of taking effect , On the merits of the question , we are glad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the reduction of the public debt . Nevertheless , we think that in a democracy what the people want they ought to get , and they ought to get it without absurd and useless delays . We invite the super-tax payers to join us in demanding an amendment to the Con ? stitution which will put a Congress in power before the mandate on which it is elected has grown cold . There is no solid reason why the recently elected Congress should not be empowered to get to work by January 1 .                     