@@430901

T HE publishers of Living Art were right in giving that title to their magnificent collection . Except for five omissions ? the French painters Marquet and Braque and the sculptor Despiau , the German painter Kokoschka , and the Polish sculptor Lipschitz ? they present therein almost all of the participants in that spiritual surge , filled with the deep poetry of mysticisms and myths in gestation , which is turning upside-down both the Old World and the New . To people not familiar with these singularly unacademic forms I can imagine the study of this folio causing astonishment or even indignant stupefaction , like that of a person who , expecting a quiet stroll down accurately planned streets between regular colonnades , finds himself tumbling into an abyss of ruins and brambles . So this is Living Art ! Yes , by your leave , it is . It is just this tangled rout of shapes and colours , and to unaccustomed eyes it looks like anarchy . Yet within it a new order is confusedly evolving . A friend of mine recently accused me of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not decide on a regular newspaper , and was always changing . I humbly confessed to him my belief that in me there was being born a new structure , however odd it might seem to him , and that whether he could see the embryo or not , I , at least , had already made out its skeleton . Furthermore , his newspapers , which he urged on me , were as blind to this change as he . A system which is too clear and too well marked , may well be , in most cases , nothing but a rut whose steep walls hide , for those who are in it , the whole living and moving universe . Having said this , I am quite ready to admit that this living art ,  | which is attempting everywhere to pierce with its still hesitant roots the crust of a soil hardened by too many winters and made uniform and compact by too many feet and too many millstones , is far more living in theories and in intentions than it is in hearts . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not even philosophical , is at least undeniably intellectualistic ; which does not mean , however , that it is devoid of expressive power , or indeed of humanity . But it undoubtedly lacks innocence , and is perhaps a little too conscious of the emotions which it strives to awaken . The rhythm of our moral evolution has been such that what is most alive within us , after the immense inquiries of the nineteenth century into every branch of our spiritual activity , is , above all , intelligence , and intelligence intent upon revealing whence it came and whither it is going . Intelligence , in love with itself , has acquired a sensuous and concrete understanding of its own methods , which enables it to reverse the usual processes of art , and starting with pure reason to arouse feeling secondarily . In this meeting of modern artists ? the only moderns among the artists , and the only living ? I can see none but Pierre Bonnard , perhaps , who relies first of all upon spontaneous emotion and unexpected fantasy for the realization of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life is surprised , wandering and palpitating like larvae and flowers and wings , amid crushed gems and whirling pollen . And yet , the unity of the living spirit is such that Bonnard is in no wise out of place in this group . On the contrary , its constant preoccupation with demonstration and experiment seems to be legitimized by his charming discoveries and by the caprices which mark his always entertaining journey through a world which , by his own confession , is ever new to him , and where he roams without the slightest prejudice . That life of the intelligence , which to-day animates the freest art of the two worlds , is explained if one goes back to French Impressionism , whose ruins Bonnard needed only to survey in order to find growing grass , lizards in crannies , and bees and butterflies concealed by a carpet of flowers . After Impressionism , indeed , dissociation was everywhere . Forgetful of the flesh , and of the viscera , and the skeleton underneath , Impressionism had , by a passionate analysis , explored the farthest reaches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shadows . After Impressionism , the artist could only renounce , or rebuild . Rebuild from  | the ground up , for Impressionism itself represented , in our visual researches , the ultimate effort of anarchic dissolution which political and social ideology was accomplishing at the same time , and which the research of science , unable as yet to perceive any possible synthesis , was encouraging . That is what Paul Signac , for example , understood when he attempted a chromatic harmony which I will not call premature , but too abstract and too limited , in which depth was sacrificed to surface , the conception to the effect , and feeling to demonstration ? because the social and philosophical elements of a new harmony did not yet exist among the contemporary debris . Materialistic painting kept rigorously to the appearances of matter and attempted to give to those appearances the authority of a law . It had forgotten the reality of form , as science had forgotten the reality of force , and as politics had forgotten the reality of man whom it had come to look on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep and very broad spiritual current in which living art is trying to force its way up-stream , as deep and as broad as that of the old static condition of science , or that of the old political ideology which estimated social values only from the point of view of well-being and of morality . The ideal of anatomical perfection which has reigned from the time of Pheidias , in the Occident , the execution of whose programme had been merely resumed by the Renaissance , even though half-upset by such powerful men as Michael Angelo , Titian , Tintoretto , Greco , Rubens , Rembrandt , Velasquez , Watteau , Goya , Delacroix , Corot , Courbet , and finally by Renoir and Cezanne , the ideal of anatomical perfection is being effaced in order to make way for an expressive symbolism which , in our day , is carrying the art of Europe back to the Oriental origins of thought . A movement which had its birth in France ; which Germany , prepared therefor by its philosophy and its music , has been following for a long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also agitating Italy ? too deeply haunted , it is true , by its magnificent past not to essay the paradox and naively oppose to that past a Futurism which limits itself to being the antithesis of that past ; which Eastern Europe was prepared to follow because of its Asiatic origin ; and which is beginning to stir America and even England ? the White nations least influenced by Asia ? in their turn . For twenty years Matisse the Frenchman and Picasso the Spaniard of French tendencies have stood at the two  | poles of painting . The one , through his insistent pursuit of the organization of coloured rhythms , analogous perhaps to that which China , Japan , India , and Persia have entertained from the beginning , which has given to their art so decisive an accent , which has made it so resolute to turn away from material nature in order to create a spiritual nature , more summarized , more essential , more expressive , and more cadenced than the other . The second of these artists assumes his place through his incessant search @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as if his double ancestry ? Andalusian and Sicilian ? whispered the counsels of his Arab ancestor in his secret mind . On one hand the ceramist , the lacquerer , and the rug-weaver grouped around the caravanserai and the pagoda ; on the oth : the decorator of mosques , the juggler , and the dancer of the souks of the Levant . It was evidently this search for absolute symbolic expression through the moving arabesque which led Picasso , influenced by the sudden eruption into all our concepts , of the idea of duration ( the work of physicists , biologists , four-dimensional geometry , the dynamism of the Italians , and the cinematograph ) to think of Cubism at about the same time that Braque did , and thus to return , by a side-path , to the essential idea of construction which haunts all superior brains . It is extremely interesting to observe that at the hour when Matisse and Picasso were advancing farther and farther in their interpretation of the Asiatic soul and of the imagery which manifests it , the European soul was rediscovering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ design of vehicles which its mechanical evolution sternly demanded . The metal hearts of aeroplanes , automobiles , and ships , their trenchant and severe contours , the structure , determined by function , of garages and of factories , were restoring , in Occidental rationalism , the same chromatic and linear rhythms for which these painters were seeking justification in Oriental art . Cubism , at bottom , is absolutely in agreement with this need to build , and to build logically through the subordination of architectonics to the most precise functional requirements , a need which characterizes modern civilization in Europe , in America , and in all more Occidentalized countries . The industrial architecture of the engineers seems to me to furnish the most striking example of that universal evolution of the intelligence away from anecdotal sentimentalism , ornament , and super- abundant and useless detail ? the characteristic of living art in painting and sculpture , the characteristic which , for an hour perhaps , perhaps for a century , reconciles Occidental utilitarianism resolved upon attaining its purposes by the most direct road , with Oriental aestheticism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear of all incident . Certain American silos make me think of Egyptian temples or of the towers of Chaldean observatories . Note that this nearly universal mechanization of the spirit implies also development in feeling : the American engineers , the Italian , the French , the German , the Dutch , the English , the Japanese ? I think of the first three above all , I must say , and in that order ? are very simple workmen , who end by creating in their edifices an irresistible impression of harmony through the logic of technique , to which the machine-instinct of their time is leading them even if they do not know of it . While coming from the opposite direction , the subtle and complicated painters of living art rediscover that logic of technique which is to reform their feeling and give spontaneity to the feeling of their successors . Already the simplified , generalizing , unpicturesque work of , for example , the sculptors Maillol and Despiau , of the Italian sculptor de Fiord reproduced in Living Art , and of the painter and draftsman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steadfast throughout controversies and social upheavals , that traditional impersonality in the personal and passionate interpretation of the world which ever maintains art 's harmonious continuity . This impersonal quality , the architect , still more the engineer , has perhaps been designated to recall to the painters and sculptors , to the musicians also no doubt , and even to writers , not to speak of philosophers and statesmen . The French painter Derain , whom Andre Salmon , a critic also French , calls " the regulator , " one of the most alive of the living artists , seems to me to display particularly well this return to balanced forms ? forms the creation of which , in periods of unanimous anarchy like this , is perhaps the sole end of our ardent research . For a long time his work has oscillated , pendulum-like , between Matisse 's preoccupation with colour and Picasso 's preoccupation with linear stylization . He has passed surely and slowly through those two energetic though perhaps cerebral affirmations , enriched , by the way , with the exotic tributes which we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art of Asia , mediaeval America , Polynesia , and Africa ; and he now seeks behind them , traces of the great European painting , which he wills to incorporate with our reconquered instinct . Perhaps in the future his work will be looked upon as the most vigorous spiritual synthesis of an epoch which was torn between a past profoundly conscious of formal appearances , but too tyrannical , and a future overflowing with mysteries of form , but too unsure .  |                     