@@219967

Leaving Congress does not necessarily mean leaving the Capitol . Senator Gilbert M. Hitchcock of Nebraska walked out of the Senate chamber at the last session , but will re-enter in December through the door of the press gallery . As correspondent of his newspaper , The Omaha World-Herald , he will report the debates in which he will no longer participate . The Democratic National Committee has its lighter moments . In an official bulletin for the week of March 24 it commented on the prospective Republican campaign in 1924 : " Charles D. Hillis , of New York , is reported to be in high favor for Chairman of the Republican National Committee in the event of Mr. Harding 's renomination . Mr. Hillis , it will be remembered , is the Republican National Chairman who carried Utah and Vermont for Mr. Taft in 1912 . The next time , it is thought , he may do equally as well-unless he shall lose Utah . " The committee evidently does not know its opponents too well . " Mr. Hillis " who-besides being former Chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last two years of Mr. Taft 's incumbency , invariably spells his name " Hilles . " " The United States has never sent a more eminent American to a South American diplomatic post , " say the polished Peruvians in anticipation of the arrival of Miles Poindexter . Senator Poindexter , who sails on April 5 , will find other Americans to welcome him at Lima-an American naval mission which has been there for two years , and Dr. W. W. Cumberland , of the State Department , who is head of the Peruvian Reserve Bank . " The roster of Democratic candidates for 1924 includes Senator Underwood - too conservative for the West ; W. G. McAdoo - too much railroaded for the East ; Governor Smith-too wet for the West ; James M. Cox and Mr. Bryan-too shopworn for the country at large . " So think " party leaders , " according to Washington correspondence of last week . The same political leaders are also reported to be looking askance at certain ranks and files who favor " a mild-mannered man in the flivver rampant . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. Stimson , his predecessors , and Will H. Hays , Senator Brookhart , Theodore Roosevelt , Jr. , and Secretary of the Interior work are in one respect all in the same category . They are reserve officers . Incidentally , the present Secretary of War is a Rear Admiral in the Naval Reserve . All the others are members of the Army Reserve Corps . <P> Former Senator Chauncey M. Depew , who lived in Washington for twelve years , vouches for this incident : <P> " I was present once at a dinner in the White House when a new Senator delayed the dinner a long time and caused much discussion because he refused to take in to dinner the lady to whom he was assigned . He loudly declared : ' When I eat I eat alongside my wife , or I do n't eat at all ! ' "                     