@@493372

read the pact over again before they ventured to correct him . In his last ? and most difficult campaign for the Senate four years ago he started out defeated and ended a victor . He had fought the League of Na ? tions , and Mr. Wilson 's friends , who had excluded him as a delegate from the Democratic National Convention , were determined upon his political de ? struction . He had , moreover , arrayed the women voters against him by opposing woman suffrage , prohibition , the child labor amendment and the ma ? ternity bill . There seemed to be not one chance in ten of his election . And this campaign revealed Reed at his best ? and also at his worst . The oddS against him spurred him to make the fight of his life . He was already indifferent to a further career in the Senate , but though he might retire from it no one should be permitted to say that he could not go back to the Senate . His self-respect pre ? vented him from retracting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate . He met his opponents in this fashion . Mr. Wil ? son was a great man who had rendered distin ? guished services to his country , but Mr. Wilson was wrong about the League of Nations . He remained opposed to woman suffrage , but his speeches would conclude alternately , one with an eloquent perora ? tion about womanhood , and the next with an elo ? quent peroration about motherhood . And in the last days of the campaign there was the master trickster playing upon human emotions and prejudices . A letter was circulated to 200,000 women of the state signed A Farmer 's Wife . The Farmer 's Wife was the mother of four children and would soon give birth to a fifth . She wanted no government agents intruding upon her in " the sacred hour of her agony . " There you have Reed in the round ? courageOus , unbending before the storm , true to his faith , and the showman delighting in his bag of tricks . An incident of the League of Nations struggle reveals the basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate , Reed called in a friend and said , " I am going to take a step that will end my political career . I am going to oppose Wilson on the League of Nations . " He foresaw when he joined the opposition the danger to his own political future in Missouri . What he could not foresee was the defeat of the Versailles Treaty , the decay of Wilson 's authority , and the reaction of this country toward its historic policy of stand ? ing by itself in world affairs which lessened the risks that he ran . It is easy to impute personal motives to Reed . Talking down as he always does to the Senate and to the populace , he indulges in personalities to be effective . What he aims at is to make his oppon ? ent 's policy appear mean and ridiculous by making the man himself seem mean and ridiculous . You easily mistake his methods for his purposes . The most savage , the most unfair and the most persistent onslaught that Reed ever made upon a man he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeming unexplainable , irration ? al , perverse , hateful it wrought more damage to Reed 's reputation than anything else he ever did . When it began Reed could hardly have known Hoover . It is impossible to see how any personal antipathy could have lodged in his mind against the food administration . I suspect that Hoover was at that time nothing more than a symbol , a vast bubble of reputation inflated by the lying and hysteria of the War . Reed must have been bursting with the restraints to free speech which the War imposed upon him , full of impotent fury at the shams , falsehoods and hypoc ? risies of that period of regimented enthusiasms . And Hoover , the Republican superman , was a con ? venient object on which to loose his contempt . A man with a narrow philosophy consistently held over a long life of public service must often have been wrong . But Reed has never been wrong from cowardice , from stupidity , from truckling to bosses or to organized wealth , from greed , or from selfishness . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has overplayed his role . His position has generally been with the minority and he has fought like a man in a corner , like a varmint , asking and giving no quarter . But to strike a balance it must be recorded that often he has been right . When it seemed in 1922 that he might not be able to come back to the Senate , Mr. Borah wrote a letter urging Missouri to reelect him . The same considerations which impelled this unusual act on the part of a Republican moves observers of Wash ? ington to regret his present decision to leave the Senate . We incline to overlook his faults . There is no one to take his place as the great deflator of a ballooning government . No one else is so elo ? quent , so courageous , so consistent , so sincere a spokesman for the individual against the state .                     