@@493257

of Washington and the first flag of the United States " ( sic ) , and to " venture the suggestion that the American Legion in this locality under the present leadership , has something to learn not only about flags but about what they stand for . " We agree in this opinion , and hope the Loyal Coali ? tion will continue its instruction of the American Legion with those amenities on both sides which remind one how far ahead of Centralia is Boston . FOR the first time in the history of the law , a labor union has successfully invoked the conspiracy law against employers . The International Ladies Garment Workers have secured an injunction re ? straining the manufacturers ' association from any action that might violate the agreement effective between the two parties until June I , 1922 . This law has frequently been resorted to by employers against their labor , and its one-sided use in the past has given the unions some ground for their denunciations of " one-way " law . It is quite likely , however , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function against both sides . When its other edge has been sharpened , so that it cuts both ways , this particular law will be finally recognized as the impracticable and ineffective instrument it has in fact always been . AS a feat of human engineering the negotiations between Mr. Lloyd George , the representatives of Dail Eireann , and Sir James Craig deserve to stand among the masterpieces . The latest news gives fresh hopes that the bridge projected last July , which for five months has hung wavering in the air , may at last find anchorage on the farther bank . Two chasms have to be crossed without a placement between them ? sovereignty and unity . The spanning of both has to be done simultane ? ously . The Irish representatives , in view of past deceptions , can not surrender sovereignty without being assured of unity , and this assurance Grealt Britain can not give except by withdrawing the separate parliament already granted to N. E. Ulster . It is now officially announced that the rep ? resentatives of the British Parliament and of Dail Eireann @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been communicated to Sir James Craig . One forecast of the terms is that the Irish will owe allegiance to a free state which is to hold membership in the empire , and that N. E. Ulster is to join this Irish state with power to contract out after a certain time . Protestant Ulster is per ? haps still in a position to refuse ; then the respon ? sibility will be clear . But even if Sir James Craig 's veto still runs , the agreement of the Dail with the British Cabinet affords good hope that the struc ture of Irish settlement can be preserved , even in its suspension ; and in that case the yielding of N. E. Ulster is again a question of time . A DISPATCH to the World from Lahore , In dia , brings news of the arrest of Lajpa ; t Rai , presi ? dent of the Indian National Congress . This ac ? tion following the arrest , trial , and imprisonment in October of the Ali brothers and Dr. Kitchlew , the leaders of the Khilafat movement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with force the Non-Cooperative Movement of peaceful revolution . This was to be expected . The representatives of any imperial power are sure in the long run to become exasperated or frightened by continued passive resistance , and prefer to meet their opponents in the open . The visit of the Prince of Wales at this time naturally increases the sense of irritation and of responsibility on the part of the British government . The arrest of the leaders of the non-cooperators , however , is a pc ' culiar provocation to the mass of followers , and further deprives this mass of an influence which so far has stood for non-violence . The situation of India drifts day by day toward a catastrophe the magnitude of which is beyond conjecture . The Culmination of the Con ference T HE culminating moment of the Conference has not yet arrived , but it is steadily ar proaching . The alert spectator can already peer through the glare and the gloom and discern what in general the final issue will look like when it arrives . The policies of the most important of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible and even plausible relationships one to another . Two radically different outcomes are becoming distinguishable . Let us consider 110 far we can disentangle what they are and w11-51 each is worth . The Japanese government during the past Week has disclosed the general character of its policy and tactics . It is acting on the defensive . It realizes the necessity of making concessions both , in respect to armaments and in respect to its Posi ' tion in China , but it will not concede any more than it can help . It is not sure as yet how ITO it will have to concede , and until its delegates in Washington make up their minds how formidable the offensive is and on what part of their defenses the attack will exert most persistent pressure , that are holding up all concessions . They will no definitely accept the 5-5-3 naval ratio nor any of December 14 , 1921 THE NEW the administrative reforms for which the Chinese are asking , until they know how much they can escape from conceding in Shantung , Manchuria or Siberia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bargain . They propose above all to obtain a quid pro quo for everything they yield . If they agree to turn Shantung over to the Chinese , to modify the Twenty-one Demands or to accept the 5-5-3 naval ratio , it will be for the purpose of obtaining a title to their privileges and possessions in Manchuria which will be explicitly guaranteed by the other powers . They are work ? ing for a comprehensive " settlement " in which they will yield say twenty-five percent of their posses ? sions and privileges in China in order to secure for the other seventy-five percent the en ? dorsement of the British Empire and the United States . The position of the British government is more a matter of guess work , but its behavior and its propaganda up to date enable us to venture a fairly shrewd guess as to what British policy is and where it will come out . It is divided between a lively and an anxious desire to cooperate with the United States even at the expense of its friend ? ship with Japan and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominions and prestige in the Far East if Japanese friendship were con ? verted into hostility . It would willingly exchange the Japanese alliance for an alliance with the United States which would arrange for a common Policy in China and a joint guarantee of each other 's territory in the Pacific , but this alliance its delegates know they can not get . Failing it they are seeking some middle road , which will so far as Possible satisfy American scruples about China Without seriously alienating Japan . This middle road necessarily begins somewhere near the route Which the Japanese are laying out and ends , also , not far from the Japanese goal . The British , like the Allies , clearly want a " settlement " based not upon the rendering of honest and thoroughgoing assistance to China in regaining and in freely exercising her independence , but upon a bargain and a balance of contending interests . The object of the bargain will be to guarantee a dubious peace and stability in the Far East rather than to pro ? 1/tote the reign of recognized principles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viation of Chinese grievances . The only ambiguous aspect of their policy consists in the doubt as to hOW far they will help the American government to press upon Japan the desirability of a bargain more rather than less favorable to China . suffering from profound disquiet at the tendency of the negotiations . If the outcome of the Con ? ference is to consist in a bargain among their " protectors " which would be consummated at their expense and which would sanctify a substantial portion of the status quo by international guaran ? tees , they would consider themselves betrayed and deserted by this country . Their personal position is extremely difficult . Should they consent to any ? thing of that kind , they will be roughly treated by their countrymen whenever they return to China . They are already being severely criti ? cized for consenting to negotiate with Japan about Shantung . The most aggressive body of public opinion in China consists in the radical national party which is not inclined to compromise anal which in the event of the consummation of the proposed bargain would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in irreconcilability . It is already agitating for a withdrawal from the Conference by the Chinese delegation , and if the outcome of the Conference is a victory for the Japanese-British policy , it will insist probably with success upon a declaration , by the representa ? tives of what is called the Chinese government , of future non-cooperation . How effective such a protest would be , we do not pretend to know . It would probably cause convulsions in China and prolonged chaos , but in the long run it would probably also strengthen the radical nationalists . Their only weapon against Japan and the western powers would consist of the boycott and non ? cooperation , but it is a weapon which the Chinese are capable of using effectively , and it might be ? come a powerful and a dangerous instrument of resistance . The Englishmen who are working for the consummation of a bargain which would recog ? nize a substantial part of the existing possessions and privileges of foreigners in China should con ? sider this possibility . What would be the effect in India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the carrying out of the bargain proposed by Japan of an agitation similar to that of Gandhi in favor of a general boycott and non ? cooperation ? Assuming that the foregoing sketch roughly delineates the tendency and the objects of Japan ? ese , British and Chinese conduct at the Conference what under such conditions should be the policy of the American government ? It looks like a difficult course to steer , and it is difficult ; but at present at least there is , we believe , a way out . It does not consist in following Mr. Wilson 's example in Paris and in accepting an unprincipled bargain in the supposed interest of an immediate " settle ? ment . " Neither does it consist in dissolving the // Conference and in refusing future cooperation be ? cause the Japanese will not consent to a complete restitution and the British will not support the demand for restitution . The way out consists rather in urging and pressing Japan and Great Britain to restore as much as possible of the terri ? tory , contracts and privileges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchasing these con ? cessions by any bargain or any guarantees of title to the rest of the alienated property . It would be far preferable to accept , as a free concession , say , ten percent of what Great Britain and . Japan ought to yield , than to purchase , say , thirty percent by a guarantee of the remaining seventy percent . The United States has never yet recognized any of the specific Japanese encroachments on Chinese ter ? ritory and independence except in so far as they are embodied in the Treaty of Portsmouth . It never should recognize them . It should at the end of the present Conference postpone the con ? consideration of their final status and in the meantime keep the grievances alive by arranging for commis ? sions of investigation . The American government can afford to wait ; but it can not afford to com ? promise for the sake of an unprincipled and an unstable peace . The purpose which would underlie such a policy would be that of keeping conference alive as an agency of international adjustment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bargain or impatiently dissolved itself because of the meagreness of its present fruits , the present Con ? ference would leave the world the loser as the result of its deliberations . But by accepting as much as it can get with clean hands and by re ? ferring the other questions without prejudice to decision by future conferences , it would in our opinion vindicate the existing assembly and leave the world substantially the gainer as a consequence of its work . The mere calling of this Conference and the ventilation of British and Japanese policy in the Far East have aroused public opinion to a much clearer understanding of the iniquity of the past behavior of the European powers and Japan in China and they have compelled Japan at least temporarily to abandon her aggression . The Jam anese are slipping . Their past brand of statecraft can not justify itself in a world which is longing for disarmament and appeasement . At the end of another year the agitation and conviction in favor of appeasement and disarmament will have gathered increasing momentum and then a new conference may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assembly . How much it can accomplish will depend in our opinion chiefly upon the course of domestic politics in China ; but if the better Chinese can in the meantime put to-gether any manner of trustworthy government the next conference would have a much better chance than the present one of relaxing the grip of the exploiters on China . By the time it assembles , both Japan and Great Britain will have come to a better realization of the strength and weakness of their position compared to that of an unharnessed and clearsighted United States . French Policy and the Sub marine T HE French are opposed to the outlawing of . the submarine . They argue that the sub-marine , if used under a humane code of naval warfare , is just as legitimate a weapon as the capital ship . Of the two , is not the capital ship the more definitely committed to offence ? No doubt . Is not the capital ship the more properly an instrument of the great nation for the oppres ? sion of the small ? No doubt . Then why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French plans of submarine develop ? ment ? They say that in building submarines France is arming against England . If America chose to build submarines , would not the English say we were arming against them ? They might , but they would know it was nonsense . For the last thing America wants is war with England . Let it be granted that our naval experts have England in mind when they work out their program , and that in certain technical exercises , England is premised as " the enemy . " But technical exercises wo n't make a real enemy out of England , nor will the actual building of submarines . No one can point to a prob ? ability of issues arising between America and Eng ? land that could draw the two nations into a war . Is the same thing true of the relations between England and France ? There are differences be ? tween the two nations in respect to the collection of the indemnity . There are also differences in policy in Asia Minor . But it is difficult to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lead statesmen of sound mind toward a war . Therefore most Americans , we believe , regard as somewhat hysterical the British opinion that the French submarine ambition presents an actual menace to England . But before we conclude finally that the British fear of French submarines is altogether tn1- founded , we ought to make up our minds yell clearly as to what the present policy of France i9 likely to lead to . Of course much depends on the future political complexion of the French govern ? ment . If the French liberals , backed by labor ana not opposed by the peasants should gain power                     