@@486269

T HE class had got on the subject of caste . " It is eternal , " said a Brahman boy . " God divided people into these groups of high and low to punish or reward them for the actions of previous existences . " " But , " I interposed , " does not biology teach us that all men are essentially similar , especially those within the same race ? " " Oh , sir , " burst out another student passionately , " how can you say that ? There is as much difference between a Brahman and a bhangi ( sweeper ) as between a man and a donkey . " The entire class nodded approval , with the exception of the half dozen Mohammedans , who looked disdainfully skeptical but by their silence seemed to acknowledge the futility of argument . From the orthodox Hindu point of view these boys were entirely right ; even the despised bhangi would agree . For caste is , briefly , the last word in group consciousness . Sanctioned by religion , it separates the Hindu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups , high and low , the privileged and the oppressed . The most important prohibitions are against intermarriage ; lesser disabilities concern such things as eating and drinking . At the bottom of the scale are the Untouchables , " less than men , " some sixty million strong , who are so low that they may not be touched by members of the higher castes without risk of ceremonial pollution . In many cases they may not approach within certain prescribed distances of the highest , nor use the same wells or even the same highways . Economically the bleakest poverty is their lot . They compose about one-fifth of the total population of India and about one-fourth of the Hindu community . Centuries ago this social discrimination was justified intellectually by associating it with the doctrine of Karma ( retribution for the act in rebirth ) . Men reap in one existence what they have sowed in others . The Untouchable of today is only the wicked of yesterday ; and , if he lives righteously today , he will be the Brahman of tomorrow . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to try to overthrow the decrees of an impersonal , irresistible cosmic law ; our duty is to accept the present and strive only for a better future . It is commonly stated that to think of abolishing caste would be as futile as to think of abolishing Hinduism itself . Indeed , the one would be the inevitable concomitant of the other . Efforts that have from time to time been made to overthrow caste have met with no permanent success ; rather has caste itself carried the day . The most striking of its victories lie in concessions it has received from rival religions . Among Mohammedans there are converted groups that still retain caste regulations in social matters ; and even the Brahmo Samaj , the liberal theistic society of Bengal , that in theory does not tolerate caste , in practice has not rid itself entirely of caste prejudices . In an India run strictly according to Hindu theory the system of caste would be unshakable  --  eternal , as my student put it . But India is not so run and never has been . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the validity of caste , and the recurring impact of foreign invasion has often forced modification . The native reaction against caste is very old , almost as old as the institution . Five hundred years before Christ , we are told , the Buddha said-that- only he is truly a Brahman who lives the Brahman life  --  birth does not signify  --  and the sentiment has often been repeated by succeeding moralizers . To this day certain Hindu ascetic orders of the highest standing , whose members concentrate their efforts upon release from the beginningless round of rebirth , admit men of any caste , and once they are admitted caste is forgotten . There is plenty of respected authority to give moral support to attacks upon the system and to provide an antecedent body of opinion in favor of reform . Of the diverse agencies that are at war with the institution some of the most effective operate against it only by indirection . The mightiest is the new learning from the West . When it was first introduced about a hundred years back , it was thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it would eliminate the undesirable features of the country 's social institutions and the expectation has already had , a modest fulfilment , with the prospect of a greater . And this , too , in spite of the fact that Hindu apologists , who would rationalize their native institutions by an appeal to modern science , seek support for caste in the teachings of biology concerning heredity . Yet even the most ardent Western eugenicist would scarcely aver that the human , species can be separated into a thousand or more definitely graduated groups , Nordimaniacs to the contrary . Still less premeditated has been the leveling influence of the railroad . Except in a few backward native states , when Hindus go traveling no provision is made to sort the Brahman from the leather worker . Outraged though he may be , the former must sit on the same seat with the latter , eat in his presence , submit to a hundred petty infringements of caste law . This situation caused considerable heartburning in the early days of the railways  --  there were those who preferred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now the infringements are tacitly condoned . But it is the agencies which are operating intentionally against caste that are most conspicuous . Some of these are from without the pale of Hinduism ; others from within . The chief of the former are the proselyting religions Christianity and Islam . These , being tasteless , make caste a point of attack against the enemy , Hinduism . Appealing to the principle of " by their fruits ye shall know them , " they represent that the evils accompanying caste and the whole institution are the result of belief in erroneous metaphysical doctrine . Obviously this argument is effective only with the lower castes ; and so to them , all subtleties aside , the aggressor religions quite frankly offer social amelioration as the reward of conversion . These castes in turn are not difficult to persuade , readily submitting to the symbolical rites of baptism or circumcision as the new faith may chance to demand . In this way there comes to exist the phenomenon known as " mass conversion . " Whole castes or whole villages whose inhabitants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creed , not knowing much about it doctrinally but finding it a great help amid the physical woes of life . These wholesale conversions have inspired Hindu counter-religious activity and social reform which is conditioned by two general attitudes of mind . The one , orthodox , counsels alleviation of the miserable condition of the Untouchables but by no means advocates the abolishment of caste . The reformers find the conservative opposition very strong , yet from time to time effect the adoption by the Hindu Maha Sabha , the orthodox Hindu General Association , of measures diminishing specific evils . For example , in 1924 , after a serious and successful struggle of the lower castes at a place called Vaikom , in southern India , for the right to use the roads past certain temples , the Maha Sabha adopted a resolution removing the ban in regard to schools , public wells , meeting-places , and temples . Of the unorthodox Hindu attacks the most vigorous comes from the Arya Samaj , an organization about sixty years old , motivated by a spirit of religious nationalism , which regards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the great seers , repudiates it , and seeks to purify the community by restoring the religion of the Veda . The Arya Samaj has notions of the Vedic religion that-are in many respects fantastic , but it is sound in finding no evidence in Vedic literature of the institution of caste as it is now known . As part of its program it would modify caste almost to extinction ; thus , in competition with Islam and Christianity , it offers the lowercastes about an equal degree of improvement in social status , and at the same time permits them to remain Hindus . In the colleges of northern India Arya Samaj propaganda is remarkably successful . If my class had been composed of fourth-year , students , instead of first-year , there would havebeen some Hindus as well as Mohammedans to harbor doubts about the inviolable sanctity of caste , and , unlike the Mohammedans , they would not have sat silent . It would be unfair to give the impression that the Hindu efforts in behalf of the Untouchables are not due to the workings of humanitarianism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! The humanitarian trait is known from historical records to have operated in India from at least the time of the Emperor Asoka , in the third century B. C. , and it has never since been inactive . As the social teachings of the new world gradually penetrate India 's consciousness , that spirit of humanitarianism slowly becomes aware of new fields for its operation and sets about eradicating evils , some of which have roots fixed in the traditions and prejudices of five millennia . A hundred years ago that spirit had moved Raja Ram Mohun Roy to establish a society of religious reform and to call for Western education . Within the memory of ourselves it led the late Mr. Gokhale to found the Servants of India Society that has worked untiringly for the uplift of the depressed classes . Today it drives Gandhi from one end of India to the other , in large cities and small villages alike , preaching against the crime of untouchability . Cries he : " If this is Hinduism , oh Lord , my fervent prayer is that the soonest it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associated in the fullest sense with the most lowly and despised , the sweeper , the scavenger , and performed their loathsome tasks , while he has supported his crusade with arguments of political , economic , religious , and purely humanitarian import . And he is far from being alone in his conviction of the need for social reform . Many fellow-Hindus are with him and with that other great Hindu , Rabindranath Tagore , who finds in the abolition of this social injustice a necessary precursor to any solid nationalism . If the success of Gandhi and those like-minded at first glance seems small , it is tremendous in consideration of the obstacles , and therein lies its chief significance . In the most backward sections of India , in regions where the upper castes ride in passenger coaches on the railroad trains but the lower have " reserved " quarters in open freight cars , he has induced Brahmans to sit side by side with Untouchables in public meeting . The effect of his work is cumulative , destined to continue with increase after he must stop . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ideas that are surely , if slowly , establishing themselves in India ? The efforts to ease the unendurable strictures of caste could never be successful if they were only from above ; with them must go conscious activity by the depressed classes themselves . There exists just that activity . Some of it is crude , as when the scavengers go on strike and throw a city with its primitive methods of sewage disposal into a panic , or when the Untouchables at Vaikom protested by public action against some of their disabilities . This is an unreasoning method of desperation , usually availing at the time but seldom producing a permanent gain . Planned for greater effect is the adoption of political means . With the advent of political reform and the small beginnings of democratic , representative government , the lower orders , growing politically conscious , are becoming restive . Their opportunity lies in the fact that the right of franchise is determined by qualifications of education , property , or rank in civil or military service . Every time a man of the lower castes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improves slightly the social chances of himself and his fellows . The issue is especially well drawn in southern India , where the distinctions between the castes are most marked . There the community is divided into two camps , the Brahmans and the non-Brahmans , the latter including the Untouchables , and in the legislative councils the two groups are represented separately . The feeling is intense and has produced such results as the recent formation of a " Non-Brahman Confederation for South India , " some of whose stated objects are " to promote good-will and unity among non-Brahman classes and communities of South India , by means of communal representation , social ameliorization , and ultimate fusion of all castes . " Specific representation in the legislative bodies gives the proponents of such sentiments the chance to express them in action . The results to date of the attacks on caste , although not large , are definite , compact , and prophetic . In some of the most enlightened quarters the system is clearly on the defensive ; more positively a number of minor but concrete modifications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much more freely than in the past and enforce fewer restrictions on inter-dining . Inter-marriage occurs occasionally . When a high-caste man goes to the hospital , he accepts intimate personal attention from low-caste orderlies that fifty years ago would not have been tolerated . In railway eating-rooms men of all castes eat together . In the North-West Frontier Provinces , so the 1921 Census reveals , Hindus observe no restrictions of inter-dining , and there is a strong tendency to widen the groups that may intermarry and narrow down those that may not . In Bengal , the most advanced province of India , certain social customs that used to be regarded as caste laws have suffered a sharp decline , as the veiling of women , and others are threatened , as enforced widowhood . In several parts of India child-marriage conditions , also under caste supervision , have been improved by the legal adoption of an ageof-consent bill . In the new legislative bodies the representatives of the lowest castes may sit with the highest , thus violating the traditional Hindu notion that governing should be left to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beenaccomplished against caste has been only the correction of abuses incident to it . Compromise , change , is preceding annihilation , if the latter is ever to come . Evil though caste may be in some respects , it can be safely discarded only piecemeal . " It fixes social precedence , the rules of marriage , of eating , of drinking , of worship , of a hundred other things , and last but not of least importance , it is the primary unit of government in India . The caste panchayat ( council ) is the most fundamental form of representative government in India . " Thus Gilchrist in his " Indian Nationality . " Each panch , ayat lays down the laws for its own caste , pronounces judgment upon offenders , and administers punishment . Relatively few of such cases are ever appealed to the courts , and cases have actually been removed from the courts to the panekayats for adjudication . To overthrow the caste system out of hand would be to turn Hindu society into complete chaos . As the past of the caste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so also must be its future . Yet we may well expect a time in a reconstructed India when caste will be so altered that the present order will be regarded with as much curiosity as we in America now look upon the institution of chattel slavery that only a little over sixty years ago was a part of our social structure .                     