@@488297

T HE IMPERTINENCE of our naturalization courts has never been better illustrated than in the case of Madame Rosika Schwimmer , well known author and lecturer , who wants to become a citizen of the United States . Judge Carpenter , dean of federal district judges , before whom she appeared to be granted her final citizenship papers , denied her petition . Having ascertained that she was both an " unqualified atheist " and a pacifist , his Honor put to her this pretty little fiction : " If you were a nurse , caring for a wounded American soldier , and observed an armed enemy approaching , would you take up a pistol and shoot the enemy ? " To this bit of nonsense , which Madame Schwimmer was kind enough to consider seriously instead of informing the judge that his question was irrelevant and immaterial , the-answer was : " No . " Madame Schwimmer added that she would warn the " wounded American soldier " of his danger , and that she would throw herself on the " armed enemy approaching " in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man even if he tried to kill me , " she said . Judge Carpenter would doubtless be one of the last to deny that this was a Christian country ; but he is not willing to suffer Christian sentiments from a professed atheist : " Love your enemies , bless them that curse you , do good to them that hate you . . - . resist not evil ; but whosoever shall - smite thee on thy right cheek , turn to him the other also . " Surely Judge Carpenter has heard those words before ; it is perhaps just aswell that the man who spoke them first is not seeking to become a citizen of the United States . C ARTER GLASS is on the war-path against the State Department 's policy of supervising private loans to foreign governments and corporations . The practice grew up in Mr .. Hughes 's day of " requesting " American investing houses to submit their proposed loan contracts to the State Department , objecting to some and giving the others a form of indorsement . The objections may have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Nation some years ago exposed one banking house which assured investors that the State Department would hardly give its approval if it were not ready to use gunboats in the future as it has used them in the past ; and since then the Dep'artment has been diligent in asserting that its approval involved no promise of protection . The implication , of course , remained ; the policy smelled like the pre-war European custom of using private loans as instruments of political aggrandizement and gave indorsed loans a better chance with investors than unindorsed domestic loans . Some of the State Department 's actions , also , have shown plainly that it meant to use its powers as a form of diplomatic pressure . Mr. Glass points out these dangers ; he also insists with cogency that the Department of State has no more right to prohibit the sale of American credits abroad by the National City Bank , the Chemical National Bank , or the house of Morgan , or all these combined , than it has to favoror veto the sale to the European trade of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corporation , Henry Ford , or any other private concerns in this country . F OR IMPUDENCE , sheer and unadulterated , of the most unblushing kind the first prize goes without question to Theodore Roosevelt , Jr . This is the gentleman who is just now attacking Governor Smith and laying at his door the misgovernment of the city of Albany  --  although the Governor is the Governor of New York State and not the Mayor of Albany  --  and threatening that if he does not get a categorical answer in the next week he will make still further revelations and carry them right to the Governor 's door . Now the man who says this is the same young gentleman who was the Assistant Secretary under Edwin Denby when the Navy Department consented - to turning over the Teapot Dome and Elk Hills naval reservations to Messrs . Doheny and Sinclair , both of whom have been-found-guilty by the Supreme Court of having corruptly acquired-these great resources . It has been alleged on Roosevelt 's behalf that he did not understand the significance of Teapot Dome , though he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signed , but , as we said at the time , a son of that President of the United States who sponsored and forwarded the conservation policy has no right to plead ignorance on such a score . Instead of resigning in protest , young Roosevelt had his brother made vice-president of one of Sinclair 's companies ; the brother later testified that he drew a fat salary , but did practically nothing . The same Theodore Roosevelt himself signed the order for the sending of a handful of armed marines under Captain G. K. Shuler to the Teapot Dome reserve for the purpose of expelling certain trespassers , in the interest of Mr. H. F. Sinclair . Mr. Roosevelt is one of the last men in America to talk to Governor Smith about civic virtue . F ROM SEVERAL READERS we have received protests in regard to our recent paragraph on Ruth Hanna McCormick ( Mrs. Medill McCormick ) . These correspondents do not deny that because of her personal charm , her rare ability , and her extraordinary knowledge and understanding of politics , Mrs. McCormick is a most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the article we print elsewhere , but they call attention to the fact that she appears to have struck hands with the Crowe-Thompson machine than which , so writes one reader , " there is no more corrupt political gang in the country . " Since Governor Small seems to have allied himself with Thompson , Mrs. McCormick is thus tied up with another one of the most deplorable figures in our governmental life . Again , Mrs. McCormick does not seem to have supported for reelection Judge Jerecki , who has been doing such admirable work in sentencing judges and clerks of election of both parties to jail for their criminal practices on election day . These are discouraging things to report about one who has in the past played an independent part in political life surprising in view of her inheritance . We shall see what we shall see , but we do not hesitate now to say that if Mrs. McCormick is really going to tie up with men like Thompson and Small for the sake of getting office she will gravely injure and not aid the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We shall continue to hope that she will take a stand against the men who now control Chicago and Illinois . p ITTSBURGH , MELLON , COOLIDGE : the words flow with ease . But when one tries to say " Pittsburgh , injunction , Mellon , striking miners , " the words refuse to mix . Probably President Coolidge noticed this , and so , speaking in Pittsburgh as a guest of Andrew Mellon , he simply left out the intrusive words . Instead , he delivered himself of these mellifluous thoughts : Andrew W. Mellon and Richard B. Mellon stand out as men who are devoting themselves to the service of humanity , one by remaining as a leader in great financial and industrial enterprises and the other by turning his great talents to the administration of the treasury of the United States , where his leadership in the last six years has been greatly instrumental in restoring the industrial equilibrium of the world . As to the ranks of unskilled labor , the President produced this masterly phrase : " Their condition is greatly improved over what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100,000 miners had been on strike since April 1 , asking a mere living wage , and Judge Schoonmaker had just issued one of the most sweeping injunctions in labor history . F JUDGE SCHOONMAKER 'S FIAT is effectively en-1. forced  --  and the Pittsburgh Terminal Coal Corporation has already posted a bond of $50,000 to make it so  --  all attempts of the organized miners to bargain or to maintain union wages will be prohibited . The union men must not use " abusive language " ; they must not parade in the vicinity of the mines ; nor must they interfere with i.e. , talk to corporation employees or their families . In fact , any act which might interfere with the production , mining , transportation , or shipment of coal is restrained by the court . In addition to the foregoing restrictions , the corporation has won legal permission to regain possession of company-owned houses occupied by striking miners . Hitherto the lower courts had prevented the eviction of the strikers from company-owned houses ; but the New York Times quotes Lee Hall , of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the families could remain on the property , the company forbade trespassing on its property . This rule was applied to milk drivers , to the delivery of foodstuffs , and even doctors were refused permission to visit the striking miners unless given permission by the company . Families were prohibited from visiting one another unless the company agreed to allow such visits . In some instances representatives of the company tore the doors off houses , removed the roofs and windows , and did everything they could to make the places uninhabitable ; all this despite the fact that the union has furnished bond to guarantee payment of rent . Mr. Coolidge might have looked around before asserting that the conditions of unskilled laborers are " greatly improved over what they ever before received . " T HE BRITISH MENACE is not only confined to Chicago , where School Superintendent McAndrew is being tried , among other charges , for having permitted " pro-British " textbooks to poison the minds of his young charges . " Modern History , " a textbook compiled by Carlton Hayes and Thomas Parker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York Veterans of Foreign Wars as containing " subtle falsehoods designed to restore America into sentimental , spiritual , and political subjection to Great Britain . " The statement further says : " The inspired men of sublime zeal and genius who startled the world with their new conception of human rights we take it the Fathers of the American Revolution are meant are charged with having plagiarized it all from the store of British principles . " Which is perhaps natural enough , considering that each of these inspired sublimities was for many years of his life a British subject , and many of them were born on England 's soil itself . We confess that we are not alarmed by the prospect of a spiritual alliance with Great Britain ; it seems to us the most desirable thing in the world that these two great nations , speaking the same language and with a common tradition , should be joined spiritually always , politically on occasion , and even , if necessary , sentimentally . The thought of America being " subject " to Great Britain , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall be certainly in a bad way if we select our textbooks by guessing at their probable political effect . AMUEL GOMPERS is dead ; but his cautious soul still dominates the American Federation of Labor . In-deed , it becomes more cautious year after year . Its Los Angeles convention this month just marked time . Again the federation approved rigid restriction of immigration ; it turned down the New York resolution calling for the " withdrawal of the war fleet and marines from China , Nicaragua , and other countries occupied . by the armed forces of the United States " ; it refused to associate with European labor ; and it side-stepped the Boulder Dam issue . When Max Hayes of Cleveland ridiculed officials for " cool-ing their heels " in the anterooms of old-party bosses the delegates applauded , but they voted against independent political action . The high moguls of the federation have not yet recovered from the shock of indorsing La Follette in 1924 , and until they get a new courage and a new faith in themselves  --  or until they are replaced  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States . Even the " new wage policy " which bounced into the headlines was hardly new . The principle that gains in industrial productivity should spell increased wages as well as increased profits is sound enough ; and labor certainly needs competent research men as well as competent publicity men to help it present its case to the public ; but fundamentally unions will still have to depend upon mass economic power . And the federation still hesitates at the decisive problem of organizing the unorganized . N SPAIN STRANGE THINGS are happening . Professor 1 Besteiro of Madrid has dared publicly to attack both the dictator , Primo de Rivera , and King Alfonso , placing direct blame upon the two for the failure of the Moroccan campaign as well as for domestic difficulties . Oddly enough , Professor Besteiro 's position as chief of the Socialist Party and head of the Spanish Federation of Labor seems to keep him out of jail . Five hundred persons not so influential have recently been locked up on suspicion of plotting against the government . To allay this opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is now enjoying its first session since the establishment four years ago of the Primo de Rivera dictatorship . As a democratic institution this National Assembly is a mere gesture . It presents as fine a collection of hand-picked delegates a 's any dictator ever dictated to . - Of the 400 members half have been selected by de Rivera personally , and the remaining 200 by the mayors of the municipalities , who were themselves appointed by de Rivera . Furthermore , the functions of the assembly are limited to advising . If the general unrest in Spain at present is symptomatic of a real movement for representative government , it is difficult to see how the feeble collection of wooden sticks in the National Assembly will satisfy or allay it . F LOGGINGS IN ALABAMA are not to go unpunished . After two years of the most lawless activity on - the part mainly of members and even officers of the Ku Klux Klan , the grand jury has returned 102 indictments against 36 men in Crenshaw and Butler counties . The-Klan fought bitterly to prevent such an outcome and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable ; to several courageous newspapers must go the credit for having forced action by the grand jury . The jury 's report is as severe an arraignment of the Klan as any Southern State has ever offered : We find that in most , if not all , of these cases these outrageous acts of hooded mobs wearing the regalia of the Ku Klux Klan are the evil fruits of leadership at war with all constituted authority and done in bigoted disregard of - the courts . . . . Nothing can be-more cowardly . . . than for persons who call themselves men to gather together purporting to so gather under the banner of Christ , and . . . there before the Cross of Christ to plot and plan , to conspire and concoct , connive and conjure up the yellow deeds , the diabolical schemes , the unmerciful lashings , and the cowardly torturing attacks which have . . . been committed upon defenseless men and women , white and black , in this country . We submit that this is fine rhetoric and admirable plain speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fearless action by petit juries when the cases are brought to trial . Attorney General McCall , who , though himself a Klansman , has vigorously conducted the investigation , promises that the cases will be heard in the regular term of the Circuit Court beginning November 7 . HE TESTIMONIAL DINNER given last Saturday to I Professor Morris R. Cohen in celebration of his twenty-five years of teaching at the College of the City of New York was a significant event in the intellectual history of the city . More than a thousand persons , ranging from devoted young men only a year ago in Mr. Cohen 's classes to such distinguished philosophers as John Dewey , Bertrand Russell , and Mr. Cohen 's former teacher , Dean F. J. E. Woodbridge , came to pay homage to a man who has done , as Felix Frankfurter said , nothing more useful than to live a " useless " life : He has merely taught thousands of students , the beautiful and impractical virtues of candor and uncompromising intelligence . He has in his critical articles done much to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The tributes were astounding in the diversity of their sources and subjects . Einstein wrote a letter praising Mr. Cohen as a mathematician and Justice Holmes wrote him a letter praising him as a jurist . But it was not to pay tribute to a scientist and a critic that a thousand people came together . It was perhaps above all to express their affection for an intelligence singular in its integrity and beautiful in its sweetness . It was a great occasion and should remind the city whose college boasts such a philosopher what it has to boast of . Speak roughly to your little boy And beat him when he sneezes . . . B UT what can you do with a robot ? The new mechanical man created by the Westinghouse Electric Company will close the door if you tell him to , but only if you speak in a voice with a pitch of 900 vibrations a second . You may shout at a human office-boy ; you may throw rocks at the dog or your-stenographer , and still expect a degree of responsiveness . To a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and kind , or you may wait all day for your commands to be carried out . The Westinghouse Company announces that three mechanical men are already at work in the War Department , earning their mechanical equivalent for bread and butter . Others are being tried out , shutting doors , - turning off switches , detecting short circuits , and otherwise making themselves useful twenty-four hours a day . The robot knows nothing of union hours ; he works on holidays without complaint ; and , if he demands a soft , low-toned command , he is docile and obedient once he has heard it . The possibilities of this new invention are not a little frightening . We may have mechanical waiters , cooks , book agents , authors , musicians , and editors . But let us never have any robot in as situation more personal than , say , that of President of the United States . There a robot might do very well ; he could easily and comfortably ride the mechanical horse ; he could execute orders without fuss , without complaint , - without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , saying " Delighted " at intervals of a second or so . Such a device should be elected not for four years but for life .                     