@@486297

jk . BRITISH WHITE PAPER issued by the Mac ? Donald Government has deeply stirred the waters of international policy by declaring that " as between members of the League there can be no neutral rights because there can be no neutrals . " This occurs in defense of the situation created by the World Court , the Kellogg Pact , the League of Nations , and the English signature of the optional clause of the World Court statute under which a British action at sea can be brought before the World Court by another mem  --  ber of the League . Since then this has been stretched in the press to cover all nations . To us the assertion that there will be no neutrals in the next war seems the dangerous product of shallow reasoning , assuming , of course , the possi  --  bility of war under the Kellogg Pact . In the first place the United States , Russia , and other nations are not mem  --  bers of the League . In the second there must be unanimous agreement within the League Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  something very difficult to obtain . In the third place if there are to be no neutrals then every nation will be at war . In 1924 Mr. MacDonald himself insisted , in discussing the draft of the Geneva Protocol containing a clause similar to the optional one , that British belligerent rights should be reserved from that juris  --  diction . It is , of course , allowable for any statesman to have a change of heart , but it should surely be based on something better than the conception of no neutrals in thenext war . Senator Borah also declines to accept this new British viewpoint , declaring that " if the Kellogg Pact means that henceforth there shall be no neutrals , it necessarily follows that we and all the other signatories become bellig  --  erents . Under these circumstances the pact is misnamed . It is not a peace pact ; it is a war pact . " SO JOSEPH GRUNDY , glorying in his dubious fame as a super-lobbyist , has really been appointed to the Senate and admitted to his seat . Other distinguished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chauncey M. Depew and Mark Hanna , have also been members of the Senate , but no other lobbyist has stepped so directly from his lobbying activities into the Senate or has so boldly defied both the Senators who examined into his activities and decent public opinion . For the present he has " got away with it , " although what the future will bring forth may be something different . Certainly the Grundy appointment has widened the gap between the several party factions in Pennsylvania and has opened up the prospect of a sharp fight for , the per  --  manent seat in the Senate which may give an opportunity to the Democrats if they can induce ex-Secretary William B. Wilson to run again . However , if the State of Pennsylvania , imitating Utah and other American commonwealths , is de  --  termined to be represented in the Senate by one who is per  --  sonally and pecuniarily interested in high tariffs , there is , of course , no possibility of successful objection . As for the Sen  --  ate , it was perfectly correct in seating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less , especially for the appoint  --  ment of Patrick J. Sullivan of Wyoming for party reasons . AS THE TARIFF FIGHT is resumed , the significance of a two-page advertisement in the New York Times of December 16 ought not to be overlooked . Signed by the Minneapolis Tribune , " consistently a Republican newspaper since 1867 , " and more than seventy-five farm organizations claiming a membership of more than two millions , it urges that " parity for agriculture means billions for industry . " The economics of this appeal , while no worse than most pro  --  tectionist argument , is unspeakably bad ; but we reserve that for future comment . We wish here simply to point out the strength and the weakness of the agricultural revolt in the Republican household . The embattled farmers realize well enough that they have been fleeced by the tariff , so they insist upon " parity " ; but they do not realize that farm prices , except in special instances , can not be juggled upward , and that therefore their only hope lies in getting industrial prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by raising duties  --  for the most part wholly ineffective  --  on farm prod  --  ucts . Under these circumstances why not give them their toy and let everybody go home happy ? As politics rather than economics is the prime consideration in tariff making , we commend this suggestion to Congress . HERBERT C. LAKIN , President of the Cuba Company , is the latest conspicuous example of what may happen to a man of high standing when he becomes deeply involved with big business . A lawyer of excellent renown in New York , Mr. Lakin dropped the law to guide the invest  --  ments , aggregating $175,000,000 , of his company in Cuba . Gradually , under the pressure of the United States tariff and a world-wide overproduction of sugar , Mr. Lakin found his company facing bankruptcy . In a desperate but vain effort to head off that fate , Mr. Lakin created a propaganda bureau in Washington which spent about $90,000 , and retained Pres  --  ident Hoover 's personal attorney , Edward P. Shattuck , at a cost of $75,000 , because of his ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a week . " He also utilized , among numerous others , Major General Enoch H. Crowder , so long the chief American representative and counsellor in Cuba . Not content with that , Mr. Lakin was in close contact with President Machado of Cuba and other Cuban officials to whom he suggested that it would be profitable to Cuba for them to excite the other Latin-American countries to protest against the proposed new sugar tariff  --  although this consti  --  tutes , according to Senator Walsh of Montana , a criminal offense under the Logan Act . Mr. Lakin confessed on the witness stand that he was thoroughly " ashamed " of this par  --  ticular act . He ought to be ashamed of the whole record , for it was both stupid and futile , unworthy of him as an attorney and discreditable to his intelligence as an executive . He had an excellent case and would have served both Cuba and the United States had he succeeded in legitimately defeating the proposed sugar tariff . SALVATORE ACCORSI , whose story was told in The Nation of December 18 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ murder of John J. Downey , State trooper , who was shot on August 22 , 1927 . Downey was one of the mounted police who burst into the orchard of a privately owned farm near Cheswick , Pennsylvania , and broke up a meeting of workmen who were protesting against the im  --  pending execution of Sacco and Vanzetti . Though the case against him was weak to begin with , Accorsi is free mainly because he was able to prove that he has never worn a mus  --  tache , the State 's star witnesses having testified that the man who shot Downey wore a mustache . Great decisions may hang on small circumstances  --  it was a cap that helped to send Sacco to the chair . We can understand the joy of Accorsi as he exclaimed to the jury which freed him : " I wanta shake your hands , I am so happy . I love everybody . " This acquittal should be a check upon the general lawlessness and arrogance of the Pennsylvania State Constabulary . BAITING COMMUNISTS continues to be a favorite pastime with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World reports prison sentences of from five to ten years imposed by Judge W. W. Cowen at St. Clairsville , Ohio , upon Tom Johnson and Charles Guynn , and of an indefinite term in the State Reformatory for Women upon Lil Andrews , all for violation of the criminal syndicalism act of the State . Johnson and Guynn , it appears , tried to deliver addresses at a Communist meet  --  ing at Martin 's Ferry on August 24 and Miss Andrews passed pamphlets to persons in the crowd . It is said that the cases will be appealed to the State Supreme Court to test the constitutionality of the statute . Meantime the danger to the State from an embattled force of two men and one woman has been temporarily averted , and it willbe safe for the inhabitants of Martin 's Ferry to go about unarmed . At New York , on December 14 , three mounted policemen broke up a meeting staged by several hundred Communists in front of the City Hall , after which some forty other policemen , " many of whom , " according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a lark , " rushed in and clubbed the usual tally of heads . If the authorities of Ohio or New York had either sense or sand they would take a hint from President Hoover , who not only refused to become panic-stricken when a bunch of Communists from Washington and other places assembled in front of the White House on the same December 14 , but actually asked the police to overlook the " discourtesy " and send the out  --  of-towners home to papa and mama . Like the New Yorkers , the group at the White House were quite within their con  --  stitutional rights , but in spite of this obvious fact , Mr. Hoover acted like a man that is n't afeard . WE ARE GLAD that Secretary Adams has called on General Smedley D. Butler for an official report of his Pittsburgh speech of December 5 , reported by Sinclair Lewis in our issue of December 18 . According to uncon  --  tradicted reports of this speech , General Butler , it will be recalled , not only told how the marines elected " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaring the opposi  --  tion candidates bandits , but committed various other indis  --  cretions . Officials of the State Department , according to , the New York Times , have informally characterized this alleged statement as " loose talk . " It was certainly far too loose for the reputation of the marines and the American government responsible for their action . It is important for the public to know exactly what General Butler did say ; it is far more important for them to look understandingly at his picture of devil-dog rule , apparently not intended for public viewing . It is a little hard to see how the Navy Department can apply whitewash to the colorful picture . IT WAS A WISE INSPIRATION that led President Hoover to divert the extra marines for whom General Russell , in a panic , had cabled and send them to Guanta  --  namo instead of Haiti . They were never needed ; indeed , the sight of more devil-dogs marching ashore with the Stars and Stripes flying and the band playing could only have created more and unrest in Haiti . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a man of the Morrow type , and if it will act promptly , the end of Haiti 's long Calvary may be in sight . Leaders in various Haitian patriotic organizations , including men of many parties , have petitioned Mr. Hoover to hold an American-supervised election in the spring of 1930 . But the American public should not be per  --  mitted to forget that the reason Haitians ask the marines to supervise their election is that the marines dissolved their last parliament thirteen years ago , and that Brigadier Gen  --  eral Russell , our High Commissioner , has sustained in the Presidency for seven years a petty dictator whom no Haitian trusts . The American people have had little opportunity to understand what is going on in Haiti . Cable tolls are high . Until recently the United Press was served by the chief of police of Port au Prince and the Associated Press by Colonel Frank E. Evans , U. S. M. C. , commandant of the Garde d'Haiti ! Since the recent disturbances both agencies have sent other correspondents to the island republic . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other of our houses of Con  --  gress almost every day . The proponents of the King resolu  --  tion , offering independence to the islands , declare the chance of its passage in the Senate has never been so good ; in the House , the prospects are less rosy , but even there cheers greeted the passionate plea for freedom of Camilo Osias , Philippine commissioner . To the question of Repre  --  sentative Knutson of Minnesota as to whether or not the islands would be able to maintain themselves economically with American support withdrawn and with American tariff duties against them , Mr. Osias made the charmingly frank reply : " Surely we can , for independence would give us a chance to levy tariff duties ourselves . " On the tariff , therefore , the fate of the islands now largely depends , with the high sugar-tariff lobbyists working for independence ! Self-deter  --  mination for small nations , the necessity for keeping promises long made and never fulfilled , the right of a weaker country to be free from the protection of a stronger  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter has been complicated by the question : Shall we free the Philippines from our " pro  --  tection " in order to gain more substantial protection for our sugar and other industries by the tariff we shall then be able to levy on Philippine products ? But if independence is granted the end will be good no matter how bad the reasons for it . PRECISELY WHAT PLEDGES Great Britain made to the Arabs just before she promised Syria to France and a " national home " in Palestine to the Jews has never been made clear . Fragments of the correspondence between Sir Henry MacMahon and the Sherif of Mecca , who later became King of the ' Hedjaz , have been published , and have been used by the Arabs to justify their resentment against the famous Balfour Declaration and against the subsequent activities of the Zionists . The Grand Mufti of Jerusalem , who , while denying complicity in the recent Arab disturb  --  ances , has certainly not used his influence to promote Arab-Jew good feeling , has brought up these promises before the British commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hitherto unpublished letter from Lord Balfour confirming pledges made in Britain 's behalf by Colonel Lawrence . But what pledges did Lawrence make ? We do not know ; we know only that he was profoundly grieved by the subsequent attitude of his government . It would be a courageous act on the part of the MacDonald Government , which certainly bears no share of responsibility for the duplicities of war-time , if it would open the archives and publish full reports of all the negotiations , written or oral , between British and Arabs in the war years . MINORITY RIGHTS and reparation obligations have brought political relations between Hungary and the Little Entente to an acute stage , and the Young plan conference at The Hague is likely to have a serious con  --  troversy on its hands when it meets again in January . Count Bethlen , the Hungarian premier , has announced that Hungary will not let itself be squeezed for additional repara  --  tions after the present agreement expires in 1943 unless the rights of the Hungarian optants under the Treaty of Trianon are preserved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , retorts that the Rumanian de  --  mands for further reparations will not be surrendered be-cause , if they were , Hungary would use the money for armaments . Only if Hungary gives way can there be a peace " wherein there would be no difference between the conqueror and the conquered . " M. Mironescu launched his ultimatum after talking with Dr. Benes , the wily Foreign Minister of Czecho-Slovakia , which led the Vienna cor  --  respondent of the New York Times to remark : " How Czecho-Slovakia can be considered a conqueror M. Mironescu did not explain . " The plain fact of the matter is that the Little Entente , and particularly Czecho-Slovakia , have treated the minorities treaties very much like scraps of paper . ' WILL H. HAYS and former Governor Milliken of Maine have been removed from the board of directors of the Church and Drama Association , an offshoot of the Federal Council of Churches . The reason given is a polite one , that the association had " deemed it wise not to have representatives of the motion-picture industry on the board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulty probably has a not too obscure connection with the campaign against Mr. Hays and Mr. Milliken which is still being waged by the Churchman . The latter journal has called both gentlemen hypocrites and has particularly stigmatized Mr. Hays , who , under the guise of godliness , piety , and a desire to preserve the high moral tone of the motion picture , has permitted , for good business reasons , the type of high-powered and sensa. tional movie that is rolling up money for the motion picture producers . Mr. Hays has permitted banality , ineptitude , vulgarity , the cheapest sort of sensationalism in motion pic  --  tures " passed by the censor . " It would seem , from the box-office receipts , as if none of these characteristics made a pic  --  ture unpopular with the American public . Rather the con  --  trary , indeed . The American public , therefore , knows what it wants . Mr. Hays is filling that want  --  a mere matter of business . In so far as he does so and remains within the law , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in objecting to any attempt to gloze over this cheapness and vul  --  garity by an appeal to or connection with the church . A CERTAIN VIENNESE PHYSICIAN ? we apolo- gize for having lost the newspaper clipping which con  --  tained his name ! ? has discovered where sleep comes from . A certain portion of the brain , he declares , receives mo  --  mently the poisons thrown off by our bodily activities while we are awake . When the brain cells in that particular area become saturated , they induce , in order to reestablish the body 's health , the state of unconsciousness known as sleep . This is extremely interesting , but we should like the learned doctor to go a step further . Having decided where sleep comes from , would he mind telling us where it goes to ? There are nights when it would seem that the poisons of effort and activity had accumulated to the proper point  --  and still we do not sleep . We count sheep jumping over a fence , we say nonsense rhymes , we try resolutely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be kept awake by trucks thundering under our windows or the shouts of jolly neigh  --  bors or the desperate caterwaulings of stray felines . All to no avail . Obstinately we stay awake . This difficulty may , of course , be due to a bad conscience , in which case there is nothing to do but to lead a better life . But if that is not the source of the trouble , it may well be that a little scientific investigation will provide a simple and effective cure .                     