@@488323

THE reported tumbling in prices has perhaps created more interest than any other news since the armistice . During many weary months people of all conditions in all countries have been struggling with an ever-increasing cost of living . Hoping and praying for a change they now joyously contemplate a possible escape from the stressful conditions under which they have labored . On every hand , the uppermost questions are : " What are the causes of declining prices ? " " How far will the reductions go ? " " Will they be permanent ? " " Will they find concrete expression in an actual decrease in the cost of living for the average individual and his family ? " The factors depressing prices at present are not difficult to ascertain . The Federal Reserve Board may be said to have started the movement . By its action in suggesting the calling or curtailment of loans based on luxuries and of loans arising from attempts to control the domestic supplies of foodstuffs and other necessaries , credit was made available for the increased production of essentials . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to manipulate arbitrarily the supply and prices of certain necessaries such as sugar . Then came the decline in the purchasing ability of foreign countries , probably the most important factor in pricedropping . Raw materials , as well as foodstuffs and maim- factured products , could not be disposed of abroad because foreign countries had exhausted their purchasing power in money and credit . Exports remained at home , adding greatly to the domestic supply . And the resulting price decline has been further accentuated by the action of large domestic consumers of raw materials , such as cotton and wool , in curtailing the normal demand for these products . The temporary closing of their mills by certain textile manufacturing companies is in point . Several months ago the orgy of profiteering  --  hi full swing since the signing of the armistice  --  reached the limits of human endurance , and an awakened and nearly desperate public decided to take matters into its own hands by refusing to purchase goods at prevailing prices . This unorganized but effective movement forced the retail merchants , especially those dealing in shoes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet their obligations , and to clear their shelves for new consignments . These tendencies in general have been accompanied by a deflation in prices and credit , or a writing down of values , with no decrease in production , but , on the contrary , with an increase in available supplies . The voluntary action of Henry Ford and other manufacturers in cutting the prices of their products has also in the same way had a beneficial and wholesome effect . In addition large agricultural crops , an increase in the production of mines and mills by the lessening of industrial controversy and conflict , and the gains in the productive efficiency of labor , have greatly assisted the forces of supply and demand in asserting themselves against speculation , manipulation , profiteering and arbitrary price control .. The most important questions , however , in the minds of the public are to what extent has the cost of living been reduced , and what further permanent reductions in prices may be expected ? Unfortunately when one turns from hopeful press reports . to hard , cold facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slightly reduced , and that the prospect for material relief in the near future is not encouraging . By way of illustration , the wholesale price index number of the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics dropped from 272 in May to 250 in August , a decline of 8 per cent . The decline in wholesale prices was not reflected in retail prices for several months . The retail food price index number rose from 217 in May to 219 in June , remained the same in July and then dropped to 207 in August , a decline of slightly less than 5 per cent . These decreases are , of course , important , but it is by no means clear that they represent a permanent price reaction to a level below , or at least very much below , the price level of the past several months . Examination of the very recent price changes in comparison with those of preceding years and an analysis of the particular groups of commodities in which the decreases have taken place throw an interesting light upon the probable tendencies of future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 8 per cent between May and September of this year is in itself not particularly significant . Similar periods of decline have at Various times interrupted the general upward trend of prices since the beginning of the European war . In the Autumn of 1919 a general slump in prices was widely heralded as the ' turning point . Dun 's wholesale price index number had slumped from 200 in August , 1919 , to 197 in September , and to 191 in October , a total decline in four months of almost 5 per cent , yet after October the upward movement was resumed almost without interruption until last May . Again , it may be noted that despite the recent sharp decline in wholesale prices , present prices still remain at a level higher than existed at the armistice . Moreover , the decline in general wholesale prices as represented by the usual index numbers has been confined chiefly to two general groups of commodities , food products and clothing . Fuel and light have mounted steadily , as have house-furnishing goods . Certain other important groups , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materials , have shown only the slightest decreases . In other words , the recent price decreases have been largely limited to products , the market conditions of which have been abnormal , with nothing to indicate a continued downward trend . The above facts are emphasized by an examination of recent cost of living figures of the National Industrial Conference Board , a federation of manufacturers ' associations ; which , through its research department , issues monthly reports on prices and the cost of living . The figures of this Board showed that the cost of living in July , 1920 , was 104.5 per cent higher than in 1914 . By September , 1920 , the Board 's figures showed a decline to 99.4 per cent as compared with the first year of the war . An examination of the commodity groups making up this total , however , reveals that the decrease was solely in food and clothing . Thus , the percentage figure for food dropped in July from 119 to 107 in September , while clothing dropped from 166 to 155 . On the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or housing increased from 58 to 59 , fuel , heat , and light from 66 to 78 , and sundries from 85 to 88 . The cost of living figures of the Massachusetts Commission on the Necessaries of Life are even more striking . Here the most recent data available show that the cost of living was 98.4 per cent higher in July , 1920 , than in the year 1914 . By August this percentage had fallen to 94.4 per cent as against 1914 , but this reduction of only 4 per cent in the general cost of living was again due solely to a decrease in food prices . Retail prices of foodstuffs , fabrics , and clothing have not as yet perhaps fully responded to the fall in wholesale prices , and other things being equal some further decrease in retail prices may be expected . There is no ground for the hope , however , through the forces now at work , for any radical and permanent reduction in the cost of living . There has been some deflation and wiping out of arbitrary domestic values @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of certain producers , and the adverse conditions of foreign trade . There is no evidence , however , of a widespread replenishing of stocks of commodities , an increased supply , or a greatly accelerated production , which would permanently relieve the scarcities created by the war throughout the world , or remove the fundamental conditions which have made it possible to profiteer ; that is , to take advantage of abnormal conditions to charge arbitrary and excessive prices . The provision of credit for foreign trade , or greater stability in international relations might give such a vent to our raw materials and foodstuffs as to destroy the temporary price reduction which has arisen from their recent confinement to domestic markets . Moreover , a reactionary control of the federal government might have the same effect even if it is not possible to stiffen prices by securing access to the foreign demand . The chief significance of the present political campaign is to be found in this fact . No legislation to curb profiteering or to reduce the cost of living has been permitted to go through Congress since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their hold on the federal government in the November elections , not only will all further attempts at remedial legislation be blocked but positive measures will be adopted to insure the extension of the present era of profiteering and exploitation . And such a prospect is more than probable . Behind a smoke-screen of meaningless campaign verbiage centering mostly about the League of Nations the program of " Big Business " has already been carefully planned and made manifest . A protective tariff measure will first be passed for the purpose of perpetuating an exorbitant level of retail prices through the elimination of possible foreign competition . At the same time the margin of profits will be further increased by exploiting the producer of raw materials . Any reductions in the cost of living which might otherwise be obtained through increased production , the shutting off of foreign markets , or the free play of supply and demand , will thus be effectually denied . Profiteering and exploitation will continue until modified by the more complete recovery of the world from the devastating effects of the war , coupled with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evils . The abnormal conditions created by the war , as was to be expected , greatly increased prices and the cost of living . The war-time era of destruction , restricted production and unproductive consumption , reduced pre-existing stocks of goods and made additional accumulations more difficult , and thus brought about an excess of demand for commodities over the supply available . The net result has been scarcity values and constant rises in prices during and since the war . These fundamental causes of high prices are still operative and but slightly modified by post-war production . They must , of course , be corrected by greater production , thrift , and economy . This will require time and sustained effort by all the principal commercial and industrial nations of the world . There is no indication in our recent price flurries that we are approaching any consummation of this much desired object , or that there is any hope offered for an immediate and substantial reduction in the cost of living . On the other hand it is evident that the scarcity situation arising from the war is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage of by conscienceless producers , distributors , and speculators , to exact huge and indefensible profits from all classes of the people . This condition of affairs must be remedied if we are to have any relief from excessive living costs while we are waiting for the economic structure of the world to right itself . Prices must be reduced to conform to costs of production , and indefensible profits must be eliminated . The obvious emergency solution , if practical , would be governmental price control . Although this method has been continued abroad since the armistice , it was abandoned here soon after the termination of hostilities . There are other measures , however , which have been put forward and which would be even more effective . One of the most advantageous would be the enactment of a law requiring that all commodities entering into interstate commerce should be marked with the price at which they left the producer . All succeeding profits would thus be made evident to the ultimate consumer , and public opinion could be relied upon to see that they were reasonable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left in cold storage and requiring that they should be marked with the price at which they were placed in storage , together with a law licensing all corporations and firms engaged in interstate commerce , would constitute an effective program for preventing arbitrary price exactions and making possible substantial reductions in the cost of living . Consumers should not permit themselves to be unduly encouraged by present price reduction , but should demand the adoption of such a program if they would secure immediate and proper relief from the existing pressure of unwarranted living costs .                     