@@493308

REPUBLIC A Journal of Opinion The Week DURING the past two weeks the administra- lion has taken a great deal of trouble to cultivate friendly relations with the Japanese government and to discourage the noisy propaganda in this country on behalf of additional armaments , directed against Japan . Its energetic demonstrations have had a beneficial effect and have helped to relax a condition of strain which , if it had continued , might have brought unpleasant consequences . We do not for one moment believe that the anti-Japanese Americans who were demanding additional armaments were any but an insignificant proportion of the American people . The state of mind of the United States is at the present time on the whole profoundly pacific . The great majority of Americans do not believe that the way to preserve peace is to act as if war were probable and desirable . But a few military and naval propagandists can with the assistance of the newspapers make a noise as loud as a great host , and unless they are blasted by a forbidding official frown they may well provoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such an essential part of Our existing moral conventions . An official demonstration against the militant agitation was , consequently , highly desirable and Messrs . Coolidge and Hughes went about it in a thoroughgoing spirit and performed a workmanlike job . THERE remains , however , much still to be done a the cooperation towards naval disarmament which was started in Washington during the fall of 1922 is to be continued . The Washington agreements constituted a tentative and unstable compromise which unless they are extended and re . enforced can not even be preserved . They permit a resumption of the old competition in certain important types of vessels and in many of the loose effective devices of naval warfare . The time is clearly coming when the rep/Sion and improvement of the agreements will demand discussion , and it will be interesting to observe whether Mr. Coolidge will rise to the occasion . If he really wishes to discredit those Americans who are fomenting ill-feeling between this country and Japan , he can not rest content with his oral and literary attempts to keep the spirit of peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their propaganda by doing away , if possible , with the expedients which naval patrioteers can still employ to scare their fellow countrymen and to foment ill-feeling . ALTHOUGH there have been no flaws in the handling by the Administration of American diplomatic relations with Japan , as much can not be said of its naval strategy . The proposed manoeuvres of the American fleet in the Pacific during the coming spring are shrewdly calculated and no doubt intended to cultivate apprehension and suspicion in Japan and naval vaingloriousness in the United States . In the event of war with Japan the American fleet will not be strong enough to operate in Asiatic waters and the Japanese fleet will not be strong enough to operate in American waters . The kind of cruise which is now proposed can not , consequently , prepare the fleet for the realities of future war in the Pacific . American naval strategy in the event of such a war would be defensive . The cruise is merely a bellicose and defiant gesture . The Japanese will fed about it much as we Americans would feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war-like exercises in American waters and was hospitably entertained in Mexico and Canada . Any Japanese citizen can read in the Roosevelt records about the motives which prompted President Roosevelt to send on one former occasion a powerful Atncri ? n fleet across the Pacific and Japanese public opinion will naturally consider that a similarly threatening motive is responsible for the corning demonstration . President Coolidge will not succeed in improving the relations between the United States and Japan by speaking soothing words on one day and by pointing a few days later the spearhead of the American fleet directly at Japan . WE trust , consequently , that at an early date and while Mr. Hughes is still Secretary of State , President Coolidge will summon a conference of the four governments which are most interested in naval armaments and which participated in the nonaggression compact of two years ago . There are political as well as military reasons for such a conference . Since the end of 1922 a kind of deadlock has existed in the relations between China and the foreign world . Japanese aggression has become less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to promote . the proposed reforms looking to- wards the increasing econianie and political inde- pendence of China ' . There is on the contrary an increasing demand for renewed intervention in China ? an intervention which will he disguised under the beneficent appearance of a Dawes plan . The questions which are raised by the existing con- dition of China in its relation to Europe and Japan are assuming a form Which has no doubt already become a subject of international negotiation ; and it is certainly better to have this most important negotiation conducted in public at a conference and as a part of an additional disarmament agreement than to have it discussed privately and separately . THE British Conservatives have taken their overwhelming victory at the polls as a mandate for the introduction of the tariff policy which was once proposed by Bonar Law and was the chief cause for his ignominious defeat . The development as announced by Mr. Baldwin in a speech the importance of which seems to have been largely overlooked by the American daily press , is to be a gradual and cautious one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they are able to demonstrate that they deserve such treatment ; and only then to a limited degree and in an experimental fashion . The other and more important half of the policy , at least at presant , is a system of imperial preference . Among imports , goods from the Dominions are to he favored over those from other parts of the world : a scheme which is obviously an attempt to knit the Commonwealth of Nations more closely together , both economically and politically . However , Mr. Baldwin says frankly that British public opinion has not yet been educated to the point of accepting tariffs on foodstuffs , and these are therefore indefinitely postponed . Among immediate develop . ments the chief will be the restoration of some of the post-war " emergency " tariffs which had been abolished by the Labor government . THE United States , of course , is in no position to criticize the new British policy ( which is , after all , not so new as it sounds , since Great Britain has not hesitated to lay duties in recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , against imports from Germany ) . America is now the leading high tariff country of the world , and we can not cavil if other nations choose to follow our example . At the sante time , the new British policy may give us a painfully vivid object lesson as to the may in which trade is restricted by high tariff policies . Great Britain is an important customer of ours for manufactures , foodstuffs , and raw materials . The plans of the Baldwin government ultimately intend that the manufactures shall be produced at home and the foodstuffs , cotton , wool , etc. , in the Dominions . We shall get more than a taste of our own medicine ; and it is altogether probable that we shall not like it . CHRISTMAS week has brought anything but peace in Europe . France is hysterically alarmed over the expectation , which seems to be quite groundless , of Communist uprisings in her chief cities . Germany is struggling with the difficult task of forming a coalition with enough power behind it to produce a government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In fully Mussolini , fared by a rapid dwindling of his power and porthnor , has taken action which is supposed to fore- sliabow a general election within the next ninety days . Albania , fighting border raiders who , she charges , are instigated by Jugoslavia has appealed for relief to the League of Nations . Fear of Bolshevist activities is prockaing a Pan-Balkan alliance among Jugoslavia , Rumania and Bulgaria which is announced at the moment when the Pope delivers an extraordinary blast against the Communise on the ground of their anti-religious activities . Russia itself continues to be agitated over the question of Trotzky , now cooling his heels in the Crimea . Add to this category of trouble the North Africar difficulties of Spain , England 's dispute with Egypt , the motioning bad blood between Greece and Turkey , the quarrel between Turkey and Great Britain over the Irak boundary , resurgent Indian nationalism , the Chinese war , now only temporarily in ahoyante , the tension .. between Japan and the United States ? and you have as much gloom as the most confir. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Year . ELECTION day did not end the Progressive campaign . The Conference for Progressive Political Action had already decreed that a later meeting should be held , whatever the outcome of the election , this meeting being for the purpose of deciding whether or not a permanent party should be attempted . A conference was held in Washington a short time ago , and decided that this question should be settled at a subsequent gathering in Chicago late in February . What action will then be taken it is of course impossible to predict . Some of the elements which participated in the LA:ciliateWheeler campaign are admittedly disheartened and wish to withdraw , this feeling being particularly strong among the railroad brotherhoods . Others argue that considering the small funds , the i prompts character of the national organization and the brief period of less than four months , a vote of four and a half millions , or about one in seven of the total vote , is an achievement of which anybody might be proud . AMONG the prOblems particularly discussed at Washington was the future policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization of their own ? Or should they remain inside the general group , insisting on complete equality with the men ? ? something which they feel they by no means had during the campaign just closed . Both these points of view were strongly represented at the Washington gathering . Our own opinion is heartily in favor of the second course . The objects sought by the Progressives would benefit everyone , men and women alike . No such reason exists for creating a separate organiza- tion of women as lay behind the Woman 's Party , or the National League of Women Voters . Indeed , equal participation and responsibility by men and women ought to be one of the principles of the Progressive party , if and when formed . SAMUEL GOMPERS is dead , but his spirit goes marching on . William Green , Secretary-Treasurer of the United Mine Workers of America , who has just been elected President of the American Federation of Labor , is a rigid Conservative of the Gompers type . Not only did he oppose the endorsement of LaFollette in the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities by labor unions , such as the labor banks , and the coal mining operations of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers . While the regret the fact that the A. F. of L. is in for another term of strictly economic trade unionism , during which it will continue to be solely concerned with securing what benefits it can for the members of particular unions at particular times , the event is neither unexpected nor anoint. oral . The membership of the A. F. of L. , representing the best paid members of the skilled trades , is the most conservative wing of American labor . For the past thirty years the movement has been " on the make , " and very successfully so . Such corn . ditions inevitably produce the sort of policies which Gompers and Green have followed . That period , unless we are gravely mistaken , is nearly ended . But in the meantime , it is easy to understand why the attitude of a man like Green meets the approval of the A. F. of L. leaders , however wrong and objectionable it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . THERE is now some hope that the Underwood Muscle Shoals bill may go over until the next session of Congress . The Progressives arc lined up solidly against it ; and since the last thing the administration forces Avant is a filibuster , they had rather have a postponement than to find their other projects for this session blocked . We believe it is wholly in the public interest that the Underwood bill should go over until next December . The more one considers this measure the worse it looks . Senator Norris charges that from the terms of the present proposal the development would almost certainly come under control of the General Electric Company , and that the latter organization is securing an enormous influence upon electric power resources in the United States . These are serious allegations and should be thoroughly sifted before irrevocable action is taken . It is further stated that the Under . wood bill gives carte blanche to the lessee as to Where and to whom it will sell its electric power ; and seems to leave the whole project subject to no other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state authorities of Alabama . There is not even an assurance that the limited amount of nitrates for fertilizer will be produced at a reasonable rate . The lessee would be limited to eight percent on each " turnover , " which might mean very dear fertilizer indeed . At the same time , no limit is set on the amount of profit which can be earned in relation to the original investment . If the Ford oiler was undesirable and deserved to he rejected , as now seems to be generally agreed , the Underwood bill is unquestionably just as bad and should meet the same fate . THE dance of the statesmen over the question of French debts to Great Britain and the United States would be amusing if such important relationships were not bound up with it . Great Britain hears that the United States is considering funding the French clebt on better terms than those under which the British debt is being paid off . Promptly she demands equality of treatment ; and supplements this by the announcement that France must match every payment to the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cables carry the news that the Baldwin government is offering highly advantageous terms to France if the latter country will get to work seriously on the question of her obligations . This time , the howl of protest comes from Washington . America demands equality of treatment with Great Britain . And so on , and so on . The whole deflate , of course , is political in character and intended for political effect . The financiers know that France wo n't be in a position to pay anybody a penny for a decade to come . Even if she were , she will be in no hurry to discharge an obligation which seems to her unfair , since in her interpretation , the money was borrowed and spent in prosecuting a struggle " to save civilization " which was quite as much in the interest of her allies as herself . NfOREOVER , the French can not fail to have learned something about international finance since 1918 . They have discovered that debts between nations are uncollectible except by military force , and perhaps not even then . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Therefore , payments must he voluntary ; which means that the debtor , practically speaking , can set his own terms . Great Britain played the honorable part in arranging terms with America ; and is staggering under the enormously heavy hardest which was thereby laid upon her . Germany , feeling that her cause was hopeless anyhow , elected not to pay more than the allies could take from her by force ; and it is altogether likely that else will escape without turning over any great additional sum . France is therefore at liberty to choose . She may voluntarily step into jail and r a long sentence ; or she may r eevee-main free and apparently be none the worse off for doing so . Evidently the ethics of capitalism need cevision when they come to be applied to international affairs . NOW we have four years of Republican rule shoed , are we not assured of four years of prosperity ? The Cleveland Trust Company Business Bulletin publishes a onnment in point . In the last forty years see have lived twenty-four years under Republican administration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of prosperity and depression ; have they correspond . ' with the political complexion of the administration ? No , Under the Republicans fifty-five percent of the months have been marked by prosperity , forty-five by depression . Precisely the same percentages hold for the Democratic years . Employment has been as satisfactory or unsatisfactory under the one party as under the other . On the heels of the Harding landslide of 1920 , with its promise of high tariff , came the great slump of 1921 . Politics has less effect on economics than the politicians ? especially during a few months of every fourth year ? would have us believe . The greater the pity that their propaganda is swallowed so readily .                     