@@486157

A THICK , black , oily cloud hangs over the parleys at Lausanne . But despite M. Barrere 's insistence upon good old-fashioned secrecy the newspaper correspondents manage to rescue a few stray bits of news . ( Some day a wise historian will do justice to the epic struggle of the American correspondents for open diplomacy  --  which , to them , is synonymous with " news " ? in these post-war years . ) We learn that the wily Turk is bargaining with might and main , with all the Western Powers together and with each one individually . Apparently he has bid higher than Greece for the friendship of Bulgaria and has thereby disrupted hopes of a new Balkan Alliance ; he might well be willing to make concessions in the troubled territory of West Thrace in return for solid compensations in truly Turkish territory . Apparently too the British would be willing to accept the fact of Turkish domination of the Straits  --  with some face-saving phrases  --  in return for unquestioned control of Mosul oil . But there the American representative joined the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any part of the world , and our State Department is right in objecting to the thieves ' bargains which the Allies made in wartime . But  --  well , we wish it were as zealous about the Open Door in some parts of the world nearer home , and in regions where there is no oi : T HE President has made as earnest an appeal to the Congress for his precious ship-subsidy measure as it is possible for him to make , but the Congress and the public have remained cold . The bill will doubtless slip through the House because of the cracking of the party lash , but it ought not to pass the Senate unless renegade Democratic votes can be purchased for it . Why should anybody vote for it except under party duress ? Baldly stated , the Lasker proposal to shipowners is this : the Government is losing $52,000,000 a year in this business ; therefore it wishes to unload upon private individuals . First , it offers them its ships at $30 a ton , when the prevailing price is $20 a ton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admits that three-quarters of the boats were badly designed and wastefully constructed , being planned with reference only to their usefulness as war-adjuncts and with no thought as to their usefulness after the war . Now , in order to induce anybody to consider buying damaged goods like these , the Government offers a bonus on the operation of all its ships , good or bad ; that is , it promises to make up their deficits in operation upon the theory that those deficits will be much less than its own . It pretends to know just about what those deficits will be , but the amounts it actually offers are far below its own pro rata losses , and , of course , there will be factors such as the coming in of the Diesel engine , which is revolutionizing all ocean traffic , the influence of which no man can estimate . So the country is asked to take a leap into total darkness and to establish once more the vicious principle of aiding a few privileged persons to carry on an economically unsound enterprise , in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bulk of our merchant fleet and selling the rest for what it will bring . I NSTEAD of appointing a " lame duck " to the Supreme Court President Harding has nominated a corporation lawyer . It is reported that Pierce Butler , lately general attorney for the Chicago , St. Paul , Minneapolis , and Omaha Railroad , was recommended by the Kellogg-Preus machine , but it is certain that the farmer-labor friends of Senator-elect Shipstead , who roundly trounced Senator Kellogg last month , are indignant that such a citizen of their State should go to the highest court of the land . Former Attorney General Wickersham also indorses him : he named him to prosecute the packers in 1910 . The case was , says Mr. Wickersham , " presented as well as it could be , although the packers were acquitted . " As regent of the University of Minnesota Mr. Butler showed his true colors . In 1917 Professor Schaper , head of the political science department , who had previously opposed Mr. Butler on railroad-tax questions , was called by telephone to appear before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Mr. Butler , was charged with " disloyalty " and dismissed without a for- MISSING PAGE T HAT is the biggest and easiest thing we can do to help in this crisis : to lift the bars for the hundred thousand refugees who have relatives in this country eager to care for them . It will be harder to give money again . We have become callous by years of famine-stories , and we hear of a new famine in Russia this winter . But the task of caring for the Christian peoples of the Near East is one that lies particularly close to the hearts of the American churches ; and it is a beautiful outlet for the indignation which sometimes spends itself in belligerent words . When the news of Smyrna 's fire came , the Near East Relief unhesitatingly emptied the great warehouses which held a winter 's food for the 107,000 orphans under its wing . ' Those warehouses must be refilled . We believe that America will show by such deeds that her refusal to share as M. Clemenceau would have her in European politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is-hard for a new poet to get an adequate hearing , 1 it is trebly hard for a new composer to do so . The interpretative instrumentalities , especially for orchestral works , are not only very elaborate in character but comparatively few in number . The symphony orchestras are expected , and rightly so , to devote themselves primarily to the interpretation of the great masters , though our New York orchestras are giving much attention this winter to the works of new composers . But it would be rash to give too much space on their programs to new and revolutionary music . To mend this situation is the admirable purpose of the International Composers ' Guild . The Guild , in cooperation with similar groups in Europe , will during each season give a series of concerts in which the new forms and moods of musical expression will be able to gain an adequate and unprejudiced hearing . Three such concerts will be given during the current season at the Klaw Theater in New York City , at one of which , for instance , subscribers and friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country the " Pierrot Lunaire " of Arnold Schonberg . A distinguished executive committee is responsible for the management of the Guild and among the contributing composers will be found the names of leaders of the latest creative methods in music , including Busoni , Schonberg , and Stravinsky . O F all the ladies in public life at this time our favorite is Lady Jewell . The reelection to Parliament of Lady Astor is a trivial happening beside the news that reaches us from Tacoma , Washington , in regard to our own American entry for the lady sweepstakes championship of the world . The road to fame was laid for Lady Astor ; Lady Jewell laid her own . For the year ending November 1 she contributed to the welfare of mankind 315 eggs . As there are 313 week-days in a normal year , this must mean that Lady Jewell laid an egg every working day and on two Sundays got busy and threw in an extra one . Whether these Sunday eggs were produced by mistake because the good lady got mixed in regard to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ love of her work we can not say ; but we give her the benefit of the doubt . Although twenty of Lady Jewell 's eggs were sold lately for $500 , we do not believe she would reduce quality or quantity a whit if they had fetched only fifty cents . Other ladies have done more cackling lately than Lady Jewell , but when it comes to delivering the goods she had them all lashed to the roost ; and there is nothing hardboiled about her output either . The Free State Gone Mad ? I T is difficult to avoid the conclusion that by its execution of Erskine Childers and its severity toward Mary MacSwiney , holding her in jail through twenty-three days of hunger strike , the Irish Free State has dealt itself blows from which it can not completely recover . The execution of Childers was a piece of savagery the more inexcusable because no man ever fought more vigorously or bravely for a truly free Ireland . An Englishman born , and a man of intense , unyielding prejudices , he refused to accept anything less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ De Valera upon what seemed to us the very wrong course of not only opposing the Free State but opposing it by encouraging the resort to arms among brothers . For the worst kind of civil war that is now raging in unhappy Ireland he bore a chief responsibility , as he did for giving cynics and disbelievers in the Irish the world over a right to say : " We told you so ; the Irish can not govern themselves . They can only pull down and not build up . " Yet what does the Free State do when it captures this man ? Why , instead of being generous and noble and remembering his great services to Ireland in the past , it acts precisely like the former British misgovernment of Ireland ; it shoots him out of hand on the absurd , technical charge of having a pistol in his possession . This , it is explained , is " being firm . " Even so good a friend of Ireland as Mr. A. G. Gardiner , long editor of the London Daily News , avers that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Childers , like the long imprisonment of one bearing the name MacSwiney , will merely infuriate the irreconcilables the more . We shall be surprised if it does not lead to bitter reprisals , shocking murders , executions , and counter-executions , a continuance of the eye-for-an-eye and tooth-for-a-tooth policy which is daily bringing Ireland nearer to despair and to destruction . Must it be said that the greatest opportunity which has ever come or could ever come to Ireland was frittered away in blood ? It almost appears so ; it almost appears as if the frailty of human nature were leading to no other end . It seems as if the new Irish Free State government in taking over Dublin Castle took over the spirit as well of the men who occupied it for so many centuries against the will of the Irish people . What is there that so obsesses men who come to power ? What poison is it that enters their veins and makes them believe that the very acts of violence they condemned in others are justifiable at their hands ? How , after all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one believe that a government may today be carried on by force and by blood ? A government which resorts to such measures confesses its incompetence , it strengthens the hands of those who say that the human being is rare indeed who can assume power over his fellows without his soul deteriorating . Talk about the primitive lusts making themselves felt among the rowdies of the docks , the savages on the Congo ! If the veneer of humanity can anywhere be shown to be thinner than among those heads of states who achieve great power over their fellows , we have not seen it . So we can only make one more appeal to the Free State to reverse its policy while there is yet time . We hope that the long-delayed release of Mary MacSwiney may mark the beginning of a new era of reason and reconciliation .                     