@@486132

T HE conference of liberals and progressives called to meet in Washington on December 2 by the People 's Legislative Service was an impressive meeting . Not only did it mark the first coming together of labor leaders , the newly elected progressive members of House and Senate , and men who have been fighting the reform battles for years in numerous States , to renew their faith and develop their policies ; it displayed a unanimity of purpose and a fighting edge which was heartening in the extreme . No one could attend it and not be convinced that there was a great liberal victory in the West last month , just as no one could fail to realize the threadbare state of both old parties . For here were men elected on Republican , Democratic , and Farmer-Labor tickets in various States , who voiced the same sentiments , talked the same language , and pledged mutual support , who reported that their election was due to the same kind of popular uprising in each State and , in part , to the same economic distress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , notably Senators Brookhart , Wheeler , and Shipstead , who had fought their way up with no money and little organization to back them , with almost the entire press and the big business influences of their States against them . That they and the others who were there will be a tremendous reinforcement to the progressive bloc now in Congress isbeyond dispute , and we believe that they will often force the fighting , despite the obstacles of party machinery and of the party organization of Congress . W ITH admirable strategy the conference put over until March the formulation of a detailed program , contenting itself with a reaffirmation of its faith in progressive policies , thus at once depriving its opponents of the possibility of raising a smoke screen by attacking any one proposal , and effectively checking the White House efforts to steal such further thunder as it can . Meanwhile , there is enough to be done in all conscience in defeating the ship-subsidy and other indefensible legislation . The call for the meeting was meanly attributed by the hostile press to personal ambitions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ background , sharing credit with the People 's Legislative Service , an admirable bureau of information for public and for legislators on whose behalf an appeal was made for additional funds which should be generously heeded by liberals the country over . It is an interesting tribute to the success of the meeting that the reactionary press first attacked it because it proposed to start a third-party movement , and then , upon discovering that the purpose was nothing of the kind , declared it to be a failure and unworthy of popular notice because it had not started a third party ! The truth is that nothing could have been more heartening to liberals everywhere than this gathering , that it is rich in promise of Congressional solidarity , and was marked by a grim determination not seen in ten years to wrest government from the big-business interests and politicians of the Harding-Daugherty type . THIS business of executing ministers , generals , and ad- mirals has got to stop . What is going to become of the trade of governing nations and plunging them into war if , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kill the fellows who so safely , patriotically , and highmindedly put them into battle ? Greece is bad enough . They 've not only executed three prime ministers , the commanding general of their defeated army , an admiral , and a professional cabinet minister ; they have tried and exiled a prince of the royal blood and they hold the king a prisoner in his castle . But that is as nothing to what has happened in Bulgaria . There the people in a solemn referendum on November 10 voted to have every man who has been a cabinet official since January , 1912 , tried for his life by a jury of war-widows and war-mutilated ! The charge against the members of three cabinets is that they had " made insufficient diplomatic preparations for the war " of 1912 . In Turkey , too , there are trembling ex-ministers who are under charges of treason for having taken the Allies ' orders . Against barbarism of this sort we urgently protest . We demand a close season for ministers everywhere . We submit that if they choose to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is nobody 's business but theirs . Besides , the example is too contagious . Somebody might want to put ex-Secretary Lansing on trial for failing to make the proper diplomatic preparations to prevent our little war with Haiti , and others might be so unkind as to wish to try by court-martial our former Attorney General , A. Mitchell Palmer , for his use of the Department of Justice to advance his political fortunes , or for his conduct as Alien Property Custodian , or for his relations to the sale of the chemical patents . It would never do to jeopardize such statesmen . S ERIOUSLY speaking , we can not believe that justice was done in Greece or is likely to be done in Bulgaria even by a jury composed of those who really know what war costs . Yet the motive behind these developments , the desire to hold ministers responsible when they put their countries into war , is one that we must welcome . It would have been a wonderful thing if the ministers of England , France , Italy , and the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been compelled to appear before a critical tribunal after the war to account for their respective actions and to explain their motives and methods in going to war and their efforts to prevent hostilities . Talk of breaking off relations with states like Greece and Bulgaria raises the whole question of the principles underlying diplomatic relations . Here we are , refusing to recognize Mexico and Russia , as we refused to recognize the defunct Chita Republic , and there seem to be doubts about others . England is with us as to Mexico and Russia , has broken off relations with Greece , and threatens to break with Bulgaria . If the Turks kill some of their ex-ministers and continue to behave impolitely at Lausanne , Great Britain will perhaps forego further relations with them . There is one danger about this policy : if too many nations break off relations with each other and still manage to exist without appreciable loss of trade and prestige , some people might be so shortsighted as to believe that the world would be a great deal better off if the custom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say all , were abolished . S OVIET RUSSIA proposes to reduce her army to 200 , - 000 men within a year , and her navy to one-quarter of its 1917 strength  --  if the other naval Powers and the little Powers upon her western frontier will make corresponding reductions . The delegates from Finland , Esthonia , Latvia , Lithuania , and Poland were thunderstruck . Litvinov 's sweeping proposals threw consternation into their routine breasts . The amazement of Briand and Balfour when Secretary Hughes proposed naval cuts at Washington was as nothing in comparison . They hemmed and hawed , these delegates ; they suggested that the conference first discuss " moral disarmament " and " certain projects of a political character . " Russia 's admirable program cuts the foundations of the French and Polish claims that their enormous armies are maintained because of fear of the great Red army . And once more Soviet Russia , despised and rejected by the highly moral chancelleries of the West , has led the way and pointed a new path in foreign relations . T HE Dyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill ! The Republican leaders , whose only interest in the bill was a desire to pacify their Negro constituents , surrendered  --  as , according to Washington rumor , had been prearranged  --  to the blustering filibuster of the Southern Democrats . The defeat of the bill is a victory for the reactionary forces of the white South , a victory , in effect , for lynching . Senator Overman of North Carolina stated an absolute falsehood when he declared that " the decent hard-working Negroes of the South enjoy every safeguard of the law . " They do not . Nor is it true , as he asserted , that they neither wanted nor needed Federal protective legislation . Yet the campaign for the bill is not wholly lost . The ghastly facts of lynching have been advertised to the American people ; the lies about the causes of lynching have been exposed ; more people than ever before realize America 's national shame . When the colored people make their next effort at self-protection we hope they will not rely again upon the old guard of Republicans but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Borah , who believed against his will that the Dyer bill was unconstitutional , might be willing to lend his aid in discovering an even more satisfactory method of Federal protection . T HERE continue to be encouraging signs of the de-mobilization of the spirit of intolerance and suppression in regard to personal opinion that prevailed during the war . The most striking example is , of course , the election to the Senate of Dr. Henrik Shipstead , of Minnesota , whose house was repeatedly painted yellow and daubed " pro-German , " while his neighbors for many months ostracized him , not because he was pro-German , but because he refused to yield to the war hysteria . The Board of Aldermen of New York has just sat firmly on a proposal sponsored by the noxious National Security League to forbid the display in public places of advertisements in foreign languages unless accompanied by an English translation . The suggestion was not even debated by the Board , but was sent to the lethal chamber by the committee to which it had been referred , with the comment that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pardoning by Governor Small of Illinois of the seventeen Communists recently committed to prison after conviction under the State anti-syndicalism law . This act of courage and justice on the part of Governor Small ought to stimulate similar action elsewhere . In spite of the American Legion and the unspeakable Daugherty  --  who was richly paid for inducing President Taft to release the criminal Morse ? Mr. Harding should pardon unconditionally all the Federal prisoners of opinion . S TATE Governors also should make haste to follow the example of the chief executive of Illinois and free the unfortunate victims of their vicious anti-sedition legislation . Nor is this enough . As the New York World argues , every one of these laws ( three-fifths of the States have such acts , almost all passed after the war ) should be repealed . Better still , perhaps , would be to have them judicially declared unconstitutional , which in fact they undoubtedly are . This is not impossible , as the United States Supreme Court has granted a writ of error in the case of Benjamin Gitlow , convicted under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the absurd attempt to punish a man not for what he does but for what he thinks  --  or what some bigoted zealot thinks he thinks . On the other hand , the canceling of one of Madame Gadski 's concerts and the efforts to prevent Commander von Mucke 's lectures are discouraging . Von Mucke is one of the most gallant sailors who ever lived ; his marvelous exploits took place long before the United States entered the war and were beyond criticism of illegality . He has , it is reported , been cordially received in England where they know how to honor a worthy foe and recognize that if he had been in the Allied service he would stand out as a chief naval hero of the war . T HE railroads of the United States are in far worse condition than the public has been allowed to believe . The newly elected Senators brought alarming testimony to the progressive conference of the suffering which is going on in the Northwest in every line of activity because of the lack of cars to move goods and particularly the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or allowed to rot for lack of housing or transportation . Shippers in the East have recently become aware of this ominous condition , because they , too , find such difficulty in obtaining the cars they need . The railroads are whistling to keep up their courage , but the truth is that they are paying now not only for their stupid handling of the strike but for their failure for years past to buy annually the normal number of cars necessary for their business . The motive power , too , of certain railroads is in extremely bad shape , one of the hardest hit being the Pennsylvania . As a result of all this , conditions in the Northwest are becoming positively catastrophic , and the suffering and distress are so great that public attention will have to be focused upon the embattled farmers and stock raisers of this section and the Government will be compelled to do everything in its power to afford temporary relief . Perhaps it will then occur to Mr. Harding to ask his Attorney General why that worthy official has failed to prosecute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of bad order locomotives run by them contrary to law , as to which he has had detailed evidence from the Interstate Commerce Commission . A TTORNEY GENERAL DAUGHERTY lowered himself one more peg in the estimation of decent people by his low reply to Mr. Samuel Untermyer and to the Congressmen who have demanded his impeachment . His attack upon the motives of his accusers is in itself enough to discredit him . When men charge an official with failure to prosecute for war frauds and violations of the anti-trust laws it is hardly an adequate reply to say that " this extraordinary proceeding is inspired more by a desire to protect those charged and those who will be charged with violating the law than to aid the Department of Justice in the prosecution of grafters , profiteers , and those who have defrauded the Government during the emergencies of the war " or to suggest that " the sole object and purpose of this proceeding is not to remove him the Attorney General from office but it is in the nature avowedly of an attempt to compel the publicati-m @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government relies and must rely in the investigation and prosecution of cases of the greatest importance to the Government . " This is not true , and if it were it would not affect the facts in the case . Mr. Daugherty is acting like a cuttlefish squirting ink to conceal himself . We should like better to see him attempt concealment by retiring to private life . A PATRIOT has been defined as a man who is willing to sacrifice somebody else 's life for his country . Such persons have had great influence in the world since 1914 ; but that is water over the dam . The important question is whether they are to continue to have equal influence in the future . Recent events in Australia and New Zealand suggest that there , at least , it is going to be difficult to drum up enthusiasm for another war among the working classes  --  that is , the persons who have to do the fighting . Hard on labor 's repudiation in Australia of Premier Hughes 's jaunty gesture in offering troops to Great Britain with which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which seems destined to retire him to private life , comes an expression of similar sentiment from New Zealand . There the Labor Party has issued a manifesto against Premier Massey because he promised a contingent of soldiers in the event of war in the Near East , condemning him for pledging the country " to a war without consultation of Parliament and behind the backs of the people who would have to do the paying and the dying . " Of course organized labor is only a minority , but its attitude now is in marked contrast to that when it was pouring its life-blood into Gallipoli . Prime ministers should be more cautious in promising other people 's lives . Otherwise they may have thrown up to them the query of the small boy whose mother told him she was about to marry a certain Dr. Brown . The boy looked up eagerly : " Does Dr. Brown know it , mother ? " B ERLIN is becoming the city of queer strikes . First the coal handlers walked out . That sounds natural . Next went the pawnbrokers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grievances . Finally came the actors . That has been known elsewhere . But we do not remember having seen anything corresponding to the German reports . Leading ladies and popular ing  --  nues in silks and furs and jewels are picketing the principal playhouses of the city . They have collected a strike fund of 25,000,000 marks in order that needy Thespians may receive an allowance of 1,000 marks , about fifteen cents , a day . The strike is , of course , about wages . The managers agreed to pay the players sixty-five dollars a month during November . This seemed too low . Nor did the players like the idea of having their future salaries estimated on the basis of the moment 's value of the mark . They may receive thousands in paper and be able to buy nothing . For some time , as a matter of fact , nearly all German actors have had to have two simultaneous jobs  --  one for the screen in order to have bread and clothes , one on the stage in order not to let the national theater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of acting has declined ; we hope that , before the strike is over , the slogan will be raised : " One job must pay the player 's way . " A LICE MEYNELL , whose death is reported from London , was the most un-Victorian of the Victorians . Her work in letters was slight , frugal , hesitant , but undeviatingly distinguished . By virtue of a high fastidiousness of mind she hit upon a manner of writing and upon the perception , especially in her essays , of an order of truth which were at variance with her official beliefs and the beliefs of the group with which she was publicly allied . George Meredith 's early and great praise of her work , her noble and steady befriending of the unhappy Francis Thompson  --  these things are perhaps better known than either her poems or " The Color of Life . " But fragments of her essays , at least , are likely always to be remembered by those who care for glimpses of truth that have unclouded precision , and a wider if very slender @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sonnet " Renouncement , " which expresses one of the most permanent and poignant of all human experiences with the highest simplicity , eloquence , and truth .                     