@@493298

Impressions of Soviet Russia V : New Schools for a New Era THE IDEA of a school in which pupils , and therefore , studies and methods , are connected with social life , instead of being isolated , is one familiar in educational theory . in some form , it is the idea that underlies all attempts at thorough-going educational reform . What is characteristic of Soviet education is not , therefore , the idea of a dovetailing of school activities into out-of-school social activities , but the fact that for the first time in history there is an educational system officially organized on the basis of this principle . Instead of being exemplified , as it is with ourselves , in a few scattering schools that are private enterprises , it has the weight and authority of the whole regime behind it . In trying to satisfy my mind as to how and why it was that the educational leaders have been able in so short a time to develop a working model of this sort of education , with so little precedent upon which to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the secret lay in the fact that they could give to the economic and industrial phase of social life the central place it actually occupies in present life . in that fact lies the great advantage the Revolution has conferred upon educational reformers in Russia , in comparison with those in the rest of the world . 1 do not see how any honest educational reformer in western countries can deny that the greatest practical obstacle in the way of introducing into schools that connection with social life which he regards as desirable is the great part played by personal competition and desire for private profit in our economic life .. This fact almost makes it necessary that in important respects school activities should be protected from social contacts and connections , instead of being organized on the principle of instituting them . The Russian educational situation is enough to convert one to the idea that only in a societybased upon the cooperative principle can the ideals of educational reformers be adequately carried into operation . The central place of economic connections in the dovetailing of school work with social life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Commissar Lunacharsky . He writes : " The two chief present problems of social education are : ( 1 ) The development of public economy with reference to Socialist reconstruction in general and the efficiency of labor in particular ; ( 2 ) the " development of the population in the spirit of Communism . " The aims of education are set forth as follows : " ( 1 ) The union of general culture with efficiency of labor and power to share in public life ; ( 2 ) supply of the actual needs of national economy by preparation of workers in different branches and categories of qualifications ; ( 3 ) meeting the need of different localities and different kinds of workers . " Like all formal statements , these propositions have to be understood in the light of the practices by which they are carried into effect . So interpreted , the fact that among the aims the " union of general culture with efficiency of labor " precedes that of supply of special needs through preparation of workers assumes a significance that might not otherwise be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that it is not vocational , in the narrow sense those words often have with us , namely , the technical training of specialized workers . On the contrary , such training is everywhere postponed and subordinated to the requirements of general culture , which is , however , itself conceived of in a socially industrial sense ; that is to say , as discovery and development of the capacities that enable an individual to carry on in a cooperative way , work that is socially useful , " socially useful " being conceived in the generous sense of whatever makes human life fuller and richer . Perhaps the ' easiest way to grasp the spirit of the industrial connections of school work with general social activities is to take the utterances of our own Manufacturers ' Association on the same topic and then reverse them . Preparation for special occupations is deferred to the stage of special schools called Technicums , which can be entered only after seven years of the public " unified " school have been completed . These schools are called " polytechnic , " but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associations . For with us it signifies a school in which individual pupils can select and pursue any one of a considerable number of technologies , while in the Russian system it signifies a school in which pupils , instead of receiving a " mono-technical " training , in are instructed in the 17 , matters which are fundamental to a number of special industrial techniques . In other words , even in the definitely vocational schools , specialized training for a particular calling is postponed until the latest years , after a general technological and scientific-social foundation has been laid . As far as could be determined , there are two causes for the adoption of this broad conception of industrial education , in identification with the general culture appropriate to a cooperatively conducted society . One is the state of progressive educational theory in other countries , especially in the United States , during the early formative years after the Revolution . For a leading principle of this advanced doctrine was that participation in productive work is the chief stimulus and guide to self-educative activity on the part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the natural or psychological process of learning ; and also provides the most direct road to connecting the school with social life , because of the part played by occupations in the latter . Some of the liberal Russian educators were carrying on private experimental schools on this basis before the Revolution ; the doctrine had the prestige of being the most ad. vanced among educational philosophies , and it answered to immediate Russian necessities . Thus from an early period the idea of the " school of work " ( fIrbeit-schule , ecole du travail , escuela d'accion ) was quite central in post-revolutionary school undertakings . And a main feature of this doctrine was that , while productive work is educative par excellence , it must be taken in a broad social sense , and as a means of creating a social new order and not simply as an accommodation to the existing economic regime . This factor , however , accounts only for the earlier period of the growth of Soviet education , say , up to 1922 or 1923 , a period when American influence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predominant . Then there came in a reaction , from a Marxian standpoint . The reaction , however , did not take the form of discarding the notion of productive work as central in schools . It only gave the idea a definitely socialistic form by interpreting the idea of work on the basis of the new estate of the worker brought about by the proletarian revolution . The change was a more or less gradual one , and even now there is hardly a complete transition or fusion . But the spirit of the change is well indicated in the words of one of the leaders of educational thought : " A school is a true school of work in the degree in which it prepares the students to appreciate and share in the ideology of the workers ? whether country or city . " And by the worker is here meant , of course , the worker made conscious of his position and function by means of the Revolution . This transformation of the earlier " bourgeois reforming idea " through emphasis upon the ideology of the labor movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea of the connection of the school with industry . This report is necessarily confined to a statement of general principles : the skeleton would gain flesh and blood if space permitted an account of the multifarious threads by which the connection between the schools of cooperatively organized society is maintained . In lieu of this account I can only pay my tribute to the liberating effect of active participation in social life upon the attitude of students . Those whom I met had a vitality and a kind of confidence in life ? not to be confused with mere self-confidence ? that afforded one of the most stimulating experiences of my life . Their spirit was well reflected in the inscription which a boy of fourteen wrote upon the back of a painting he presented me with . He was in one of the schools in which the idea just set forth is most completely and intelligently carried out , and he wrote that the picture was given in memory of the " school that opened my eyes . " All that I had ever , on theoretical grounds , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispirited attitude of the average school is due to isolation of school from life was more than confirmed by what I saw of the opposite in Russian schools . There are three or four special points that call for notice in the identification established between cultural and industrial education . One of them is suggested by the official statement regarding the meeting by the schools of local conditions and needs . Soviet education has not made the mistake of confusing unity of education with uniformity : on the contrary , centralization is limited to the matter of ultimate aim and spirit , while in detail diversification is permitted , or rather encouraged . Each province has its own experimental school , that supplements the work of the central or federal experimental stations , by studying local resources , materials and problems with a view to adapting school work to them . TIM primary principle of method officially laid down is that , in every topic , work by pupils is to begin with observation of their own environment , natural and social . ( The best museum of natural and social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a country district outside of Leningrad , constructed on the basis of a complete exhibit of local fauna , flora , mineralogy , etc. , and local antiquities and history , made by pupils ' excursions under the direction of their teachers . ) This principle of making connections with social life on the basis of starting from the immediate environment is exemplified on its broadest scale in the educational work done with the minority populations of Russia ? of which there arc some fifty different nationalities . The idea of cultural autonomy that underlies political federation is made a reality in the schools . Before the Revolution , many , most of them had no schools , and a considerable number of them not even a written language . In about ten years , through enlisting the efforts of anthropologists and linguistic scholars ? in which branch of science Russia has always been strong ? all the different languages have been reduced to written form , textbooks in the local language provided , each adapted to local environment and industrial habits , and at least the beginnings of a school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is impressed with the idea that the scrupulous regard for cultural independence characteristic of the Soviet regime is one of the chief causes of its stability , in view of the non-Communist beliefs of most of these populations . Going a little further , one may say that the freedom from race- and color-prejudice characteristic of the regime is one of the greatest assets in Bolshevist propaganda among Asiatic peoples . The most effective way to counteract the influence of that propaganda would be for western nations to abandon their superiority-complex in dealing with Asiatic populations , and thereby deprive Bolshevism o.s.h . evsm of its contention that capitalism , imperialistic exploitation and race prejudice are so inseparably conjoined that the sole relief of native peoples from them lies in adoption of Communism under Russian auspices . The central place of human labor in the educational scheme is made manifest in the plan for the selection and organization of subject-matter , or the studies of the curriculum . This principle is officially designated the " complex system . " Details appropriately belong in a special educational journal , but in general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandonment of splitting up subject-matter into isolated " studies , " such as form the program in the conventional school , and finding the matter of study in some total phase of human life ? including nature in the relations it sustains to the life of man in society . Employing the words of the official statement : " At the basis of the whole pro-// gram is found the study of human work and its organization : the point of departure is the study of this work as found in its local manifestations . " Observations of the latter are , however , to be developed by " recourse to the experience of humanity ? that is , books , so that the local phenomena may be connected with national and international industrial life . " It is worthy of note that , in order to carry out this conception of the proper subject-matter of study , it is necessary for the teachers themselves to become students , for they must conceive of the traditional subject-matter from a new point of view . They are compelled , in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to become familiar with the detailed economic plans of the central government . For example , the greatest importance is attached in the educational scheme to natural science and what we call nature-study . But according to the ruling principle , this material must not be treated as so much isolated stuff to be learned by itself , but be considered in the ways in which it actually enters into human life by means of utilization of natural resources and energies in industry for social purposes . Aside from the vitalization of physical knowledge supplied by thus putting it in its human context , this method of prese ? tation compels teachers to be cognizant of the Gasp/an ? that is , the detailed projects , lookire ahead over a series of years , of the government for the economic development of the country . An educator from a bourgeois country may well envy the added dignity that comes to the function of the teacher when he is taken into partnership in plans for the social development of his country . Such an one can hardly avoid asking himself whether this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a public function rather than a private undertaking ; he may not find any sure answer to the question , but the continued presence of the query in his mind will surely serve as an eye-opening stimulus . In American literature regarding Soviet education , the " complex system " is often identified with the " project method " as that has developed in our . own country . In so far as both procedures get away from starting with fixed lessons in isolated studies , and substitute for them an endeavor to bring students through their own activity into contact with some relatively total slice of life or nature , there is ground for the identification . By and large , how ever , it is misleading , and for two reasons . In the first place , the complex method involves a unified intellectual scheme of organization : it centers , as already noted , about the study of human work in its connection on one side with natural materials and energies , and on the other side with social and political history and institutions . From this intellectual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here ? as in many other things ? an original indebtedness to American December 12 , 1928 THE NEW theory , they criticize many of the " projects " employed in our schools as casual and as trivial , because they do not belong to any general social aim , nor have definite social consequences in their train . To them , an educative " project " is the means by which the principle of some " complex " or unified whole of social subject-matter is realized . Its criterion of value is its contribution to some " socially useful work . " Actual projects vary according to special conditions , urban or rural , and particular needs and deficiencies of the local environment . In general , they include contributions to improvement of sanitation and hygienic conditions ( in which respects there is an active campaign carried on , modelled largely upon American techniques ) , assisting in the campaign against illiteracy ; reading newspapers and books to the illiterate ; helping in clubs , excursions , etc. , with younger children ; assisting ignorant adults to understand the policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them intelligently ; engaging in Communist propaganda , and , on the industrial side , taking some part in a multitude of diverse activities calculated to improve economic conditions . In a rural school that was visited , for example , students carried on what in a conventional school would be the separate studies of botany and entomology by cultivating flowers , food-plants , fruits , etc. , under experimental conditions , observing the relation to them of insects , noxious and helpful , and then making known the results to their parents and other farmers , distributing improved strains of seed , etc . In each case , the aim is that sooner or later the work shall terminate in some actual participation in the larger social life , if only by young children carrying flowers to an invalid or to their parents . In one of the city schools where this work has been longest carried on , I saw , for example , interesting charts that showed the transformation of detailed hygienic and living conditions of the homes in a working men 's quarter effected through a period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school . A word regarding the system of administration and discipline of Soviet schools perhaps finds its natural place in this connection . During a certain period , the idea of freedom and student control tended to run riot . But apparently the idea of " auto-organization " ( which is fundamental in the official scheme ) has now been worked out in a positive form , so that , upon the whole , the excesses of the earlier period are obsolescent . The connection with what has just been said lies in the fact that as far as possible the organizations of pupils that are relied upon to achieve self-discipline are not created for the sake of school " government , " but grow out of the carrying on of some line of work needed in the school itself , or in the neighborhood . Here , too , while the idea of self-government developed in American schools was the originally stimulating factor , the ordinary American practice is criticized as involving too much imitation of adult political forms ( instead of growing out of the students ' own social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In view of the prevailing idea of other countries as to the total lack of freedom and total disregard of democratic methods in Bolshevist Russia , it is disconcerting , to say the least , to anyone who has shared in that belief , to find Russian school children much more democratically organized than are our own ; and to note that they are receiving through the system of school administration a training that fits them , much more systematically than is attempted in our professedly democratic country , for later active participation in the self-direction of both local communities and industries . Fairness demands that I should say in conclusion that the educational system so inadequately described exists at present qualitatively rather than quantitatively . Statistically considered , its realization is still highly restricted ? although not surprisingly so when one considers both the external difficulties of war , famine , poverty , teachers trained in alien ideas and ideals , and the internal difficulties of initiating and developing an educational system on a new social basis . Indeed , considering these difficulties , one is rather amazed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actual range , the scheme is in no sense on paper . It is a going concern ; a self-moving organism . While an American visitor may feel a certain patriotic pride in noting in how many respects an initial impulse came from some progressive school in our own country , he is at once humiliated and stimulated to new endeavor to see how much more organically that idea is incorporated in the Russian system than in our own . Even if he does not agree with the assertion of Communist educators that the progressive ideals of liberal educators can actually be carried out only in a country that is undergoing an economic revolution in the socialist direction , he will be forced into searchings of heart and mind that are needed and wholesome . In any case , if his experience is at all like mine , he will deeply regret those artificial barriers and that barricade of false reports that now isolates American teachers from that educational system in which our professed progressive democratic ideas are most completely embodied , and from which accordingly we might , if we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any other country . I understand now as I never did before the criticisms of some foreign visitors , especially from France , that condemn Soviet Russia for entering too ardently upon an " Americanization " of traditional European culture .                     