@@430856

CREATIVE expressions attain their perfectness through emotions modulated . Woman has that expression natural to her , the cadence of restraint in her behavior , producing poetry of life . This has been an inspiration to man , guiding , most often unconsciously , his restless energy into an immense variety of creations in literature , art , music and religion . This is why in India woman has been described as the symbolism of Sakti , the Creative Power . But if woman begins to believe , and to behave accordingly , that , though , biologically , her function is different from that of man , psychologically she is one with him ; if the human world in its mentality becomes exclusively male , then before long it will be reduced to utter insanity . For life finds its truth and beauty not in any exaggeration of sameness , but in harmony . It would only give rise to a monotonous superfluity if women 's nature were identical with men 's , if Eve were a mere tautology of Adam . But that she was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready-made paradise . She had the instinctive wisdom to realize that it was her mission to help her mate in creating a paradise of their own on the earth , whose ideal she was to supply with her life , and whose materials were to be produced and gathered by her comrade . However , it is evident that an  | increasing number of women in the Wrest are ready to assert that their difference from men is unimportant . The reason for the vehement utterance of such a paradox can not be ignored . It is the rebellion against a necessity which is not an equal necessity for both the partners . Love in all forms has its obligations and the love that binds women to their children binds them to their home . But necessity is a tyrant making us submit to injury and indignity , allowing advantage over us to those who are wholly or comparatively free from its burden . This has been the case in the social relationship between man and woman . Along with the difference inherent in their respective natures , there have grown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not handicapped by the same biological and psychological responsibilities as woman and therefore he ha : the liberty to give her the security of home . This liberty exacts payment when it offers its boon , because to give it or to withhold it is within its power . Such unequal freedom it their mutual relationship has mad ( the weight of life 's tragedies painfully heavy upon woman . Some mitigation of her disadvantage has been effected by her rendering herself and her home a luxury to man . She has accentuated thos ? qualities in herself which insidiously impose their bondage over her mate , some by pandering to his weakness , and some by satisfying his higher nature , till the sex-consciousness in our society has become overpowering in its abnormality . There could be no objection to it in itself , for it is the greatest stimulus acting in the depth of life and results in exuberance of creativeness . But a great deal of it is a forced growth of compulsion bearing seeds of degradation . In those ages when men acknowledged spiritual perfection to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their way . The constant and conscious exercise of  | allurements , which gave them their power , attacked the weak spots in man 's nature , and by doing so deepened and widened its weakness . For all relationships tainted with repression of freedom must become sources of degeneracy and danger to the strong , who imposes them . ' However , balance of power between man and woman was , to a certain measure , established when home wielded strong enough attractions to make men accept its obligations . But at last the time has come when the material ambition of man has assumed such a colossal proportion that home is in danger of losing its center of gravity for him , and he is receding further and further from its orbit . From the beginning of our society , women have naturally accepted the training which imparts to their life and to their home a spirit of harmony . It is their instinct to perform their services in such a manner that these , through beauty , might be raised from the domain of slavery to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in the building up of social life they are artists and not artisans . But all expressions of beauty lose their truth when compelled to accept the patronage of the gross and the indifferent . Therefore , when necessity drives women to fashion their life to the taste of the insensitive or the sensual , then the whole thing becomes a tragedy of desecration . Society is full of such tragedies . A great part of the laws and social regulations guiding relationship of man and woman are relics of a barbaric age when the brutal pride of an exclusiveness of possession had its predominance in human relations , such as those of parents and children , husbands and wives , masters and servants , teachers and disciples . The vulgarity of it still persists in the social bond between sexes because of the economic helplessness of woman . Nothing makes us so stupidly mean as the sense of superiority which power of purse confers upon us.  | The power of muscle or of money has opportunities of immediate satisfaction , but the power of an ideal must have infinite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his contract is cheated if he fails to realize payment , but he who gives form to some ideal may never get his dues and yet be paid . What I have felt in the women of India is the consciousness of this ideal , their simple faith in the sanctity of devotion lighted by love which is held to be divine . The true womanliness is considered in our country as saintliness of love . It is not merely praised there but literally worshiped ; and she who is gifted with it is called Devi , as one revealing in herself Woman the Divine . That this has not been  | a mere metaphor to us is because in India our mind is familiar with the idea of God in his eternal feminine aspect . Thus the Eastern woman who is deeply aware in her heart of the sacredness of her mission is a constant education to men . It has to be admitted that there are chances of such influence failing to penetrate the callousness of the coarse . But that is the destiny of all revelation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honor . Women have to be ready to suffer . She can not allow her emotions to be dulled or polluted , for these are to create her life 's atmosphere , but for which her world would be dark and dead . This leaves her heart without any protection of insensibility , at the mercy of hurts and insults of life . Women of India , like women everywhere , have their share of suffering . But it radiates through an ideal , and becomes , like sunlight , a creative force in their world . Our women know by heart the legends of the great women of the epic age , ? Savitri who , by her power of love , conquered death , and Sita who had no other reward for her life of sacrifice but L the sacred majesty of sorrow . They know that it is their daily duty to make this life an image of the eternal life , and that love 's mission truly performed has a spiritual meaning . It is a religious responsibility for them fully to live the life which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or organizing power or intellectually probing the mystery of ex : istence , but for establishing and maintaining human relationships requiring highest moral qualities . It is the consciousness of the spiritual character of their life 's work which lifts them above the utilitarian standard of the immediate and the passing , surrounds them with a dignity of the eternal , and transmutes their suffering and sorrow into a crown of light . I must guard myself from the risk of a possible misunderstanding . The permanent significance of home is not in the narrowness of its enclosure , which is non-essential , but in an eternal moral idea . It represents the truth of human relationship , loyalty and love for the personality of man . With the discovery and development of agriculture there came a  | period of settled life in our history . The nomad ever moved on with his tents and cattle , he explored space and exploited its contents . The cultivator of land explored time in its immensity , for he had leisure . Comparatively secured from the uncertainty of his outer resources he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the realm of human truth . This is why agricultural civilization , like that of India and China , is essentially a civilization of human relationship , of adjustment of mutual obligations . It is deep-rooted in the inner life of man and its basis is cooperation and not competition . In other words , its principle is the principle of home to which all its outer adventures are subordinated . In the meantime the nomadic life with its predatory instinct of exploitation has developed into a great civilization . It is immensely proud and strong , killing leisure and hunting for opportunities . It minimizes the claims of personal relationship and is jealously careful of its unhampered freedom for acquiring wealth and asserting its will over others . Its burden is the burden of things , which grows heavier and more complex every day , disregarding the human and the spiritual . Its powerful pressure from all sides narrows the limits of home , the personal region of the human world . Thus women are every day hustled out from their shelter for the want of accommodation . But this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the contrary , it will lead her to find her place in the unlimited range of society , and the- Guardian Spirit of the personal man will extend her ministry over all developments of life . Habituated to deal with the world as a machine , man is multiplying his materials and banishing away his happiness , sacrificing love to comfort which is an illusion . At last the present age has sent its cry to woman , asking her to come out from her segregation , to restore the spiritual supremacy of all that is human in the world of humanity . She has been aroused to remember that womanliness is not chiefly decorative , but it is like vital health which not only imparts beauty 's bloom to the body but joy to the mind and perfection to life .  |                     