@@493221

NUMBER 31 7 The Week MR . HOOVER , and the relief organizations behind him , asks us to help save the lives of three and a half million children , starving in Central Europe . Ten dollars is enough to keep one child alive for a year . As we walk past the Christmas shop-windows filled with rocking- horses , walking dolls , companies of tin soldiers , small electric trains buzzing around small circular tracks , it is too easy to forget the countless children , the invisible thin pale children several thousand miles away , who are not asking for these things , but in whose minds the thought of the next meal glows brighter than any Christmas tree , ? the small Lizas , Jakobs , Karels , Branislavas who want only a little plain rye bread to help keep them alive until next Christmas . May it be merrier for them than this . THE session of the Assembly of the League of Nations at Geneva is over , and the delegates of the small nations go home with the feeling that not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of the League . For it has definitely been proved that the Council , controlled by the large Powers , carries more weight than the Assembly . The Council stood firm against the request that it pub-lish the terms under which mandates are held , and submitted the drafts of them to the Assembly 's com- mittee only on condition that they be kept secret . As a result , the committee 's report was a rebuke to the Council , and the expression of strong desire that mandates should contain no trace of militar- ism , that they should guarantee the native resources against exploitation , and that their terms should be published as soon as possible . This was on the i6th . On the closing day of the Assembly , while it was passing a resolution that Powers holding territory under mandates should not exploit it or raise troops from the inhabitants , Mr. Balfour rose to say that his government 's freedom of action could not be limited by " anything the Assembly does at this or any other meeting . " The first round is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and self- consciousness of the Assembly surpassed anything that we had expected of a body so obviously power- less and so conglomerate . Whatever the meeting may have shown about the League , or the balance of power in the world , it revealed a quite unexpected advance in the temper even of official world opinion . At Geneva imperialism had to apologize or to issue a defiance . It was not taken at its face value . BY good political management on the part of its delegate , Mr. Wellington Koo , China has been elected a member of the Council . Japan very likely voted against China in the secret ballot , as it had strenuously if guardedly fought against the election on the floor of the Assembly . England and France voted for China , and considering that they led resistance of the great Powers against the small nations ' attempts to democratize the League , their action is creditable . China secures a somewhat strategic position in regard to Shantung .. because under the unanimity clause she can block all other business , and trade her vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Labor has ordered Mr. Martens , the Soviet Russian agent , to be deported , on the ground that he is affiliated with an organization that seeks the " overthrow of the United States government by force and violence . " Mr. Martens 's sole concern in this country has been with trade relations , and his aloofness from their councils has led American communists to criticize him . He has personally done nothing for which he could be deported , and Secretary Wilson in his decision admits there is no evidence that he expressed belief in the use of force , or that he " ever distributed or caused to be distributed any literature containing any propaganda of that character . " The sole reason then is his connection with a government that at one time frankly hoped , and even a little planned , stupidly , for the overthrow of our own . That was when the presence of American troops on Russian soil made such an attempt quite as justifiable as our own attempts to upset the German government during the war or our persistent attempts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us and the Bolsheviks . What Mr. Martens was trying to do was to end the war , to make a peace which of necessity would have included the taking of the strongest guarantees against plotting on either side . To this the Administration replies by keeping Mr. Martens here while he was in a position to do the most damage , and then deports him just when Russia and Europe are approaching a general peace . H IDDEN in a clutter of unimportant measures , Senator Poindexter 's bill to punish railroad strikes with fines up to $15,000 and maximum of is years in jail , was sneaked through the Senate without a record vote or even a word of debate . The Senator , whose carelessness or craft prompted the reading of the bill while most of the Senators were somewhere else , has little to his credit for the incident . And the mere fact that a bill , the like of which does not exist we believe in the civilized world , is passed without vote or debate is a symptom of the recklessness at large in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vote-dodger with the furtiveness of a very bad conscience . AS if in answer to Senator Poindexter , there was a meeting in Washington the next day of liberal congressmen , railroad union chiefs , members of the Farmer-Labor party , and other progressives . It is generally understood that Senators La Follette , Walsh , France and Norris were there , Senator-elect Ladd and several Republican , Democratic and Non-Partisan League representatives . What happened is a secret , except for a vague statement given out at the end of the meeting , that the " legislative situation " was discussed , a bureau of legislative information suggested to prevent just such accidents as the Poindexter bill , and plans laid for the . " better coordination of the liberal forces of the country . " The meaning of this secret council of progressives is plain : There are reactionary storm-clouds enough gathering on the political horizon to force progressives , of different parties and labels , to stand together . THE Joint Committee for Aid to Disabled Veterans has made to Congress recommendations that if accepted should go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the neglect of former soldiers . Of about t so , 000 veterans entitled to vocational training , only 60,0oo are receiving it ; of a total of between 500,000 and 600 , o0o discharged with disabilities , only 20,000 are now in hospitals . The remedies proposed by the Joint Committee are several , and chief among them are : the coordination of the now quite separate Bureau of War Risk Insurance , Rehabilitation Division of the Federal . Board for Vocational Education , and the Public Health Service ; adequate hospital facilities under government control ; the decentralization of the War Risk Bureau ; which now operates almost entirely from one headquarters in Washington ; and the extension of vocational training with maintenance to men who , though now able to work at their former jobs , may be out of work if time aggravates their disability . These recommendations should establish the disabled men 's right to preferential treatment , and should put the schemes for payment of indiscriminate lump sum bonuses in the background until the national debt to the disabled men has been discharged . THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to investigate its own actions in Haiti has finished its work and come to the conclusion that two ( it does not say " only two " ) unjustifiable homicides and sixteen other acts of serious violence were committed by " individuals of the personnel of the United States naval service , " and that all these were isolated , individual acts and were duly punished . This is all the Court found . In other words it combines a whitewash of the marines in Haiti with a rebuke to Major General Barnett for his statement that " practically indiscriminate killing of natives had been going on for some time . " The Court of Inquiry may be quite right and General Barnett quite wrong , and perhaps only two of the 2,250 dead natives were killed " unjustifiably . " We are not convinced . Such a decision , by such a court , appointed by the executive to scrutinize itself , can scarcely do more than , December 29 , 1920 THE NEW quiet suspicions in the minds of those who most desire to be rid of them altogether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them the largest in our history , are yet worth some five billion dollars less than they were last year , have been listened to by Congress more attentively than most other interests . The Senate passed a resolution ordering the revival of the War Finance Corporation to help the financing of farm products abroad , and the House Committee on Banking and Currency has ordered this resolution to be favorably reported . In spite of the Secretary of the Treasury 's opposition , Democrats from Southern and Western states joined with Republicans . This alliance resulted in another measure favorable to the farmers : for the Senate passed a bill allowing farmers to bargain collectively without liability under the anti-trust law . FORTUNES vary in the war the New York Clothing employers have declared on the Amalgamated Clothing Workers . The manufacturers claim that ten shops have reopened with a full complement of workers , willing to take piecework rates . The Amalgamated answers with a list of eight shops that have settled with it and received some concessions . Pickets are being arrested , charged with violence which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this case is in the answers of each party to the offer of the New York Industrial Commission to mediate in the dispute : the Amalgamated accepts ; the Clothing Manufacturers ' Association refuses , with little expression of good cause , but plenty of charges that the union intends to " sovietize the industry , " and hints that they have evidence of extortion and illegal practices by union agents . AGAINST news , the Czech frontiers are as well patrolled as any , and it was two weeks after the trouble with the Communists started that our press knew anything about it . All at once we learned that the Czech Communists had declared a general strike , that one-half the working class supported them and obeyed the call , that revolutionary committees were in control of several towns , that the trouble was mainly in Bohemia , and that the troops which had been hurriedly sent into Slovakia , where the worst discontent was expected , as hurriedly came back again , restored order in some places , in others remained passive or sided with the strikers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much an imitation of the Bolshevik November revolution as a test of strength , a protest against the high cost of living and the delay in socializing the large estates . These were not the only demands of the REPUBLIC 8 strikers that point to social discontent rather than desire for a new government : they also demanded the release of all revolutionary labor prisoners , a freedom of the press , the recognition of workmen 's councils on large estates , the immediate passage of the government 's socialization schemes . The strike was also part of a struggle for power between the left and right wings of the Social Democratic party , in which the Communist left on the whole prevailed . Add popular discontent with unemployment , high prices and scarcity of houses and you have all the elements of trouble for which " revolution " is perhaps too serious a name . THE London Nation has discovered in the French " Democratie Nouvelle " a terse and frank explanation of French policy in Syria , made at Marseilles by General Gouraud , who has been in command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Syria to guarantee the execution of the French mandate , and we shall remain in Cilicia just so long as the fulfillment of the Treaty of Sevres requires it : so we shall remain in Syria because if we were n't there , others would be instead . This would mean the eclipse of our prestige and influence in the Eastern Mediterranean , in the Levant and all the East . Besides , ? and this should be known in France , ? Syria is a very rich country To sum it up in a word : The affair will pay well . That is why we should stay in Syria , and why we are going to stay there . For a long time French designs in Syria have , to say the least , been under suspicion , which such words do something to confirm . THE Allied Supreme Council has at last agreed to a settlement of the northern frontier of Palestine . According to this settlement Palestine is to include the whole of North Galilee , as far north as a line joining the Zionist settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dan . But what is more important , the use of the waters of the Upper Jordan and the Yarmuk have been guaranteed , and only the details of the arrangement remain to be worked out between French and Zionist technicians . It is hoped that the concession of water rights will be interpreted liberally , for on the use of th e waters of the Yarmuk and the Upper Jordan depends afforestation and the construction of irrigation works and storage reservoirs , the building up and maintenance of which works may prove to require the inclusion of the area within the territorial bounds of Palestine . Territory has not been the main consideration of the Zionist claims , but practical access to the sources of a vigorous economic life , so that the land may be redeemed from its present neglected state and be made to sustain in // prosperity a population many times larger than it does now . The boundary settlement , while falling short of the full requirements , does at least lay the foundations for a project in which all liberals have been keenly interested . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new phase , liberals should continue their interest and their practical aid . F ROM this week 's crop of Russian rumors : General Denikin has refused a pension and the Order of the Bath from the British government because of its trade negotiations with Soviet Russia . A dispatch from Helsingfors says that workmen in 78 Petrograd factories returned 7o Mensheviki as against 15 Bolsheviki in a local election . The French Labor Party ( C. G. T. ) may vote to join the Third International after all . Lenin has given up Italy as a bad job and Bolshevik propaganda there has been abandoned . The French Foreign Office learns that 40,00o Russian troops are concentrating along the Lithuanian border for another drive on Poland . Agents of the Standard Oil Company are in Moscow negotiating with the Soviet government for a monopoly of petroleum in the Caucasus and elsewhere . Rumania is adopting " measures indicative of war " with Russia over the possession of Bessarabia . Japan is sendilyg into Siberia 1,5oo new troops for every 200 withdrawn , and her troops occupy ports in Kamchatka as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrested by the provisional government of Vladivostok and the Maritime Province produce certificates of their employment as Japanese secret service agents . THESE are scattering returns from various parts of the world : The Italian Senate has ratified the Rapallo treaty by a vote of 262 to 22 . The Assembly adopted the plan for a permanent court of international justice , but without compulsory arbitration ; established an international commission to receive the secured pledges of states without credit and authorize them to issue gold bonds in payment for goods they require ; and voted to demand of the larger nations a commission with arbitrary powers to end the world-wide opium and white slave traffics . The Polish government has made the Treaty of Versailles guarantees of the rights of minorities law of the land ; is ready to begin many reforms in favor of the Jews ; and is to court martial General Balahovich for atrocities committed against them . The Swiss Labor Party has refused to join the Third International , by a vote of 35o to 213 . Mustapha Kemal Pasha declares that Armenia is now " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entered the Armenian cabinet , and Io , 000 Russian troops have crossed the border from Transcaucasia . Great Britain is building 6 destroyers and 9 submarines while the United States has under construction 66 and 53 respectively . The Hungarian authorities are taking steps to intern all alien Jews . There is renewed gossip that the Prince of Wales intends to marry an Irish girl . The League 's military commission has advised that Poland be given military control of Danzig . King Constantine has arrived in Athens in a triumph of popular rejoicing . Government and labor figures place the number of Great Britain 's unemployed at one million . The American Red Cross estimates that two million Russian refugees are in various parts of Europe , over half of them in Poland . M. Viviani reiterates , before the Assembly of the League , France 's determination not to admit Germany . Adolph Joffe , Soviet negotiator of the peace with Poland , protests against the use of Allied troops in Vilna , and adds that he has conclusive evidence that Poland is providing General Zeligowski with men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              