@@493407

The Week THE Japanese delegation to the Naval Confer ? ence has reached Washington on its journey to London , and has promptly clarified the position of Its government in one important particular . Pre ? vious statements from Tokio had led to the assump ? tion that Japan wanted 70 percent of the number of 10,000-ton cruisers allotted to the United States . To this the British , who want to put most of their cruiser tonnage into lighter vessels , would be sure to object . But it is now made clear that while Japan wants a 10-10-7 ratio in all auxiliary craft , instead of the 10-10-6 ratio established for battle ? ships at the Washington Conference of 1921 , she wishes a global tonnage , which can be allotted among cruisers , destroyers and submarines at her discretion , subject to the consent of the other na ? tions to the allocation she proposes . What the Japanese apparently wish is to increase the tonnage of submarines , reducing both cruisers and destroy ? ers . Their argument in favor of submarines is roughly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stimson and others , that the submarine is no longer a useful weapon against warships , but canbe used only , and against every ' dictate of humanity , to destroy unarmed merchantmen . While Great Britain and the United States have hoped for the abolition of the submarine , the attitude of France has in any case foredoomed that attempt to failure for the present . The Japanese policy on cruisers removes from the agenda of the conference one dispute which threatened to be a stubborn one ; and thereby a gloomy outlook for success is made a lit ? tle brighter . AT LAST the Senate has ratified the French ' debt settlement . This act is without much practical im ? portance , any way you look at it . France was al ? ready paying according to the terms of the settle ? ment , and would have continued to do so even if ratification had been indefinitely delayed . The act of the Senate does not accord her any privileges which she did not previously have . On the other hand , it can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this both ? ersome controversy permanently out of the way . All responsible commentators have pointed out the un ? reality of an arrangement which specifies large pay ? ments more than half a century in advance . France will live up to her agreement to the end if Germany continues to pay over enough in reparations to fur ? nish her with the necessary funds , but whether Ger ? many can do so remains highly problematical . And if the reparations settlement has to be revised again , the Allied debts are sure to become a bone of active contention . How little the true situation is now realized in American official circles is indicated by the fact that the only serious objection to the agree ? ment was made by Senators who thought we were letting France off too easily . THAT small minority of American citizens who pay income taxes are now rejoicing because of the cut made effective by Congress for the ensuing year only . This legislation is widely acclaimed as a practical aid to the restoration of prosperity . In reality it is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the injured feelings of those who lost money in the stock market ? most of whom are in ? cluded among the income-tax payers . In so far as their cheerfulness may aid business , the tax cut may help the nation in general . As a matter of fact , however , it lightens the burden only for those who have net incomes , after deducting stock market losses , large enough so that they could well have afforded to pay at the old rates . It deprives the government of revenue which it might have used to extremely good effect in stimulating construction , in other measures of unemployment relief , and in reducing indirect taxes on all consumers . Most illogical of all is the reduction of the rate on cor ? porate incomes . Corporations this year will , in gen ? eral , show the largest profits in history . Their re ? serve funds are more than ample . By no stretch of the imagination could they be said to need tax re ? duCtion . In this case the tax cut looks almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ' dent 's effort to prevent a depression ? a coopera ? tion which they ought to have undertaken in their own interest . THE NEW REPUBLIC does not believe that President Hoover will give a moment 's serious con ? consideration to those who urge that Commissioner Eastman should not be reappointed to the Inter ? state Commerce Commission . Mr. Eastman is a public servant of rare wisdom . Few understand the highly intricate problems of railroad regulation as well as he . He is not , and never was , a political appointee in the superficial sense of that word ; he has devoted his life to his calling with a true pro ? fessional devotion . His ability is unquestioned , and his experience on the Commission is longer than that of most of its other members . The objection urged against him is that he has expressed senti ? ments favorable to public ownership . That he has ' done so is a tribute to his courage and candor , but his opinions in this respect have not interfered in the least with his efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utmost public advantage . Indeed , he is one of the few to point out that the chief danger of government ownership arises from too little attention to the public interest in regulation as it is practised . If the public can not rely on the work of such men as Mr. Eastman on regulating commissions , the cause of public owner ? ship will be measurably advanced . The real ob ? jection to him is not that which is voiced , since the railroads do not seriously fear nationalization . Mr. Eastman 's opponents among the railroads find his presence inconvenient since he frequently opposes their views on such questions as valuation and con ? solidation . If we are to have commissions com ? posed entirely of men who agree on all points with those who are being regulated , this objection is worth consideration . If commissions are to repre ? sent the public , however , the very nature of the opposition to Mr. Eastman should make his re ? appointment certain . FOR ONCE , the Pennsylvania legal system has acted to the advantage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been acquitted of the murder of State Trooper John J. Downey , corn mitted some two and a half years ago , on August 22 , 1927 . As The New Republic pointed out in ' discussing the Accorsi case in its issue of October 9 , 1929 , there was never any serious evidence against him . He was vaguely identified by a state trooper , but this identification fell to pieces in the courtroom . The real basis for this arrest appear to have been the fact that he had lived near the scene of the crime and , seven months after it was committed , had moved away . That served at any rate to distinguish him from ' dozens of other men who might with apparently equal justice have been accused , but had failed to make themselves con ? spicuous by leaving Pennsylvania . THE Accorsi case grew , as our readers may re ? member , out of a meeting held by a group of coal miners and their families to protest the execution of Sacco and Vanzetti . Though they gathered on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in doing so , their meeting was broken up by mounted troopers of the state police , who threw tear-gas bombs , and used their clubs freely on men and women , so that some two hundred people were injured . For a long time after the crowd had been dispersed by this gentle persuasion , the troopers amused themselves by going through the neighborhood and beating up anyone they met . Downey was one of these troopers . He met a man on a side road , began beating him , and was shof and killed , his assailant escaping . On June 13 , 1929 , Accorsi was taken into custody on Staten Island . His attorneys , with a justifiable fear ( remembering the famous Barkoski case ) of what may happen to an innocent man who is held incommunicado in state-police barracks , fought against letting him be extradited until he had been indicted , when he would be in the custody of the proper legal authorities . Finally he was indicted , extradited , tried and promptly acquitted . The state police " got their man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eeny ? meeny-miny-moe process that they could n't hold him . ONE part of the story of American prosperity during the remarkable period of the past five years which is not usually told has just been revealed by the Women 's Bureau of the United States Depart ? ment of Labor . While production and profits gen ? erally were increasing by leaps and bounds , while the average of real wages was showing a steady rise , while spokesmen of American industry were patting it on the back for its new endorsement of the economy of high wages , the wages of women workers in American cotton mills dropped 13 per ? cent . The figures , which measure the decline from 1924 to 1928 , cover 158 representative mills scat ? tered through eleven states , in which nine-tenths of the cotton-mill workers are found . The average full-time earnings of the women were , in 1928 , at the princely level of $15.66 a week . New Hampshire was the highest state , with $20.31 ; Ala December Z. ) , IYZY r1i IN VV ix r 1.1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with $11.88 . The honors in this low-grade competition do not all go to the North , however . Massachusetts ranks only fifth among the eleven states . And Northern earnings dropped ' during this period much more than Southern . Massachusetts earnings dropped most of all , 18 South , The differential between North and South , which had been 54 percent in 1924 , was only 33 percent in 1928 . Thus is exemplified the leveling-down action of competition unleavened by union organization and collective bargaining . The South no longer has as much advantage in cost of production , while both regions suffer from the poor situation of large working populations with inade ? quate incomes . IN WRITING their obituaries of the Province-town Playhouse , which recently suspended opera ? tions for lack of money , most critics have laid too much emphasis on its being the organization that discovered and gave scope to the talent of Eugene O'Neill . This was , indeed , an achievement , and one which in itself justified the fifteen seasons , good and bad , of the Provincetown Players , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage . They discovered other talented playwrights , of whom one might mention Paul Green and Susan Glaspell . They helped to develop a great number of directors and actors whose names are now famil ? iar on Broadway . But principally they contributed to the theater the diverse talents of writers who might otherwise have confined themselves to other branches of literature . EXCLUSIVE of those by O'Neill , the most in ? teresting plays they produced were not written by professional playwrights , or even by men and wo ? men who have since become professional play ? wrights : they were the work of poets , novelists and critics ? of Djuna Barnes , Edna St. Vincent Ivlillay , Alfred Krcymborg , Wallace Stevens , Stark Young , Edmund Wilson , E. E. Cummings . Thus , to an art which has suffered from too much professional ? ism , the Provincetown Players contributed " ama ? teur talent " in the best sense of the term . To the literary men connected with them , they contributed something else ? professional stage experience and sometimes , moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now safely established has survived the difficult periods of his apprenticeship by acting as a ghost in one of O'Neill 's early plays ? which required so many ghosts ? or has paid for his lodging and cigarettes by shifting scenery in that haunted stable on Macdougal Street which the Players deserted for Broadway , with such ill results to themselves and to the American stage . PROGRESS of the five-day week has been much more rapid than is generally understood . A study by the National Industrial Conference Board , which is not a complete survey of the field , found that In 1928 there were at least 270 manufacturing establishments , employing 218,000 persons , on the shorter week . Adding those listed by the Ameri ? can Federation of Labor a year ago , and not cov ? ered by the employers ' survey , the total of em ? ployees becomes about 400,000 . Since then a large number of building-trades workers and others have achieved the five-day week ? including 150,000 in New York City alone . There is good ground for the belief that nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year round . One reason for the rapid adoption of the new schedule is that it is found in many cases not to hamper out ? put . Of the firms reporting to the Conference Board , forty-nine stated that there had been no change in weekly production following the adop ? tion of the shorter week , while 19.2 percent dis ? covered that their output had actually been in ? creased . With as good or better production , there is an obvious economy in omitting to start up the plant on Saturday ? not to speak of the advantages derived by the workers themselves for a real week-end . WHILE General Smuts has been making speeches in England on the African question , the natives in South Africa have been making themselves heard . The center of the agitation , which dates back to last June , is the city of Durban . At that time the native labor union , called the " I. C. U. , " started a boycott of the Durban native beer-halls . The movement led to raids upon these beer-halls and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beer-hall riots , the government intro ? duced a bill authorizing the Minister of justice to deal with seditious propaganda . Apparently , before this bill was enacted , another even more serious in ? cident occurred at Durban in October , when 12,000 natives flatly refused to pay their poll-taxes . URGED on by the **25;215;TOOLONG , the Minister of Justice finally decided to raid the na ? tive compounds , and in the latter part of November , this raid was carried out with the aid of gas-masks and tear-gas bombs , 600 arrests being made . The effect of the raid has been to ' drive the moderate native leaders into the extremist camp . Apparently the white men back of the raid wished to increase European fears , so as to hurry the Union Parlia ? ment into enacting legislation depriving the Cape natives of their franchise . These Europeans insist that the present native unrest is ' due to Communist agitation from Moscow . Undoubtedly Communist agitators take advantage of oppression in any part of the world , but the remedy obviously is not in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agitators . The real remedy for South Africa 's recurrent native troubles is a policy which will give the native population an opportunity for economic and political development . This policy means the repeal of color-bar legislation , an increase in native-owned ! and , and granting the natives representation In Parliament . THE CORRESPONDENCE schools have devel ? oped to such a degree that " the whole vast subject of universal law and order , " as revealed by the higher thought , can now be studied by mail . We can learn , with the help of the U. S. Post Office , " the great end and purpose of mortal ex ? istence . " We can " reach beyond this lowly plane to vastly superior levels of organized substance , thereby contacting and sensing universal states of being " ; we can achieve oneness with the Universal Ego , and we can do all this merely by tearing off a coupon and mailing it to the Society for Higher Mental Training , in Lincoln , Nebraska . Two cor ? respondence courses of twelve lessons each are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have completed both courses , and who , through proper consecration and training , have learned to use this inner knowledge for the general good , there is available a study of the Mysteries , terminating in " a modern application of ancient symbology and a final introduction to the secrets of universal associ ? ation . " The cost of this higher study is not re ? vealed . The first correspondence course , however , is offered for $35 ; the two courses together cost only $60 ; and there is , even in these supra-mundane realms , a discount of 10 percent for cash . THE Balkans can be relied upon to furnish inter ? national friction when the rest of Europe is con ? cerned with domestic affairs . Internal excitements were preponderant this week , for instance , in Ger ? many , where the government bowed to Schacht and the Reichstag bowed to the government ; in France , where Tardieu held power by a narrow margin of twenty-three votes after Daladier had exposed the Premier 's army budget , showing France spends more for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Poland , where the government fell , and , ' fallen , waited for Pilsudski to allow it to rise ; in England , where MacDonald , for the time being , forgot naval reduction in favor of domestic politics ; in Czechoslovakia , where the new Cabinet took con ? trol ; in Spain , where Primo de Rivera finally de ? clared that the dictatorship would be abolished in September , 1930 . In the breathing spell before the second Hague conference , the League meeting and the naval parley , most nations appeared glad of the chance to transact some local politics . The Balkans , however , continued their perennial tradi ? tions by manifesting the only noticeable signs of ' friction and this , as ever , in their capacity as satel ? lites of France and Italy . France 's satellites of the Little Entente snarled again at Italy 's protege Hungary . Mironescu announced that Rumania , Czechoslovakia and Jugoslavia would do all pos ? sible to force Hungary to meet her reparations ob ? ligations at the Hague . Italy replied by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hungarians Italy 's complete support at the conference . France and Italy both wooed Bulgaria , simultaneously , but Italy won , surprising her new friend by amicably releasing her claims against Austria 's revenues and making possible an American loan . Jugoslavia 's two submarines , built by the French navy yards , meanwhile did their part to induce Italy tentatively to announce her accession to the Anglo-American desire to abolish these " poor man 's dreadnaughts . " The Balkans are liv ? ing up to their reputation ; but it is the conviction of most European observers that if the great powers would leave them alone , their belligerence would mightily decrease . Navies and Neutral Rights THE recent British ' White Paper defending the government 's adherence to the so-called Optional Clause of the World Court statute is chiefly important because of its bearing on the ap ? proaching Naval Conference . Its form , of course , seems to give it quite another purpose . It is osten ? sibly aimed against internal critics of the govern ? ment 's course in accepting the statute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be either accepted or rejected by any nation which agrees to use the Court . It is , in another sense , a compulsory clause , however , in that it binds those who accept it to submit virtually all international ' disputes to the Court 's adjudication . The White Paper takes the form of a reply to those British subjects who object that Great Britain should not accept compulsory jurisdiction of the Court , since to do so gives an international body the right to control the use of British sea power in time of war . The reply makes the point that the use of that power is already limited by the existence of the League of Nations and the Kellogg Pact . No member of the League can lawfully engage in war , except against a nation which by its failure to use the League machinery of conciliation or arbitration has become internationally recognized as an age gressor . If Britain were defending herself against such a nation , the other members of the League , far from appealing to the Court against the use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to all possible measures of defense against the out ? law , if not , indeed , to apply sanctions in Britain 's behalf . The only other case in which Britain 's fleet might be employed to police the seas would be in the application of sanctions against an aggressor which was attacking some other member of tho League . In that case , also , there could be no ob ? jection . The World Court will never have occasion to deal with a dispute concerning British sea power vs. the rights of neutrals who are League members , since in any future war there will be no such neu ? trals . The argument assumes , of course , that Great Britain will remain a law-abiding member of the League and will not herself become an ag ? gressor . The same logic is applied to signatories of the Kellogg Pact . In principle , the argument is just                     