@@493342

- December 23 , 1925 conformity to some pre-established principle or theory , but by their consequences in practice which need , to be understood and which can be understood only by being watched . These social experiments are being watched and studied in the United States More systematically and conscientiously than in any European country . Liberalism in all its forms will eventually possess an abounding vitality in a community which is as thoroughly committed to a methodical scrutiny and recording of its own processes as America is . We are not afraid , consequently , that a democratic society such as ours will ever dispense with - liberalism . But there is a danger that the liberals themselves , in the sense of those people whose business it is to be thoroughly aware of social conduct , will not understand what a grave responsibility a society which is unconsciously experimenting with experimentalism may impose upon them . The United States is a fertile breeding ground for an infinite number of novel enterprises of all kinds technical , industrial , social and intellectual . The Urban American of today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrary he is , if anything , . too mercurial . He is as a rule more curious , more alert , more sceptical and more uninhibited than the American of yesterday , yet his increase of curiosity and irreverence is not a wanton revolt against precedent and tradition . It is the reflection of the increasing need of an adaptable , adventurous , experimental state of mind in carrying on with success the important practical activities of American life . This mixture of scepticism and experimentalism in business and technical activities with Coolidgism in politics and a revived fundamentalism in religion , defines the task which liberals , as the flagbearers of experimentalism , have to perform . They have to vindicate methodical experimentalism as a positive substitute for routine , tradition , rules and dogmas in the conduct of life ? of life in general as well as of particular activities . The disposition to challenge and to cross-examine sacred practices , institutions and principles is gradually undermining popular faith in many traditions , symbols and formulas Which have hitherto served as partial supports for individual morality and social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to the need of providing a substitute and learn how to do it , they may be confronted with a veritable revival of absolutism as the indispensable cultural justification of a social order whose preservation seems to be threatened by heretical experimentalism . Unfortunately for their ability to redeem this social responsibility , liberals have hitherto evaded the task of furnishing for themselves an equivalent for the customary moral certitudes . In what way can they strengthen the motives for creative moral and social conduct and lay out a reliable route to that remote and elusive land ? Since by the experimentalist assumption it is both undesirable and impossible to liberate human beings by imposing orders and beliefs upon them , liberals have no alternative but to seek human regeneration by the introduction of some effective method into their own personal conscious effort to lead a good life . They must somehow derive from their consciousness of the actual processes of living a liberating knowledge which they can not obtain from public instruction or from the commands of church or state . Those of them who like to be obstreperous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their pugnacity . They can furnish the world with the example of a man who by self-acquired knowledge of himself and the world has achieved the captaincy of his soul . In his intoxicated moments , he may even conceive himself as a modern version of Prometheus who defies the gods and seeks in a humanization of the process of knowing the salvation of mankind . But science , we are afraid , has robbed Prometheus himself of heroism . The gods which the experimentalist of today has to defy can no longer summon thunderbolts from the air or let loose vultures to prey upon headstrong heretics . The modern Prometheus is not entitled to strike an attitude and to take his position too seriously . Liberals have wished on themselves without knowing it the job of discovering some way of making themselves and other people experts in the art of leading a good life . The knowledge which they need for the practice of this technique of techniques they can not borrow from any existing storehouse . Neither can they obtain it by going off into the wilderness or joining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by acting as if the inquisitive , disinterested and intensely watchful pursuit of ordinary activities will , if raised to the dignity of a method , actually result in a creative personal experience which will synthesize in their minds life with truth . The Need for Agricultural Statesmanship PRESIDENT COOLIDGE has definitely set his face against a fundamental agrarian program for the United States . In his address before the American Farm Bureau Federation and in his message to the Sixty-ninth Congress he has denied the existence of a serious agricultural problem ; consequently he sees no need for basic readjustments . At Chicago he flattered and placated the farmers and , if press reports are to be believed , they enjoyed it . At Washington he reprimanded critics and agitators in an obvious attempt to forestall effective congressional action . The scepter has moved and thus are the troubled waters brought to rest . We are now asked to believe that the agrarian uprising which seemed imminent a year ago founded its case upon nothing more than a few cents ' difference in the market price of grains , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agriculture is once again on its robust , prosperous way . Insofar as the President sees a problem at all , he envisages it in simplest economic terms . This is his program : assistance to commodity cooperative marketing associations , further facilitation of rural credits , continuation of tariffs which are presumed to benefit the farmer , and most important of all , preservation of the farmer 's independence . A pale , insipid dose if the patient has really been ill , but nevertheless a dose which has every likelihood of being accepted . The bankers and President Coolidge view the recent agricultural disturbances as mere interruptions in a process which is essentially sound and healthy . This assumption should be vigorously challenged . It may reasonably be doubted whether farming as it has been conducted in this country has ever been a profitable enterprise . Its periodic and apparent successes have invariably resulted from soil exploitation or land speculation ? policies of cumulative failure . Both lead to abnormal increases in costs of production , the first through fertility exhaustion and the second through capital inflation . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmer . Thus far the chief benefactors of American agriculture have been land speculators , bankers , dealers ( speculators ) in farm products , transportation agencies , and manufacturers . In this connection it should not be forgotten that the farmer and speculator are often one and the same person . Wherever it is discovered that farm profits become in any sense comparable to business profits it will also be found that the recipient is a farmer-hanker , farmer-speculator , farmer-trader , or farmer-lender . The producing farmer who relics upon agriculture as his only source of income seldom rises above an average workmen 's wages . And so poor a business is farming in most regions that a decent labor-income is made possible only by utilizing the unrewarded toil of women and children . The exploitation period of American agriculture is at an end . Farming lands offer no further attractions for the speculator . The available arable regions were occupied during the closing years of the last century . Symptoms of agrarian disease have multiplied since the time when it was no longer possible to buy cheap lands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands of the operating farmer . Probably not more than half the farmers of the United States are at the moment valid owners of the land which they till . In many sections , particularly the Northwest , titles still remain in the names of farmers , but this is due largely to the fact that the bankers now wish to avoid ownership responsibilities . They at least , have seen the hand-writing on the wall . Holders of farm mortgages , bankers and farmers of one of these areas , recently met for a protracted conference for the purpose of finding an honest method of avoid-ing bankruptcy . They adjourned without having discovered a solution for their problem . Cooperative marketing is the administration 's chief answer to whatever problems may have arisen in the recent affairs of agriculture . The precise provisions of the proposed cooperative marketing bill are still unavailable . It will undoubtedly include some harmless suggestion for surplus exports in ? tended to quiet the supporters of the defeated McNary-Haugen measure of last year . One thing is certain , namely that the measure will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marketing movement safely within the margins of approvel laissez-faire economics ? approved , that is , by the bankers . How effective can this kind of cooperative marketing become ? It can without doubt reduce the spread between producer and consumer prices . Through proper storage and finance and orderly marketing , prices may be partially stabilized ; this should in turn result in increased income for the farmer . But , stabilized prices can be sustained only if producers of given commodities agree to regulate production . Otherwise over-production will inevitably follow higher prices , and increased supply will in turn lower the price . Thus it will be seen that commodity cooperative marketing as now promoted and sponsored by the administration and the bankers is merely an efficiency tool to be used within the existing economic system . If the farmers were to conceive cooperation in terms of real occupational independence and then proceed to use it as a means for breaking through the vicious laissez-faire circle , they would soon be deserted by their political and financial friends . This can not be done until the cooperatives both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President promises belong also in this category ; so long as profits in the form of interest go into the same coffers , that is , into the hands of the bankers , it will be perfectly safe to advocate improved credits . And protective tariffs are patently makeshifts , recognitions of economic incapacity . The administration 's economic program for agriculture is the natural product of President Coolidge 's recently-evolved philosophy of political decentralization . He , presumably , approaches all situations with his new formula : How little can the government do about this ? Obviously , statesmanship can not emerge from assumptions which minimize the functions of government . A government which aims to be little will of course do little things . It was to be expected therefore that the President would invoke the farmer 's independence on behalf of his program . That hoary counterfeit of the vote-getter has fooled them often in the past , and it will probably do so again . If farmers and farm leaders have not wholly lost their intellectual self-respect , they should now ask what it is they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , they choose to be sufficiently independent to elect a congressional representative or senator who voices their protests , what happens ? This spokesman of the farmers ' interests is promptly ostracized by the reckless majority ; he is put in his place , which simply means that he is deprived of power . In the past , the farmer 's vaunted inde ? pendence has made him the victim of political and financial manipulators ; it will continue to serve the same end ? even though the blessing now comes from the pious Mr. Coolidge . Adequate agricultural statesmanship can not emerge until the complex of rural life is viewed in less particularistic terms . Farming is something more than a business , a vocation . It is , or at least was , a way of life , a culture which makes its own peculiar contribution to the processes of civilization . And , its saddest failure lies , not in the fact that it lost in the competitive economic struggle , but rather that it ceased to be the carrier of a virile culture . Rural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and on its lowest levels . If Sherwood Anderson is right in taunting the city with " You ai n't got much , " how much more sterile must rural life be if the little it has is no more than a cheap copy of urban superficiality . Stand-pattism and States ' Rights PRESIDENT COOLIDGE 'S recent message to Congress , as we pointed out last week , consisted for the most part of a business-like discussion of some of the immediate problems of the federal government , but in addition to these specific recommendations he placed particular emphasis upon two general political ideas . He reiterated briefly but emphatically the major premise of all his political thinking , which is that the existing condition of American society is thoroughly satisfactory . While it may be desirable now and then to modify its organization and policy in minor respects by legislation , it is neither necessary nor desirable to anticipate the need of such changes or to prepare against them . It is particularly undesirable to place any responsibility for proposed reforms on the federal government . " The greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights of the states . " The federal government , that is , has a fixed place in the American political mechanism . Its only desirable line of progress is to do better what it is now doing . Its functions can not be enlarged without " encroaching " on states ' rights , and any such encroachment is dangerous . Mr. Coolidge is , consequently , committed to two dogmas . He is stand-pat and he is states ' rights . The question to which we wish to draw attention is the relation between the two conclusions . Is he wise in putting them together ? Will American progressivism as a social policy to be accomplished by political means be helped or hindered by cultivating , irrespective of the circumstances - of each particular proposal , a fear of federal legislation which encroaches " on the rights of the states ? Will the dogmatic assertion of states ' rights strengthen or weaken the stand-patters in their resistance to social reconstruction ? In our opinion he has from his own point of view been wise in announcing and advertising the interdependence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the power over the lives of their fellow-countrymen , which the combination between centralized industry and the sacrosanct individual rights to property bestows on American business men , without redistributing some of the existing authority of both the state and federal governments . The redistribution should not , it is true , merely tend to increase federal responsibility . In some respects the federal government already " encroaches " on what ought to be the rights of the states in a way that is demoralizing to state political vitality . In other respects functions are conferred on the states and denied to the federal government , which if divided between them would probably be better performed . The line between state and federal activities , as it is now drawn by - law , hampers both the state and the federal governments in introducing law and order into that vast social wilderness which gives birth to the conflicts between individual , class and community interests . The existing distribution of functions between the state and federal governments was planned with reference to a group of economic and social conditions wholly different from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ framed the Constitution with many purposes in mind , but not the least of their purposes was that of bringing about a socially desirable distribution of property and of the power which goes with its ownership . They conceived private property as a condition of individual independence , not of industrial and financial control . They wished to distribute it throughout the whole community without either severe poverty or huge fortunes . They proposed to discourage great wealth by eradicating the political privileges with which its acquisition had theretofore been associated . They proposed to prevent any but deserved poverty by keeping the door of economic opportunity open . They hoped , that is , to guarantee a distribution of property which would emancipate America from the European social problem by protecting individuals in earning and keeping it , and in the prevailing conditions the hope was not unreasonable . The era of concentrated industrial capitalism had not begun . In this small property-owners ' paradise there was no large class which lived by wages and prospered only by the increasing security and dignity of paid service . They believed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security of property into the federal constitution they would encourage its accumulation                     