@@163756

The Baptists are the largest denomination in America . The Baptist Young People 's Union of America met in Tremont Temple , Boston , for its 32nd annual convention . " The Attractive Christ " was the keynote , frequently referred to by the speakers . The 5,000 delegates , from all parts of the United States and Canada , filled Tremont Temple to over flowing . In his address of welcome , Mayor Curley lamented the " growth away from idealism " in the United States , and rejoiced in the gathering of so much youthful idealism as was represented by the Young People 's Union . Leaders of the convention stressed the following points : World Court , international youth alliance , broader interest in clean industry and politics , prohibition , missions , tithing for church finances . <P> An even larger convention was that held in Des Moines by the International Young People 's Society for Christian Endeavor . The 15,000 delegates came not only from the United States but from all over the world . The Christian Endeavor Society was founded 42 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Harvest Time Is Here " was taken as the watchword and the young people were called " harvest hands . " Their attention and enthusiasm was directed to the following points : World Court , the twelve-hour day in industry , religious as well as secular education , prohibition , prohibition of poppy growing . The Colorado Fuel and Iron Company and the International Harvester Company were commended for their enlightened policy toward labor . At Winona Lake , Ind. , assembled a Christian Citizenship Conference . There were present over 5,000 delegates from the United States and 30 foreign countries . This conference is sponsored by the National Reform Association , an organization of business and professional men without any particular religious affiliation . Three United States Senators , seven governors , two bishops , and many college presidents took part in the program . The 42 meetings of the conference were presided over by prominent business men from all parts of the country . The keynote of this conference was " How Can Nations Be Converted to a Sense of Their Moral Responsibilities ? " Resolutions were passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . The last resolution was a striking document , and was sent to the rulers of 75 nations . It says in part : " Humanity is staggered by the possibilities of another world war . Nations are accountable to the same Christian principles as individual Christian men and women . There is no double standard of morality and ethics , one for men , and another for nations . "                     