@@467900

THE middle-class American of Jewish faith is commonly , like his cultural equal among his Gentile fellow-citizens , a man of little or no faith at all . He may pay for a pew in a temple of the reformed persuasion , he may even be seen in that pew on certain high holi ? days . Those emotions in him that are deeply akin to the religious are more likely to be awakened over a book , or at a play , opera , or concert . Yet he must sustain that sectarian affiliation , since it is the frail shield of his exposed position . According to the argument which sustains him , he differs from other Americans ( or Englishmen , Frenchmen , Germans , 1 oles ) by his religion alone . Hence he must cleave to that religion . The reformation of his cult permits him to be in his office on the Sabbath , even to attend worship on Sunday . The Day of Atonement finds him , if not fasting , yet at home . Since the division between himself and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be equally so in practice . The reverse is true . Our assimilationist friend of Jewish faith may be almost blond and straight-nosed ; he may be admirably unobtrusive in pronunciation and manner . He may have a son at Harvard and a daughter at Vassar . He may have abbreviated his name . Yet when he sits at the head of his board the guests will be Levin.skys and Rosen ? felds ; his table at his luncheon-club ? we are safe in assuming him to be a busi ? ness man or lawyer ? will hear voices in which the echo of the ancestral prayer and study-chant will still be audible . His son and his daughter will have Gentile friends at college . But these friendships will , after graduation , fade by what has alI the appearance of mutual consent . Despite his theory , our friend does not in fact seek Gentile society . Firstly , he is as a rule rather sensitive and self-respecting . He does not wish to be where lie is not wanted ; and memories and instincts both warn him that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may deny it both vigorously and even blithely , he knows his position to be an exceedingly precarious one . Let a Unitarian , for instance , rebuff him socially ? his entire theory crumbles . Thus , for the sake of his inner equilib ? rium , he must associate exclusively with those who are in a like position and live by the same assumptions . In his circles you find a complete and admi rable imitation of Gentile culture . It differs from the real thing only by a more passionate love of the arts and by the almost complete absence in it of anyone but Jews . These Jews , moreover , can never be a shade more orthodox than himself . They must never harbor a doubt of the complete success of the assimilationist theory . Nationalists or Zionists have rude and brutal ways . They will men ? tion pogroms in Poland and the number of orphans left in Petlura 's train of blood ; they will tell the anecdote of a certain Siegfried Cohen who , when threatened with expulsion from Munich as a dangerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And what dis ? pleases our assimilationist friend most is , that these disturbers of his quiet will discuss the infinite variety of anti-Semitic phenomena not with the pas ? sionate disgust of the benevolent Gen ? tile but with a certain grave acceptance ? things and the world being , alas , still as they are . If our friend 's social contacts are cir ? cumscribed for the sake of his soul 's security , his citizenship is of an even more fettered kind . Though he lives by the assertion of equality , he is always impelled to be more public-spirited and patriotic than his Gentile neighbor in order to attain it . He embraces posi ? tions of public trust with an inordinate satisfaction , and feels flattered when he is asked to contribute effort or money to the general welfare . His whole life as a citizen is a petitio principi . Yet he fares well enough in matters that per ? tain to his city and State . In matters international his way is still harder . He wishes to share the opinions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to conform to them . Alas , he can not quite rejoice in the in ? dependence of Poland ; he can not love Roumania , despite her suffering during the War under the heel of the Prussian . He has a sneaking kindness for the pre ? war Germany of Rathenau , Dernburg , Bailin , even though he spent himself , hissubstance , his sons ' blood for the Allies ; he has ? and dare not whisper it to his own soul ? a sneaking kindness for the Soviets who put down pogroms and gave the Jews complete civic equality . He is an American . He is a one-hundred-per ? cent American . Yet he brings to all his political reactions another , an inter ? national consciousness . In extreme cases he curses that internationalist prejudice . It remains . He does other curious things which belie his assumptions . He is proud of Jewish achievement . One does not find Methodists or Anglicans so passionate in this matter . Our friend will not over ? emphasize such things . He will show good taste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But he is not a little pleased with Relativity and Psycho-analysis and the new art of the theater . He will appreciate Mahler and Bloch in music and Sassoon in poetry and Schnitzler and Wassermann in prose . On a lower level he will some ? times ferret out Jewish artists and scien ? tists of far smaller achievements and read lists of them and their doings in some periodical printed for Americans of his " faith . " He is a generation or two removed from ritual or religious observ ? ance ; he does not know the ancestral tongue , or the history or the legends of his people ; his children are not per ? mitted to bear even those scraps of colloquial Hebrew that persist longest . He is an American , an American ! But his friends are Jews and his interests are tinged with Jewishness and he compen ? sates for his protestations and his actions by pride in whatever his people shows of genius or glory . He is unhappy in the presence of Gentiles whom he suspects of the faintest prejudice ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sus ? pects of anti-assimilationist beliefs . He is an American ! Yet when he hears of a mixed marriage he shakes his head . He has no objection in principle . He is afraid it can come to no good . It fills him , too , with a strange faint feeling of loss . Why , why ? He ponders . What has he to do with the integrity of Israel ? He is too enlightened scientifically to believe that any racial strain is un ? mixed . His faith , heaven knows , has no propagandist ardor . It does not worry him to see the temples empty . What is wrong with him ? He is an American . He will be an American . Yet , when at breakfast he opens his paper , he glances first at the Jewish names among the notices of deaths and births ; feels a faint sinking of the heart at a cabled report of anti-Jewish agitation in a Hungarian university ; is consoled by the fact that a Jewish Egyptologist has , despite protest , been called to Munich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given another mag ? nificent contribution to Negro education . Driven into a corner he will admit these things . But lie is not often driven into a corner . Gentiles will not think of asking the question . Toward non ? assimilationist Jews he plays the part of anger or indignation . He will not per ? mit his Americanism to be impugned , certainly not by foreigners ! The not very happy man whom I have tried to describe is the product of his ? toric forces . It was the Enlightenment of the Eighteenth Century that liberated his great-grandfather from the Ghetto . Voltaire and Lessing sponsored the Jew 's free entry into western civiliza ? tion . But by the time the ideas of Voltaire and Lessing had become facts and actions , another wave of feeling and of theory arose . Romanticism and na ? tionalism repudiated the Enlightenment of the Eighteenth Century and all its works and ways . An entirely new Europe had the liberated Jew in its midst . It made the best of a bad busi ? ness and said : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ghetto . Yon must be like us so far as any public functioning goes . We will let you build your residential Ghetto where you like . We will let you vote . Theoretically we will let you teach and hold office . But you must assimilate . The price we de-mand is the gradual destruction and disappearance of Jewry . " But the average Jew , like the average man of any sort , wanted to live in peace , wanted indeed to be a good citizen and a comfortable one . Nineteenth-century Liberalism , moreover , appealed to him , and in England and the United States , in pre-War Germany and Austria lie lived in considerable comfort in his compromise position ? a perfectly honest one ? trying to reduce his Jewishness to a minimum and to make his inner life coincide as far as possible with his nationalist position as an Englishman , a German , or an American . Many Jews thus merged with the surrounding popu ? lation and intermarriage became more frequent . But Jewry as a whole , even reformed and assimilationist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mas trees and forgot the date of Pass ? over , persisted unchanged and all but undiminished . Its will to disappear was conscious and superficial ; its will to persist unconscious , unanswerable , pro ? found . From this anomaly , from this contradiction at the very center and source of life arose a thousand human situations of the strangest and most in ? tricate kind . Cruel comedy alternated with the bitterest tragedy . Blond and blue-eyed assimilationists who were Polish patriots , German poets , British empire-builders ? and were all these things with passionate zeal lived with the unwilling ache of an obscure dis ? honor in their hearts . They denied Israel in the uttermost depth of their consciousness ; but Israel was avenged upon them from within , and in all that they were and did and wrought and suffered there was a discord . And this discord , marked by the subtler minds among the anti-Semites , was set down by the latter to its true cause and it brought the ardent and sincere assimi ? lationists to the ultimate verge of com @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think , nothing mystical in all this . All the great nations are racial mixtures . The blood of the Semite is not , or rather is no longer , an alien one in Christendom . But nationalism feeds from the sources of tradition , legend , history . Christendom , to make Jewish assimilation in its special sense possible , would have to relive its own history , to turn back time , to undo the work of millenniums . The assimilationist Jewish child studies history in an English , French , German school and is taught and believes that the Crusades were great and noble spiritual adventures and goes home and reads Scott 's Talisman and identifies himself wholly with the Christian nationalist legend of history . And then , one fine day that child comes upon another account of the Crusades and reads of the fires and flayings and majestic martyrdoms of Mainz and York and Toulouse . The bell of that child 's life is cracked forever . Yes , if these things belonged to an utterly remote and completed past ! But the charge of ritual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Nine ? teenth Century ; somewhere , under Czarist Empire or Polish Republic ; in cases that go by the names of Dreyfus or of Leo Frank the flames of York and Mainz and Toulouse are lighted again ; Knights of the Hooked Cross in Ba ? varia , Kleagles of the Invisible Empire in Georgia raise once more the imme morial cry : Hierasolyma est perdital Out of these cultural and spiritual conflicts and discords arose , during the later Nineteenth Century , the non-orthodox , non-assimilationist Jew . These are clumsy words but they are needed to define the facts . A significant anec ? dote has it that Dr. Theodor Herzl , first president of the Zionist Organiza ? tion , while he was presiding over one of the earliest congresses in Switzerland spent much of his time correcting the proofs of the Christmas number of the Vienna Nene Freie Presse . He was the newspaper 's literary editor and had bought the Christmas articles , stories , poems which he was now seeing through the press . With his German assimila ? tionist self he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But profound human experiences had taught him , as they have taught many others since his day , that the assimila ? tionist policy is neither good nor bad . It is impossible . It is impossible , at least , in sneh world as the present . Were all national boundaries to be obliterated , all lin ? guistic and cultural and spiritual tradi ? tions to be discarded , the Jew no less than others could cast himself into that pale and tasteless brew . But the most . earnest political and economic inter ? nationalist can not endure the vision of such a world . Cultural nationalism the nationalism of speech , song , wisdom , folk-ways is the salt whence the mass of human life derives its savor . Thus no changes in government , no new way of distributing the fruits of the earth among its children can relieve the Jew ? can relieve any cultural , nationalistic minority from facing the dilemma . The choice between assimilation and non -- assimilation remains . It remains , at least , a choice between two attitudes of mind . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I repeat , that assimilation is bad but that it is a delusion . This modern Jew watches the Life and difficulties of our assimilationist whom I have tried to describe with mingled pity and amuse ? ment . He knows all those little psy ? chical tricks and self-deceptions ; he knows that defensive indignation , that sublimated snobbery , that mixture of servility and arrogance . He knows the thousand miseries of that position which is apparently so solid and , in reality , so untenable . He knows for instance why the assimilationist Jew so rarely has Gentile friends ? not business associates or courteous colleagues ? but friends . The reason is that subtly but con ? stantly , by a thousand implications , the assimilationist Jew says to the Gentile : " I am like you ; we are one and at one ; overlook these little peculiarities of use and my house and my children . They do not count . " And something within the Gentile ? the most tolerant , the most finely attuned ? answers in the depth of consciousness : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Are we really quite alike ? I doubt it ; I should deprecate it a little . " A suitor can never be a friend . One who asks for friendship as a favor can never be a friend . An inequality , a disharmony is established at once . He who asks a favor is humbled and he who grants it is shamed at seeing the other 's humili ? ation . Good will and co-operation may remain between two such men ; friend ? ship flees . The non-assimilationist Jew has no such difficulties . Without obtrusive ? ness , without foolish overemphasis he is himself ; not the member of a sect but of a people that has its history , tra ? ditions , character , rights . That people , like every other , is racially mixed ; like every other concrete folk it has been molded into a oneness which no inner diversities can destroy by historic forces which we are not yet sufficiently in ? structed to grasp . This Jew need not he a Territorialist or a Zionist . These are questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the sense in which the assimilationist is one . tie can never deny the reality out of which these poli ? cies arise . He need not , on the other hand , be constantly comforting himself with Jewish achievement , charity , or law-abidingness . He does not shiver if a Jew turns out to be a rascal . He is not trying to justify his existence . He has seen no American do so , no French ? man , not even a Montenegrin or Albanian . Why should he ? That a people has appeared upon the scene of human history and sustained itself there is an ultimate fact . It needs no excuse , explanation , justification . His feet are on solid ground ; his human position is normal in its essence , however difficult and delicate in its details . He can have Gentile friends , for an equality is pre ? established . He can even have an anti Semite for his friend and they can discuss the division between them as a Czechish and a German citizen of the Czecho-Slovak Republic may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defined . It is not made turbid by subtle servility on the one hand , a tinge of contempt on the other . I am thoroughly aware of the objec ? tions that members of the National Security League , for example , will urge against the citizenship of the anti ? assimilationist Jew . The arguments are old and sound , efficient and virile . They were used by the Prussian Government in the expropriation and Germanization of Poles in Posen and of Frenchmen in Lorraine ; they are now being used by the Czechs who are trying to destroy the schools of the children of three million Germans , and by the Poles who desire to unify their excessively heterogeneous republic . And these arguments all spring from the conception of a nation as a fighting machine and of the citizen as possible cannon-fodder . These mo ? tives , and these alone , demand the ob ? literation of diversities of race , culture , opinion , attitude . It is the identifica ? tion of nationalism with mere power ? military power for the protection of exported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , iron , that demands the extinction of cultural differences and wishes to reduce a rich and spiritually varied citizenry to the blankness of the recruit . Two courses are open to civilization : to cease to identify nationalism with power ; to co-operate in the division of the world 's food and coal and oil ; to practice peace and achieve tolerance . In that case every minority , including the Jews , will be safe . If on the other hand competitive arming , annexation , international rapine lead to still other wars ? the doom predicted by Spengler will inevitably fall upon Christendom and the Jewry of the dispersion will go down with its few friends and many foes in a common disaster .                     