@@486492

O NE WOULD THINK from the rude and disagreeable tone of its diplomatic notes that the Baldwin Government intended from now on to ignore the very existence of Soviet Russia . Unfortunately for the dignity of British Conservative leaders Russia is difficult to snub . It is neither small nor weak nor dependent nor meek . It has weapons of retaliation and the hard purpose to use them when necessary . In a gruff note the present British Government repudiated the treaties negotiated by the MacDonald Ministry and reaffirmed its faith in the authenticity of the Zinoviev letter . The Soviet Government answered politely and repeated its offer to submit the question of authenticity to an impartial commission . This offer will undoubtedly be ignored ; the Baldwin Ministry can not afford to discover that letter to be a fake . Officially Russia is polite . But behind the government mask of dignified regret , Communist leaders in speech and in writing are making plain their resentment . In an " Open Letter to Messrs . Arthur Ponsonby , E. D. Morel , and to other founders of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization similar to the union be founded in Russia to study " the regime of forgery which is carried on by the English Government " and to publish " in hundreds and thousands of copies , in Chinese , Arabic , Persian , Turkish , and other languages , the detailed history " of these forgeries . " F ASCISM IS SHAKEN by Internal Crisis , " we read in a headline . Possibly . Yet only six months back we remember reading predictions of the impending fall of Fascism on account of the murder of Matteotti . Now it is the publication more than a year after it was written of a letter from General Balbo , commander of the fascist militia , to the head of the party in Bologna , urging the use of violence against the opposition . As soon as this letter became public Balbo sent his resignation to Mussolini and the latter promptly accepted it . Mussolini 's personal position has been made further uncomfortable by the publication of a letter sent upon his order , during the election campaign last spring , by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition speakers Sala and Forni should not be allowed to hold meetings . " Wherever they are seen they must be violently attacked by all Fascisti . " This , of course , is ammunition for the opposition , but it does not prove that Fascism is about to die . Even if the present dictatorship  --  were overthrown the chances are at least even that it would be replaced by another dictatorship  --  possibly more arbitrary . The hope for Italy is in a return to a more tolerant and democratic attitude of mind . That there is yeast working toward such a change we gather from the Manchester Guardian , which writes of the remarkable influence of that excellent opposition newspaper , the Corriere della Sera , whose circulation has reached a million copies . H UNGARY HAS BEEN THE BAD BOY of Central Europe for so long that its misbehavior has become a rather tiresome accepted fact . But Hungary keeps trying to produce new evidences of its deep-seated distemper . Just at present it is in the midst of a storm of accusations of government corruption , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throwing bodily out of Parliament a dozen Social Democrats and two opposition leaders . The royal castle and other state buildings are occupied by troops , the streets are patrolled , public meetings have been dissolved , and editions of three opposition newspapers have been confiscated . Popular mass meetings have been called in protest ; and on both sides the conventional stage settings for revolution have been trundled out . It is possible to admit with Samuel Untermyer , whose recent address on European conditions we print this week in the International Relations Section , that Hungary has been badly treated by the Allies , her territory unjustly confiscated and her army disproportionately reduced . But it is impossible to wish that more men and guns were at the disposal of the wanton and reckless crew who are smashing opposition by force , hiding corruption , and turning their instruments of justice to the unsavory job of finding Count Karolyi , democrat and patriot , guilty of " treason . " S AMUEL GOMPERS sat triumphantly through the El Paso convention of the American Federation of Labor ? he did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it bowed as he approached . Never did his iron control seem stronger . But Gompers is a sick man and an old man  --  although it is true that his father only recently died  --  and it is not likely that the seventy-four-year-old veteran will have many more opportunities to be reelected president of the federation . Meanwhile the lesser pundits are maneuvering for position . Will John Lewis , chief of the miners , a Coolidge Republican , be able to seize the leadership ? Will it pass to one of Gompers 's own cabinet ? Or will some new labor leader arise with the vision and the statesmanship to bring the federation , the railway brotherhoods , and the dissident clothing workers together in one powerful group and make it a rejuvenating force in American life ? We must wait to see . Meanwhile , friends of labor will watch with interest the career of Robert P. Brindell , the crooked czar of the New York building trades , who has just won his fight for an unmerited parole . T HE TROUBLE WITH EFFORTS so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that they have come largely from without . Commissions may report , newspapers may expose , and preachers may decry  --  the situation is likely to remain much the same as long as the mass of the citizens of the State and the public officials that represent them are indifferent or hostile to change . Regeneration must come from within . Hence we are glad to read the words of the federal judge who recently sentenced Don Chafin , the notorious sheriff of Logan County , for violation of the prohibition laws . Chafin was not convicted for any of his thuggery against labor , but the judge took occasion to say just the same : It has been one of the sad bits of knowledge that have come to me during the three years that I have been upon the bench of this court , that in the district over which I preside , which district is composed of twenty-four counties , there should be any counties therein where liberty of life and property and the pursuit of one 's own business was impossible by reason of the local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who should come into the county , who should stay in the county , and what they should do while in the county . It might as well be realized that no coal association , by laying a tonnage tax on their coal , and paying it unto a corrupt sheriff , can prevent human liberty in the counties where that sort of thing is done . If I were to go into the field of prophecy I would say that the coming legislature is going to prohibit this system of deputy sheriffs that has prevailed in Logan County , and probably in some other counties . We hope that the judge 's prediction may come true . In the meanwhile an injunction suit has been begun to prohibit the mine-guard system in Logan County . T HE BOSS-ORDERED NOMINATION of Hiram Bing- 1 ham as Republican candidate for Senator from Connecticut has already led to the bolting of Horace D. Taftand ex-Governor E. J. Lake , both of whom will vote for Hamilton Holt , the Democratic nominee . There can be no doubt whatever that if the voters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labels , Mr. Holt would be chosen , despite the fact that he is obsessed by his adoration of the League of Nations . Aside from the truth that Lieutenant-Governor Bingham is without the service or public experience which would especially fit him for the senatorship , he has only just been elected Governor of Connecticut to take office on January 1 . To demand and receive the senatorship now is to break faith with the people who chose him to head the State government . But his action is quite in keeping with Hiram Bingham 's o'erweening ambition . An explorer , a writer , a Yale professor , a soldier in the war , and then a politician , he owes his present office to the Republican boss , J. Henry Roraback , for he had had no previous service in any Connecticut office . A militaristic imperialist , his career , if he enters the Senate , will parallel Henry Cabot Lodge 's in its subserviency to the machine , its boundless ambition , and its championship of privilege . The permanence of Mr. Bingham 's beliefs is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago denouncing the Monroe Doctrine as an obsolete shibboleth , whereas today  --  since entering public life  --  he has " changed his mind " about it . Like the Republican New Haven Journal-Courier , revolting against Mr. Bingham , we urge our Connecticut readers to vote for Mr. Holt . W ARREN WORTH BAILEY was the liberal Demo- cratic , anti-Klan , wet candidate for Congress in the Twentieth Pennsylvania District . On the face of the returns his Republican opponent was elected by a scant plurality . The Republicans , not satisfied with this , appeared before the local judges and had the ballot boxes reopened . The recount , to their dismay , showed a majority for Bailey ! Hoist by their awn petard , they retired to think it over . As a result the Klan candidate is now appealing to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania on the ground that the local court had no authority to go behind the official returns in the case of a federal election . There is a nice constitutional point involved , and we do not know what the courts may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can a man have the face to take a seat in Congress upon the plea that while he was in fact defeated , legal technicalities intervened to save him ? W E ARE GROPING toward a reduction of the misery and waste of unemployment . Government assistance , as worked out in Europe , has not yet been accepted in America , but other experiments are in process . A scheme of unemployment insurance , supported jointly by the Amalgamated Clothing Workers and the manufacturers , was established in Chicago last year , and now a similar arrangement has been adopted in the industry in New York City . Union employees will contribute 11/2 per cent of their wages and their employers an equal amount to a fund which may total $1,000,000 a year , according to Jacob Billikopf , impartial chairman in the men 's clothing industry . The arrangement is not ideal . , Unemployment is largely unnecessary ; it is the result partly of the seasonal organization of certain industries , partly of alternating booms and depressions , and partly of sheer carelessness and indifference among employers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital and the profits of boom periods go chiefly to the employer we believe that he alone should pay for unemployment insurance , as he does for that against accident . In this respect the bill introduced into the Wisconsin Legislature last year was sound . Also a sliding scale of premiums would have penalized the careless employer and thus worked toward a reduction in unemployment instead of merely charging its cost to the industry and finally to the consumer . Still we welcome the present experiment as a practical step in lessening the tragedy of unemployment . E VERY TIME we have to buy a new suit of clothes , which is an infrequent but painful moment , we read advertisements and fashion articles for several days in advance in order to learn " what the well-dressed man should wear . " Just now , we gather from the Daily News Record , our estimable contemporary in men 's suits , the chief point upon which we should insist is a coat-of-arms instead of the plain label that father used to wear : The idea of selling a coat-of-arms with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals  --  unicorns especially  --  does not run out . . . . Heraldic labels are the animal crackers of clothes . Unicorns are being extensively worn , but of course there are lions , horses , serpents , and an unlimited collection of four-legged whatnots born in fevered imaginations but seldom listed in a circus program . The vogue of illustrated clothes , following that of illustrated books , began with overcoats , we learn , but the use of handsome labels is spreading so insidiously that it may reach underwear and corn-plasters by spring . Overcoats have the best of it , however , because a man can fold an overcoat inside out and throw it over a chair with the label on top . Friends can sit around in a circle and admire it . A man can not lounge gracefully with his jacket off , however , unless he is wearing a clean shirt . We doubt if , after paying for our new suit , we shall be able to afford a clean shirt every day . Hence we shall demand that our label be sewed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OF THE COUNTRY CHURCH was most usefully discussed at the recent meeting of the American Country Life Association at Columbus , Ohio . When 300 men and women , chiefly laymen , get together to consider such a problem in relation to the general question of rural living conditions we are apt to get truths all too often glossed over in purely ministerial gatherings . There seems to have been at Columbus remarkable agreement upon the fact that there are too many churches in rural communities and not enough cooperation among them , with the result that , thanks to a stupid and outgrown denominationalism , all the churches are weak and ineffective , with inadequate pulpit service . Unfortunately it is the denominations themselves which are the great stumbling-block to the realization of the true ideal of a noble community center , educational , with a profound ethical character , and supporting a free forum for the instruction of all the people in citizenship , in learning , in ethics . Professor Walter Burr , of the Kansas State Agricultural College , declared that while the great need of rural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the leading denominations who could alter the situation within a year refused to do so . Apparently they fear the effect of statistics showing the closing of many struggling churches . The Methodist clergy at Columbus telegraphed to their bishops to move towardonly one rural Protestant church to every thousand of population , and urged that no Methodist clergyman 's standing be prejudiced by his appointment as the pastor of a federated , undenominational church . A recent study shows that church attendance in Windsor County , Vermont , has dropped 52 per cent in thirty years . How much longer can the denominations delay modernizing their rural work ? T O THE CHRISTIAN CENTURY we take off our hats . If every religious or semi-religious journal were to do as valiant work against war as it does we should really make rapid strides toward the destruction of the war-gods . Most refreshing is its recent demand that the churches get out of the chaplaincy business . There has never been anything more disgusting than the assigning of Christian ministers , trained to preach the commandment " Thou shalt not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ murder . But the Christian Century now realizes that , aside from the ethical and moral issues involved , the chaplaincy is a deliberate part of the army 's and navy 's plan to hitch the church up to the war-game . Before the expansion of our army following the Spanish War the chaplains were usually broken-down or third-rate clergymen appointed by and for politicians for the mere purpose of filling sinecures . Latterly the Federal Council of Churches , to its disgrace , has taken an active part in the appointment of chaplains and has actually sponsored a bill to increase the chaplains from one to every 1,200 troops to one to every 800 ? without regard to whether the 800 want clergy or whether there is anything for such clergymen to do when appointed . The Christian Century rightly declares the whole business to be pagan and revolting ; " the two institutions can not be yoked together  --  the institution of Mars and the institution of Christ , the institution of fratricidal strife and the institution of brotherhood and universal good-will , the institution of the sword and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service the ministry truly " degrades and forswears its high calling . " S 0 PHOTORADIOGRAMS are at hand . Not that the first attempts which appeared in metropolitan newspapers were satisfactory or appealing , but as the transmission of pictures by wire has been nearly perfected , so , through radio , we are also to have pictures sent through the air from one quarter of the world to another . We must confess that the feat accomplished interests us less than the way in which it was brought about . Owen D. Young once remarked that the time would come when the front page of a New York or London newspaper would be transmitted entire across the ocean to appear the next day in facsimile in London or New York . Thereupon three engineers of the General Electric Company and the Radio Corporation of America went to work to make good Mr. Young 's prophecy . In other wards , science is being developed by the choosing of a goal and the devoting of concentrated and elaborate efforts to its achievement . That is the modern way . Where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with little or no aid , the great modern corporations maintain huge laboratories in which sometimes a thousand persons are free to devote themselves to given problems with unlimited time and unlimited sums of money . In this case three brilliant men staked their minds , their laboratories , and the means of two great companies upon their succeeding , and won .                     