@@487279

is the genius who as Alien Property Custodian decided to- filch some 4,500 chemical patents from their rightful owners , in violation of every precept of decent government and American tradition , and to turn them over to American chemical industrialists . This was called " Americanization . " By a " broad " construction of the powers of President Wilson , who was imposed upon by Palmer , Garvan , and the chemical industry , the Supreme- Court sustained this egregious confiscation . What the Europeans had spent years of research and millions of dollars in developing , for which patent protection had been lawfully obtained , certain American chemical industrialists acquired by a simple process of theft , employing government officials and the shoddy cloak of " patriotism " to perpetrate the act . Then , in order to prevent the true inventors and discoverers of these products of science from again seeking to sell their inventions and discoveries in the United States , - the chemical industrialists persuaded Congress , after the war , to impose an embargo against the foreign products . Salvarsan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be introduced into the United States from Germany , because an embargo protects the American manufacturer , operating with a filched patent . The duped American public must accept an inferior product . The European owners , desiring to save something from the wreckage and to win back the rewards of their brains and research , have decided to pool their interests and endeavor to reacquire what they had previously built up . The American market is still largely closed to them by artificial tariff barriers . - - Now let us note how Mr. Garvan , the public official and industrial agent who " Americanized " 4,500 Austrian and German patents , greets the resurrection of the European competition in foreign markets , now promised to the milkfed and patented American chemical industrialists : Is there an American whose soul is so dead as not to thrill at such a threat and menace as this combine makes against the safety and independence of our national defense , our national health , and our national industrial progress ? The extent of the danger is easy to comprehend . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dye fight , or a nitrate fight , or a rayon fight , or a fight for Asiatic or South American markets . No , it is a- fight to reassert European . . supremacy in chemistry and chemical progress , and that means German military supremacy and German industrial supremacy , and German supremacy in drugs and potential necessities . . . . Enlightened American industry , enlightened American opinion , and enlightened American legislation will not allow our betrayal . Well , our soul only thrills with disgust that bunk and piffle of this kind can be perpetrated on the country , and that those who acquired 4,500 patents by second-story methods have the effrontery to produce such nonsense . - Had the patents really been deemed important in the national interest , they could have been acquired honestly by eminent domain and compensation . But the chemical industry seems to prefer a cheaper , if less honorable , method of acquiring vast benefits for itself , imposing the ignominy on the United States and cajoling the American consumer - into the belief that his burdens in higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia Leads the World T HE way to disarm is to disarm . This was Mr. Lit- vinov 's bold challenge to the governments of the world assembled in the Disarmament Conference at Geneva . He dared them to wipe out armies and navies and air forces ; to destroy all weapons , fortresses , military supplies , and all means of chemical warfare ; to end forever all military training , and military ministries and general staffs ; to prohibit military propaganda and military education . In other words , he proposed a clean sweep of the whole damnable , murderous business of teaching and preparing human beings to kill each other . He dared the nations to prove that they were really sincere when they called upon each other to disarm , and not merely bent upon the hocus-pocus of striking off one class of ships here or reducing an army by 15 or 20 per cent there . He dared them to abide by the commandment : " Thou shalt not kill , " and to prove themselves Christians . To the Allies his demand was that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was " the war to end war . " The full text of his proposal appears in this week 's International Relations Section . Thus he took the ultimate position , and he has encountered exactly the fate which inevitably comes to a radical who desires to go to the root of things , to cut to the bone . He has been ridiculed , abused , denounced , and cartooned as bringing a Trojan horse to Geneva . The half-hearted sponsors of peace , the compromisers of the daily press who admit that war is hellish and then but a dozen buts so that there shall be no far-reaching reform , the embattled militarists and their followers who find themselves facing the possibility that they may lose their jobs , the defenders of war as an end and a glory in itself  --  all have joined to deride this preposterous suggestion . Litvinov , they say , is obviously insincere ; does not the Soviet regime exist only because it uses military force against its enemies ? He is again insincere in thus challenging the nations because he knows that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impractical , visionary proposal which no one would or could accept  --  he would be the first to have his withers wrung if it were accepted . It was a skilful dialectician 's trick to put the other nations in the wrong . It was a superbly clever piece of propaganda to put Russia into the forefront at Geneva and it was at the same moment an incredibly stupid act , because it immediately united against her once more all the nations around the Council . It was ran idle gesture and , having made it , Litvinov might now be expected to get down to business and join in the task of lopping off a battleship here and a regiment there . Thus run the comments  --  and so they would run if in any other field of action the Russians or anyone else should produce a plan which really meant something , which really struck seriously at vested interests . That this is what the armies and navies have become was stated clearly by Lord Robert Cecil  --  we quoted him last week as saying that " every month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral , strengthen their hold . " Of course they do . Each month the great economic interests encourage the up-building of armaments and carry on the trade rivalries that lead directly to war . They are the great propagandists against disarmament ; they fan the flames of nationalism even while they organize international trusts and con-sortiums ; they demand large standing armies in order to maintain the social and economic status quo ; they want to be armed against any domestic uprising . They want armies to protect themselves  --  as if arms would help against the Russian economic doctrines . If Russia disarmed by herself , a large part of our press would still be picturing the Soviets as planning some night to murder our women and children in their beds . Why not ? The press is largely in the hands of the masters of capital whom Woodrow Wilson termed the " masters of America . " Why should it not have greeted Litvinov 's proposals precisely as it did ? Exactly the same would its reaction have been if Jesus Christ himself had appeared at Geneva to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too , would have been portrayed as a designing long-haired Jew , or at best as a wild-eyed fanatic , dangerous to , the world because he preached the impossible . Do not all who demand the ideal make far more difficult the paths of the " practical " statesmen who , with their feet on the ground , seek to approach each go-al by one " rational " step after another , not , as the cant runs , " going too far and too fast for public opinion " ? Well , for ourselves , we care little for these critical comments , and we care at this hour very little for the motives of M. Litvinov . It may all have been a clever trick . It was a clever maneuver , but we deem it a very great service to humanity . It is always dangerous to let loose a new idea in the world , and there are millions of people , many of them bearing upon their bodies the scars of the last conflict , who will never forget that one great government has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obscene institution of war . They will continue to ask themselves why this ideal is not attainable . They will find no other answers to their question but the stubbornness of those vested interests , the army and navy and the munition-makers , and the other profiteers by war , and the masses of compromisers and casuists who year in and year out throw cold water upon any proposal which would advance the interests of the masses of mankind . Litvinov has shot one of those arrows into the air that fall no man knows where . The Disarmament Conference can never meet again without having the ultimate goal plainly in view . They may trim and compromise and shillyshally all they please , but whether they like it or not the final objective will be there before them and they can not gainsay it . It is , of course , too much to hope that in this Christian America there will be an articulate body of opinion to support so radical a demand . From all sides we hear that the whispering campaign against the Russians gains ground day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Daughters of the American Revolution , and elsewhere there is , we learn , an almost sadistic dwelling upon the horrors of Bolshevik rule . Before us lies a screed from a citizen of Washington , D. C. , declaring that England , France , and Germany have all been won over by the Soviets to a secret agreement to destroy the United States ! To such as these the Litvinov move will be but the voice of Jacob . For ourselves we welcome with all our hearts the Russian proposals . It is our deliberate judgment that if persisted in they will give to the Soviets the moral leadership of the world . Mr. Lamont 's Duty M R. THOMAS W. LAMONT , of J. P. Morgan and Company , accompanied by Martin Egan of the same firm , and Jeremiah Smith , Jr. , sailed for Japan in September . Business , they told the New York Times , had nothing to do with the trip , there were no loans involved , and social activities were to take up all of their time in Japan . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While they were engaged in social activities the rumors soared and roared around the China Sea . Mr. Lamont was insisting upon America 's equal right with Japan to finance new railroads in Manchuria ; Mr. Lamont was negotiating loans to finance Japanese expansion in Manchuria ; Mr. Lamont was to help develop Japanese hydro-electric power ; Mr. Lamont was supporting a Japanese plan to crush Russian influence in Northern Manchuria  --  there was hardly any Far Eastern program with which some rumor-monger did not identify Mr. Lamont . Upon his return to America the newspapers carried reports that Mr. Lamont had visited the State Department to inquire whether it had any objections to his lending $40 , - 000,000 to the South Manchurian Railway ; and it was indicated that the State Department had none . It would object to any proposal to assist the Japanese in closing the Manchurian markets , but so long as the open door was maintained it washed its hands of Mr. Lamont 's private business . The State Department was in a difficult position . Its policy of visaing loans gets it into ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loan proposals without seeming to commit an openly unfriendly act against Japan ; yet it can not wash its hands as clean of the loan as it wishes . Willy-nilly , its failure to veto must seem to mean approval of the proposed loan , and it thereby commits the United States in perilous fashion . Manchuria is the battlefield of a silent diplomatic war in Asia , and gloomy prophets predict that it may soon be the field of open international war . Mr. Lamont may think that his actions as an individual , or as partner in a banking firm , or as trustee for investors , do not commit his country ; unfortunately , an international banker is sometimes more significant as an emissary than the appointed ambassador . All China is united in protest against the loan proposal ; and it holds the United States Government responsible . Issue of the loan , the Nanking Government says , would be an unfriendly act ; and Yang Yu-ting , chief of Chang Tsolin 's staff , second most important man in the Northern Government , says that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will hold the American Government and people responsible . " This may seem much ado about a commercial loan . But the South Manchurian Railway is more than a commercial institution . It dominates Manchuria , and the Japanese Government owns 50 per cent of its stock . It owns the Fushan collieries , whence Japan draws six million tons of coal each year  --  nearly half of China 's total production . It owns the Anshan iron works , of which Japan has high hopes . It maintains an elaborate system of schools and hospitals , and the Japanese Government polices the railway zone with its soldiers . In recent years it has financed and managed-some extensions of railway lines for the Chinese , and conducted others on its own initiative . Some of these are commercial ; others are largely strategic  --  intended to facilitate cutting the Trans-Siberian railway in case of war , with Russia . This railway 's president , who is the highest Japanese governmental official in Manchuria , has just said that Japan has in Manchuria her first line of defense . She does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace ; but strategic reasons form one benefit which she derives from her presence in Manchuria . Japanese statesmen have lately been loud in proclaiming Japan 's " special position " in Manchuria  --  a phrase unpleasantly reminiscent of the talk of her diplomats in the years preceding the annexation of Korea . Recently she has been objecting to the construction of Chinese railway lines parallel to the South Manchurian , on the ground of an alleged secret protocol to the 1905 treaty , the text of which has never been published and the authenticity of which is denied by the Chinese . To lend money to such an organization , in the present inflammable state of the Far East , is almost an act of war . It is an insult to China and a provocation to Russia . No matter what the size of the loan , whether it be used for refunding operations , for repair of old lines or construction of new ones , its psychological effect will be immediate and sure . Whatever the State Department and Mr. Lamont may say , such a loan will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notice to the world that the United States supports the new " positive policy " of Japan in Manchuria and that we are abandoning our long support of the principle of the territorial integrity of China . In this matter Mr. Lamont can not act as a private individual . Mr. Coolidge has declared that Our government has certain rights over and certain duties toward our own citizens and their property wherever they may be located . The person and property of a citizen are a part of the general domain of the nation , even when abroad . He and the Administration , by their active support of foreign investors , have bound Mr. Lamont 's hands . He can not act without committing the United States . In these circumstances , he has a patriotic duty to perform . He and his firm owe it to their country to drop the South Manchurian loan . Down With the Critics ! I T appears that this year the dramatic critics of Paris have been more cantankerous than usual . They have shown a remarkable unanimity in damning everything that comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interested in profits than in art , are talking rebellion . Why , they ask , should they entertain such ungrateful guests or give free tickets to men who do nothing except endeavor to persuade others to stay from the theaters ? First-nighters , they say , should be- abolished , but with characteristic French humor they suggest that the critics shall come to the fiftieth performance of every play that continues to exist long enough to have one . Thus the duties of the reviewer will be lightened and , of course , the public will already have decided for itself whether it likes the performance or not without the benefit of advice from the professional and theoretically jaded critic . Now the opinion which the business man of the theater holds concerning the value of dramatic criticism is neither very fixed nor wholly dispassionate . One year he may almost succeed in persuading the public that all play reviewers are fools or worse , but next year when Smith of the Morning Scandal says ( as he is pretty certain to say ) that somebody or other is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temptation to nullify all he has previously said by proudly flaunting the " authoritative " opinion of Mr. Smith in the face of the public . Mr. Nathan , if memory serves , was once and for a time barred , i.e. , refused free tickets , from certain theaters but though Mr. Nathan is notoriously the most rough-spoken of all American critics there is not a manager in New York who would not treasure and exploit any phrase of his which happened to be laudatory even if it had to be extracted from a column of vituperation and slightly misquoted to boot . Whatever managers say , they always act as though criticism were important , and they will not persuade the public that critical disparagement is nonsense as long as they treat critical praise as significant . The truth of the matter is , of course , that half the theaters in New York would have to close down if the newspapers and magazines stopped talking about plays . The commercial theater exists largely by virtue of the fact that it is a recognized social institution and , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assume that it is . The most important thing that the manager gets in money value in return for his free tickets is general publicity for the theater as an institution and he could not possibly get along without it . In half the individual cases the critics may do his play more harm than good . In half the others he might have been just as successful if the individual play in question had never been mentioned by the press . But if plays in general were not talked about or written about , people would not go to the theater one-half as much as they do . The critics take plays seriously , the newspapers and magazines give the critics space in which to express their opinions , and the- general public is not allowed to forget that the theater exists . Popular opinion to the contrary , damnation is not " good advertisement " for the play that the critics damn ; but in the long run such damnation is good advertisement for the theater as a whole . " Strut , Miss Lizzie ! " T HE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say , the Russian proposal to disarm instead of talking about it . Editorial writers may be stirred about such matters ; diplomats may consider them solemnly or otherwise over their cigars . But the people  --  the people in Oshkosh and Hoboken , in Sauk Center , in San Francisco and New York , - Life people in China and Japan and London and Paris are agog over the new Ford car ! Never was publicity story so adroitly managed . A dozen times during the past few months alleged details about the new car slipped out and were duly featured on the front pages of the newspapers . Each time solemn denials came from Edsel Ford , from the Ford plant in Detroit , from the great man himself . Yet the stories persisted : the car was to have a standard gear-shift and four-wheel brakes ; it was to look just like the old one , only funnier ; it was to be equipped with every sort of modern trick and contrivance ; it was to double its price . It was rumored that-behind a ten-foot fence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sixty-five miles an hour ; a fortnight ago pirated pictures of the new car were printed in the New York papers , pictures obtained by stealth- by the enterprising editor of the Weekly Argus of Bridgeton , Michigan . And Edsel merely shook his head or his finger and refused to be quoted . Yet it is doubtful if- any amount of publicity , managed by ever so masterful a hand , could have produced the enormous interest that the plain people feel in the new car . Fifteen million of them have bought Fords . They have driven the old bus downhill past Packards and uphill behind everything else ; they have driven in rain and snow and over the thawing roads of March ; they have mended a door with a piece of string , they have cursed at side-curtains that never came near to fitting , they have thrust a nail in to hold something that an honest bolt would have held better ; they have loaded the old Ford high with farm produce , mattresses , baby carriages , 300-pound hogs , and with whatever handicap they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they wanted to go . It has been pointed out that men called the Ford car " she . " Only when a tool with which man is served comes very near his heart does he deal with it so familiarly . The sailing ship , proud under its white canvas , was " she " , the old horse plodding through mud or sun ; " she 's a nice blade , " says the woodsman of his favorite ax ; and a pet cat or dog , whatever its sex , may be " she . " Out of this affection born of common use it is not strange that all America should be breathless to hear the real details at last , or that 375,000 advance orders for the new car should have been placed . But when we read in the China Weekly Review ( Shanghai ) that the new Ford will not be ready in October as previously announced or when we hear that buses are running up to London to places where the cars are on exhibition ( admission 1/6 ) we realize that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Miss Lizzie Ford , U. S. A. And for all our rough familiarity with Lizzie , for all the jokes that have been cracked at her expense , and all the abuse she has suffered from the owners of " real cars , " there is something colossal in the spectacle of a little man in Detroit , Michigan , who out of his own head , whatever else may be lacking in that same head , drew an idea which has won the hearts of millions . Henry Ford did not invent the automobile ; but he made it a success as no other man in the world has done . Incidentally he has made money by the hundred million ; but only incidentally . The money can mean little to him  --  there is too much of it and his ideas of how to spend it are too elementary . But he has his fun all the same . And because of it , we have ours . During the last quarter of a century machines have been carried to the farthest village in the country . Telephones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the barn . Yet what man thinks tenderly of his cream separator ? And who looks on a telephone except with impatience and contumely ? Henry Ford went with the machine wave that washed from one end of the country to the other and spread across two oceans , east and west . He alone won the hearts of his customers ; and his product , even radically altered , is welcomed eagerly and affectionately  --  even though it means standing in a long line in the pouring rain to get the first sight of it , as last week it , did ? instead of with the suspicion and distrust that greets most new-fangled mechanical devices .                     