@@253624

RELIGON <P> The churches of the world are still keeping the question of world peace in their plans and prayers . Last week Cardinal von Faulhaber , Archbishop of Munich , arrived to thank Americans for what they have done to help the poor children of his country and of Central Europe . " My voyage is a message of peace , not of propaganda . I hope my trip here will be a service of good will and peace to both peoples , " said he in halting English . Cardinal yon Faulhaber will remain in the United States three weeks . <P> The Episcopal convention of the diocese of Boston last week passed a resolution demanding the entrance of the United States into the League of Nations-not as an expediency of partisan politics , but as a Christian duty to establish world peace . Mark Sullivan , dean of Washington political correspondents , declares that church sentiment is making the League , once " dead , " an issue which Mr. Harding and other candidates can not afford to neglect in 1924 . <P> The most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the World Alliance for International Friendship through the Churches . This alliance includes all Christian churches of the world except the Roman Catholic . It holds that the League is the best means of international justice and friendship and says that the task of the churches of every land is to inspire among their people an enthusiasm for the great conception of the League and a willingness to labor for its complete realization . A committee of 26 , containing both French and German members , presented a report urging that the Ruhr dispute be submitted to the League . The delegates pledged themselves to work for this through their churches . Dr. William Adams Brown of the Federal Council of Churches represented the United States at this convention . The Federal Council is committed to the Zrich program , and is urging the 30,000,000 members of Protestant churches in the United States to work and pray for world peace in definite and powerful form .                     