@@488289

THE SOVEREIGN STATE of North Carolina has by judicial process consigned seven men to prison for terms varying from five to twenty years for the murder of Police Chief Aderholt of Gastonia , but the doubt will persist that these men are guilty . The man who killed Aderholt was not identified , and not one of the Northern Communist organizers who received the heaviest sentences was shown to have fired a shot . Although the evidence against local Southern strikers was stronger than against the Northerners it was the Southerners who escaped with five- to fifteen-year sentences while Beal , Miller . , ; after , and Harrison were given seventeen to twenty ; - ea , s . The fate of the prison  --  ers was sealed when Judge Barnhill admitted evidence to show that they held Communist and atheist beliefs . To a Southern fundamentalist farmer a Communist or an atheist is a criminal per se . That the jury convicted the prisoners for their beliefs as much as their crimes is indicated by the blanket verdict which found all the prisoners guilty of all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against some of the defendants on some of the charges was nil . Rolling on the floor , shouting , and kneeling in prayer Solicitor John G Carpenter in his summary before the jury denounced the defendants as " foreign Communists , " " fiends incarnate , " and " devils with hoofs and horns . " " Do you believe in the flag , do you believe in North Carolina ? " he screamed . The jury , saturated with nationalist supersti  --  tions and anti-labor prejudice , gave the only answer that could come from such a group . PRESIDENT HOOVER , meet Mr. Export Debenture ! Mr. Debenture , you will recall , is an old acquaintance who spent some time with us last spring and then went to the country for his health . Now he is back hale and hearty , and more popular than ever with his friends the Senators . You thought him an impractical fellow before , as we remem  --  ber , on account of his economic views , and of course he came in bad company  --  just farmers ; but now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Grundy and Mr. Eyanson and the rest , we ca n't help wondering if you wo n't at least have Mrs. Hoover invite him to tea . Of course , we do n't like his high prices even yet , but then we do n't like Mr. Aluminum Tariff and his high prices and all the rest of the Tariff boys with their high prices . You like them so well that we are sure you will be glad to see Mr. Deben  --  ture back walking arm in arm with them where he belongs . What ? You say you 'll veto Mr. Debenture ? Strange hos  --  pitality that , to anyone who promises to raise prices and make somebody rich . Goodby , 1VIr . Debenture ; call again . THE " INTELLECTUAL ARROGANCE " which Senator Bingham always displays in the Senate was partially responsible , the press dispatches report , for the zest with which his fellow-Senators examined and scored the Senator from Connecticut who has now admitted that his hiring of a tariff lobbyist as his private secretary , to coach him as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mis  --  take . " That mild characterization of his own act merely emphasizes again Senator Bingham 's moral callousness and unfitness for the post he occupies . It is only a " mistake , " he thinks , to take an employee of the Connecticut Manufac  --  turers ' Association , palm him off as his private secretary , put him on the government 's pay-roll , and let him into the secret hearings of the Senate 's subcommitee on finance with the result that 44 of the 52 industries of Connecticut re  --  ceived tariff favors aggregating $70,000,000 . Even the dyed-in-the-wool tariff men in Congress are appalled at this revelation of the way tariffs are made to suit the beneficiaries and are calling Bingham 's act not a " mistake " but a crimi  --  nally stupid blunder . It is now up to the people of Con  --  necticut to show how they feel . By his own statement the Senator conceived himself the representative not of all the people of Connecticut but only of the manufacturers and their employees . In that role he was willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manufacturers . Connecti  --  cut surely remembers that this is the same Hiram Bing  --  ham who pledged his word that if he was elected governor he would serve out his term . He was elected  --  and went to the Senate immediately Connecticut owes it to itself to call on the Senator to retire to private life . PROFESSOR DAVID SAVILLE MUZZEY has gen  --  erously consented to drop his libel suit for $100,000 against former Representative John J. Gorman . Mr. Gor  --  man made charges that Mr. Muzzey 's " American History " contained treasonable and seditious matter and should be kept out of the public schools . Now he admits that he neg  --  lected to read the history in question before making the charges ; his official retraction in part follows : I write to retract the charges that I made concerning your textbook in use in the public schools . As you have already been advised , the letter which I addressed to Mayor Thompson , dated August 24 , 1927 , criticizing your book , " American History , " was not wntten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person . I had not at the time read your book to which this letter referred , and I made the mistake of signing the letter because of the confidence that I had in this person and his statements . I have since found that I was misled in so doing . I greatly regret if in this letter to the Mayor , in my testimony before the Board of Education at the McAndrew trial , or in any other statement made by me , I have seemed to reflect in any way upon your motives in writing these textbooks or upon your character as a patriotic citizen , for I now realize that I had no basis for casting such asper  --  sions . . . . Mr. Muzzey is privileged to take what comfort he may from this letter , proof as it is that Mr. Gorman acted quite with  --  out thought and with sufficient animus . For ourselves we should prefer the hundred thousand dollars . Charges of this sort are more easily made than forgotten or retracted . And as long as there are persons stupid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sign without reading it a state  --  ment which makes them  --  there should be a protection and a redress against them for honest men . THE AUTHOR OF WILLIAM B. SHEARER 'S secret document , purporting to be a bitter attack upon the United States by Sir William Wiseman , has now been revealed as Dr. William J. Maloney , a brilliant Irish physician , resident in New York since the war . Of course , the " secret " of Dr. Maloney 's delightful and legitimate skit upon England and the United States , intended to do its part in keeping the United States out of the League of Nations , has for years been no secret in New York . The pamphlet was at the time of its publication investigated by solemn and stupid Secret Service men , unable to tell the difference be  --  tween a brilliant satire and high treason . It remained , however , for Mr. Shearer to resurrect one letter from this pamphlet with which to try to defeat the naval conference at Geneva . Nothing could more clearly prove that Mr. Shearer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not aware of the source of the pamphlet and its satirical character , he was a careless fool . If he deliberately palmed it off as a genuine official British document , he was a knave . He must decide for himself which horn of the dilemma to choose when he next appears before the Senate committee of inquiry . UNCONDITIONAL ACCEPTANCE by Japan and acceptance by France and Italy without formal con  --  ditions but with implied reservations , is the response of those Powers to the invitation of the British Government to the naval conference at London next January . The Japanesereply was notably frank and cordial . The French reply , while it did not mention the submarine issue , seized upon Mr. Henderson 's reference in his note of invitation to the Preparatory Commission of the League to reiterate the well-known French contention that a general reduction of arma  --  ments could be carried out only under League auspices . Washington dispatches had hastened to announce , before the French reply was published , that there was no intention of tying the London conference to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand on its own feet . The Italian reply went farther afield by referring specifically to the Italian note of October 6 , 1928 , occasioned by the stir over the secret Anglo-French naval understanding . In that note the Italian Government , in addition to expressing its preference for limitation by total tonnage rather than by classes of vessels , let it be known that it would not be satisfied with a fleet less powerful than that of any other " continental European country . " Evidently the London conference will have to deal with some delicate situations and national politics will , as usual , play their part . The important thing is that the conference is assured If , now , the governments will leave their technicians at home there will be ground for expecting that something worth while may be done . WHILE GREAT BRITAIN 'S Labor Government has been winning plaudits in foreign relations , where traditionally only the aristocracy are competent , its friends have watched with increasing concern its lack of bold action in domestic affairs . The miners ' demands for a seven-hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' determined opposition to these demands , only emphasize the necessity for a thoroughgoing reorganization of the coal in  --  industry . The Government 's reply , presented to the miners last week , appears , according to the brief cabled summaries , to be a weak compromise document offering a seven-and-a  --  half-hour day , nationalization of royalties early next year , and the putting into effect of the owners ' scheme for coordi  --  nation of marketing . There is no use puttering with the British coal industry in this way ; the Conservatives did enough of that . The Government would do well to take a lesson from the success of the German rationalization scheme and to come forward with a comprehensive plan for this disorganized and inefficient industry . On the same day that it replied to the miners the Government made public a bill to extend the existing system of old-age pensions to cover half a million additional pensioners at an added cost of eight mil  --  lion pounds a year . If Mr. MacDonald 's Government is to maintain its position , it needs to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose of extending human happi  --  ness , " as the Dazly Herald - ruts it , but of reorganizing Brit- ish industry to produce the 1 , , h6rewithal . IT IS AN AMAZING STORY of chauvinism and 1 tyranny that Marcus Duffield tells in the November issue of Harper 's Magazine in discussing " Mussolini 's American Empire . " No Italian in the United States and no American citizen of Italian birth is safe from the long arm of Fascist imperialism , even after many years of residence in this coun  --  try . The Fascist League , Mussolini 's political organiza  --  tion in the United States , sets up courts and schools for its " subjects " and even imposes taxes upon Italo-American bachelors . The country is honeycombed with Fascist agents who by boycott and intimidation suppress the anti-Fascist organizations and herd the children into Fascist schools . They have captured the largest Italian fraternal order , the Sons of Italy , and the Casa Italiana at Columbia University . Only two Italian newspapers in the United States have sur  --  vived their attack  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tresca 's II Martell ? . When the Duce is unable to command the loyalty of Italo-Americans by direct orders or by economic pressure his lieutenants use relatives in Italy as hostages to compel obedience . Many an ardent anti-Fascist in America has suppressed his anger and joined a local Fascio after receiving a piteous plea from relatives in the homeland . Italy has for a number of years claimed the right to conscript all eligible men of Italian birth for the army  --  even those who are American citizens  --  but Mussolini has given a peculiarly partisan twist to this practice . He has adopted the policy , says Mr. Duffield , " of arresting for military duty all eligible Italo-Americans visiting Italy except Fascisti in good standing . " E SARDONIC FACT about this American empire TH Mussolini is that it is made possible by American money . Italy is a very poor country , and without American credit it is doubtful if Mussolini could carry on ; certainly he could not without American aid continue his program of military aggrandizement . Our bankers have given his government $300,000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was exceptionally generous , and Mussolini counts upon us for more money in the future . It is not sur  --  prising , therefore , that he is particularly sensitive to Ameri  --  can criticism and that the United States is flooded with Fascist propagandists who seek to exalt him as a dictator of almost divine wisdom . What the situation demands is a determined word from Washington . The Government should now act on the facts Harper 's has brought out . If Mussolini 's dictatorship had been pro-labor instead of pro-capitalist that word would have been spoken long ago . QENATOR SHEPPARD , it seems to us , is entirely cal in his proposal to amend the Volstead Act to make purchasers of liquor as well as sellers specifically liable for infringement of the law , though we fail to see any logic in his remark that " the fact of the continued advance of prohi  --  bition sentiment makes it advisable . " Opposition to Senator Sheppard 's plan comes , strangely enough , from the dry camp . Rev. Dr. A. J. Barton , high in Anti-Saloon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional and " I fear that the introduction of the amendment at the present time is untimely and unfortunate . " Dr. Barton goes on to imply that the purchaser of liquor is in the same pite  --  ous category as the deluded purchaser of drugs  --  a very touch  --  ing picture which , however , does not fit many of the purchas  --  ers we have observed . Meanwhile Senator Sheppard has only one body of solid opinion behind him  --  the Wets ! The whole incident is typical of prohibition as it is practiced in this country . The Drys , who consider the prohibition law a moral blessing , will not risk losing it by making it stronger . The Wets are not averse to the law against purchasers because they feel certain that it would be unenforceable and would bring about the complete collapse of prohibition . But neitherside is really concerned with the only question which can be pertinent in a democracy : Do the people of the United States want prohibition or not ? IT IS A CRIME to praise the United States  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovery of one Johann Hodovan , an Hungarian peasant who returned to his native land after some years in the United States too enthusiastic about the latter for his own good . He was indiscreet enough to declare that America was a better world than Hungary for there the workingman was honored and not terrorized . The result was his prompt arrest and prosecu  --  tion . A witness testified in court that Hodovan constantly stated that in America the workingman was valued and that , " as in America communism controlled , this was equiva  --  lent to praising communism " ! The court in Budapest agreed with the witness that the United States is communistic and Hodovan is in prison for a year . EDWIN E. SLOSSON , director of Science Service , who died at Washington on October 15 , was one of the few American scientists of assured competence who have chosen to devote themselves to popularizing knowledge rather than to adding to its sum . His special field was chemistry , and while for a number of years other interests claimed him  --  he was for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eight years of that time a mem  --  ber of the faculty of the School of Journalism in Columbia University  --  it is as a writer on chemistry that he is most widely and favorably known . His " Creative Chemistry , " published in 1919 , remains the most successful attempt yet made to explain to non-technical readers the nature and methods of modern chemistry , and his " Easy Lessons in Ein  --  stein " is a remarkable piece of popularization . It was to Dr. Slosson 's credit that he recognized , far more than many of his scientific associates , the wide gulf between popular knowl  --  edge and the theories and accomplishments of modern science , and the dependence of scientific research upon in  --  telligent public support . His efforts alone could not bridge that gulf completely , as the vast intellectual wastes of Ameri  --  can society still show , but what he did he did well and to the enlightenment of thousands who read eagerly his books and other writings . IT WAS AN INTERESTING and picturesque celebra  --  tion of the jubilee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put on at Dearborn . From all over the world Mr. Edison received congratulations , well de  --  served irrespective of all question of his personal credit for the original invention of this particular device . He voiced his appreciation in a happily worded acknowledgment heard all over the country . The marvel of it is that practically the entire development of electric lighting , with the yet greater wonders of the radio , has occurred within the brief space of half a century . Mr. Edison has done as much as any living man to improve the external conditions of living for us all , and the entire country , including the President of the United States , fittingly does him honor . A few days earlier a little group of scholars met quietly to honor , in the person of John Dewey , a man who has made over our thinking . It is an interesting example of our comparative valuation of material and intellectual things .                     