@@493252

In Memoriam ? Willard Straight The following sketch of Willard Straight will be published sometime during 1922 as the introduction to a memoir of his life and work . WILLARD DICKERMAN STRAIGHT was conspicuously a man of diversified interests . His career , in the sense of his vohmtary and responsible contact with the world , began when in the late fall of 1901 , at the age of twenty-one , he sailed for China . From that time until he died in Paris on December 1st , 1918 , he was eagerly seeking many experiences and engaged in many affairs . Trained in college as an architect , he always remained keenly observant of the outside aspect of things , and particularly during his early residence in China , his pencil and his pen were both busy in reporting what he saw . He was impressionable , sensitive , alert , inquisitive , quick to the challenge of the occasion and the affair . Yet he was not by temperament an artist . Primarily he was a man of action . He did not want so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ellis occupations were as diversified as his interests . Beginning as an official in the Chinese Customs Service , he resigned in 1904 to act as correspondent during the Russo-Japanese War . At its end he entered the service of the American government as Vice-Consul at Seoul , and during the next few years he served successively in Korea , in Washington , in Cuba and finally as Consul-General at Mukden . He resigned as an employee of the State Department in order ostensibly to go into business , but the business in which he engaged remained public . No well-wisher of the Chinese people could live for long in China without becoming interested in the development of her economic resources . He was interested in a large way and in an essentially public and political relationship . Seeing that American policy in China was less selfish than that of other countries , he sought to induce American capital , as an agent of the American government , to invest in railroad construction . He labored for the next few years to overcome the grave political and business obstacles to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government from the group of American bankers which had consented to lend money to China and deprived his work of all immediate chance of success , he occupied himself with various affairs until the United States entered the war in April , 1917 . During the last eighteen months of his life he was a soldier , butit is characteristic of his versatility that while a soldier he performed some of his best work in an essentially civilian capacity and that in the few weeks between the armistice and his death he had returned to diplomacy . When he was taken sick he was helping to plan the organization of the American delegation at the Peace Conference . During the seventeen years of his active life , therefore , Willard Straight served successively as an employee of the Chinese government , a war correspondent , a member of the American Consular Service , a financial diplomat , a business man and a soldier . Yet the variety of his occupations was not the reflection of any essential discontinuity of purpose . ' He took his orders from the irresistible prompting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refrain from deserting the less for the greater adventure . His original intention of becoming an architect yielded quickly to the project of going to China and of opening up for himself a less routine career in the unexplored and beckoning East . He worked hard to qualify himself for his new job , but he was as little cut out for the hum-drum life of a Chinese civil servant as he was for that of an architect . When he resigned his position to become a war correspondent , he was not deserting a chosen career . He was yielding to the dictates of his imagination and embarking his own life on the , largest adventure within his reach . In abandoning a year or two later the consular service of his country in order to interest American capital in the development of China , he again gave up a safe routine occupation and responded to the call Of a pioneering enterprise . This new affair was the outstanding adventure of his life . It was the culmination of his seven years of exploration , of study , of experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success high abilities as a negotiator , as a judge of men and as an appraiser of political and economic conditions . It was , indeed , the one enterprise in the China of that day which was bound to tempt a man who was pioneer both in temperament and in mind . The development of China was no longer a matter Of opening up ports and extending commerce . It had become a matter of building railroads , tapping natural resources , founding industries and of seek " ing those changes in Chinese political and social organization which would equip it to stand the December 21 , 1921 strain of modern industrialism . Willard Straight saw this transformation coming and the concrete opportunities which would come with it . Only he saw it not merely as a business man would see it in terms of a profitable investment , but as a statesman would see it in terms of its effect on the lives of a people and in its relationship to the general political and economic movements of the world . His ability to see it in its larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ versatility . I have characterized him as primarily a man of action . He was dissatisfied and unhappy unless he was being carried along on the tide of some spacious event . But neither was he satisfied with behaving merely as the creature of the event . He was eagerly looking around , registering what he saw and inquiring about the destination and , the route . Unlike the ordinary Man of action , his disposition was also critical and reflective . He not only watched with discriminat-. lag vigilance what was going on , but he sedulously recorded his experiences for his own use . During Many years of his life he transcribed the record Ui a diary . This diary is an illuminating and imPortant fact . His keeping of it affords a clue to certain of his characteristics which otherwise Would remain obscure , and it provides the material for an unusually faithful portrait of a man , the Peculiar distinction of whose life might otherwise have eluded detection . Different motives may persuade a man to keep a diary . The commonest is perhaps a na ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiences which urges the diarist to record even the most insignificant feelings and happenings of his life . The consummate type of this kind of diary Is , of course , Pepys ; but the confessions of , Iloosseau and the autobiography of Casanova be-rng to the same general class . A less common Saint more frequently published type is that of a naint Simon or a Gideon Welles , who is participating in great events or is in a position to know how they happen and who sets down day by day the results of his observations . Without such diaries history in the modern sense could scarcely be written . They provide the historian with an in " 41 ) ensable check upon the partial falsification infects public acts and records and against ' vnleh only private letters and records can protect I Willard Straight 's diary belongs to neither of t5e classes . He did not participate in the mak- of great events or watch from the inside other tl , leo in the manufacture of history . Neither was i . a naive or sublimated egotism which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in setting down what happene.d to him . A conspicuous characteristic of his diary is its objectivity . It begins when he sails for China in the fall of 1901 . When a boy of twenty-one starts a record of his life , he is usually providing an escape for the abounding energy of his own self-consciousness . But the young Willard was not particularly self-conscious . He was not at that moment troubled by doubts and queries , and he felt little need of feeding to himself the fruits of his own reflections . He was interested chiefly in people and in things . He set down events and happenings , impressions and observations rather than precious thoughts and tortured feelings . He was not so much preoccupied with the unfolding of his own personality as he was fascinated by the panorama of life as it passed day by day before his eyes . There were , however , passages in his diary of which the foregoing description is not true . He had moments of self-distrust , in which his customary objectivity disappeared . During these periods he , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preoccupation with his own states of mind to intrude into the running sketch of events and experiences . But these periods , important as they were in his personal history , never lasted very long , and he does not write his diary for the purpose of recording them . On the contrary his tendency is to suppress them or at least to hurry away from them . He was uneasy and unhappy as long as they lasted , and he always struggled to push out of them and to launch himself once more on the tide of some absorbing activity . Later in his life when he was occupied with affairs of large importance , his diary ceases to be a record of experience and becomes not very much more than a note-book of personal dates and events . Yet during these years when his diary no longer reflects his major interests certain parts of his correspondence come to the rescue . He still had the same need of recording what was happening to him , but he records it during the last years both for his own benefit and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vehicle of personal self-expression a value analogous to that of the early diary . The existence of this careful and significant register of personal experience gives peculiar propriety to the conversion of the raw material of this record into a biographical portrait . The construction of a permanent written memorial to a man who led such an interesting and diversified life and who won the affection and admiration of so many friends and acquaintances does not need any special justification , but in the case of Willard Straight // such a justification exists . His life obtains a kind of the process of living it . His life was a conscious of vicarious fulfillment in a biographical portrait . experience , recorded with a purpose , as well as a Such a portrait , in so far as it was faithful and series of vaguely remembered or anticipated events . luminous , would not be a new fabric woven with He expressed that experience not with an eye to more or less success out of a fragmentary record publication but for his own satisfaction . The exof his sayings and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the experience itself and it picture blocked out by himself to which the pro has some of the same vitality . It still lives . I ducer would only supply the frame-work , the head hope it may continue to live in the pages of this ings and the necessary editing . He wrote his own memoir . biography and sketched his own portrait as a part 