@@493416

A Journal of Opinion The Week JOSEPH P. COTTON , the Under-secretary of State , is a careful and responsible individual ; and we may assume , therefore , that he had reasons , which are available to the public , for his remarkable statement last week that the naval conference in London must result in a five-power treaty or nothing . It is possible that the French , Italians or Japanese , alarmed at the possibility of a separate agreement between the United States and Great Britain , were privately protesting with such emphasis that Washington deemed it necessary to reassure them , lest the conference should fail before it has even begun . By his statement , however , Mr. Cotton has removed one of the strongest weapons with which to coerce France into line , and the results of this were at once apparent in an increased stiffness of tone in statements from Paris . The French have announced that under no circumstances will they consider the abolition of the submarine . They are willing , it is true , to concede the complete abolition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much use to anybody , and of none at all to France herself . As to cruisers , they say that they positivelywill not accept the ratio laid down in the Washington conference-5 : 5 : 1.75 . At this rate , we shall be lucky if the conference does n't leave things worse than they already were . REPORTS from Europe indicate that although , during the past week , there were such considerable events as the completion of the statutes of the International Bank , the consolidation of Tardieu 's new Cabinet , the permanent appointment of Julius Curtius as German Foreign Minister and the naming of ambassadors between GrLat Britain and Russia , the business generally regarded as most important for the Continent took place in Washington , where the two steps by Hoover , one his Armistice Day speech and the other his calling of a National Economic Conference , set up international repercussions dominating European interest . Hoover 's appeal for the abolition of the starvation weapon in war momentarily overshadowed another passage considered by European diplomats of more immediate significance : " We will reduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , it only remains for others to say how low they will go . It can not be too low for us . " The others obviously include not only Great Britain but Japan , France and Italy . It is argued in Europe that since Great Britain not only has decided on parity with the United States but apparently is also resolved not to be outdone by America in setting the point where parity shall he fixed , Hoover 's statement lays upon the three smaller powers the responsibility of establishing a maximum . The degree to which Japan , France and Italy will consent to disarm will determine the limit within which England and the United States can hold their navies . IT NOW appears to European observers that France will be the stumbling block in London as she was in Washington , and the principal dispute of the 1930 conference will be , not between America and Great Britain , but between Italy and France . All of the three smaller powers look with concealed distrust upon the new friendliness between the United States and Great Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burned away the last fragments of Chamberlain 's 192S arrangement whereby England promised hands off the French Army , while France contracted to support British sea supremacy against any such reduction conference as is now pending . Furthermore , it is argued , France fears that a successful naval conference may lead logically to the next step , namely , a serious conference for land disarmament where , lacking England 's support , she would be isolated . Her fear of being compelled in the future seriously to discuss reduction of her army is a sufficient motive for her to obstruct the naval conference . Such obstruction is already apparent but is discreet , for the French concern for American feelings , exhibited during MacDonald 's visit , and by the awarding of the Legion of Honor to Mr. Kellogg , by the settlement of the film dispute and the amicable arrangement of a number of minor commercial matters , restrains her from open sabotage . THE French attitude , however , is held to be plain in the current dispute over dates for the three conferences due to be held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of world politics for the next decade will be decided . Germany wishes the Hague conference to begin the first week in December , in order to exclude any difficulty about evacuating the Allied troops in the third zone before the promised date of June thirtieth . If the Hague conference meets early in December , statesmen of the five powers can complete the work in time to keep the appointment for the naval conference on January 21 . The League Council scheduled for January 20 will then have to be postponed . But the important newspapers in France are contending that the Hague conference can not pass the Young Plan until after Hugenberg 's referendum scheduled for December 22 . This overlooks the fact that Hugcnberg can not succeed , and anyway , the referendum , juridically , is none of the business of the Hague conference . If France succeeds in postponing the Hague conference , it will have to be held after Christmas , thus necessitating the postponement of the naval conference , and who knows but that something may crop up meanwhile to postpone it still further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondents to reserve rooms at the Hague for December 5 . THE MEXICAN election was deplorably bloody , but there is no reason to believe that the result did not represent , on the whole , the will of the Mexican people . Rubio , the new President , was the spiritual heir of Obregon and Calles ; and while his defeated opponent , Vasconcelos , is a man of brilliant qualities , he was able to make no fundamental criticism of the policies pursued by the National Revolutionary party . There is always a temptation , in a country like Mexico , for a defeated candidate to have recourse to arms ; but we hope and believe that Vasconcelos is too intelligent a man , and too good a patriot , to begin a revolution . The United States would certainly do all in its power to prevent a successful termination to such an adventure , and with its large degree of control over imports of arms and ammunition , it could probably dictate the outcome . What Mexico needs is peace and hard work , the restoration of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a great diminution of the army 's importance in the scheme of things . MR . MELLON is employing his usual formula of tax reduction under new circumstances . He has always pleaded that reduction of rates ( especially in the higher brackets ) would bring prosperity . When prosperity followed , and an increased tax yield saved him from a deficit , he would claim the credit . Now , however , he is faced by a collapse of prosperity , at least in the stock market . He again urges tax reduction as a magic formula to restore confidence , because it shows the confidence of the administration in the future of business . But will the result this time be the same ? Reduced rates , especially on corporation profits , which are bound to be large this year , will leave the government less money that it could otherwise have had . That means that it will reduce the war debt less rapidly . And it will have less for the large programs of public construction and agricultural relief which are urged as one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is counting heavily on his luck ; if industrial depression of any magnitude should really ensue , the Treasury might in subsequent years be embarrassed , and the government could not offer all possible assistance to distressed trade . THE MOST interesting development of the tariff struggle in the Senate has been the formation of a Young Guard to take the place of the Old Guard which surrendered . This new group , which assumes to take over leadership for the President , has attempted to make an agreement with the Democratic-Progressive coalition for the passage of a bill which shall leave undisturbed the old rates on manufactured products and revise upward the farm schedules only . Acceptance of this proposal would have constituted a victory for the coalition . There are two possible reasons why they may have declined the truce . One is , that in view of their unbroken series of successes so far , they may hope to reduce some of the needlessly high industrial rates . Another , and perhaps a more practical reason , is that essential members of the coalition themselves . want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not based quite so single-mindedly on tariff principles as might be inferred from the speeches of some of its leaders . What it really wants is to get tariff favors for its own constituents without granting favors to the constituents of its temporary opponents . And it does not particularly discriminate in favor of the depressed farmers when others of its own constituents are in a position to profit from protection . Indeed , as economic studies have shown , most of the farmers themselves are likely to suffer more than they gain from increases in farm duties ( unless the debenture is passed ) . THE EFFORT of the American Federation of Labor to unionize Southern textiles , inaugurated at the recent Montreal convention , is now in process of organization . A conference has met to discuss the problem , and has taken steps to lay plans and raise funds . Let us hope that it will call upon every resource of knowledge and skill which it can muster . No sweeping victory can be expected within a brief period . A campaign of this sort is not like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slender means , deal with varying local conditions , and it must fight not only against normal inertia but against powerful and well equipped enemies . This furnishes all the more reason for dogged persistence , for discernment of the best places in which to begin , for the enlistment of as many allies as possible , especially on the local ground . The opportunity is now at hand for the Federation and its constituent units to show whether they are capable of dealing with a serious organizing problem . They must be prepared to develop and recognize new leaders , to utilize new methods , and to revive at the same time the old crusading spirit which has characterized organized labor 's periods of rapid growth in the past . It is of the utmost importance to the welfare of the nation that they succeed . THE suggestion to President Hoover that the government go in for building express highways on a large scale is by no means a bad one . As motor traffic increases , the need for such highways is felt more acutely every day . Indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be allowed to build roads of this character and charge tolls for their use . But we ought not to begin an era of private road ownership ; that woulti indeed be a step backward . If public agencies can not afford to build the roads for free use , they might as well collect the tolls until the roads are paid for . There is another excellent reason for the public to forestall private enterprise in this matter . A badly planned and poorly regulated highway can , from the esthetic point of view , ruin a whole countryside . Highway departments are rapidly coming to the point where they place a high value on esthetic considerations . Roadside planting , the restoration of natural beauties in cuts and embankments , excess condemnation so that surrounding land can be kept out of speculative use , are increasingly utilized . Even abolition of billboards and hot-dog stands has been achieved in some localities , and will , through legislation , be achieved in more . Let us hope that the government not only takes over the building of express highways , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beauty . THE NOBEL PRIZE for literature is the most widely advertised of the five Nobel prizes , cynics would say , because it is the only one which affects the fortunes of an important industry , that of publishing . It is also the largest of the prizes open to men of letters , and the only one that is truly international . The Swedish academicians who award it have not always shown great wisdom . Too often they have allowed their sense of news value to outweigh their literary judgment . Too often they have chosen windy philosophers who have achieved a momentary fame , or empty pretentious novelists , or didactic poets , or representatives of the minor European literatures who were giants only among their compatriots . Who reads Maeterlinck today , or Rudolf Eucken ? Who is Jose Echegaray ? Who in any country but France even remembers the name of Sully-Prudhomme ? And who , on the other hand , would criticize the awards to Yeats , Shaw or Anatole France ? Ideally , the prize should be given , not as encouragement to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but rather as tribute to a man of high talent , worthy of international and permanent recognition , who has devoted a lifetime to the art of letters . There are two or three writers in the world today who fulfill these qualifications : Thomas Mann in Germany , Andre Gide in France , and perhaps Maxim Gorky in Russia . By choosing the first of these , the Swedish Academy has added to the prestige of the Nobel Prize , and has atoned for some of the mistaken awards it has made in the past . MR . FRED I. KENT , a New York banker , made a speech the other day in which he said the attitude of Senate Progressives and Democrats toward the tariff was a factor in causing the recent Wall Street crash . As a consequence , he has been summoned before the Senate committee which is investigating lobbying , to explain his statement and ? if he can ? defend it . Mr. Kent 's was a silly performance , but The New Republic sees no reason why he should have been called before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ petulant public utterance of a high protectionist , with no relation to the really sinister activities of the professional lobbyists . Toward some of these latter , the Senate committee has shown itself singularly tender ; it might well have let Mr. Kent alone and gone a little more deeply into Ivy Lee 's activities on behalf of the shipbuilders , or the work of naval officers who loaded up Mr. Shearer with official data before he went to Geneva in 1927 . THE Standard Oil Company of California has abandoned , after a few weeks ' futile try-out , its attempt to bring about by coercion a curtailment of crude oil production in the West . This it sought to ' do by arbitrarily declining to pay more than fifty cents a barrel for crude petroleum delivered at its refinery intakes by the smaller producing companies ? fifty cents being about half a price , and well below the level of living expenses for the producers . What was anticipated was the wholesale shutting ' down of wells , by producers who would wait perforce for better times . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eliminate itself from the raw-material market . Other refineries did not follow suit , prices continued around the dollar level , and the producers simply kept on draining the deposits as before . Indeed , they could hardly have done otherwise . They themselves are under contractual obligation to the land-owners . The American land-owner is sovereign of his ground to the exact center of the earth ; he knows that when a producing oil-well is " brought in " on adjacent property he , too , must have a well drilled or the wealth beneath his surface will be gone ; and as a rule the company that proposes to do the most vigorous immediate drilling will get the owner 's signature to the lease . Production , not demand , is the primary law in the hindside-before economics of petroleum . Other nations , wiser than ours , have prevented all this by abolishing the individual 's sovereignty over subsurface minerals . But that , of course , is a thing neither the Standard Oil Company nor the beloved American doctrine of " private initiative " could agree to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the news from China is from sources prejudiced against the National government , it must be recognized that the military situation is now a highly critical one . The rebel forces of Feng Yu-hsiang have mare substantial progress , and the overthrow of the National government is a possibility which must be faced . The recent fighting has been far more severe than is customary in Chinese wars , with a large number of casualties ; the hospital facilities are as usual inadequate , and the suffering has been appalling , even in a land where misery is universal and chronic . Shanghai is frightened over the possibility of capture by the rebels , and insurance against such a catastrophe is being bought by the wealthy Chinese residents , who have been bled almost white by one faction or another in recent years . The next few weeks may see a turn of events which will determine the future of the Chinese nation for decades to come . It may even determine whether China is to remain a single nation or whether it is to dissolve into a group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              