@@486373

I F I were greedy for power over my fellow-men I would rather control Muscle Shoals than to be continuously elected President of the United States . " So Newton D. Baker , the Secretary of War under whom the power project was begun , wrote last spring to the Committee on Agriculture of the Senate . - This enormous power was nearly sold for a song to Henry Ford at the last session of Congress . The House passed a bill to that end , and there was strong sentiment in the Senate for similar action . Fortunately Senator Norris induced the Committee on Agriculture to favor instead a continuance of government control , but the danger of selling a national birthright for a mess of nitrate was not averted until Ford himself withdrew his offer . Nor was it more than temporarily averted then . There were three detailed offers before Congress last winter besides that of Ford . Ford 's offer was , in fact , the poorest of the lot , although it carried the most prestige because of the myth which had set up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a philanthropist to whom almost any power might safely be intrusted . The ' three other offers have not been withdrawn , and an effort is being made to induce the present session of Congress to turn over to private control the great power development in northern Alabama . But it is predicted in Washington that the offers will not again be pressed in competition with one another but will be superseded by an amalgamated plan having certain definite farmer support and strong business backing . We are not especially interested in the details of this possible new plan or in the features of any of the old ones . We think it beside the point to contrast them , for one can be better than another only in that it offers a little more money  --  soon spent and forgotten  --  or a little more possibility of regulating a power so vast and vital that its complete control ought always and indisputably to be vested in the public . Let it not be forgotten that such control is vested in the public now . The problem is not like that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation buy at a huge outlay and plunge into the operation of a great privately owned industry . The nation owns Muscle Shoals . The question that it faces is the maintenance of that ownership and the gradual conversion and transmission of power , with plenty of time to work out a policy and a personnel as the size and importance of the project increases . It can sell out at any future date if it wants to , but it is safe to say that if it waits twenty years it would no sooner think of selling something of such paramount national interest than it would think today of selling the Panama Canal . On the other hand , if it sells Muscle Shoals now , Congress will within twenty years have to meet an insistent demand to buy it back at enormous expense and difficulty . Let us remember that we are now trying to recover two great oil basins that were too lightly disposed of . The comparison with the Panama Canal is a good one . The public is still too little informed as to what Muscle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was begun in war time to furnish nitrates for making munitions . After the armistice the notion was spread that Muscle Shoals had lost its value and should be sold like our , wooden ships for whatever it would bring . Ford 's offer cleared away a little of that mist , for the public knows that Henry Ford is not collecting a menagerie of white elephants . But Ford put his emphasis entirely on producing cheap fertilizer for the farmer and so obscured the immensely more important facts about Muscle Shoals as a source of electric power for half of the United States . Muscle Shoals is probably our greatest single water power . There is a drop in the Tennessee River at that point of 130 feet in thirty miles . The dam is 5,000 feet in length , or nearly a mile , impounding an estimated horse power of 850,000 . Less than an eighth of this is needed to manufacture the amount of fertilizer promised by Ford . The power has a transmission radius of 500 miles and an incalculable bearing not only upon the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States but upon virtually all of the country east of the Mississippi River except New England . The power at Muscle Shoals is far too great for any one State to use or control . It is the king-pin in the forthcoming development of electrified industry . It is fully comparable to the Panama Canal in its national significance and its possibilities of commercial revolution . To quote Newton D. Baker again : To grant Muscle Shoals to any individual or company for a hundred years , or even fifty years , grants to such company or individual industrial dominance for that period of the whole Southeastern portion of our country . . . . All the figures one sees about the gifts in present values in money to Mr. Ford or other proposed lessees are trifling as compared with the growing value of the industrial power that any such lease necessarily entails . . . . I am therefore clearly of the belief that Congress should retain Muscle Shoals , provide for its operation directly by the corps of engineers of the army or by a public corporation analogous to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the power produced in the mass , without entering into retail operation . By so doing the public interest , which we now see to be large , will be continuously served , and as the importance of this power source grows the hand of the Government will be free to make it continuously serviceable in the highest degree as the changing public interest demands . The chief of engineers of the army has just reported that current expenditures at Muscle Shoals are at the rate of about $800,000 a month and that the electric-power and nitrate plants will be completed by next October but could be hurried through so as to be ready by July 1 . More than $150,000,000 will probably have been expended upon Muscle Shoals by the time the work is done . There will be a tremendous drive upon the present Congress to turn this enormous undertaking , with its still greater potentialities , over to some private financial group to exploit for its own profit . Only a determined show of popular opposition can prevent this tragedy and this betrayal . The Nation has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and benefits that have been obtained in the province of Ontario through the public development and sale of power from Niagara Falls . Mr. Underwood 's bill  --  supported by President Coolidge  --  to deliver Muscle Shoals into private hands under a fifty-year lease would tie it up for too long a period . Senator Norris has a better plan for continued government ownership , with the option of operation by the government or by private agency under government control . Britain and Our Reparations " W HAT is behind the mist of talk about inter-Allied debts and debt settlements , sequestrated private property , reparation claims , which has been blowing through the press ? This : The United States has claims against Germany arising out of injuries sustained by American citizens during the war ; these claims , now being settled by the Mixed Claims Commission in Washington , will , it is estimated , amount to about $250,000,000 . The Treaty of Versailles required Germany to make compensation for such war losses sustained by citizens of the Allied and Associated Powers , and the United States duly claimed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Dawes Report , for the execution of which the Allies rely strongly on the United States , provided that the reparation claims of " the Allied and Associated Powers " shall be paid out of the so-called Dawes bonds and annuities . The United States asked its share of these reparation bonds at the conference , called in Paris in November , to distribute the bonds among the Allied and Associated Powers . Allied diplomacy , however , seemed to assume that the United States was merely a tool for the accomplishment of Allied policies and that our rights were concessions grantable by the Allies , for which we must pay . When the United States in Paris asserted its claim to participate in the Dawes bonds , as the Dawes Report provided and required , to the extent of the $250,000,000 necessary to satisfy our pecuniary claims for war losses , we were told by France that our claim could not be granted because we had not signed the Treaty of Versailles and because France had been required to reduce her claims on Germany . She set a price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , namely , a material concession on the French debt and support of French loans in the American money market . The British delegate at the conference professed a lack of instructions , a clear indication that Great Britain opposed and would resist our just claim . The British moved for an adjournment of the conference until January , by which time the British Government doubtless will disclose the price it will require for its consent to our claims . This price has already been indicated by Mr. Winston Churchill : Britain will contend we should wait for our claims until the Allies have been paid off or else confiscate the sequestrated private property in the hands of the Alien Property Custodian in Washington , as England has disgracefully done ; and finally , that Britain wants the same concession on her debt to the United States as France obtains . Britain is playing for big stakes . Knowing the disposition of Congress to return the sequestrated private property , the retention of which constitutes an ineffaceable blot on our national history , she hopes to induce the Department of State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confiscate it , thus putting us in ' the same evil boat with Great Britain . Moreover , should we return the property , the British Government realizes that the prestige for financial integrity thus gained by us will reflect on Great Britain and will stimulate the forces in England that are disgusted with the British policy of confiscating private property and are demanding that the expropriated owners , to save England 's reputation , be compensated . If she can not succeed in bringing about the confiscation ofthe property , for which England has labored unre nittingly , she hopes to get the alternative advantage of a further remission in her debt to the United States . All the world but Great Britain has admitted our rights , though France demanded a price for the " concession . " We should not permit Great Britain further to debauch our foreign policy . Even according to the KnoxPorter Resolution , although it violated a basic American tradition by authorizing the retention of the private property until Germany had made " suitable provision for the satisfaction of " the claims of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the requisitioned ships , should now be returned to its owners . Judge Meares , formerly counsel in the office of the Alien Property Custodian , in a booklet just published under the title " The Confiscation Fact , " has pointed out how the congressional policy of " conservation " of the property has been distorted and abused by Messrs . Palmer and Garvan into a policy of " confiscation . " The Chemical Foundation transaction smells to Heaven , and should result in an indictment of the participating officials . Germany has now made " suitable provision for the satisfaction of " the claims of American citizens , by handing over to the Allied and Associated Powers for distribution among themselves 10 billion marks of railroad and 5 billion marks of industrial bonds . If the United , States , through British recalcitrance or its own ineptitude , is unable to obtain its share of the bonds , the responsibility is not Germany 's nor that of German citizens who own private property in the United States . This seems elementary . Congress has always had power to return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of State ; and even he must now recognize that the condition precedent of the Knox-Porter Resolution , on which , contrary to all American traditions , he seems to have insisted , has now been performed . International Literature T HE man who likes to imagine a world in which ideas are as easily and conveniently exchanged as coffee or tea or gold , a world over which literary currents flow uninterrupted by ignorance or accident or will be particularly pained when he looks about him today . He will find remarkably few facilities for the free movement of books between nations in the West  --  the East he has doubtless given up long ago as hopeless  --  and such instances of international vogue among authors as he observes he will perhaps set down to the operation of chance . The news that Upton Sinclair is being hailed by critics in Soviet Russia as the writer of the future , the person whose method and subject-matter best reveal the tendencies which literature in the next century or so must logically follow , may be welcome to him ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authors might have become influential abroad through the efforts of what he might call a Western clearing-house of literature . It was only by a similar accident a few year 's ago  --  perhaps it is true yet  --  that Ralph Waldo Trine took Europe by storm . And evidently it is an accident again that the publication this year in New York of Wladislaw Reyrnont 's masterpiece coincides with the announcement that this Polish genius has been awarded the Nobel Prize in literature . The clearing-house is far away . If pessimism on this point can not be cured by arguments showing the practical difficulties in the way  --  the expense , for instance , the waste of effort over books which literary officials might be wrong in deciding to promote abroad , and the increase in what is already too much printed matter  --  it may be soothed at least by a glance at the past . There is reason for believing that conditions are no worse and no better than they ever have been . The literary boundaries between nations have periodically been broken , and quite conceivably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it . A great many elements in what is often supposed today to have been a purely national literature , the Greek , can be accounted for only by the fact of ideas infiltrated from the East . A Roman citizen in the time of Augustus read more Greek books , perhaps , than Roman ; Greek meters were borrowed by Horace for his poems , and Virgil was indebted both to Homer and to the Hebrews . In the Middle Ages the use of Latin as a literary language brought it about that universities addressed more completely international audiences than have ever since assembled , and upon all subjects of large scope there was virtually no such thing as national expression . Exactly what was the nationality of Augustine , of Boethius , of Thomas Aquinas , of Abelard ? The average layman would have to seize an encyclopedia to find out . Even fiction was international . Beowulf was not an English hero . Was Siegfried Scandinavian or German , and if Scandinavian what- one of three countries did he start from ? Parsifal was sometimes Percival , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invention of printing and the development of the vernaculars there came a certain change , and yet the amount of that change should not be overestimated . From the beginning until now there have been periods of great intimacy between nations , and it is unlikely that accident or caprice was responsible ; minds inevitably ran together . Elizabethan England became intoxicated with Renaissance Italy , and Shakespeare had access to Bandello as Chaucer had had to Boccaccio . A century later it was France which was educating England ; a student of the Restoration must know Moliere almost as well as he knows Dryden . And in the eighteenth century France returned the compliment . Voltaire had much to do with this  --  his " Philosophical Letters " came out in London a year before they did in Paris ; and later on Frenchmen were accepting as classics the works of Locke , Pope , Thomson , Richardson , and Sterne . Still another century , and England was opening herself to Germany ; Goethe and Carlyle corresponded , and Coleridge disseminated with all his might metaphysical doctrines which reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more potent today in Germany than he is at home , and Anatole France is the possession of everybody . British and American fiction can often be traced to a source in France or Russia , and Mr. Mencken in America can really be understood only by reference to Shaw , Butler , Nietzsche , and Schopenhauer . No one could refrain from wishing that publishers and critics were more internationally educated than they are , and that good translators  --  for they are rare  --  abounded . On the other hand , it is hard to believe that an author in any country who deserves to be heard in another will not somehow get heard . In the long run there has been no difficulty in the case of Shakespeare or Moliere or Voltaire or Goethe or Anatole France . The - trouble may be that there are few such men . Albert De Silver T O write of one who was as close to the staff of The Nation as Albert De Silver is hard . He was one of its directors ; he wrote many unsigned editorials ; hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balanced and suggestive mind ; but more than all these , he was one of our closest friends . Albert De Silver was in a sense a product of the war . He was born to comfort and position ; he was a clubman at Yale ; when the war darkened the horizon he was well along on the road to a conventional lawyer 's career . From the beginning the violent partisanships of the war disturbed that cool passion for fairness which was perhaps his most individual characteristic . He always believed that there was another side , and he wanted to hear it . When the hot temper of 1917 began to stifle civil liberty in America he stepped out of his path to defend it . Friends marveled at the bold progress of what was by training a conservative mind . It was with amazement that , one day when war intolerance was at its fever heat , they saw his name appended to an advertisement asking funds for the defense of the imprisoned members of the I. W. W. " So you 've turned I. W. W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your life , " he would reply ; " but I want to see those boys get a chance , and they are n't getting it . " When Roger Baldwin , director of the American Civil Liberties Union , went to jail in 1918 Albert De Silver gave up his law practice and stepped into Baldwin 's place . " Someone had to do it , " he explained . When Baldwin came out of prison there was work for two and double work for a lawyer . De Silver continued . " You get me wrong , " he used to say to friends with whom he was associated in this work . " I 'm not a radical . I do n't know whether there is anything in your ideas or not . Only , I think you ought to have a chance to express them . We ca n't get on without that . " Conservatives too appreciated his clear mind and good humor . Few men who played so prominent a part in the free-speech fight retained  --  and made  --  such warm friendships among those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and integrity made him chairman of the legislative committee of the City Club of New York . In a nation of partisans and in an age of intolerance a personality like Albert De Silver 's is rare and can ill be spared . His passion for justice was almost abstract ; it held for enemies as well as friends . His restless curiosity was not to be stilled by the easy acceptances of any party or cause . He was beyond the reach of the various forms of hysteria that have muddled the minds of so many Americans , and he deliberately turned out of all the ruts . When the persecutions died down he gave up his desk in the civil-liberties office . But by that time the ordinary practice of commercial law had come to seem an uninteresting thing , hardly worth the devotion of a venturesome intelligence . " I do n't see why I should give my life to a thing I am not interested in , " he said . " Fortunately , I do n't have to . I 'll find something which means more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turning in his search for a firm foundation for his thought to chemistry . His critical mind never disturbed his sunny temper . He was still cheerfully searching when the train lurched on December 7 and he plunged to instant death .                     