@@467913

THE reputation of Charles Dickens differs in one vital respect from that of the other classical writers whom we have considered : his fame is essentially popular . He is not an author whom the critics of his time had to defend against an indifferent public opinion , and his after-fame is not swathed in the mummy wrappings of academic annotators . The consequence is that , although the literature which has accumulated about him is voluminous , it lacks the unconscious humor of the customary classical exegetists , who have had no opportunity for the display of their peculiar talents . They have placed him on no pedestal like that of Shakespeare ; they have not embalmed him like Milton ; unlike Swift , he has not frightened them into misrepresentation ; unlike Byron , he provides no horrified thrills which induce a determination to hush things up . His name is in all the college manuals and is familiar wherever books are read , but it owes nothing of its survival to professors , who , it is interesting to note , are but scantily represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first great author whom the plain people discovered for themselves . When Charles Dickens was born , in 1812 , the last flickering lights of the eighteenth century were disappearing , the nineteenth century in all its fatuity had rapidly set in , and by the time he had got over his literary nonage in Sketches by Buz , Queen Victoria was on the throne , and it already seemed as if what we know as Victorianism was an eternal and immutable condition , Thesuperstition of progress and the dogma of democratic infallibility were enthroned , and an era had opened up which needed prophets of a character appropriate to its peculiar needs . Literature had ceased , or was ceasing , to he the possession of a civilized minority , and after various hesitations fiction emerged as the dominant literary genre , the form most suited to the mass consumption which became the result of the spread of " education . " Must of the novelists who shared with Dickens the enthusiasm of this new public , Harrison Ainsworth , G. P. R. James , Theodore Hook , and Wilkie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than great enough to explain his survival . If the others are now forgotten , we must not forget that to the taste which Dickens fostered they were as acceptable as lie , for discrimination is no part of the demand out of which his fame grew . With the possible exception of Walter Scott , whom " no adult can read and every grown-up person has read , " as Georg Brandes remarks , Charles Dickens represents the beginning of that species of literary mobocracy under which the man in the street has become increasingly the arbiter in matters which he does not understand . To this day only the most modest claims are made for Dickens as an artist and a craf Lsman , but his position in the affections of the crowd has always been such that criticism has been obliged to accept him and to silence its , msthetie conscience as best it can . This abdication finds its sequel to-day in the endeavor to explain " the significance " of Mr. Sinclair Lewis , and in the general conviction that one person is just as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and literature . Its apotheosis is found in the attitude defined by Tolstoy in What is Art ? , where that logician of primitive Christianity carries his concern for the masses to the point at which almost every great achievement in the arts is dismissed as unworthy . An entirely new definition of art is his logical solution of the problem at which so many like to tinker ? the problem of how to make art subserve a moralistic end and also remain within the reach of uneducated and undeveloped minds . Better , it seems , that infantilism be the lot of the artist than that the limitations of the mob be exposed by confrontation with matters above its level . Under a Christian democracy Tolstoy 's book should be the official primer of aesthetics , for it is the only complete exposition of the ideas with which less honest minds eternally-strive to compromise . It is highly significant . that Charles Dickens is one of the few writers of accepted renown who is frequently cited with approval by Tolstoy . He is the predestined glory of the evangelical literary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He is genial , vulgar , boisterous , sentimental , and full of good intentions . He never looks a problem straight in the face if he can help it , and his flight from reality is so instinctive that he can visualize the worst social conditions , the most repulsive human types , the most tragic circumstances only in terms of the grotesque or the melodramatic . We are constantly reminded of the immortal types which Dickens has given to the whole English-speaking world : Bill Sikes is the burglar incarnate , Mrs. Gamp the nurse , Bumble the beadle , and Squeers the schoolmaster . To mention such personages as Sam Weller , the Artful Dodger , Mr. Micawber , Uriah Heep , Mr. Podsnap , Pecksniff , Mark Tapley , and a host of others , is to conjure up at Vot . CU ? No. 901. - 7once as definite a character as a person one knows in actual life . Yet the slightest reflection will show that these creations are as unreal as the heroes and heroines of the Pollyanna school of fiction . Bill Sikes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pair from which those who most delight in Dickens would be the first to shrink had anything of the reality been allowed into Dickens 's picture of them . Mr. Micawber is the kind of man whom his friends soon learn to avoid and whose selfish imbecility usually destroys the happiness of those who unfortunately depend upon him . Not only does Dickens conceal all that these people really are , but his perverse sense of humor leads him to show a marked preference for getting his fun out of what is manifestly horrible or depressing to anyone with a sensitive but realistic imagination . When one begins to recall the scenes and characters which have remained as examples of Dickens 's humorous fancies , one finds that an enormous number of them is intrinsically quite the opposite of funny . Dotheboys Hall and Mr. Squeers are assuredly far from laughable ; Quill ) is a disgusting brute ; Mrs. Nickleby a dreadful infliction upon her daughter ; the Reverend Mr. Stiggins a repulsive , snivelling creature ; the Marchioness a painfully overworked drudge . Yet , so incurable was Dickens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brutality , poverty , and crime without ever making their reality felt , while congratulating himself on his " realism . " " I will not abate one hole in the Dodger 's coat , or one scrap of curl-paper in the girl 's dishevelled hair , " he writes , and one is reminded of the tears and patches on a stage costume representing poverty . In what seems to me a strenuous effort to lend some significance to the fact that Dickens survives , while his friend and collaborator Wilkie Collins is dead , like most of his contemporaries , it is said that he was a great instrument of reform , a champion of the poor , an incarnation of the sturdy virtues of Merrie England . If the description of Dotheboys Hall reformed the English school system , then Early Victorian England was more susceptible to gentle reproof than the history of the period indicates . The Chartist movement , the Land war in Ireland , the factory legislation of Lord Shaftesbury , and so forth , are not precisely evidence that social changes were so easily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evil would imply . Neither his Bumble nor his Micawber gives any more sense of the cruelty of the Poor Law and of imprisonment for debt than his Nancy conveys the impression of being an authentic specimen of her class . His world is one of such grotesque unreality that it would be as plausible to argue that Marie Corelli 's Wormwood aroused France and Switzerland to prohibit absinthe , as to see iu Nicholas Niekleby or Oliver Twist historic documents in the history of social reform in England . That Dickens himself had some illusion as to the reformist mission of his writings is undeniable , but his intentions need not be accepted for achievements . When the late Miss Marie Corelli wrote such masterpieces as The Sorrows of Satan and Temporal Power she had as assuredly a serious aim as had her distinguished competitor when he wrote The Christian . But in their unreal worlds of melodrama it is impossible to take seriously the situations described , even though one be as horrified as Miss Corelli herself was when she showed us a depraved young English girl reading Swinburne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all conscience , but were it added to the other defects in Dickens he would not be read as he is to this day . Fortunately for him , his propaganda was so divorced from reality that none of his readers ever slept a wink the less on that account , just as the equal esteem in which Marie Corelli was held by the plain people was in no wise determined by their indignation at the turpitude which she professed to uncover . The aim of Dickens was primarily to amuse , and in this respect he was so obliging that he would alter a story to make it more pleasant . When his Jewish customers protested against Fagin he provided Aaron in Our Mutual Friend just to show that there were noble Jews as well as the other kind . His ambition was not to express himself , except in terms of what he held in common with the average reader , but to express the point of view of his public at any cost . In other words , Dickens had all the requisites for the manufacture of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the innumerable brood that has followed him in that lucrative business . The notion that popular circulationists write with tongue in cheek is erroneous . They always conceive of themselves as having a lofty purpose and , like Dickens , they imagine that they can deal with problems , with the harsher aspects of life , without bringing blushes to supposititious cheeks , and without really getting below the surface . What seems to less commonplace minds a lack of artistic integrity becomes in them that most precious of all illusions , a moral purpose . They claim to be far more effective than t their less fortunately constituted colleagues in that the very sweetness and delicacy of their method enables them to build up a huge following and to reach thousands who would not respond to the unpleasant truth . Dickens was born into English literature just at the moment when the ideals of Victorianism demanded a writer who could triumphantly realize them without doing violence to his own ideals . Whereas a Thackeray had at least the grace to admit that it had become impossible for an English novelist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have been greatly inspired and influenced by Fielding and Smollett , but made no complaint against the conventions which were emasculating the English novel . He was in his element in a society whose ears were stopped with cotton wool , and where taboos so virulently flourished that the expression " Early Victorianism " was to become the synonym for unhealthy prudery and selfcomplacent ugliness based on what we now know to have been sheer intellectual dishonesty . The result is that the modern reader can respect only those isolated figures who miraculously escaped the prevailing blight and are rewarded in our esteem for the actual or comparative neglect which was their fate at the hands of the Victorian public . If Charlotte Bronte , or Jane Austen before her , had reflected the popular taste as Dickens did , one might have more respect both for the English novel and for the voice of the people as the voice of literary criticism . The newly arising middle-class , with the carrot of progress dangling before its nose and the dawn of the industrial era filling the skies with clouds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it could respond , and the supply was forthcoming . There was the dreary tribe of women novelists of both sexes , the George Eliots , Gaskells , Trollopes , and worse , with Dickens leading them on . Under his reign , as much as under Victoria 's , English fiction allowed its feet to be bound in bonds so tight and deforming that the cramped and almost atrophied muscles are only now beginning slowly to recover their old suppleness . The undoubtedly great talent of Dickens did not suffer under the constraints which hampered and delayed greater men who followed him immediately , like Thomas Hardy , George Meredith , and Samuel Butler . He easily accepted the postulates which governed the writing of fiction during the first three-quarters of the nineteenth century in England , postulates which make one marvel all the more because of the wonderful beginnings to which they promised an ignominious end . After Defoe , Fielding , Smollett , and Sterne , these purveyors to the legendary " Young Person " were a feeble succession in a line so mighty that the Continent had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now came the novel made chemically pure by resolute evasion and timid euphemism . romanticizing the home , sentimentalizing distress , substituting marriage for love , and in its endeavor to eliminate sex almost obliterating what was known at the time as the Sex . To enumerate the omissions and defects of the Victorian novel is to sum up the entire stock in trade of Dickens : his inability to describe women who are not either morons or comic stage characters , his avoidance of passion until its wicked fruits can be dragged in for melodramatic effect , as in the affair of Steerforth and Little Em'ly and the story of Lady Dedlock in Bleak House , his young girls who are just pale puppets to be used for the introduction of marriage bells and , in general , his tiresome insistence on foibles and eccentricities in lieu of characterization , his substitution of masks for faces . It is not for nothing that the era of Dickens saw the decline of the English novel from a first-rate achievement for adult minds to a distraction for children and an aid to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , found expression in France where the preoccupations of the literary world were far removed indeed from debates as to whether Oliver Twist was not an immoral glorification of crime . Balzac had produced a large part of his colossal work , and Eughzie Grande ' , Pere Goriul and Les Illusions perdues made an appearance which coincided with that of *Sketches by Boz , Pickwick Papers , Oliver Twist , and Nicholas Nickleby . When England was wallowing in the bathos of Little Nell , Stendhal published La Chartreuse de Panne . Between 1833 and 1853 , the years when Dickens 's fame and popularity reached their highest point , Balzac was pouring out of his wonderful fecundity the finest volumes of his Human Comedy ; and he was then a man with a vast quantity of work behind him , sufficient in quantity to have at least begun to exhaust the imaginative vigor of a lesser writer . In the prodigious canon of his writings ? which the bibliographers list in more than three hundred titles ? there is much rubbish ; even in the more modest ' compass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be spared . All that is conceded as to Balzae 's lack of style makes his case somewhat analogous to that of Dickens , whose defects are frankly admitted by most critics . Yet there can be no comparison of these two novelists who dominated the fiction of their countries in the early nineteenth century . Balzac was a great creative genius who made the modern French novel . Dickens was an energetic entertainer whose success helped materially to unmake the modern English novel . During the twenty-year period mentioned Dickens published Sketches by Boz , - The Pickwick Papers , Oliver Twist , Nicholas Nickleby , The Old Curiosity Shop , Dombey and Son , David Copper-field , and Bleak Douse , which are not only the books of his own heyday but also those upon which his posthumous popularity chiefly rests ; they are the quintessence of all that is Dickensian . They all belong to that first half of the nineteenth century whose ingenuous selfsatisfaction with the shibboleths bequeathed by the then deceased and therefore respected French Revolution is so well reflected in Macaulay 's History of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and example of the Court , and the country had the popular literature it deserved . But the turn of the century was to witness the first uneasy stirrings of a conviction that all was not well , and by 1850 , when Darwin published The Origin of Species , the political and theological illusions necessary to the existence of Victorianism were being rudely shaken . Even Dickens was touched to some extent by the movement of ideas , and during the last fifteen years of his life his writings showed traces of a less unscrupulous optimism , In 1854 Hard Times appeared , followed by Little Dorrit , A Tale of Two Cities , Great Expectations , Our Mutual ? Friend and the unfinished Edwin Drood . These are the works which are credited with a real seriousness , and in them , if anywhere , the claim of Dickens to be regarded as more than a puppet master must be found . " One or two passages of exquisite pathos and the rest sullen Socialism " was an eminently Victorian contemporary 's judgment on Hard Times . In reality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realism , in the sense that he places his scenes not in some phantasmagoric world of his imagination but in the Potteries , and his characters are recognizable types rather than caricatures . Coketown is presented , not as a slum with picturesque possibilities , but as an ordinary factory town such as Arnold Bennett might describe . Its smoke and dirt , its miserable population , its masters Gradgrind and Bounderby are no longer subjects for humorous embroidery . Dickens is content to describe them as they are and to use them to point the moral of his great discovery : that the industrial revolution meant not progress but the degradation of civilization . Mrs. Gaup arid Quilp and Bill Sikes are not precisely charming people , but in their presentation by Dickens many people profess to be charmed by them . Nobody has found Gradgrind and Bounderby charming , although through sheer force of habit Dickens tries half-heartedly to make comic figures of them by his usual device of emphasizing oddities of speech and demeanor . Having described Bounderby drumming on his hat as if it were a tambourine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his tambourine on his head , like an oriental dancer . " He provides Sleary with a stage lisp worthy of a burlesque show and , having created a relatively credible young woman in Louisa Gradgrind , he puts her through IMr melodramatic paces comparable to those of Edith Dombey . If there is anything worse in Dickens than the scene in which Louisa tells her father that she nearly succumbed to Harthouse , either in its stilted language or its general unconvincingness , I have not discovered it . In Hard Times Dickens has largely resisted that perverse desire of his to make all loathsome creatures funny , but he still clings to the corollary of that method : he makes tragic figures theatrical and flies ignominiously from all manifestations of the elementary human passions . He either can not ? as I think ? or will not create character and analyze human motives and impulses . We must be grateful when , as in Hard Times , he succeeds in showing us types undistorted by his resolve to he whimsical under all circumstances . Ordinarily types are abstractions which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ works of greater novelists . But Dickens felt so strongly the theme of Hard Times that he ? perhaps unwittingly ? planted certain types squarely before us . Better than the hackneyed passage about Gradgrind the man of facts , is this sketch of the self-made ignoramus : Vagabond , errand-boy , vagabond , labourer , porter , clerk , chief manager , small partner , Josiah Bounderby of Coketown . Those are the antecedents , and the culmination . Josiah Bounderhy of Coketown learnt his letters from the outsides of the shops , Mrs. Gradgrind , and was first able to tell the time upon a dial-plate , from studying the steeple clock of St. Giles 's Church , London , under the direction of a drunken cripple , who was a convicted thief and an incorrigible vagrant . Tell Josiah Bounderby of Coketown , of your district schools and your model schools , and your training schools , and your whole kettleoffish of schools ; and Josiah Bounderby of Coketown tells you plainly , all right , all correct ? he had n't such advantages ? but let us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him wo n't do for everybody , he knows well ? such and such his education was , however , and you may force him to swallow boiling fat , but you shall never force him to suppress the facts of his life . Unlike some of the other horrors which Dickens described , this one , so far as I know , is not counted among time with whose abolition he is credited . Even the formula for describing this Early Victorian Babbitt is still work ing well . Another phenomenon of modern times is also well recorded in this epic of industrial progress : There was a native organization in Coketown itself , whose members were to be heard of in the House of Commons every session , indignantly petitioning for acts of parliament that should make these people religious by main force . Then came the Teetotal Society , who complained that these same people would get drunk , and showed in tabular statements that they did get drunk , and proved ' at tea parties that no inducement , human or Divine ( except a medal ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drunk . Then came the chemist and the druggist , with other tabular statements , showing that when they did n't get drunk , they took opium . Then came the experienced chaplain of the jail . with more tabular statements , outdoing all the previous tabular statements , and showing that the same people would resort to low haunts , hidden from the public eye , where they heard low singing and saw low dancing , and mayhap joined in it ; and where A. B. , aged twenty-four next birthday , and committed for eighteen months ' solitary , had himself said ( not that he had ever shown himself particularly worthy of belief ) his ruin began , as he was perfectly sure and confident that otherwise he would have been a tip-top moral specimen . Here , too , is an abuse which Dickens somehow failed to abolish , no doubt because , as these two quotations indicate , Hard Times lacks that genial note which turned Nancy into a sweet young thing and made Quilp just a quaint little creature . It is the harshest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is , to quote Bernard Shaw , " the first fruit of that very interesting occurrence which our religious sects call , sometimes conversion , sometimes attaining to conviction of sin . . . the occasional indignation has spread and deepened into a passionate revolt against the whole industrial order of the modern world . Here you will find no more villains and heroes , but only oppressors and victims , oppressing and suffering in spite of themselves , driven by a huge machinery which grinds to pieces the people it should nourish and ennoble , and having for its directors the basest and the most foolish instead of the noblest and most farsighted . " Mr. Shaw is , of course , trying to persi iade himself that , having touched earth for once , Dickens is to be hailed at this point as a Socialist , probably the only occasion when Bernard Shaw and Lord Macaulay ever found themselves in agreement . " Entirely right in main drift and purpose " was Ruskin 's comment , which leaves the novel as such uncriticized . Looking at the book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by its virtues when compared with the works of the earlier manner . Mr. Sleary , Cissy Jupe , Rachel and Stephen Blackpool are honest , noble , Godfearing , unselfish workers con - trasted mechanically with the hardness and swinishness of the Gradgrinds and Bounderbys . Slackbridge , the tradeunion organizer , is a middle-class bogey , as incredible , as unrelated to the truth ? as Dickens 's equally bourgeois misconceptions about the aristocracy . He sees the trade unions with the same eyes as Gradgrind , and describes the meetings of Slackbridge with all the ignorance of a man who hated to remember that he ? ace worked in a blacking factory . If Dickens had possessed that insight into the minds and hearts of the working classes with which his radical as well as his sentimental admirers endow him , it is strange that this " apostle of the people , " as Edwin Pugh calls him , could be guilty of the middle-class snobbery of Hard Timm . The truth is that this book simply stands outside the previous limits which Dickens had set himself ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has the qualities of Charles Kingsley : it is mid-Victorian radicalism . Little Dorrit , his next book , is another attempt on the part of Dickens to write seriously . The difference between it and his previous work is more obviously illustrated by the fact that it treats realistically a theme which the author hadalready treated fantastically . Edward Dorrit 's disintegration under pressure of financial circumstance is the true story with which Dickens trifled when he drew his picture of Mr. Micawber . It is , I think , significant and typical of the problem with which Dickens confronts the modern reader that Edward Dorrit is probably the obscurest character in the Dickens repertory whereas Micawber is one of the most familiar . Dorrit is one of the rare instances of honest analysis in the writings of Dickens , Micawber is one of the many instances of sentimental embellishment ; the former is forgotten , the latter is remembered . What is even more significant of the altitude of those who admire Dickens is the bewildered speculation as to how the same person , to wit , the novelist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Micawber and Dorrit ? a bewilderment as na ? ve as that which might be produced by comparing the antics of a drunken man as seen by a boon companion with those antics as reported by the policeman who arrested them . The moment that Dickens describes anything as it exists in reality , we are warned that he is not himself . By one of those sardonic strokes of fate which were peculiarly numerous , as we have subsequently discovered , in the unspacious times of Queen Victoria , the life of Dickens refused to become a part of his scheme of things . The coryphant of domesticity could not live with his own wife . The anxieties of that crisis arc urged in extenuation of the fact that it was then that he wrote Little Dora a story with an unhappy ending . We are entitled to congratulate ourselves that he did not live in this so enlightened and uninhibited age , when he would assuredly have found it both necessary and desirable to transform his domestic affairs into copy . Let us be content to note that when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dropped his rose-colored spectacles and attempted to see life steadily , if not whole . The consequence was that in Little Dorrit he has left some satire which it is still possible to read with enjoyment , the picture of the Circumlocution Office , for example , in which the eternal beauties of bureaucracy are enshrined . The essence of parliamentary government is contained in such passages as this : Then would the noble lord or right . honourable gentleman , in whose department it was to defend the Circumlocution Office , put an orange in his pocket , and make a regular field-day of the occasion . Then would he come down to that house with a slap upon the table and meet the honourable gentleman foot to foot . Then would he be there to tell that honourable gentleman that the CircumlocuLiuu Office was not only blameless in this matter , but was commendable in this matter , was ex Lollable to the skies in this matter . Then would he be there to tell that honourable gentleman that although the Circumlocution Office was invariably right , and wholly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter . Then would he be there to tell the honourable gentleman that it would have been more to his honour , more to his credit , more to his good taste , more to his good sense , more to half the dictionary of common places if he had left the Circumlocution Office alone and never approached this matter . Then would he keep one eye upon a coach or crammer from the Circumlocution Office below the bar , and smash the honourable gentleman with the Circumlocution Office account of this matter . And although one of two things always happened ; namely , either that the Circumlocution Office had nothing to say , and said it. , or that it had something to say of which the right honourable gentleman blundered one half and forgot the other ; the Circumlocution Office was always voted immaculate by an accommodating majority . The light-hearted Dickens reappears in Our Mutual Friend , but in the main his later works are marked by an air of gravity which corresponded to a change in the temper of the times and in the circumstances of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exaggeration to pretend that Dickens , even at this stage , showed any signs of being a man of ideas . In Hard Times and Little Dorrit there are flashes of genuine satire which enable one to reread those books with less impatience than the more typical worksarouse , but the essential childishness and superficiality of Dickens are inescapable . Balzac had died before Dickens entered this final phase of his career , but already another Frenchman had arisen to dwarf him . Little Dorrit was published the same year as Madame Borary , and the mere juxtaposition of the two at once settles the place of the English novelist ; he is simply not grown up . Furthermore , both Dickens and Flaubert established a line of fiction , and the one is infantile while the other is adult . To a superlative degree Dickens embodied that quality of mawkish respectability which differentiates modern English fiction from that of Continental Europe . When Washington Irving wrote to Dickens of " that exquisite tact that enabled him to carry his reader through the veriest dens of vice and villainy without a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the robe of the most shrinking delicacy " he undoubtedly expressed an appreciation which is widely shared . In fact the same testimony has been proudly paid to a vast school of British and American novelists . Yet may one not legitimately ask what sort of morbid delight is this which brings writer and reader into contact with persons and sitnations from which they really shrink in horror ? If an author likes to linger in the veriest dens of vice , " then intellectual honesty and artistic courage demand that he shall not pretend to be elsewhere . If such scenes have any genuine importance in the execution of his aim it must be because of their intrinsic effectiveness . Otherwise they are mere stage settings , artificial and unconvincing outside the world of pure make-believe . In fairy tales one does not consider the authenticity of material detail , but we expect of the modern novel something more than a fable for children ; and it is because so many of our novelists do not realize this that fiction in English has ceased to offer anything to the intelligence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killing time . To demand that a writer shall give us only what he is prepared truthfully and honestly to describe is not , as some think , to insist that he shall outstep Zola in the inventorying of Nana 's bedroom or Coupeau 's kitchen . All that one asks is that , if he introduces us to Nana , she shall not be palmed off as a species of Little Nell . William Dean Howells , according to his latest biographer , wrote forty volumes in which " adultery is never pictured ; seduction never ; divorce once and sparingly . . . marriage discordant to the point of cleavage only once and in the same novel with the divorce ; crime only once with any fullness ; . . politics never ; religion passingly and superficially ; science only in crepusucular psychology ; mechanics , athletics , bodily exploits or collisions , very rarely . " Whatever may he thought of this conception of the function of the novel , Howells had at least the courage of his omissions and did not try to include surreptitiously , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undesirable . He did not qualify for that strange test of merit which Washington Irving applied to Dickens . It is curious to notice that this list of Howells 's taboos is almost a summary of Dickens 's themes , yet the English novelist was no less squeamish than the American ; he was simply less logical . He was , however , more astute , not deliberately but unwittingly and instinctively ; for he was able to satisfy that profound Anglo-Saxon yearning for appearances and compromises . Had Flaubert described Bill Sikes and Nancy , Dickens would not , have made it one of his bravura pieces on the lecture platform ? nor would Flaubert , for that matter , had he bethought himself of that lucrative aid to literary fame . Nobody ever congratulated the creator of Madame Bovary on having concluded that superb analysis " without a breath to shock the ear , " for he so decidedly shocked the ears of the Second Empire that its well-known pruderies were out raged to the point of indicting him . Neither then nor since , nevertheless , could any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most shrinking delicacy " was stained by Flaubert 's regard for his own artistic integrity . Therein lies all the difference between a novelist who knows what the public wants and one who knows only what he himself must and can do , between a great creative genius and a public entertainer . Their aims and their methods are as far apart as their fields ; the one deals with life , the other with conventions . The inevitable conclusion to the premise of the Victorian novel is a literature for grown-up children , which becomes , in the last analysis , a literature to be read in childhood . Hence the statement of Brandes about Scott which I have already quoted , and which may well stand for all that group of read but unreadable nineteenth century English novelists . If one begins young enough to be still in the omnivorous stage of reading it is possible to absorb Dickens with appropriate rapture , and it is sometimes possible to take him up again and see him through the merciful glamour of one 's youth . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first time would have about it an air of incongruity as unbecoming as the sight of a man of forty stuffing himself with cream puffs in schoolboy fashion . The meal would prove also equally indigestible . Such defiances of nature arc compatible only with youth . Then the receptive faculties are more developed than the critical , and pleasure is unrestrained by reflection . Thus it is without difficulty that one accepts the conventions of Dickens 's unreal world where all the stage properties , scenery , and costumes are of the best quality , but the pretense of life is unsustained . Here are good humor and fantastic imagination , tears and thrills , a delightful fairyland in a realistic setting everything that makes Charles Dickens an excellent writer for children .                     