@@493273

December 20 , 1922 THE NEW was given the federal patronage in Wisconsin , and every other conceivable form of support . In time , a candidate was presented against La Follette for renomination , and the movement was taken seriously in the East . La Follette was a joke and a nuisance , sometimes more a joke than a nuisance , sometimes more a nuisance than a joke . And now he is back in Washington , with the prestige of an incredible majority in Wisconsin , with the prestige of controlling more votes , in the Senate and in the House , than any other single Individual ; and with the prestige of leadership of an organization ? within the organizations of the two old parties ? of enough potential power to have profoundly stirred the administration . Moreover --  -- and this iS significant ? there are men In the movement headed by La Follette who were soldiers in the war , and there are others who were at the opposite pole to La Follette in their ideas about the war . La Follette 's face no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is a smooth and shining Countenance , meet for the pompadour and all the rest . No one knows better than La Follette that he has come back . No one appreciates as lette does what that means to La Follette. is more roseate than La Follette in dreams of what may be ; and in these fluid times dreams may go far afield . Still , remembering the bad luck that So often has dogged him , I wonder if there was an omen in the first thing that happened after he returned to Washington for the special session of Congress . He prepared himself for a four-hour war dance in the centre of the Senate Political carcass of Senator Newberry. berry up and resigned on him . JOHN W. OWENS . Judgment I wish my ghost might serve as juryman , One of a passive body come to hear The cause of Life ? the fruit against ' the plan ? Plead by the living , could they but speak clear . There would be murky tales , grim case on case , A witness here would show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with starry face , And Pain would sit secure against the wall . I wonder then , if I being free and done With agony and sweat , should cast my vote For Life ? remembering passion and the sun On warming clay , the spring wind at my throat ; Or if I 'd look at Pain and wink an eye And of an old grudge , vote to.let Life die ?                     