@@430852

I N 1913 , in what was known as the Armoury Exhibition , at New York , the art of the Post-Impressionists was first introduced to the American public . Most of us remember the ignoble attitude of the press towards those rebellious painters : the critical obscurantists railed with indignation ; fanatic was too mild a term ? the exhibitors were maniacs , charlatans , degenerate Frenchmen . Eight years have passed ; and now the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts has opened its finest galleries to the pictures of the modern Americans . It seems paradoxical that the few men who have anything beautiful to offer the world should have to fight for existence , but such is one of the ruinous effects of industrialism , and it is indeed remarkable that in so brief a time our younger artists should have been victorious over Philistine resentment , and should have found a response in one of the most conservative institutions in the United States . The Philadelphia Academy is to be commended for its new vision : it abandoned its traditional judgement that art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to its halls a group of painters who have at least one interest in common , the knowledge that art is based on design and not on natural imitation . The Committee of Selection is also to be applauded , both for its disinterested method of hanging the canvasses , and for its inclusive choice of painters . Eighty-eight exhibitors and two hundred eighty pictures were listed in the catalogue ; for once modern art was adequately presented , and the spectator was spared the abortive efforts of those innumerable and vain-glorious persons who bought space in the Independent Show at the Waldorf-Astoria . The exhibition was on view for a month . It did not provoke wild excitement . The day of condemnation is over ; the shocking modern infant who , it seems only yesterday , screamed its message in discordant colours and thrashed its arms in Futuristic gestures , is strangely old and sober ; the public has accepted the new painting , has reconciled it with contemporary life , and seeing  |p673  that it is not so new after all , but closely affiliated with the art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some , of course , will not admit this ; they will join voices with the elderly clergymen of the museums and the newspapers , and deprecate every movement that has directed its energies against naturalism . Happily , their voices will not be heard , and the art of to-day will have what it needs most ? big spaces , ample room to stand alone and to state its fresh and valid appeal to visitors without the disconcerting nonsense of intrusive attendants . Not the least of the public benefits of this exhibition is the opportunity for making new valuations . The boudoir painter is painfully exposed , and those canvasses which ask for recognition because of superficial cleverness and textural delicacy , shrink back into fitting insignificance . The mincing prettiness which has unfortunately crept , now and then , into modern painting , is simply annihilated by the big spaces : robbed of its pretentious aestheticism inherited from Victorian England and hung in the company of composed and undiluted form , it loses even its appearance of merit . Size , to be sure , is not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered in large form , direct and ordered masses , clean and definite contrasts , and it is with these elements that some of the more advertised of the moderns fail , while others less known stand out conspicuously . There were on the walls huge canvasses which accomplished nothing ; on the other hand , there were pictures which arrived almost at classic grandeur , and a number of small things whose carrying power and general impressiveness were extraordinary . And that strained triviality , which used to be so irritating in the new movement in America , was noticeably absent ? in its place we saw dignity , the dignity which comes of growth , poise , and readjustment . Here and there among these canvasses we beheld the glimmering of the truth of great art ; and there was abundant evidence on all sides of lucid conviction and sound knowledge . The future of American art will certainly repose in a number of men represented at Philadelphia , not in the illustrators , imitators , and literalists of fashionable exploitation . In the first place , technical experimentation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ younger painters , and which has been so puzzling and offensive to the layman , has practically disappeared . The majority of the men have ripened to the point  |p674  where they no longer feel the need of playing with the purely sensational effects of pigment and texture ; they have the modern means more or less under control , have discarded colour hypotheses which could never have existed without European eloquence , and have concentrated their attention on the delineation of form . A conclusive sign of solid development . Second : There are examples of unrestricted rendering of natural forms in which the feelings of the painter are indicated in a distinctly personal manner . This is a selective art . To get at its truth we must realize that the artist has considered himself as more important that his subject ; that formalistic accuracy of drawing , tone , perspective , and verisimilitude are subordinate to ideas of value . Such ideas are not always defensible ; they lend themselves freely to idiosyncrasy ; but in their worst aspect go far beyond the mechanical copying of nature as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include Ben Benn , Emile Branchard , Arthur B. Carles , Andrew Dasburg , Preston Dickinson , Edward Fisk , Bernard Gussow , Henry McCarter , D. W. McCouch , Henry L. McFee , Gus Mager , John Marin , A. H. Maurer , George F. Of , Samuel Halpert , Marsden Hartley , Bertram Hartman , Yasuo Kuniyoshi , Owen Merton , Lyman Sayen , Maurice Sterne , and Charles Demuth . Third : To one unfamiliar with primitive design and with the recent trend of abstractionism , several pictures will appear as little more than bands of ragged colour or sharp flashes of spectral light . Works of this order present arbitrary combinations of geometrical units , and when successful have the value of pure decoration . Strict symmetry of the flat surfaces is neither desired nor attempted ; the direction of the lines is determined by the artistic impulse , which , in some instances , is recklessly manifested . As new architectural forms are evolved this art will take its place in the modern world in much the same fashion as the arabesque in the buildings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edward Nagle , and Carl Newman are good examples . Fourth : The influence of Cubism is apparent but not engrossing . The reduction of natural objects to their nearest geometrical equivalent offers advantages for plastic design , but in imitative hands it results in a complicated pattern that is highly disturbing . Form is disintegrated rather than composed , and a certain semblance of unity is attained by the strange scaffolding , and by the  |p675  translation of natural tone-values into terms of colour . Textures have been drawn into some of the pictures , textures amazingly executed , but of no aesthetic importance . This art is spirited and exciting , but structurally it is often fragmentary and lacking decision . It is represented by Paul Burlin , A. S. Baylinson , Carl Kahler , Man Ray , Morton L. Schamburg , Charles Sheeler , Joseph Stella , and Max Weber . Fifth : The dissatisfaction with sterile transcripts of nature has given rise to a new symbolism , an art allied with Futurism when it deals with the figure , and with Expressionism when it becomes abstract . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pictures engage to present states of the soul , to put into graphic form indefinable emotions , to stir the sensibilities of the observer into response by means of arresting emblems portrayed in brilliant colour and free line . A language of this kind is not always articulate ; it leads to a curious personalization that is foreign to the psychic states of the audience , and its message is lost . To appreciate its real meaning an actual acquaintance with the artist is almost necessary . Beautiful patterns have sprung from this art , patterns which seem to grow spontaneously like crystals . In this group are Homer Boss , Arthur B. Davies , Arthur G. Dove , Georgia O'Keefe , A. Walkowitz , Marguerite Zorach , and William Zorach . Sixth : The undying stimulus of Classicism is evident in several canvasses . Here art is created by tectonic methods ; the design is severe , and though in most instances limited to a single figure , it testifies to careful study of the masters of the High Renaissance in Italy . Works of this tendency are connected with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of lines and planes of structure in terms of colour , as exemplified in the watercolours of Cezanne ; and second , by an elaboration of the ordered Impressionism of Renoir . Colour is made predominant ; it is applied purely and with little tonal value ; so far as it is possible line is abolished and the form established by definite areas of colour , each chosen according to its relative intensity , and bounded by line after it has taken its position in space . An art opposed to objectivity arid destined to a rich future . The principal exhibitors were S. MacDonald Wright and William Yarrow . Seventh : Another phase of classical composition comes into prominence ? the selection of objective and dispersed facts of ex/ perience , and their incorporation as units of structure into a complex and limited form where all the parts tend to sequential relationship . Such an art can hardly be called modern ; it appears in the culminating periods of the whole history of the expressive life of man , and is symptomatic of the everlasting human need of finding kinship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In this exhibition , like the colour-art just mentioned , it derives liberally from the Renaissance , but it contains no perceptible traces of Cezanne and Renoir . Thomas H. Benton is a characteristic exponent . As a composer , Gaston Lachaise might be included here , but his drawings by no means measure his sculptural gifts , and his work shows oriental and modern French influences rather than Italian . The last tendency is difficult to catalogue . There are etchings analogous to Hogarth . It were a waste of time to say these prints are not modern : they may be caustic , satiric , documentary , but all the same , they are artistic and will remain as records of American life . There are water-colours depicting actual scenes in which the characters are recognizably drawn . These , too , are beautiful ; and yet they are purposely descriptive ? their beauty relates to Daumier . And there are pictures where design and the new means are employed in humorous situations ? legitimate and successful efforts . Works of this order were shown by Louis Bouche , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Wood Gaylor , Walt Kuhn , Jules Pascin , and John Sloan . In putting forward these divisions only a general classification is intended . One is conscious of the overlapping of tendencies , and it is doubtful if a single canvas may be fitted unreservedly into a given category . Art , like life , becomes positive only when it is narrow and puritanical ; and one of the most encouraging features of the show was its breadth . These pictures speak unanimously when they say that art is not the reflex of actuality ; that it must create a reality peculiar to itself to bear the stamp of meaning and the signature of beauty ; they speak triumphantly against pedantry and studio formulae ; they transport us into a world of freedom where preferences large or small , emotional or ideational , true or fanciful , may have their expression . Is there anything American in the exhibition ' ? Is it merely a repetition of foreign experiment ' ? A comparison with the French Masters temporarily hung in the Brooklyn Museum will help to  |p677  answer these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a condition to be expected in a world becoming daily more closely knit , where social and intellectual problems in the larger sense are identical , and where the commerce of ideas goes on continually . Nor can we overlook the fact that France is the home of the whole modern movement . In casting about for differences it is readily seen that our own painting is less assured ; that it is harder , more conscious , and marked by a heavier volitional force ; while the European work flowers easily from a well-cultivated soil . The Brooklyn exhibition represented men of undeniable maturity , men who have , as we say , arrived , and have taken their place in history ; in Philadelphia there were comparatively few who have really found themselves , who have full command over their powers . All things considered , we can detect in our younger painters a spirit which points to a stiff determination , a sort of will to grow , whether the ground be good or bad , a distinctly un-European quality . This originates from the want of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live on itself , and the pompous display of the dead with its returns in money has usurped the collector 's appreciation of living talent . The artist dwells in spiritual loneliness , and on those rare occasions when he comes into contact with society his mood is inhibitive and one of combat . He does not dare to be expansive and friendly . The mental habits reflecting his inheritances and his environment direct the form of his pictures ? he struggles for existence ; he is hard , wilful , passionate , practical ? and native to some soil . Many of the canvasses at Philadelphia were too imitative of the French to count for very much ; on the other hand , the larger number would stand out in any foreign gallery as American productions . It is hardly necessary to add that the modern painters have deserved official recognition . Their work has justified their claims ; and the Pennsylvania Academy , by giving them annual representation , could do art an immense service . It would mean that New York would fall into line , and Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art does not , of course , rest with the academies ; but every exhibition increases the audience and encourages appreciation . In this manner the public would more quickly learn of the value of the new men ; and the dealer , whose interest in pictures is largely commercial , would be forced either to change his policy or to go out of business .  |p678                      