@@493463

rU fie Ne0 REPUBLIC A Journal e Opinion , VOL . XLI NEW YORK , WEDNESDAY , DECEMBER 3 , 1924 NUMBER 522 The Week GREAT BRITAIN 'S present attitude toward Egypt represents a return to a brutal and barbaric policy which the world had some reason to believe had been outgrown . Certainly , the murder of Major-General Sir Lee Stack was an outrage Which can not be too deeply regretted ; and there is unfortunately all too much precedent for the de- ? tr'anded apology and the fine of ? 500,000 . But the 15aldwin government was not content to stop with these customary impositions . In a manner which 81ggests that it regards Sir Lee 's assassination as a lucky stroke of fortune for its own political purposes , it dishonors the memory of its gallant servant by making his murder the pretext to tighten its hold ? 11. the Sudan . If the London government had foreseen the murder and laid its plans in advance it could not have been more prompt in demanding as PaYrnent all the things which it has been trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever since the protectorate was aban ? 4ed.GREAT BRITAIN will win , of course , in her contest . The Egyptians have no military force with which to oppose her and there is no outside quarter from which to expect aid . They have voted to appeal to the League of Nations ; but little help can be expected from that quarter , especially as Egypt is not a member . Great Britain has already declared that she will accept no outside interference in Egyptian affairs and would regard action by any third power under Article XI of the League Covenant as an unfriendly act . In view of our own attitude as expressed in the Monroe Doctrine , no American has the right to exhibit moral indignation over this policy ; but we have the right to deplore the cynicism with which the British government thrusts aside such minor matters as justice and respect for the opinion of mankind in order to confirm her title to some important territory and to strengthen her control of the Suez Canal . The realists of the Paris boulevards are already saying that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suppressed nationalities . Under this view , the truculence of the British note is intended to serve notice on Egypt , India , and the whole Mohammedan world that no relief may be expected from " The White Man 's Burden " ? i. e. , the burden the white man lays upon those of other colors . THE Navy Department now calmly and casually informs the country that an American fleet is to go on a junket to the Antipodes next summer ? a junket which will be extremely costly , in more ways than one . Twelve dreadnaughts , four light cruisers , thirty-six destroyers are to participate ; extensivemanceuvres will be held at Hawaii , and others will take place in Australian and New Zealand waters . The Navy may have been quite innocent in planning the cruise ; but its effect can hardly be other than wholly bad . Japanese opinion is still inflamed because of the affront contained in our immigration law ; and by them the cruise is certain to be interpreted , privately if not publicly , as a rattling of the sabre , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antagonists . This will be doubly true of a cruise which includes a visit to Australia , with the natural , accompaniment of toasts to " white supremacy in the Pacific " and reiterations that " Anglo-Saxons must stand together . " Under all the circumstances , the cruise is in the worst possible taste . It can serve no useful naval purpose , and the taxpayers ' money could be expended otherwise to infinitely greater advantage . THE new British government has rejected the treaties which MacDonald signed with Russia . They will not even be submitted to Parliament for ratification . The government insists that the Zinovieff letter was genuine , and that the Third Internationale , with the full knowledge of the Soviet government , is persisting in communist agitation in the British Isles . The rupture of relations is drastic , but of course not unexpected . Having based their campaign largely on the undesirability of the treaties and the genuineness of the Zinovieff letter , the Conservatives could hardly do less . A similar development may be expected in France if the Herriot government should succeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither the ability nor the inclination to make such arrangements regarding payment to French and British bondholders and owners of expropriated factories as will satisfy a conservative government in either country . The communist believes , with more than religious fervor , that payment of such debts to Western " capitalists " is immoral . He will go only so far in promises to pay as he is obliged to ; and all the known laws of human nature indicate that lie will also give no more than lip service to the promise to abstain from propaganda in those countries . The problem of establishing amicable relations between Communist Russia and the conservative Western powers , including America , is one which grows more difficult the more it is studied . THE report on political action of the Executive Council of the American Federation of Labor is an excellent example of double-barreled diplomacy . By a carefully phrased endorsement of the traditional non-partisan policy and a failure to recommend a Labor party , it saves the faces of those few but important leaders who revolted when the Federation endorsed La Follette @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a legitimate expression of the non-partisan policy ? as technically it was ? and by an expression of qualified satisfaction with the results of the campaign , it placates the Progressives and protects the Administration 's record . If the more hot-headed on both sides can be restrained from precipitating the issue on the floor , the general desire to avoid a clash which would leave its mark on the trade union movement will be fulfilled . The leaders of the progressive political , actionists are wisely supporting the resolution , since a battle for the Labor party idea in the convention would be poor strategy at this time . If lost it would do much to defeat their hopes ; if won it would merely put the union label definitely on a party which they know must be much broader 0 scope and more inclusive in origin to be successful Furthermore , what they need most is not the en dorsement of the Federation ? which can be ob. ; tamed again during a campaign if conditions are ; favorable ? but the support of constituent nationa and international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's political efforts count . b ' this case as in most others the Federation follow ) rather than leads the policy of the several unions leaving a decisive issue to be achieved outside its off ' ' ' cial cognizance . THE New York League of Women Voters mel , last week to congratulate itself on having rooted sixty percent of the voters of the state in the recent ; election . The League labored hugely in 104 or 1.01 organized districts in the state during the campaq as did all the state leagues that net the country 0 one of the most earnest and most reasonable orgall izations of our over-organized life . It is a standa0 cynicism to point out that the holy ardor engenders by the suffrage fight did not sweep politics pure the first national election in which women had tl0 vote . Instead of repudiating existing parties women swallowed them ? they created , that is , league which derives its vitality from the health clash of party strife . By fostering keen partisan discussion among its members it trains them in litical thinking , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scrutiny . ' By uniting its memberD , I on broad questions of general welfare or natior01 policy it carries the unexceptionable weight of non-partisan body . As a political organization it a paradox ; yet it is the most intelligent political organization in the country , and the direct result all cynics note , of the nineteenth amendment . THE women who formed the League were move ? at the beginning by the responsibilities of victory They made it a women 's organization for the cation and advancement of women . But in the brogo range of its activities in the last five years 0 ' emphasis has changed from woman to voter . T1 League still holds itself responsible , of course , the interests of women in legislation , but it has coo to class the social and legal disabilities still suffered by women among other grievances to be remove ' , as soon as possible , no doubt , but not to be over emphasized in the face of graver general refor ? Its membership has ceased to be so much a sex as convenient classification of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common . The tendency to Pr get themselves , or at any rate to forget their se ? ' was strongly evident among the delegates to lasl , week 's New York convention . It was a sound , all ' membership , apparently neither more nor less inte , ligent than any picked gathering , though necessarl , u more disinterested , intent upon the business of a fie , markably well-run organization . The resolutions concerning women 's interests were taken up vint11 December 3 , 1924 THE NEW the same business-like , reasonable spirit that marked the other proceedings . There was no edge of reierament or apology or challenge . The old sen sitivity of suffrage days has passed , and now , five Years after the great upheaval , appears its true fruit , acceptance . The spectacle of a woman politician goes unnoticed , even by herself . Then as far as the guardianship of a state is concerned there is no difference between the natures of the man and of the woman , but only different degrees of weakness and strength . Plato would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely agreeing with him , but practising the theory Without thinking twice about it . OWEN YOUNG 'S statement on the working of the Dawes plan offers the assurance that for one year at least Germany need not be adjudged in default under the accepted scheme of payments . The billion marks to be paid into the Reichsbank by next August on reparations account will be available . A considerable part of this sum , to be sure , comes out of the proceeds of the recent international loan . No valid inference can be drawn as to Germany 's ability toa.  - -  y the billion and a quarter due in 1926 , nor the two billion and a half due annually thereafter . Such payments can be made only if the economic revival of Germany proceeds at a pace more rapid than it is safe at the present time to predict . Mr. Young is confident that the process of economic revival is well under way and there are many facts bearing an optimistic interpretation . Employment is better than last year , and statistics of consumption give signs of some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates of ? taxation that were too high for maximum fiscal yield will help toward economic revival . If pending negotiations for the commercial treaties give Germany a fair chance in inter- national trade it is possible that considerable reparations payments may be made under the Dawes plan , , however far they may fall short of Allied expectations . TO be honored in death and buried with the pomp and circumstance of princes ? be a bootlegger . We cluote from the New York Times the account of the funeral in Chicago of one Dion O'Banion , thirty-two year old ruler of the Chicago underworld , king Of hijackers and , according to the Chief of Police of Chicago , director of at least twenty-five Murders : Twenty-six truck loads of flowers , one thousand Persons were at . the cemetery . . . It was recognized by gangmen , gunmen , all factions of the liquor traffic and all groups which have trouble with the police as an occasion for . . . doing honor to the greatest rep-resentative of their general class . . . Louis Altiere , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purple collar and frock coat , a sheaf of lilies of the valley on the lapel , touched his eyes with a handkerchief of dashing Pattern and rearranged the flowers in order to give a better effect to the floral tribute of the widow ? a pillar seven feet high , made of two thousand red roses . " Now play , " he whispered behind a gloved hand , when the pallbearers and other principal mourners bad deposited their revolvers with friends and filled the room . . . From twenty-six trucks an acre was covered with floral pieces with pious and sentimental inscriptions in violets and forget-me-nots . The biggest of them was a seven foot wall of carnations bearing in gigantic letters the words : " To our pal ? from the gang . " Amid sobs from hundreds the splendid coffin was slowly lowered into the grave . Thus goeth the gentle criminal to his reward . When prohibitory duty 's to be done , to be done , the policeman 's lot is not a happy one , happy one . THE civil war in China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armies have been victorious , Wu Pei-fu 's have been defeated and what is styled a peace conference has been called , but this is far from meaning that there will be at last peace in China . Instead there is every reason to expect a renewal of fighting after the usual winter and spring interval of inactivity . Before there can be anything approaching settlement in China the country must be cleared of the military groups spread all over the country . They must be eliminated either by the force of a public opinion weary with ceaseless civil war or by the supremacy of one group . In practical fact it must be the latter , as there is no organized public opinion of any potency in the country now . There have been numerous patched-up peace agreements in the last few years and all have amounted only to temporary truces . Whichever side was worsted only had its strength temporarily impaired . When it had time to recover , the war started all over again . Such has been China 's internal history since 1911 and nothing has now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected . Even the removal of the - boy Emperor from the Forbidden City will have little direct influence , because such monarchist sentiment as exists will not be diminished by that act . THIS year 's war was the most severe of any since the overthrow of the monarchy , but there was no decision in the sense that one of the two contenders was eliminated . Wu Pei-fu was put out of action not in battle but by the treachery of one of his sub -- ordinate commanders , Feng Yu-hsiang , the so-called Christian general who has long been the little ' darling of the American missionaries and who now has given his heathen compatriots a dubious demonstration of Christian ethics by deserting his commander in the midst of battle and going over to the-enemy . Wu Pei-fu 's main army was cut off and broken up and Wu himself forced to flee , but ' a number of military governors have already an-nounced they do not recognize the new regime in Peking but adhere to their loyalty to Wu Pei-fu . The customary political and military intriguery will continue , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made when the time is propitious , even if some sort of agreement be signed at the forthcoming conference in Tientsin . If Chang Tsolin had carried on the campaign until the other semi-independent armies were crushed or frightened into subMission there might have been unification . A ' dictated peace is the only kind possible for China now or until there is a civil government strong enough to subdue all the military chieftains . THE railway strike which suspended communications in Austria and compelled Chancellor Seipel to resign is symptomatic of something more serious than labor difficulties . The burden of paying for the " reconstruction " for which the League of Nations and the great banking groups of Europe and America take credit is becoming impossible to bear and the labor unions , being the best organized , are making the most vigorous protests . The League is still concerned first with balancing budgets and protecting its loan , the Austrian people with clothing themselves warmly enough to keep warm and buying enough food to keep their children fed . In Austria 's economic situation the two are mutually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League cries insistently for economy , ' economy means higher taxes and the dismissal of more state employes to be added to the 100,000 unemployed in a country of 6,000,000 , prices mount steadily and incomes remain stable or are disproportionately increased . The financial panic which hit all Central Europe after the franc speculations has been ' especially disastrous in Austria . The League at its last meeting imposed ' severer restrictions on the Austrian government . The combination of circumstances has made living conditions in Vienna worse than at any time since the collapse after the Armistice.                     