@@467686

ONE 'S relations are not to be paraded in public save in a worthy cause and the caption of these reflections is intentionally misleading ? a convenience , a point of departure . What follows is discursive , tangential , the babble of a loquacious guest who changes the subject frequently for fear of losing the attention of the table . I am really thinking of family relationships in general , of orderly and happy households , of the simplicities and sanctities of life . Every well-regulated family should have a grandfather within call , to participate in all ceremonies and festivities and for his consolatory value in hours of adversity . My equipment in the way of grandfathers was complete : there were two of them . If they had created any great stir in the world I should be restrained by every consideration of delicacy from referring to them . It is because they never sought a place in the sun , but walked their widely separated paths humbly and in the fear of God that I presume to invoke their spirits . The older I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in flares of precociousness and genius . It 's the average man an honest average , with no juggling to make a pretty figure for the statistician ? that we 've got to adjust our ideals to . I throw in this most unoriginal note at this point to reassure hose who might suspect that I was about to commit the indiscretion of boasting of my progenitors as extraordinary . On the contrary , my jubilation is rather that they were only average men , who were never inspired to set the world aright but adjusted themselves in good spirit to the state of life into which they were horn , and so doing , Ied happy and contented lives . Fathers are too close for detached observation ; grandfathers are sufficiently remote to be viewed , as one might say , academically . I will go the length of urging the preservation and encouragement of grandfathers as essential to the proper safeguarding of our institutions . Of grandmothers I might say much , but grandfathers have somehow been neglected ? their presence tolerated but not encouraged . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up . Science and the haberdasher are doing better than the poets ever did for the elderly man . No man of spirit who is n't afraid of a red necktie is going to become a lean and slippered pantaloon , slinking into seclusion when there 's company hi the parlor . The book counters are littered with plausible tracts that relate how old age may be postponed ; no items of the daily news are more . eagerly read than the reports of the birthday celebrations of ancients who " climb the ladder of the parallels " toward the unknown as serenely as though they expected to cross the pole and sail southward into summer latitudes . This is good , and makes for a eheerfuller world . It is not , however , my aim to repeat the familiar recommendation of a diet of spinach ? that most uninteresting , insipid , and depressing product of the vegetable kingdom ? or suggest the adoption of any monstrous method of restraint or abstention to those who covet earthly immortality . My intentions are social , not scientific . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpret as a certain commiserating professional glance as I meet them in the highway . I suspect them of speculating as to the pliability of my arteries , but I pass them with a disdainful lifting of the hand , remembering that both my grandfathers ate fried meat and lived comfortably into the nineties without knowing there was any such thing as blood pressure . In their sorrowing over the deterioration of moral standards and the general subsidence of civilization in America the prophets of calamity do not neglect the family . We hear nowadays that the home as a social unit is enormously weakened where it is not already tottering , but it is far from my purpose to add the slightest weight to the pressure upon the ancient . walls . Along about this time of year , when the heart kindles under the influence of gracious memories , and chimes are rung , candles lighted , and good wishes exchanged among friends and strangers , it is possible to believe that many vestiges remain of what we are fond of calling the good old times . It might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ love and loyalty has still in our literature and in the theater a tangible commercial value . The fundamental virtues may appear to the stern moralist to be much disfigured or obsolete , but wherever they are publicly exhibited they win the heartiest applause . Old stuff , chirrup the critics , when the mother puts the lamp in the window for the thousandth time in the hope that it may catch the eye of her wandering child . Truly enough , it is old stuff , but " safe " ? safe because the world refuses to let go of it . There always has been that mother and that prodigal , and just as inevitably the lamp at the window a pharos that lightens all the world 's byways . It follows that we must be cautious in accepting the conclusions of hasty and prejudiced observers as to human nature , which does n't change as to the fundamentals of right conduct half as fast as the pessimist would have us believe . Man has constantly been played upon by furious disturbances beyond his control , but as often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something inside of him that preserves him from annihilation . He may wander , lie may stumble and fall , but Home remains his ultimate destination . The saving forces are not so unevenly matched in their battle with the powers of destruction . Rectitude and the loyalties go right on asserting themselves , planting fortifications which are capable of prolonged and stubborn resistance . And the family does persist and flourish , even when it abandons the front-yard grass and mother 's pansy bed for the restricted area of an apartment where the flora is limited to an invalid rubber plant . Irritating though they become at times , relatives are necessary and , save in regrettable instances where they may inconsiderately land themselves in the penitentiary , they do confer upon us a measure of dignity and respectability . I once heard of a man who was so upset by the constant invasion of his home by his wife 's relations that he would leave the table and retire to the parlor to swear . As he was a deeply religious person , the unwelcome guests , hearing his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few moments of private devotion . I introduce this incident to illustrate the value of a well-established reputation for piety in the family . A man who can be a hero to his wife 's relations may face the rest of the world fearlessly ; the calumniator 's tongue is powerless against him ; the purity of his soul would put Galahad to shame . Any reorganization of society in such manner as to confide the newly-born to the care of the State would inevitably destroy the pleasant sentiment that has , for example , grown up about aunts and uncles . The State would not only become in loco parentis , but it would be obliged to provide substitutes for those benevolent and understanding relatives who so adorn the best English fiction . An official uncle in the guise of a policeman or a species of universal aunt properly uniformed and badged might serve , though the idea is well calculated to shock those of us that recall aunts and uncles who appeared in the households qwq on their rickety stools , swaying to the click of the types , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pipes in mouth and the most disreputable hats on their heads ? by preference old straw hats which attained dignity from their very age . Intemperance was lamentably associated with the craft in those years ; and this , coupled with the fact that a compositor could " get cases " for at least a day in any town where there was a printing office , was responsible for the tramp printer , who roved the country earning his way . My uncle 's stories of his own pilgrimages immediately after the Civil War would make an enthralling narrative . It was the proudest boast of these peripatetic philosophers that they had " set " Greeley 's notoriously puzzling copy on the New York Tribune . This was the highest possible achievement , the equivalent of an honorary degree in the craft . Often these men were widely read in the best literature . I knew one who had all Shakespeare at his tongue 's end and was cursed with an ambition to play Hamlet . He did in fact appear , whenever occasion offered , as the tortured Dane in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My uncle told me of the perpetration by another of the fraternity of the most frightful pun I know . The scene was a barrel house in St. Louis much affected by knights of the inky trades . One of a circle of philosophers that had been discussing weighty matters jumped down from a cask and in the act tore his trousers . Gazing ruefully at the rupture he declaimed : " See what a rent the envious Casca made . " But dropping one 's uncles , I shall register my opinion that he is a lucky child who enjoys the companionship of a grandfather through those years commonly believed to be impressionable . A grandfather does in a very impressive way make vivid the nearer past ; he is a university of the broadest curriculum . The grandfather I knew best , from having lived under the same roof with himfor many years , thrust back to Revolutionary times . His father , of Welsh origin , was born in Delaware , but was visiting an uncle in the West Indies when the minute men at Concord fired the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home and on the way the vessel was waylaid by a British man-o'war , and in the fight he was wounded , but recovered and knew arduous service throughout . the war . In his old age he received all the honors due one who had fought under Washington , as he sat in the tavern at Troy , Ohio , his last home , or received his friends in his own house . Some of the letters he wrote in his last years show him to have wielded a vigorous quill . He signed himself in full ? John Wheeler Meredith ? a pardonable flourish in one who had served his country well . The revolution seemed only a brief yesterday away as my grandfather visualized it for us children through his recollections of his father . My grandfather was born in Pennsylvania and at proper age was bound out to a printer and , in the manner of those non-specializing days , learned the art in all its branches . He was the editor and publisher of a newspaper at Centerville , Indiana , when the California gold excitement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the passage to the golden coast by way of the Isthmus , arriving at San Francisco on New Year 's day , 1850 . Employment at his trade was not so easily found as he had imagined , but while he waited he did such odd jobs as offered , carrying parcels and the like until he found work in a printing office at seventy-five dollars a week . His battered pocket diary contains only meager hints of his adventures . He did not fail , however , to note his attendance at church on every Sunday of the year he spent in San Francisco . He never ventured into the gold fields but , thoroughly homesick , returned to his Indiana newspaper . This whole episode was so unlike my subsequent knowledge of him that only the journal convinces me that he really entrusted himself to the belly of a ship and sailed the Pacific . The militant strain manifested in his father must have passed to another son , Joseph , of whom my grandfather used to speak with the greatest admiration as a mighty limiter . This great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ahead of the westward movement of civilization that he might find game upon which to exercise his prowess with the rifle . Norval , another of my great uncles , came less prominently into the domestic picture . My grandfather , who had a liking for sonorous phrases , in mentioning this brother never failed to quote : " My name is Norval ; on the Gram-pian The profits , if any , from the Wayne County Whig , published in the ' forties , must have been inconsiderable . Those were the days when household essentials passed as cash in small communities . Files of the paper covering several years are preserved , and among the advertisements are frequent appeals to delinquent subscribers to replenish the editor 's wood-pile . When he removed to Indianapolis my grandfather purchased a home and resumed work as a journeyman printer . He had no eye for business ; the property he bought was in a neighborhood doomed to deterioration ; he put his savings in banks that failed . The collapse of a savings institution in which he had made deposits for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No small item of my education was the discussion , round the base-burner in grandfather 's house , of hard times , though I hardly knew the meaning of the words used , but realized that expenditures were to be cut and that certain privileges and indulgences dear to youth must be withdrawn . In ' 73 and again in ' 84 we experienced pinching times , but I have no recollection of any grumbling in our combined Households . If one has never known affluence , the cutting off of an allowance of a quarter a week is not an unmitigated calamity . I am not of those who see virtue only in poverty , but there is indubitably a salutary strengthening of family ties in households where necessity compels sacrifice and co-operation . A man who demanded little of life , this grandfather pursued the even tenor of his way untroubled by large ambitions . In nothing was he more amusing than in his small economies . The cutting of a string was painful to him ; the threat of such wanton waste would evoke his protest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the knot . In those days when oysters were transported to the inland provinces in oblong quart cans , lie would take a shovelful of coals to the kitchen steps , soften the solder , and neatly remove the cap . As he had a weakness for oysters , he accumulated in the course of time a great number of these unmutilated receptacles in the vague expectation that one day some use would be found for them . It is necessary to coin a word properly to describe my grandfather 's diligence as a reader : he was the readingest person I have ever known . I can see him now , in the low rocking chair that sufficed for his short , compact body , his bald head glowing in the lamplight , his spectacles shining from a careful polishing with the scrap of chamois skin he carried in his pocket . He insisted on keeping at work at his trade long after he was seventy , and lie would return with brisk step from the printing house , a basket in which he carried his lunch on one arm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While his prior claims would never have been disputed , it pleased him to place such literature as he could not immediately peruse under the red cushion of the rocker ? the only sign of selfishness I recall in him . To see a newspaper flung down unfolded was offensive to him ; he would painstakingly gather it up and restore it to order . The barn loft was filled with neat bundles of magazines and even of newspapers that covered sonic episode of recent history ONE 'S GRANDFATHER . iS that interested him . A pleasant refuge for his grandchildren on rainy days was the barn loft with Harper 's Weekly of the Civil War time , and early numbers of Harper 's Magazine for lawless investigation . His unadventurous shy nature delighted in romance . He was an assiduous reader of the New York Ledger , a journal so firmly planted in popular affection that it seemed as permanent a national institution as the Constitution itself . He introduced me to Cooper , but William Gilmore Simms was an author he appraised as hardly second to the creator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dismal , Guy Ricers , or The Border Beagles ! Late in life he discovered Felix Gras ' The Reds of the Midi , a work he immediately wrote high on his list of favorites . He read a chapter in the Bible every night , and in his last years made it his habit to read the sacred writings through continuously , finishing Revelation only to begin with Genesis . He was a walking concordance and could turn instantly to any passage that might . he required . A faithful church attendant throughout his life , he kept a record in which he noted the weather , the text , the size of the congregation , with a line as to the quality of the sermon which , with characteristic amiability , lie always pronounced good or fine . Great spirits trod the earth ; kingdoms rose and fell in his day , and man 's ingenuity devised many inventions which wrought immeasurable changes , but this kindly , patient , industrious man remained only au attentive spectator , reading the abstract and brief chronicles of his time with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paternal grandfather opened vistas wholly alien to those to which my mother 's father introduced me . He , like his father before him , was born in Kentucky , being of that Scotch-Irish strain that spread out from North Carolina and crossed the mountains to assist in the fashioning of new states in the western wilderness . I assume that hedeparted out of Kentucky for Illinois lured by the promise of cheaper land and afflicted with that restlessness which caused great numbers of pioneers to keep ahead of the crowd . In this case the land was a soldier 's grant to my greatgrandfather for his participation in St. Clair 's defeat . This grandfather I remember as a stately old gentleman with a crown of fine-spun white hair . He was a farmer , as all his fathers had been ( I am the first renegade of the tribe ) , and he made the black soil of his adopted state pay . He had the inbred fondness of all Kentuckians for a horse . At seventy in attempting to break a colt be fractured a leg , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a slight limp as a reminder of his injury . He was much less communicative than my maternal grandfather , but with a little urging he would talk of the old home in Kentucky and of the pioneer experiences of his father , who had attained the age of ninety-seven . Cities were little to his taste , and when he visited us he spent most of the day in a park near our home , where he amused himself by quizzing me as to the names of the trees . On his farm , after he gave up active work , he was always abroad in fair weather . " Green things growing " never lost their charm for him . I used to be awed by his silence when he would pause abruptly in our walks and gaze meditatively across the fields . I never knew what his thoughts were at these moments , but it pleases me to believe that lifelong association with the earth gave him , and probably gives all men of like kinship with the soil , clues to infinity that are denied to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back across the years it seems to me that the daily experiences of our household and what I learned , through the family tradition and experience , of history and social and economic changes were a fair compensation for what I missed in the way of regular schooling . A prowling , curious youngster , impartially following torchlight processions of both parties , and attending all public gatherings , I knew my home town thoroughly , saw the mighty put down from their seat and the humble and meek exalted , and was vaguely conscious at least that what I saw and heard was typical of the larger movement of life . The very tameness of these disclosures favors my contention that upon the home rests the main burden of educating the child . Curiosity , an intelligent alert curiosity , is essential to the acquisition of knowledge , and nowhere is this so naturally awakened as in the household . A child is much likelier to be interested in something lie hears than in what he is bidden to read ; and I doubt whether in all America . there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or some traditions , that are likely to pique the curiosity of the young mind . It is the business of parents to make themselves interesting to their children ? to implant in them the idea that the world is a mighty interesting place , and that their chance of happiness is increased in ratio to what they see and hear and absorb . To be sure , there are perplexities , not to say embarrassments , in following this formula . It is difficult to thrill a. child with stories of what used to be when today 's events are so exciting . They are likely to think their grandfathers rather foolish to have suffered peril and hardship in the wilderness when by waiting a little they could have accomplished the pioneering adventure so much more comfortably ! The boy I personally conducted to Concord , Saratoga , and Ticonderoga last summer was only mildly thrilled by the contemplation of those scenes of battles long ago . He was impatient to reach Montreal and explore the offerings of the celluloid drama in that metropolis . Wolfe and Montcahn touched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand of enthralling jazziness . And yet , as he has to live in the Twentieth Century , it is possible that he was not so benighted in his preferences . And I enjoyed the band ! The increasing burdens laid upon the public-school teacher , who must communicate knowledge according to a system that is subject to frequent change , and at the same time inspire and discipline a collection of utterly dissimilar youngsters , would be enormously lightened if parents met their responsibilities with intelligence . A decline in courtesy in these free American states is frequently complained of by sensitive persons who resent boorishness , particularly in public servants . It is a dreadful thing indeed to be insulted by an elevator-boy or made the target of contumely by the admiral of a trolley-car . The well-mannered child is its parents ' best advertisement . Once I happened to be in Columbia and visited a cemetery where many of South Carolina 's illustrious dead are buried . I found a venerable negro at work on the lot of the Hamptons , and he answered my questions with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hampton 's fortunes through the Civil War , and was still a retainer of the family . This former slave spoke of his own children with a touching pride . The rearing of children was evidently a matter to which he had given serious thought and reduced to a concise formula which he elucidated for my benefit as he leaned on his rake among the dead cavaliers . Manners come first , he said , then morals , and then learning ; but manners , lie gravely insisted , should head the list . I left him with a feeling that I had conversed with a gentleman who was also a sound philosopher , and as his words have remained with me for twenty years , I shall allow them to close the argument .                     