@@468551

THE attitude which the man in the street unconsciously adopts toward science is capricious and varied . At one moment he scorns the scientist for a highbrow , at another anathematizes him for blasphemously undermining his religion ; but at the mention of a name like Edison he falls into a coma of veneration . When he stops to think , he does recognize , however , that the whole atmosphere of the world in which he lives is tinged by science , as is shown most immediately and strikingly by our modern conveniences and material resources . A little deeper thinking shows him that the influence of science goes much farther and colors the entire mental outlook of modern civilized man on the world about him . Perhaps one of the most telling evidences of this is his growing freedom from superstition . Freedom from superstition is the result of the conviction that the world is not governed by caprice , but that it is a world of order and can be understood by man if he will only try hard enough and be clever enough . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the most important single gift of science to civilization . The widespread acceptance of this view can be dated to the discovery by Newton of the universal sway of the law of gravitation ; and for this reason Newton may be justly regarded as the most important single contributor to modern life . The point of view for which Newton is responsible is well exemplified by the remark often made that every particle of matter in the universe attracts to some extent every other particle , even though the attraction is almost inconceivably minute . There is thus presented to the mind a sublime picture of the interrelatedness of all things ; all things are subject to law , and the universe is in this respect a unit . As a corollary to this conviction about the structure of the universe , an equally important conviction as to man 's place in the universe has been growing up ; man feels more and more that he is in a congenial universe , that he is part and parcel of everything around him , that the same laws that make things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , he can , by taking sufficient pains , understand these laws . These two theses so closely related ? that the world is a world of order and that man can find the guiding motif of this order ? have come to be the tacit cardinal articles of faith of the man of science , and from him have diffused through the entire social structure , so that now some such conviction essentially colors the thinking of every educated person . It is to be emphasized that the justification for this conviction is entirely in experience ; it is true that , as man has grown older and acquired more extensive acquaintance with nature and pondered more deeply , he has been increasingly successful in reducing the world about him to order and understandability . It has been most natural to generalize this experience into the conviction that this sort of thing will always be possible , and to believe that as we delve constantly deeper we shall always be able to give a rational account of what we find , although very probably the difficulties will become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the age of Newton is now coming to a close , and that recent scientific discoveries have in store an even greater revolution in our entire outlook than the revolution effected by the discovery of universal gravitation by Newton . The revolution that now confronts us arises from the recent discovery of new facts , the only interpretation of which is that our conviction that nature is understandable and subject to law arose from the narrowness of our horizons , and that if we sufficiently extend our range we shall find that nature is intrinsically and in its elements neither understandable nor subject to law . The task of the rest of this article is twofold . In the first plate I shall try to give some suggestion of the nature of the physical evidence and of the reasoning that has forced the physicist to the conclusion that nature is constituted in this way . This task is by no means easy ; for not only is it impossible to indicate more than very partially the physical evidence , but it is often necessary to compress into a few sentences steps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long and difficult mathematical or logical analysis . The second part of the task is to envisage a few of the far-reaching consequences on the whole outlook of mankind of the acceptance of the view that this is actually the structure of nature . This aspect of the situation can be appreciated without a detailed grasp of the preliminary analysis . II The new experimental facts are in the realm of quantum phenomena . Comparatively little has been written for popular consumption about this newrealm which has opened in the last fifteen years . The man in the street has been much more interested in relativity , which to him has seemed extremely interesting and revolutionary . Occasionally , however , there has filtered down to him the news that nearly all the theoretical physicists are occupied with a new order of phenomena which they find very much more exciting and revolutionary than any in the realm of relativity . For after all is said and done , the practical effects of relativity , measured in dollars and cents or in centimeters and grams , are exceedingly small , and require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to show their existence at all . The phenomena with which quantum theory deals , on the other hand , are of the greatest practical importance and involve the simplest aspects of everyday life . For example , before the advent of quantum theory no one could explain why a tea kettle of water boiling on the stove should not give out enough light in virtue of its temperature to be visible in the dark ; the accepted theories of optics demanded that it should be visible , but every burned child knew that it was not . One reason that the man in the street has not sensed this new domain is that it is much more difficult to explain than relativity ; this is partly due to the nature of the subject , and partly also to the fact that the physicist himself does not understand the subject as well . I shall not in this article rush in where the angels have not ventured , but it is , nevertheless , necessary to try to give a glimmering of an idea of what it is all about . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phenomena , they do not begin to stand out unequivocally in their quantum aspect and admit of no other interpretation until we have penetrated very far down into the realm of small things and have arrived at the atoms and electrons themselves . It must not be pretended that the nature of the quantum phenomena met in this realm of small things is by any means completely understood ; but a suggestive characterization of the general situation is that atomicity or discontinuity is an even more pervading characteristic of the structure of the universe than had been previously supposed . In fact the name , " quantum , " was suggested by the atomicity . We were a long time in convincing ourselves of the atomic structure of ordinary matter ; although this was guessed by the poets as early as the beginning of the Christian era , it was not generally accepted as proved , even by physicists , until the beginning of this century . The next step was the discovery of the atomic structure of electricity ; there are indivisible units of positive and negative electricity , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This situation was not even guessed until about 1890 ; the proof and acceptance of the doctrine have taken place within the memory of the majority of the readers of this article . Finally comes the discovery that , not only is matter doubly atomic in its structure , but that there is an atomicity in the way in which one piece of matter acts on another . This is perhaps best understood in the case of optical phenomena . It used to be thought that light was infinitely subdivisible ? that I could , for example , receive at pleasure on the film of my camera either the full intensity of the sun 's radiation , or , by interposing a sufficiently small stop , that I could cut the intensity of the light down to anything this side of nothing at all . This is now known not to be true ; but the light which we receive from the sun is atomic in structure , like an almost inconceivably fine rain composed of indivisible individual drops , rather than like the continuous flood of infinitely subdivisible radiation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of my camera too much I may receive nothing at all on the film , or I may receive a single one of the drops in the rain of radiation , but there is nostep between one drop and nothing . The recognition that radiation has this property means that in some respects we have come back very close to Newton 's ideas about light . The proof that this is the structure of light can be given in many ways . Perhaps the most illuminating for our purpose is that discovered by Arthur Compton , for which he received the Nobel prize . Compton 's discovery consisted in finding that the drops of radiation behave in certain ways like the material drops of ordinary rain ; they have energy and mass and momentum , which means that when they collide with matter they behave in some respects very much as ordinary bodies do . The laws which govern the interaction or collision of ordinary bodies are known to any graduate of a high-school course in physics ; he could calculate what would happen after two billiard balls had collided provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was moving before the collision , and what were the elastic properties of the materials of which the balls arc composed . In making the calculation he would use , among other things , the two fundamental principles of the conservation of energy and the conservation of momentum . Now Compton showed that what happens when a drop , or better a bullet , of radiation collides with an electron is also governed by the same two fundamental principles . The proof consisted in showing that the way in which the electron rebounds is connected with the way in which the bullet rebounds by equations deduced from these principles ; this is one of the features which makes Compton 's discovery of such a fundamental importance . But Compton 's experiment contains another feature , and it is this which seems destined to revolutionize the thinking of civilization . Go back to the billiard-ball analogy : An expert billiard player can , by proper manipulation of the cue ball , make the two balls rebound from the collision as he wishes ; this involves the ability to predict how the halls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We should expect by analogy to be able to do the same thing for a collision between a bullet of radiation and an electron ; but the fact is that it never has been done and , if our present theories are correct , in the nature of things never can be done . It is true that , if someone will tell me how the electron bounces away , I can tell , on the basis of the equations given by Compton 's theory , how the bullet of radiation bounces away , or conversely ; but no one has ever been able to tell bow both will bounce away . Billiards , played with balls like this , even by a player of infinite skill , would degenerate into a game of pure chance . This unpredictable feature has been seized and incorporated as one of the corner stones in the new theory of quantum mechanics , which has so stirred the world of physicists in the last three years . It has received implicit formulation in the " Principle of Uncertainty " of Heisenberg , a principle which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in mental outlook than was ever packed into an equal number of words The exact formulation of the principle , which is very brief , is framed in too technical language to reproduce here , but I shall try to give the spirit of the principle . The essence of it is that there are certain inherent limitations to the accuracy with which a physical situation can be described . Of course we have always recognized that all our physical measurements are necessarily subject to error ; but it has always been thought that , if we took pains enough and were sufficiently clever , no bounds could be set to the accuracy which we might some day achieve . Heisenberg 's principle states , on the other hand , that the ultimately possible accuracy of our measurements is limited in a curious and unsuspected way . There is no limit to the accuracy with which we can describe ( or measure ) any one quality in a physical situation , but if we elect to measureone thing accurately we pay a price in our inability to measure some other thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle states that we can measure the position of the electron as accurately as we choose , but in so doing we must sacrifice by a compensating amount the possibility of accurately measuring its velocity . In particular , if we measure with perfect accuracy the position of the electron , we have thereby denied ourselves the possibility of making any measurement at all of its velocity . The meaning of the fact that it is impossible to measure exactly both the position and velocity of the electron may be paradoxically stated to be that an electron can not have both position and velocity . The justification of this is to be found in the logical analysis of the meaning of our physical concepts which has been stimulated by the relativity theory of Einstein . On careful examination the physicist finds that in the sense in which he uses language no meaning at all can be attached to a physical concept which can not ultimately be described in terms of some sort of measurement . A body has position only in so far as its position can be measured ; if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concept of position applied to the body is meaningless , or in other words , a position of the body does not exist . Hence if both the position and velocity of the electron can not in principle be measured , the electron can not have both position and velocity ; position and velocity as expressions of properties which an electron can simultaneously have are meaningless . To carry the paradox one step farther , by choosing whether I shall measure the position or velocity of the electron I thereby determine whether the electron has position or velocity . The physical properties of the electron are not absolutely inherent in it , but involve also the choice of the observer . Return to the analogy of the billiard ball . If we ask our high-school physicist what he must be told before he can predict how the billiard balls will rebound after collision , he will say that , unless he is told both how fast the balls are traveling when they collide , and also what their relative positions are at the moment of collision he can do very little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Heisenberg principle says no one can ever tell ; so that our high-school computer would never be able to predict how a bullet of radiation and an electron behave after collision , and no more could we . This means that in general when we get down to fine-scale phenomena the detailed results of interaction between the individual elements of which our physical world are composed are essentially unpredictable This principle has been built into a theory , and the theory has been checked in many ways against experiment , and always with complete success . One of the consequences of which the man in the street has heard a good deal is that an electron has some of the properties of waves , as shown so strikingly in the experiments of Davisson and Germer . Of course no one can say that some day a fact may not be discovered contrary to the principle , but up to the present there is no evidence of it ; and it is certain that something very much like this principle , if not this principle exactly , covers an enormously wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every known type of action between different parts of our physical universe . One reason that this principle has not been formulated before is that the error which it tells us is inherent in all measurement is so small that only recently have methods become accurate enough to detect it . The error is unimportant , and indeed immeasurably small when we are dealing with the things of ordinary life . The extreme minuteness of the effect can be illustrated again with the billiard balls . Suppose that at the instant of collision the position of the balls is known with an uncertainty no greater than the diameterof a single atom , a precision very much higher than has ever been attained . Then the principle says that it is impossible to measure the velocity of the balls without a related uncertainty ; but on figuring it out we find that this uncertainty is so small that after the lapse of one hundred thousand years , assuming a billiard table large enough for the balls to continue rolling for one hundred thousand years , the additional uncertainty in the position of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again be only the diameter of a single atom . The error becomes important only when we arc concerned with the ultimately small constituents of things , such as the action between one atom and another or between an atom of radiation and an electron . It is easy to see why the discovery that nature is constituted in this way , and in particular is essentially unpredictable , has been so enormously upsetting . For the ability to predict a happening is tied up with our ideas of cause and effect . When we say that the future is causally determined by the present we mean that if we are given a complete description of the present the future is completely determined , or in other words , the future is the effect of the present , which is the cause . This causal relation is a bilateral relation ; given the cause , the effect is determined , or given the effect , the cause may be deduced . But this means , in the particular case that we have been considering of collision between a bullet of radiation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exist , for if it did the way in which the electron rebounds after the collision would be determined , that is , it could be predicted , in terms of what happens before the collision . Conversely , it is of course impossible to reconstruct from the way in which the electron and the radiation rebound the way in which they were moving before collision . Hence the rebound of the electron is not causally connected with what goes before . The same situation confronts the physicist everywhere ; whenever he penetrates to the atomic or electronic level in his analysis , he finds things acting in a way for which he can assign no cause , for which he never can assign a cause , and for which the concept of cause has no meaning , if Heisenberg 's principle is right . This means nothing more nor less than that the law of cause and effect must be given up . The precise reason that the law of cause and effect fails can be paradoxically stated ; it is not that the future is not determined in terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the nature of things the present can not be completely described . The failure of the law of cause and effect has been exploited by a number of German physicists , who have emphasized the conclusion that we are thus driven to recognize that the universe is governed by pure chance ; this conclusion does not , I believe , mean quite what appears on the surface , but in any event we need not trouble ourselves with the further implications of this statement , in spite of their evident interest . One may be sure that a principle as revolutionary in its implications as this , which demands the sacrifice of what had become the cardinal article of faith of the physicist , has not been accepted easily , but there has been a great deal of pondering and searching of fundamentals . The result of all this pondering has been to discover in the principle an inevitableness , which when once understood , is so convincing that we have already almost ceased to kick against the pricks . This inevitableness is rooted in the structure of knowledge . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about anything without getting into some sort of connection with it , either direct or indirect . We , or someone else , must smell the object , or taste it , or touch it , or hear it , or see it , or it must affect some other object which canaffect our senses either directly or indirectly , before we can know anything about it , even its existence . This means that no knowledge of any physical property or of even mere existence is possible without interaction ; in fact these terms have no meaning apart from interaction . Formerly , if this aspect of the situation was thought of at all , it would have been dismissed as merely of academic interest , of no pertinence at all , and the justification of this would have been found in the supposed possibility of making the inevitable interaction as small as we pleased . The defender of the old point of view might have flippantly remarked that a cat may look at a king , by which he would have meant that the act of observation has no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days a captious critic might have objected to this easy self-satisfaction by pointing out that light exerts a pressure , so that light can not pass from the king to the cat without the exercise of a certain amount of mechanical repulsion between them . This remark of the captious critic now ceases to be merely academic because of the discovery that light itself is atomic in structure , so that at least one bullet of radiation must pass if any light at all passes , and the king can not be observed at all without the exertion of that minimum amount of mechanical repulsion which corresponds to a single bullet . This evidently alters the entire situation . The mere act of giving meaning through observation to any physical property of a thing involves a certain minimum amount of interaction . Now if there are definite characteristics associated with the minimum interaction , it is conceivable that no observation of anything whatever can be made without entraining certain universal consequences , and this turns out to be the case . Let us return again to the useful billiard-ball analogy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculate the behavior of the balls after collision ? Evidently , if he is to give a complete description of the motion , that is , give in addition to direction and velocity of motion the exact time at which the balls are in any particular location , he must know how long the collision lasts . This means that the act of collision itself must be analyzed . This analysis is actually possible , and in fact rapid-moving pictures have been taken , showing in detail how the balls are deformed during their contact together . Returning now to the collision between a bullet of radiation and an electron , in order to determine completely the behavior after collision we must similarly analyze the details of the process of collision . In particular , if we want to predict where the electron is after collision we must analyze the collision sufficiently to be able to say how fast the electron is moving at each instant of the collision . But how shall this analysis be made ? If the analysis means anything , it must involve the possibility of observation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be reduced below a minimum . But the collision , or interaction , between the electron and radiation that we are analyzing is itself the minimum interaction . It is obvious that we can not discover fine details with an instrument as coarse as the thing that we are trying to analyze , so that the necessary analysis of the minimum interaction can never he made , and hence has no meaning , because of our fundamental dictum that things which can not in principle he measured have no meaning . Therefore , the act of collision can not be analyzed , the electron and radiation during collision have no measurable properties , and the ordinary concepts , which depend on these properties , do not apply during collision , and have no meaning . In particular , the ordinary concept of velocity does not apply to the act of collision , and we are prepared to expect something curious as the result of the collision . In fact , the detailed workingout of the theory shows that the meaninglessness of velocity during the act of collision carries with it the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain nebulosity or indefiniteness in properties such as position , which according to the old point of view depend on the velocity , and it is precisely this nebulosity which is described in Heisenberg 's principle . The infinitesimal world thus takes on a completely new aspect , and it will doubtless be a long while before the average human mind finds a way of dealing satisfactorily with a situation so foreign to ordinary experience . Almost the first necessity is a renunciation of our present verbal habits and of their implications . It is extraordinarily difficult to deal with this new situation with our present forms of expression , and the exposition of this paper is no exception . The temptation is almost irresistible to say and to think that the electron really has both position and velocity , only the trouble is that our methods of measurement are subject to some limitation which prevents us from measuring both simultaneously . An attitude like this is justified by all the experience of the past , because we have always been able hitherto to continue to refine our methods of measurement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are confronted by a situation which in principle contains something entirely novel , and the old expectations are no longer valid . The new situation can not be adequately dealt with until longcontinued familiarity with the new facts produces in our subconsciousness as instinctive a grasp as that which we now have of the familiar relations of everyday experience . IV The implications of this discovery are evidently most far-reaching . Let us first consider the scientific implications and , in particular , the implications for physics . The physic 's ' t is here brought to the end of his domain . The record of physics up to the present has been one of continued expansion , ever penetrating deeper and deeper , and always finding structure on a finer and finer scale beyond previous achievement . Several times in the past even eminent physicists have permitted themselves the complacent announcement that we were in sight of the end , and that the explanation of all things was in our hands . But such predictions have always been set at naught by the discovery of finer details , until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of prediction . But here is a situation new and unthought of . We have reached the point . where knowledge must stop because of the nature of knowledge itself : beyond this point meaning ceases . It may seem that we arc getting back pretty close to the good Bishop Berkeley , but I think that actually nothing could be wider of the mark . We are not saying that nothing exists where there is no consciousness to perceive it ; we are saying that existence has meaning only when there is interaction with other existence , but direct contact with consciousness need not come until the end of a long chain . The logician will have no trouble in showing that this description of the situation is internally selfcontradictory and does not make sense ; but I believe that , nevertheless , the sympathetic reader will be able to see what the situation is , and will perhaps subscribe to the opinion that to describe it the development of a new language is necessary . The physicist thus finds himself in a world from which the bottom has dropped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eludes him and fades away by the highly unsportsmanlike device of just becoming meaningless . No refinement of measurement will avail to carry him beyond the portals of this shadowy domain which he can not even mention without logical inconsistency . A bound is thus forever set to the curiosity of the physicist . What is more , the mere existence of this bound means that he must give up his most cherished convictions and faith . The world is not a world of reason , understandable by the intellect of man , but as we penetrate ever deeper , the very law of cause and effect , which we had thought to be a formula to which we could force God Himself to subscribe , ceases to have meaning . The world is not intrinsically reasonable or understandable ; it acquires these properties in ever-increasing degree as we ascend from the realm of the very little to the realm of everyday things ; here we may eventually hope for an understanding sufficiently good for all practical purposes , but no more . The thesis that this is the structure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is the interpretation of direct experiment . Now all experiment is subject to error , and no one can say that some day new experimental facts may not be found incompatible with our present interpretation ; all we can say is that at present we have no glimmering of such a situation . But whether or not the present interpretation will survive , a vision has come to the physicist in this experience which he will never forget ; the possibility that the world may fade away , elude him , and become meaningless because of the nature of knowledge itself , has never been envisaged before , at least by the physicist , and this possibility must forever keep him humble . When this view of the structure of nature has once been accepted by physicists after a sufficiently searching experimental probe , it is evident that there will he a complete revolution in the aspect of all the other physical sciences . The mental outlook will change ; the mere feeling that boundaries arc set to man 's inquiry will produce a subtle change of attitude no less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newton 's conquest of celestial mechanics , that the universe was a universe of order accessible to the mind of man . The immediate effect on scientific inquiry will be to divert effort away from the more obviously physical fields back to the fields of greater complication , which have been passed over by the physicist in his progress toward the ultimately little , especially the field of biology . Another important result of the realization of the structure of the world is that the scientist will see that his program is finite . The scientist is perhaps only a passing phase in the evolution of man ; after unguessable years it is not impossible that his work will be done , and the problems of mankind will become for each individual the problem of best ordering his own life . Or it may be that the program of the scientist , although finite , will turn out to need more time than the life of the world itself . But doubtless by far the most important effect of this revolution will not be on the scientist , but on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to let loose a veritable intellectual spree of licentious and debauched thinking . This will come from the refusal to take at its true value the statement that it is meaningless to penetrate much deeper than the electron , and will have the thesis that there is really a domain beyond , only that man with his present limitations is not fitted to enter this domain . The temptation to deal with the situation in this way is one that not many who have not been trained in careful methods of thinking will he able to resist ? one reason is in the structure of language . Thought has a predisposition to certain tendencies merely because of the necessity of expressing itself in words . This has already been brought out sufficiently by the discussion above ; we have seen how difficult it is to express in words the fact that the universe fades away from us by becoming meaningless without the implication that there really is something beyond the verge of meaning . The man in the street will , therefore , twist the statement that the scientist has come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientist has penes ? trated as far as he can with the tools at his command , and that there is something beyond the ken of the scientist . This imagined beyond , which the scientist has proved he can not penetrate , will become the playground of the imagination of every mystic and dreamer . The existence of such a domain will he made the basis of an orgy of rationalizing . It will be made the substance of the soul ; the spirits of the dead will populate it ; God will lurk in its shadows ; the principle of vital processes will have its seat here ; and it will be the medium of telepathic communication . One group will find in the failure of the physical law of cause and effect the solution of the age-long problem of the freedom of the will : and on the other band the atheist will find the justification of his contention that chance rules the universe . Doubtless generations will be needed to adjust our thinking so that it will spontaneously and freely conform to our knowledge of the actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods of education will have to be painfully developed and applied to very young children in order to inculcate the instinctive and successful use of habits of thought so contrary to those which have been naturally acquired in meeting the limited situations of everyday life . This does not mean at all that the new methods of thought will be less well adapted than those we now have to meet the situations of everyday life , but on the contrary , since thought will conform to reality , understanding and conquest of the world about us will proceed at an accelerated pace . I venture to think that there will also eventually be a favorable effect on man 's character ; the mean man will react with pessimism , but a certain courageous nobility is needed to look a situation like this in the face . And in the end , when man has fully partaken of the fruit of the tree of knowledge , there will be this difference between the first Eden and the last , that man will not become as a god , but will remain forever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             