@@487248

LET no one be deceived by the inspired reports that conditions are getting better in the Ruhr ; that the French are beginning to have their way ; that the troops are being reduced in the cities ; that the Paris magnates have now decided that they are going to be good , and , after having done their utmost to destroy German credit and financial ability , are now going to help Germany to get on her feet . The situation is not one whit less critical than it was . Fridtjof Nansen has just uttered a solemn warning that the next war approaches rapidly . It is not going to be averted by any halfway measures , or by any sudden French decision to change their policy after the mischief has been done . There is no cessation of the misery and the suffering in the Ruhr and in all Germany , no improvement in the situation of the neutrals against whom France struck most serious blows when she entered the Ruhr . In short , there can be no health in Europe until the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports that the French and English were near an agreement just prior to the election in England , under which the French were to consent to a reduction of the Ruhr occupation to a " simple system of financial and economic control with British par  --  ticipation , " such control to be " extended progressively to other regions in Germany , " with permanent military occu  --  pation of the Rhine , but with France abandoning all sup  --  port of the Separatist criminals . It will be a cause for rejoicing , indeed , if the defeat of Mr. Baldwin has blocked this scheme , which in its essence meant simply an agree  --  ment that England should share in the swag and keep silent in return for certain concessions , as in the Mediterranean . ONE index of the appalling difficulties of life in Ger  --  many is given by the price of a single newspaper . A copy of the Berliner Tageblatt cost 5,000 marks on July 29 ; it had risen to 500,000 September 9 ; in November it crossed the billion mark . With the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices in both gold and paper marks . The contrast is ghastly . On No  --  vember 18 the price reads : 20 gold pfennigs , or 120 billion marks . One pre-war metal mark was equivalent to 600 billion marks of the kind men receive as wages . WE are glad to see that Mr. Coolidge is going to enter the Illinois and California primaries . That is the democratic way of testing out public sentiment and ascer  --  taining whether the Republican masses favor his continu  --  ance in office or not . Indeed , we hope . he will go still fur  --  ther , openly announce his own candidacy , and have himself enrolled as a candidate in every State which is advanced enough to test the sentiment of the voters by means of a primary . That does not , of course , mean that we shall thereby escape the customary procedure of having a Repub  --  lican nominee picked by bosses in a room in the most exclu  --  sive hotel of the city in which the convention is held . But at least , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not be in doubt as to his chances at the elec  --  tion . Senator Johnson , too , is at work and will likewise confront the acid test of the primaries . On the Democratic side , only Mr. McAdoo seems to be making any headway . He might . easily sweep the country if he would come out for government ownership of railroads and against the League of Nations , but he is hedging and , like all poli  --  ticians , wondering whether it would be expedient or not . NOTHING spreads like a bad example . Judge Mayer decides that the administration of justice has been imperiled by criticism from Comptroller Craig , and imme diately Justice Hagerty of the New York Supreme Court conceives that the majesty of the law is undermined by the remarks of an assistant corporation counsel . The jus tice declares that a slur has been cast upon the entire Supreme Court of the State , and demands an apology . The criticism was in a newspaper interview to the effect that makers of gambling slot machines could , with political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interference . The remarks were made without ade quate evidence , and the assistant corporation counsel subse quently wrote to Justice Hagerty that they were inaccurate . This was not enough ; the .. clifinitv of the bench must be upheld by an apology . Wlia ; t. foiarrbrrot Mf*taae9ple.hpd never heard of this slur op the courts umlii " 2 , iitiap-Stakvrty. brought it to their attenliollA Votrtls and the President have been subjected to pifildseitild1Qmitaikii critWiliNsinq this republic was founded ; yet our legislative alid:enekzaRe. branches are functioning with ever-increasing power and authority . Is it not possible that our courts , too , can carry                     