@@486119

A T last sanity in things military and naval seems to be returning . After four years of preparedness mania and war orgy the country is awakening to the inescapable fact that the huge sums it is spending for wars past and future are bringing it to the very verge of bankruptcy . Those numerous American business men who have been about driven to despair in the effort to pay the fourth instalment of the income tax , on December 15 , and the thousands who have been utterly unable to pay it , are reduced to these extremities chiefly because of the demands of the army and navy budgets . If all the reforms urged by President-elect Harding for the modernizing of the Government 's business machinery were carried out , if efficiency by some magic were to be established over night in all the departments at Washington and every Government employee gave one dollar 's worth of service for every dollar received , the net saving would be hardly noticeable in the budget which Secretary Houston calls for , of four billions . For the simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 92 per cent of the Government 's expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30 to July 1 , 1920 , went for pensions , the care of the disabled , the army and the navy . So there is no worth-while cut possible save in the army and navy expenditures . But what does the Wilson administration advocate ? Why , Secretary Daniels declares that it will be " a crime " if we do not go on building the greatest navy in the world provided we remain out of the League of Nations . If we enter it , the present fleet of 1,000 vessels must be kept up , he insists . On Wednesday of last week he denounced Senator Borah 's proposal for a joint conference of Great Britain , the United States , and Japan to cut all warship building by fifty per cent . This the Secretary of the Navy declared to be little short of treason . On Thursday , however , he recalled the fact that in 1916 Congress passed the Hensley Resolution , appropriating the money necessary to send nine American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fleets . But the latest winner of the Nobel Peace Prize and his Cabinet have forgotten all about this ; they have gone on threatening America with the burden of the greatest navy in the world as a club to drive the country into the League , while at the same time declaring that membership in that League will in no wise decrease our existing intolerable waste of treasure and of natural resources in coal and oil for a fleet which today constitutes the greatest menace to our friendly relations with Japan and Great Britain . Let no one deny this fact . The threat of the American fleet to England has been the theme of a violent daily discussion in the English press for the last ten days and also in Parliamentary circles . The British Cabinet , it is authoritatively stated , will plan its building program according to ours . At present it is building only six destroyers to our sixty-one . Historically , England has for three decades past held that her fleet must equal the joint fleets of the two nearest rival Powers . As long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the greatest navy in the world will prevail despite the fact that England , too , is in a perilous financial position and that no one knows what kind of a workable budget Lloyd George will be able to produce in March next . A race between the United States and Great Britain as to which shall have the greatest navy on the globe can onlyhave one outcome  --  war between the two countries , precisely as the naval rivalry between Germany and Great Britain would have led to war even if Austria had not attacked Serbia . Lord Fisher officially urged in peace time an attack upon the German fleet without warning and without a declaration of war . Some future Lord Fisher or some future American admiral will advocate a similar move on New York or London . As for Japan , Viscount Ishii 's solemn statement at Geneva that it is useless to ask Japan to reduce her military or naval forces while the United States increases hers , tells the story . Almost daily the cables report the use the Japanese jingoes are making of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course , other notes . Thus the friendly Osaka Mainichi Shimbun urges the abolition of the fleets of both countries and the application of President Monroe 's Canadian policy by both nations , the United States and Japan . Fortunately , the sound sober sense of America is beginning to manifest itself . Every thinking man knows that in keeping up a fleet we are preparing to fight Japan and Great Britain , for there are no other warships left in the world ? France 's navy need not be considered . Major-General Bliss sees that the first step must be taken by giving up our army . Senator Walsh wants us to confer on disarmament with the League of Nations . Senator Borah urges the practical step of an immediate conference between the three naval rivals for a vacation in warship building  --  we wish he had dared to come out for a complete scrapping of all fleets . In Congress , there is the growing determination to cut the army estimates to pieces . Congressman Mondell , the Republican leader , is naturally outraged that two years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Baker , an erstwhile charter member of the League to Limit Armaments , to grant to the War Department $615,000,000 in excess of existing appropriations for the coming fiscal year . Mr. Mondell not only proposes to reject this demand for more money ; he intends to give Secretary Baker $200,000,000 less than he got for the current fiscal year . Mr. Baker 's standing with Congress is not improved by the fact that he , as Mr. Mondell puts it , is so " contemptuous of Congress " that he " has been spending money not authorized by Congress " ; that he is about to ask for a deficiency appropriation for 1920-1921 , estimates as to which range from $60,000,000 to $90,000,000 . Senator McCumber declares that by June 1 the Treasury 's deficit will be not less than two billions of dollars and that there will be no money for a single new project . Appropriations , he warns , must be cut to the bone . Even more important is the fact that the business men the country over , as well as its conscience , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  according to President Wilson  --  brought on the war , so economic reasons are compelling us to retrace our steps toward the historic policy of an unarmed America . The Nation admits it would be better pleased if this return were due to conscience . to brotherly love , to religious scruples , to a realization thy ; our grounding of arms would do infinitely more to make us friends in South America , in Japan , and England , or on the Continent than our entrance into a dozen peace leagues . We are nevertheless profoundly grateful and profoundly encouraged because , whatever the reason , sanity shows itself once more . Our Industrial Anarchists T HE fight against the unions has entered a stage of appalling and sensational frankness . Thanks largely to the courageous persistence and the remarkable penetration of Mr. Samuel Untermyer , counsel to the Lockwood Committee in New York , the leading anti-union strategists themselves have told the public a brazen story of their cold-blooded efforts to crush the very life out of the trade union movement in this country . Charges that have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report , in various radical publications , and by labor leaders , are now being verified in startling detail by the industrial chiefs themselves and published verbatim on the front page of every great newspaper . The evidence is piling up to form a tremendous indictment of our whole industrial system . The leading builders in New York assert on the witness stand that they can not get structural steel because Mr. Schwab and President Grace of the Bethlehem Steel Company  --  in agreement with the United States Steel Corporation and other large steel fabricators  --  refuse to sell to builders who employ union labor . President Grace next takes the stand , and After employing the tactics of a football player carrying the ball down a slippery field behind a weak interference , finally allows himself to be tripped by Mr. Untermyer 's agile questions and admits that the open-shop policy of the Bethlehem Steel Company has resulted in a decision to sell only to those builders in New York and Philadelphia who maintain a strict anti-union policy  --  even if this means that not another house goes up . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spy system employed in the steel mills by the man who acts as chief of the steel trust 's intelligence service , Robert J. Foster , a gentleman with an unsavory record , who has asserted loudly that he is ready to go to jail for his " ideals . " And at the same time lavender water is sprayed over the whole nauseous business by a disinterested minister , Mr. E. Victor Bigelow , who attacks the Interchurch report and supports the steel companies with such infinite discernment that Mr. Gary has written him a letter thanking him for his " trouble " and asking if he objects to having his address " printed and widely circulated " by the Steel Corporation . As Americans we are accustomed to seeing a certain amount of drapery on the bare bones of truth , and the spectacle presented to us by the Lockwood Committee is a bit startling . It sheds light on the intentions not only of the steel companies but of other industrials as well . If the employers in the garment industry in New York would talk in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we should hear a similar demand : " Smash the unions though production cease . " Fortunately the garment manufacturers have further to go , for the hold of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Union on the industry and on the loyalty of the workers is deep-rooted . The employers by abolishing their own board of labor experts and the system of impartial arbitration , by refusing the union 's suggestion of a joint committee to look into the condition of the industry and to set standards of production , have forfeited every claim to public sympathy . To be sure this is a bad season for the garment manufacturers . By indecent profiteering for years they have educated the public to the point of doing without new clothes . This general refusal to buy , coupled with the financial stringency , has caused a col-lapse which may well necessitate a considerable temporary slackening of production . But this slack season , inevitably hard on the hundreds of thousands of workers in the needle trades , has been seized upon by the employers to injure them still further  --  to break @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their organization . The clothing manufacturers , like the steel manufacturers , do not want organizations of workers . They are , if it is not an unfair use of a much-abused term , simply anarchists . They are anarchists who believe in the overthrow of industrial government by force and violence . While we recognize that the unions are very far from perfect and that there are Brindells in more than one powerful labor organization , we recognize also that in the long run unionization of industry means , or should mean , governed industry  --  it has meant this in the clothing industry . It means shop committees , joint boards , impartial arbitrators , standards of production . It means conferences , hearings , negotiations . It means , in short , a continuous tedious interference with the right of a boss to do as he likes with his own shop and his own men . For years before the Amalgamated came into power the clothing industry was an uncontrolled chaos . Only in the last few years , through the growing power and sense of responsibility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order . Less than a year ago , at one of the most remarkable labor conventions ever held in the United States , the Amalgamated Clothing Workers adopted a resolution taking upon themselves the responsibility for the welfare not only of the workers but of the industry itself . Said Mr. Schlossberg , the secretary of the union , at the convention : It is our business to set things straight in the industry . . . . The industry is ours . It yields us our livelihood . We can have no chaos in it except to our own injury . . . . The masters of the industry only created chaos , disorder , and waste . We , the organized workers , are a collective body , with a oneness of interest that is perfect and complete . Within the past few years we have brought into the industry a degree of order that is amazing in so short a time . Whatever constructive work there is yet to be done must be done by us , by our organization . No one else will do it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We can not evade it . It is the spirit embodied in these words that the employers of the New York clothing trade desire to crush . They hide the truth with much talk of the " open " shop , of the value to the individual worker of piece work , of production ? production , at a time when they can not sell their goods  --  but it has become plain what they fear ; they fear both the sense of power and the sense of responsibility expressed in the words : " The industry is ours . " Their fear is natural and arises from an instinct of self-preservation unmodified by any concern for the public . It is the same instinct that drives the coal operators in West Virginia to stand the unions off at the point of a gun  --  though the people get no coal ; that induces the steel operators to use their tremendous monopoly power to crush unionism in and out of their own industry  --  though the people get no houses . It is the same instinct that has created the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , aimed to crush unions whether they have demanded a union shop or not . Like the bulk of the employers of the country , the clothing manufacturers of New York prefer chaos and autocratic control to union power and a governed industry . Magellan T HE celebration of centenaries is becoming as common as the phonograph and sometimes as uninspiring as the cash register . But with all our observances we of the United States are apparently passing over unnoticed an achievement which is worth a thought between the soup and the fish , even in our crowded lives , even though it happened four hundred years ago . We have left it to Chile , which has just had a celebration , and to the Philippines , which will have one toward spring , to call back out of history the figure of Fernao de Maghalaes , by us called Magellan , one of that great trio of discoverers  --  the others were Columbus and Vasco da Gama  --  to whom it was given to change the geography of the world as it has been given to no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and void , and darkness was upon the face of the deep . " The feat of Vasco da Gama in finding a path to the East around the Cape of Good Hope had greater effect upon the commerce of his day , and Columbus must always be the supreme figure among America 's discoverers . But Columbus , of course , discovered the New World by accident , and , had it not happily intervened , could never have reached his sought-for India . Magellan 's circumnavigation of the globe stands as the greatest voyage ever achieved , and even though he was killed in the Philippines , he had actually encircled the world at the time , having overlapped the longitude he had then reached on a previous trip to the East Indies from Europe . What must have been the sensations of the little fleet when after long search it had finally found and traversed the tortuous passage which Magellan called the Strait of the Eleven Thousand Virgins  --  since rechristened after him  --  and emerged into the mighty ocean that he named the Pacific ! For ninety-eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fresh provisions , little water and that bad , and a scant supply of spoiled biscuit ; the ravages of scurvy were frightful . But Magellan " would push on if they had to eat the leather of the rigging . " They virtually came to it ; ox-hides , sawdust , and rats became the diet before they reached our own Guam in the Ladrone Islands . Magellan made the world bigger than until then men had even dared to imagine it ; we have been contracting it ever since . Railway , steamship , cable , and airplane have joined in a conspiracy to shrink its vastness and betray its mystery ; its most secret plans have been immediately exposed ; even the North and South Poles have finally capitulated ; all has been card-catalogued and indexed . The navigators of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries  --  those men of great adventures , vast imaginings , and mighty oaths  --  are gone ; they seem to have taken their savor with them , even to their mighty oaths , which have latterly become conventional and perfunctory . But is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sixteenth centuries enlarged the world extensively ; we are enlarging it intensively . The microscope has displaced the telescope ; the laboratories of the physicists and chemists have become our fields of exploration . Out of their patient preparation who dares limit what is to come ? No man can ever again be the first to encircle our earth , but there is still the chance to be the first to go through it diametrically ; and some future Magellan may use this bit of terra firma as a mere hangar from which to fare forth among unknown suns and undiscovered worlds in the circumnavigation of the universe . Olive Schreiner O LIVE SCHREINER 'S literary fate was that of most colonials . Having begun her career with an imaginative work of rare power and promise , she subsequently found herself involved in a world of controversies and public services which robbed art to pay propaganda . The causes she espoused were indeed noble : she defended the Boers in . the war which England made upon them  --  as did Lloyd George in those so different days  --  and she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who helped inter the Victorian woman in that quaint cemetery now watched over by such archaic monuments as Tennyson 's Princess and Dickens 's Dora and Thackeray 's moist Amelia . " Woman and Labor " as a document will probably outlast " An English South African 's Views of the Situation , " but it was rather " The Story of an African Farm " which came to mind on the news of Mrs. Cronwright-Schreiner 's death , December 12 , and it is undoubtedly by that book that she will be longest remembered . That such a novel should have been written by a girl still in her teens is marvel enough , undiminished by the fact that George Meredith advised her in the revisions she made before the book was published in 1883 , when she was still but twenty-one . Youth is the source no less of its merits than of its defects . Certain romantic elements in it remind us that its author , lacking any larger experience of the world , leaned upon literary conventions of the moment  --  particularly in the love affair of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there something turgid in the style points also to the confused passions of immaturity . For the most part , however , youth helps , not hinders . The book has the vividness of observation and the directness of speech that betoken a candid girl . To represent such landscapes as hers one must but recently have discovered the charm of veldt and kopje and karroo and kraal and sloot , and have taken young vows to celebrate them . To trace such spiritual perturbations as those which mark the career of Waldo from the boyish extravagance of his faith to the equally boyish impotence of his doubt , one must recently have made the same pilgrimage in the passionate seriousness of youth . To put so much energy into the heresies held and practiced by Lyndall , one must have been using a critical intelligence newly aroused to the injustices of the social order . As critic , though Olive Schreiner touched numerous themes in " The Story of an African Farm , " she was most concerned with the status of women  --  thus anticipating her later career as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in revolt . George Eliot had shown that heroine rebelling half blindly against inevitable circumstances ; George Meredith had shown her taking them ardently into her own hands and flaunting the way of the little world ; Thomas Hardy had seemed to argue that women , instead of being the tender creatures approved by Victorians , were instead to be regarded as forces of nature , instinctively breaking the laws of society and yet themselves broken by them . Lyndall is another kind of rebel , a rebel who thinks . She is like Mary Wollstonecraft , boldly demanding for women the right to equal education with men , equal control over person and property , equal comradeship . By her intelligence she forecasts the young women of the present generation as does hardly another heroine in English fiction before 1890.                     