@@493295

The Realization of European Peace R. ARTHUR FISHER in an article published elsewhere in this issue challenges the American agitators for peace to justify their attitude of indifference to the policy which France is pursuing towards Germany . That policy , , if it is successfully continued , will dismember the German nation , kill off eventually many millions of the German people , and nourish emotions of fear , hatred and insecurity in Europe which will later explode in another general war and vindicate the chief contention of the dogmatic militarist ? that a nation disarmed is a nation damned . Yet , as the New Republic has frequently pointed out , the peace agitators have greeted this performance with a silence which in effect amounts to complicity . They declare with ever increasing emphasis that war is the deadly enemy of modern civilization which , if civilization is to survive , must be started on the road towards extinction . Yet they do nothing to warn their followers that one of the most maleficent wars of European history is now , being waged under the forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal knowingly and in an ultimately healing manner with ' a bleeding wound in the moral and political body of Europe which , unless it is healed , will postpone indefinitely the appeasement of that continent and of the rest of the world . American pacifists , although they are silent about the behavior of France to Germany , are of course far from indifferent to the disorder and distress of Europe and to the moral entanglement in that disorder of the United States . They affirm strenuously American responsibility for what is happening in Europe . They frequently talk as if Americans were more responsible for European errors and calamities than are the Europeans . Their general belief is that at the end of the . war the United States deserted Europe in a " cowardly and ignoble " manner , and by this act deprived that helpless continent of " moral leadership . " They attribute the subsequent calamities and disorders to American withdrawal . As the friends of peace they conceive themselves bound to persuade their fellow countrymen to revoke the withdrawal and to resume the political association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treaty of Versailles . They are working to give renewed vitality to American effort in Europe on behalf of peace by advocating the adhesion of the United States to the World Court and to the League of Nations and by clamoring for a new conference in which the United States would participate without reservations . These pacifist activities provide in our opinion no sufficient excuse for their silence about the actual existence of war in Europe due to the deliberate attempt of one nation to subjugate another nation . Their neutrality with respect to the actual war sterilizes their in other respects admirable labors to promote peace . The negligence is particularly deplorable because it does much to disable the American nation from adopting the policy which without ' invoking a new war is most likely to discredit and ultimately defeat the objects which the French seek by the occupation of the Ruhr . The peace program of the American pacifists is a less excusable repetition of the mistake which ex-President Wilson committed in formulating the diplomacy and propaganda of American intervention in the Great War and which resulted in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without reaching any preliminary understanding with the European Allies about the objects for which they were thereafter to fight . He placed American ' resources at the disposal of the ? opponents of Germany for the fulfillment of objects over which he exercised no effective control . To be sure he eloquently and unflinchingly associated American intervention with a peace of reconciliatiOn rather than of retaliation , but he acted as if his words were potent enough to create their own obje , cts . He discouraged any discussion of his program by his fellow-countrymen which did not accept the infallibility of his own , diplomacy . He ignored and wished the American people to ignore that their European associates had entered into political bargains which would frustrate a peace of reconciliation . The American public were never // European politics . The League of Nations itself under the leadership of Lord Robert Cecil is attempting to become an agency of general European security , and if by any chance it should succeed , it would really have begun the substitution of conference and law for war as the ultimate master @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not succeed until France abandons her malign encroachment on the security and welfare of Germany . As long as this encroachment persists the foundations of international order and peace will continue to quiver , and American intervention in Europe would merely be an agreement to take part either in a war or in a prolonged public execution . The American public is almost wholly ignorant of these complications and perplexities . Its chief factions are in favor either of unconditional going in or unconditionally staying out . Neither conceives of a third possibility . The Republican administration has purposely refused to guide public opinion in forming judgments about European political issues . The newspapers have used their influence on the whole to justify French policy and to exonerate France from the charge of being an enemy of European appeasement . These failures of the administration and the newspapers to bring out the fatal incompatibility between European appeasement and the French policy towards Germany rendered it all the more important for American pacifists to undertake the task . It was their particular business to educate their fellow countrymen not merely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better chance of success . The way to do this was not to ignore and underestimate the worst existing obstacle to European law P n d order but to expose ' its dangers and emphasize its importance as one necessary condition of qualify:ng their countrymen to deal with it realistically and successfully . The ordinary American conceives the policy which France is pursuing towards Germany as at worst the collection of a debt by somewhat doubtful and ruthless means . In fact it is a policy of retaliation , prompted by the idea that the two nations are irreconcilable and inevitable enemies and informed by the intention of so depriving the German nation of spirit and power that it will hereafter be impotent to threaten the security of France . Insofar as American peace agitators do nct themselves grasp the meaning of French policy , they will not get very far in their campaign against war . They do not recognize it when it stares them in the face . Insofar as they themselves understand what France is doing , but refrain from instructing the American people as to the meaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American people for renewed intervention in Europe on behalf of peace . It is far better for the United States to remain out than to go back under the illusion that France is fundamentally justified and that a new alliance can manufacture peace by putting American authority behind some slight amelioration of the grim destiny the French are imposing on Germany . Isolation may be ignoble but it is some protection against the consequences of illusion and misinformation . Cooperation with Europe may be admirable but , if it is accompanied by ignorance of the realities of European policies , it will be costly to this country and disastrous to Europe . The ability to place a true estimate upon the motives and the consequences of French policy towards Germany is the beginning of wisdom about contemporary politics in Europe and the sine qua non of any movement by Americans towards the realization of peace .                     