@@493335

Challenging the Church " The present task facing the church is nothing less than the revision of its entire procedure on an educational and experimental basis . " From Prof. Harrison S. Elliott 's Inaugural Address as the director of Religious Education in the Union Theological Seminary . DURING the last days of December some twelve hundred students from the universities all over the country will assemble in Evanston , Illinois , for a purpose which may seem to the majority of clergymen somewhat impertinent . The students who have planned this gathering call it " queer " to hold conferences about a Christian solution of the problems of race , war and industry without examining the church as a possible instru ment for the attainment of their cherished ends . They propose , consequently , on this occasion to question the church itself or in their own words to ' evaluate " it as a " means towards the achievement of social ideals " and then to act on any " conclusions " which they may reach . It is an ambitious program which has its ironic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revered institution which still exists among the western peoples . Its literature , law , government and practices embody the wisdom which should have accrued from centuries of Christian labor . As the custodian of a sacred tradition , its most important function is to pass on to Christian neophytes the benefits of its special revelation and of its prolonged spiritual experience . Yet here . is a group of students who , instead of sitting reverently at the feet of the ecclesiastical oracle , propose to hale the church itself into court and to ask how far it measures up to its own pretensions . If the program seems impertinent or even irreverent , its authors can plead a plausible excuse . The Christian church is not performing its work in the society of today in a manner which gives satis ? faction either to sympathetic outsiders or to candid insiders . Its record during the World War grieved its friends and disconcerted its leaders . Since the end of the war some of its more clear-sighted members have recognized its plight and sought remedies for its more obvious failures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creeds for the different denominations and to provide agencies for the realization of the social Gospel . But as we look back over their well-meant efforts , it is clear that they have fallen almost flat . The social creeds were merely groups of guesses about possible ways in which the human ingredient in industry could receive more consideration . There was nothing authoritative about them . They must obtain reality , not as a faithful deduction from achieved Christian knowledge but as a result of a series of experimental tests conducted by business men , engineers and politicians . If the church was losing prestige because of its impotence to realize a social creed , it was necessary to push the inquiry further ? to ask in public and without fear of the consequences what binds the church together , what part creeds play in its economy and why ardent Christians have always struggled vainly with the obligation to act with integrity on many of their most precious convictions . Yet necessary as it was to have these questions asked as if the answers were really doubtful , the leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . The students have rushed in where the angels of the church have feared to tread . The ministry are not ready to meet the tests which are implicitly set up by a thorough-going cross-examination . Troubled as many of them are about the way in which the church is doing its work , they realize that , if they were to raise fundamental questions and insist on candid answers , many of the churches would split and the discontented reforming minority might be forced to secede . The reformers are properly most reluctant to become just one more protestant sect . That part of the Christian body which understands the need of asking fundamental questions on the assumption that the answers are doubtful , is paralyzed by the sterility of mere protestantism and by uncertainty about the substitute for it . The others , of course , do not admit the existence of any serious predicament . There is , consequently , no class of Christians who are willing , sword in hand , to cross-examine the churches in public except laymen ; and among the laymen probably the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young people with religious aspirations . Its performance requires a combination of flexibility , spiritual enterprise , innocence and ardor which one would seek in vain among business men , lawyers or college professors . The students are justified in not being deterred by the fear that in thus proposing to " evaluate " the holy Christian Church in a three-day conference , they may look impertinent and even ridiculous . The mere fact that they have undertaken the task proves them to possess qualifications for performing it which are lacking in most adults ; and no matter how ridiculous they may look to some of their elders , they will not actually be ridiculous unless they take themselves too seriously and allow their sense of humor to be swallowed by their sense of responsibility . The students need most of all to conduct their own enterprise in the same wary spirit which they propose to apply to the performances of the church . In questioning the church as it is they are implicitly including in the scope of their sceptical inquiry past attempts to reform the church . Again and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of re- " evaluating " it as an instrument for the realization of emerging contemporary ideals . Monasticism , the Crusades , the mendicant orders , the Reformation , the Society of the Friends and Christian Science were all born of new evaluations calling for different ways of life which Christian reformers believed to be necessary for the better performance by organized Ch-istianity of its appointed task . The coming agitation of which this conference is the forerunner will be another of these revolts , but if it is to serve the existing needs of the church , have to be more permanently and comprehensively reconstructive than its predecessors . The only way in which it can be more constructive in its processes is to be more radical in its preliminary scepticism . The fact that the ideals in which these students are interested are social and practical rather than personal or speculative has its important aspects , but it does not concern the heart of their inquiry . In order adequately to appraise the church as an instrument for the realization of social ideals , they must first appraise it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideals . Not only the reformers in the church but the churches themselves have again and again wrestled with the problem of incorporating in the life of Christian communities the living aspirations of different epochs . It has made many gallant and costly attempts . The means which serious Christians have used to persuade their brethren to act as they believed a Christian should ? viz. ritual , prayers , exhortations , persuasions , threats , commands ? have failed except under unusually happy conditions to overcome human inertia and perversity . What reason have the present generation of Christian reformers to anticipate that they will induce Christians to live according to social ideals when previous reformers , sometimes with the ultimate assistance of the church , have failed to induce them except occasionally to live according to ascetic , communistic , puritan or humane ideals ? The value of the Evanston conference will depend upon the light which its discussions will throw on the answer to this question . The direction from which they may hope to obtain such light is , we believe , indicated by the quotation from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the head of this article . If the Christian churches really wish to equip themselves to convert their members to a Christian way of life , whatever that may be , they must as Professor Elliott says revise their procedures in the light of an educational and experimental conception of religious truth . It has failed in the past because the means at its disposal were inadequate to its ends , because its procedure has been neither educational nor experimental . It will succeed in the future in so far as it can evoke out of an educational and experimental method which is frankly critical and wary the kind of spiritual momentum which heretofore has usually been associated with a dogmatic or moralistic fundamentalism . Christians are at present divided from one another or united with one another in church groups by virtue of differences and similarities of opinion about the meaning of Christianity and the organization of the church . Their bonds of union have to an equal extent served as their excuses for disagreement . They have spent much of their religious energy in disputing about the formulas of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is that of translating Christianity into a living experience . The route which may lead to a restoration of the unity of the church is the route whereby Christianity may come nearer to realizing its implicit social and spiritual aspirations . It is the systematic effort to discover how Christianity or any other vision of human fulfillment can be projected into the minds of ordinarily behaving human beings . The effort demands a smaller preOccupation with Christian literature and a greater preoccupation with a methodical exploration of human nature , its habits , its passions , its conflicts , its activities , its visions and its possibilities . The function of the church will be to insist on the need of such an exploration and to provide a favorable environment for it , but the burden of the search will have to be carried by the individual who will create his personal . viaduct to the Christian way of life ? the route of self-knowledge . From this point of view every individual Christian would be thought of as an experimental project in religious education , whose possibilities the church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the art of realizing individual and social life in so far as the realization could be accomplished by self and social knowledge . The art would be communicated through a method with which every individual would have to experiment for himself . A demonstration of the value of method , not only in relation to learning but in relation to living , would reunite science with religion and would constitute the major contribution which naturalism can make to the intellectual and moral advance of humanity . If the Christian church does not realize that only by the application of an experimental scientific method to religious education can it vindicate its own essential pretensions to represent on earth the process of human salvation , some other religious body will . The function of the church has always been in a sense educational . It has always been the custodian - of a priceless truth which it has been occupied in transmitting to successive generations of human beings who were born in a state of ignorance . Because its function was educational its members have always labored to understand the truth they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associated with what they understood Christianity to be . Benedict , Francis of Assisi , the Inquisition , the Christian moralists who propagated virtue among the people by threatening sinners with everlasting torment ? all corresponded to different types of religious education which at different times have found favor with the church . But recently the increasing acceptance of the view that human nature is a natural product , partly warped and partly fulfilled in its present social environment , has revolutionized the problem of religious education . It must call in an experimental method , because if this view of human nature is true , the church does not know enough and will never know enough in advance to dispense with experimental inquiries undertaken by individuals , during the process of living , into the possibilities of their own lives . But it is peculiarly difficult for the experts in traditional religious education to imagine that individual experiment which assumes lack of authoritative formulated knowledge has any part to play in Christian salvation . These experts are accustomed to speak with authority , and they do not realize that an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a religious education which would transform Christianity into a living experience . That is why it is well for a conference of students to assemble in Evanston and to ask the church to consider whether it knows enough to realize Christian ideals in human life . The putting of the question may help to educate the educators.                     