@@486398

UNLESS readers are ready to accept some things as ponderable propositions in the Chino-Japan situation of today , viz. : That sending Japanese troops into Shantung Province , into Hopei ( Chihli ) Province , and into Manchuria , in April and May , 1928 , were coordinate moves in a broad political project of the Japanese Government ; That one motive of that project was to prevent the Chinese Nationalists from securing the hegemony of all China ; That to obstruct the northward advance of the Chinese Nationalist armies and to give excuse for the Japanese reoccupation of Shantung the Japanese military command provoked a clash with Chinese troops at Tsinan ; That the Japanese military command at Mukden planned and executed the assassination of Chang Tso-Iin ; That , later , the Tokyo Government by menacing the Mukden Government prevented the Manchuria provinces from peacefully accepting the authority of the National Chinese Government at Nanking ; That the Japanese Government tried , and presumably is still trying , to compel the Mukden Government to sign an agreement which would detach Manchuria from China and make that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I sail previously , readers are willing to accept those things as being within reason and perhaps provable , they would do well not to read any further . For this analysis will deal with realities and will make no effort to write down to international political amateurishness . It should be said at once that some of those matters are not positively provable and probably they never will be . It is very difficult to prove ulterior motives and crimes of governments positively . If that ever is possible it usually is only long after the event . The proofs , or perhaps it is better to say the known facts , of the China-Japan imbroglio of 1928 , in so far as it has developed , are largely circumstantial . By narrating the material facts and their connotations whatever there is of proof comes out . A presumption exists in Western countries , which gets oblique recognition from official quarters that ought to know better , that Japan has an exceptional treaty status in China . That is not so . Japan 's treaty rights in China are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty rights of the United States here . The American Government has the same right ( ? ) to send troops into China that Japan has . The American Government has as much right to " advise " Chinese in Manchuria about recognizing the National Government of China as Japan has . For many years the Japanese Government labored to establish among the Powers a recognition of Japan 's " special position " in respect to China and did get a presumption to that effect worked into secret agreements with some of the Powers . The Japanese Government tried to twist the Lansing-Ishii Agreement to that interpretation but the American Government repudiated it . All pretense of Japan 's having a special political relation to China was abandoned at the Washington Conference . The principal points of China-Japan friction now are in Shantung Province and in Manchuria . Manchuria is the real crux . Japan 's moves and actions in Shantung now ( having failed to block the Chinese Nationalists ' progress northward ) are to establish diplomatic trading points to get something in Manchuria . Since the latest crisis in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and British governments have declared that they do not regard Manchuria as being different in political status from any other part of China . No question of Shantung having a different status than other parts of China ever has been raised . The Powers taking part in the Washington Conference and who signed the treaties made there ( United States , Belgium , Great Britain , China , France , Italy , Japan , Holland , Portugal ) made a particular agreement relating to principles and policies to be followed by those Powers in matters concerning China . That agreement has nine articles of which I will quote two : ARTICLE I The Contracting Powers , other than China , agree : 1 . To respect the sovereignty , the independence , and the territorial and administrative integrity of China ; 2 . To provide the fullest and most unembarrassed opportunity to China to develop and maintain for herself an effective and stable government ; 3 . To use their influence for the purpose of effectually establishing and maintaining the principle of equal opportunity for the commerce and industry of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refrain from taking advantage of conditions in China in order to seek special rights or privileges which would abridge the rights of subjects or citizens of friendly states and from countenancing action inimical to the security of such states . ARTICLE II The Contracting Powers agree not to enter into any treaty , agreement , arrangement , or understanding , either with one another , or , individually or collectively , with any Power or Powers , which would infringe or impair the principles stated in Article I. At Washington , in 1922 , China and Japan , with the approval of the other Powers , made an agreement whereby Japan was to evacuate Shantung Province , which was supplemented by a subsequent agreement made in China afterward . Those agreements , subject to interpretation under the terms of the Articles previously cited , define the China-Japan status in that province . A story is told that during a discussion in committee at the Washington Conference Mr. ( then Senator ) Oscar Underwood , one of the American delegates , asked one of the Japanese delegates : " You continually use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations with China . Just what do you mean ? " Somewhat embarrassed , the Japanese went on to explain about large Japanese investments in China . After listening a while , Mr. Underwood said : " You mean property , then , when you say ' interests . ' I think it would be better if we use the word property when property is meant . Interests is a broad and vague term . " The Washington Conference itself was proof of great international interest in China and of extensive foreign interests here . Japan has no monopoly of any forms of interest in China . Japanese property in China is not one-fourth the value of British investments in the United States . It is less than the value of American investments in Japan . It is a fraction of American investments in Europe . Other foreign investments and property in China greatly exceed those of Japan . Japan 's property in China is based on wars and is the spoils of wars ; not wars of Japan with China , but wars of other Powers against one another when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investments in China were largely acquired by questionable methods and in all other respects their present status is the same as American or any foreign investments here . Railways constitute the major part of Japan 's property in China . The South Manchuria Railway is that part of the Chinese Eastern Railway ( built by joint Russian and Chinese participation ) held by Japanese armies when the war between Russia and Japan ended . Japan was in a position to demand and to obtain abandonment by Russia in Japan 's favor of the Russian railway rights in that section . Japan virtually compelled China to consent , afterward , to Japan 's inheritance of Russia 's rights , and , still later , to give Japan a lot of additional privileges . A good deal of Chinese private property in Manchuria was taken by Japan during the war and never restored to its owners . Under the terms of the old agreement with Russia , China had the right to buy the Chinese Eastern Railway outright within a time which already has expired . Japan forced China under pressure to agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which China protested at the Washington Conference as being given under duress . Later Dr. Wellington Koo , then Peking Foreign Minister , denounced the Liao-tung lease ( Port Arthur and Dairen area ) and announced that China considered that all foreign tenure of railways in Manchuria was void in respect to extraterritorial status . That is the situation now . Naturally , in the circumstances , China has made no attempt to enforce that declaration . Neither in Shantung nor Manchuria has China tried to confiscate foreign railway investments . She merely has wanted to buy them back . Japan has refused to sell . Japan 's railway property in China is now estimated by the Japanese Government at a very high valuation . In statements published in America and other countries the total runs to hundreds of millions . This is for property which cost probably less than $50,000,000 . None of that original cost was borne by Japan or by Japanese private investors . One concedes that those railways are worth more now than when they were built . What has given them increased value ? It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the like . But the greater part of the increased value comes from operation of the lines ; from hauling passengers and freight . The passengers are almost all Chinese . The freight is chiefly produce of Chinese farms and factories . The Chinese people by their labor have given value to those railways . If they stopped producing , the railway properties would drop in value to what the equipment would sell for . If ten million Chinese had not moved into Manchuria in the last twenty years the South Manchuria Railway would not be so good a property . To follow Japan 's finger in China 's domestic politics one needs to go back a little . That Japan has been afraid of the Chinese revolution from its beginning is known to all who have any background on Far Eastern affairs . That the downfall of monarchy in China presages the downfall of monarchy in Japan has been the theme of Japanese political writers ever since the Manchu court went . At different times Japanese statesmen have dwelt on that theme , and some of them have said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security , in preventing the adoption of republican institutions in China . The military oligarchy that has ruled Japan until lately , and which controls the present government there , always has feared that republicanism will spread from China to Japan . The Japanese Government has sympathized with and at times has obliquely encouraged attempts to restore the monarchy in China . As long as real republicanism in China seemed remote , as long as Chinese military dictators and would-be dictators fought among themselves for place and power and wealth , as long as those internecine struggles kept this country divided and weak , as long as the Nationalist movement was confined to the region of Canton , as long as Japan had especial influence with the dictator of Manchuria and by propinquity a particular influence with any government at Peking , Tokyo was not much concerned . But when Nationalism advanced northward , occupied the Yangtze Valley , and threatened to extend its power even to Peking , Tokyo became uneasy . Chinese domestic politics , as in most countries , expresses itself largely in personalities . Certain men stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Wu Pei-fu , when that warlord was ascendant , was obvious . General Wu was noted for his intense opposition to Japan 's aggressive policy in China . In the wars between Wu and Chang Tso-lin , Japan 's good-will was on the side of Chang . Then up came Feng Yu-hsiang , who succeeded in crowding Wu Pei-fu out of the picture and became for a while the dictator of Peking . When Chang Tso-lin drove Feng out of the old capital , Tokyo 's relief was evident . Feng , like Wu , was outspoken about China 's rights and Japan 's aggressions . Along with Chang Tso-lin 's extension of power in North China came Chang Chung-chang , a henchman of Chang Tso-lin , who got as far south as Shanghai in 1925 , then was driven back into Shantung , where he stayed until 1928 . It is interesting to note that he was expelled from Shanghai by Sun Chuan-fang . All that time the Nationalists were hardly in the picture . The year 1927 brought the Nationalists into the Yangtze Valley and put Japan on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's " spheres of influence , " and from then the purpose to obstruct a Nationalist progress northward developed . There is little reason to doubt that Japanese provided arms and munitions for Sun Chuan-fang 's attempted comeback in the summer of 1927 when his army almost retook Nanking . When Sun 's army was disastrously defeated its remnants retreated into southern Shantung , where , again with Japanese help , it was reorganized . One should say that Sun Chuan-fang , while he held Chekiang , Kiangsu , and Anhui provinces , had the option of throwing his lot with the Nationalist cause or of joining the northern militarists headed by Chang Tso-lin . Japan 's influence is credited with affecting Sun 's decision at that juncture . The year 1928 opened with this situation . Chang Tsolin held Peking and Chihli ( now Hopei ) Province , and , of course , Manchuria . Chang Chung-chang held most of Shantung and part of Honan , with Sun Chuan-fang 's small army as a first line of defense to an advance of the Nationalists along the Tientsin-Pukou Railway . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by dint of propaganda and persistent work brought Feng Yu-hsiang and Yen Hsi-shan into their fold . Feng had recovered from his defeat in 1926 and was established rather firmly in western Honan . Wu Pei-fu had passed into oblivion . After much negotiation Feng and Yen agreed that Chiang Kai-shek should be commander-in-chief of the National armies , which were divided into four " groups . " Chiang Kai-shek led the first army , Feng commanded the second army , Yen commanded the third army , and one of the Kiangsi generals at Hankow commanded the fourth army . Anti-Nationalist propaganda in China predicted that those groups would not hold together , but , like so many things about the Nationalist movement which are inexplicable to some people , they did hold together until the successful finish of the campaign . 