@@493499

CORRESPONDENCE Prohibition Not a Local Issue SIR : May I reply to the letter under the caption , " Is Prohibition a Local Issue ? " by Dorr H. Carroll of Kansas City , Mo. , in your issue of November 14 ? I am a traveling man and cover the greater part of the United States and have found one may procure liquor in any village , town or city , when one so desires . In the Baptist-dominated South , where the issue in the election was the liquor question , the situation can be summed up in the saying , " Prohibition is better than no liquor at all . " In one of the large hotels , in a leading Texas city , the manager gave me the name of his private bootlegger . At the recent American Legion convention in San Antonio , liquor was as easy to obtain as a pair of number 7 shoes . In New Orleans , one merely has to ask for it . In Florida , bootleggers are thicker than real-estate agents used to be . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Does Mr. Carroll not realize that prohibition for the United States is impossible until the entire world accepts it ? As long as Canada is wet on our north , Mexico on our south , as long as there are hills in West Virginia and Tennessee , as long as houses have basements and humans crave whiskey , we can never have complete prohibition . . . . B. B. BROWN . Fort Worth , Tex.on the fingers of one hand and that the number of mediocrities who wield a baton is myriad . We also believe that it is these very second-raters who most often attempt to perpetrate " readings " on the public , and we like our Beethoven straight . As to rehearsals ( and here is a scoop for the New Republic ) , we had more than the sixteen or twenty rehearsals that the various papers gave us credit for . If the sectional rehearsals be counted , we had more than twenty-five . But the first twenty of these were chiefly to perfect the ensemble , just as a string quartet sometimes plays together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " brasses were good and our woodwinds were fair and our strings were really admirable " ( we 're very proud of that ) this was due to the first twenty rehearsals . We shall not need as many for our future concerts . The first of our subscription series of three will take place on January 5 . On that date , we plan to play ( here 's another scoop for the New Republic ) a Prokofieff Piano Concerto , surely a departure from the " highly conventional . " Obviously we can not have the 120 rehearsals that Mr. Taylor 's mathematics finds necessary between now and January 5 . The outstanding thing about the entire experiment is the fine spirit of the musicians themselves . It was an inspiring sight to see them rehearse enthusiastically at midnight , as they were sometimes compelled to do , after a day of teaching or of playing at odd jobs . They feel that , with work and patience , they can give worthwhile concerts to the music-lovers of New York . They hope eventually to make these concerts self-supporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dependent on any one Creesus , who has the power , if he quits paying the deficits , to relegate them to movie theaters and restaurants . These are some of the men who for years have given joy and inspiration to the concert-goers of New York . And now these same music-lovers have an opportunity to make payment in kind by supporting a cooperative venture of these musicians . WALTER L. JONAS , Secretary , Business Advisory Committee , American Symphonic Ensemble . New York City . could start at page II of the New Republic and read straight through to page V without skipping anything . There were no break-overs and the magazine 's viscera were arranged in an unusually agreeable order . But now you have started that rascally T. R. B. so that I must break my routine to read his chatter , and lately I find myself going still farther and reading Elmer Durkin before settling clown to the legitimate parts of the magazine . Why not put T. R. B. first , then Elmer , then the important freight ? ( And who is T. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ San Francisco , Cal . The Leaderless Orchestra S IR : It was indeed a joy to all of us , who have been busying ourselves with the artistic or business arrangements of the American Symphonic Ensemble , to read Mr. Deems Taylor 's thoughtful and sincere account of our first concert . I do , however , want to correct two misapprehensions . If our prospectus implied that any of us believed that an orchestra without a conductor could give finer performances than one led by a master , I ( who wrote the prospectus ) am truly sorry . None of us believes that . We do believe , however , that the number of really inspired conductors in the world can be counted The Deportations Go on S IR : I wish to thank Mr. Hippolyte Have , editor of The Road to Freedom , for pointing out the inaccuracy of a statement I made in reviewing " Condemned to Devil 's Island . " " The convict trains of the Imperial government , " I wrote , " no longer groan eastward along the Trans-Siberian ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Only the French ... continue to send their yearly cargoes of six or seven hundred prisoners to Guiana . " Mr. Havel informs me , quite accurately I believe , that deportation to Siberia is still a recognized Russian punishment , that on the first of last January there were 189 political prisoners in Upper Uralsk alone , and that on the expiration of their terms in this " Polit Isolator , " most of them would be exiled to different Siberian towns ? the same towns , in some cases , that were used as places of exile by Peter the Great . Deportation is also a fairly common punishment in Italy . I believe , however , that France makes wider use of this convenient and not too merciful sentence than does any other European nation .                     