@@486193

W THAT happened in the Great War , fought ostensibly to end war , to turn American college campuses into parade grounds ? What facts in the present situation lead us to trust for the preservation of peace to the military training ' of high-school boys ? It is time that we Americans should face these questions squarely and ask ourselves where we are going . The War Department thinks it knows . It is using military training in high schools , colleges , and summer camps as the nearest thing it can get to universal military training and service . In General Pershing 's language it is popularizing " by all available methods " the " preparation for military service . " These methods include compulsion in some 197 secondary schools and colleges wherever complaisant trustees can be found to enforce it . They include all sorts of rewards and blandishments from cash to glory where compulsion as yet is not or can not be applied . They include also plain misrepresentation . Thus American fathers and mothers are assured by the preface of the Junior Reserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this book is not to make soldiers out of your boys but to develop them physically , morally , and mentally into the best type of citizens , capable of defending our flag should anything arise . " The army officers are officially instructed : " Always remember that men are the material being trained and molded for the work of battle . . . . They are being trained to be soldiers . " And the students are told : " Success in battle , whether attack or defense , is the aim of all military training . " Such are some of the facts that have been brought out in the recent revolt of the students in colleges as far apart as the University of Washington and the College of the City of New York against compulsory military training . These revolts are encouraging ; they have nowhere been crushed by temporary defeat , but only in Pomona and the University of Wisconsin have the students - Won . And in the high schools there has been no shadow of revolt . In short , the problem is for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is made clear by the timely appearance and wide circulation of Winthrop D. Lane 's pamphlet on " Military Training in Schools and Colleges , " with a foreword signed by more than fifty influential Americans including four United States Senators . Mr. Lane 's quiet , carefully documented statement of fact ought to undermine the foundations of the elaborate structure of militarism which is rising with dangerous rapidity . We have been told , even by liberals , that it is folly to speak of the R. 0 . T. C. in our colleges as contributing to the " structure of militarism . " It promotes little enthusiasm for drill and less for war . The officers in charge are of high caliber . The Daily Princetonian in commending the fight of the College of the City of New York against compulsion spoke in the highest praise of the quality of leadership in the elective training course at Princeton . Now all these things may be true without proving that military training is innocuous . Military drill has never in any land made the average man like war ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counts . The man who has taken military sci-ence even under compulsion as part of the price of his education , still more the man who has taken it for money orhonor , has given hostages to the future . He is part of a system which in an emergency he can not desert without some feeling of disloyalty . That is what the ' officers in charge know and that is the result they seek . Moreover , too many of them not merely teach a general acceptance of war and the warrior 's interpretation of history ; they point to specific possible enemies  --  usually Japan  --  and thereby directly menace peace . We happen to know a corps commander in charge of R. 0 . T. C. work in an important area . He is an officer and a gentleman who has risen by hard work . He confided to some of his friends that if only the Great War had lasted a little longer he would have been a brigadier general . By personal preference he desires peace , not war . But he simply can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army . He is infinitely credulous concerning all the " menaces , " red and yellow , domestic and foreign , which bring such fearsome thrills to the National Security League . Such is militarism whether in Prussia , France , or America . Let it continue to march hand in hand with American economic imperialism and this our country will become by reason of its very might the worst obstacle to the peace of the world . And in this process ' of militarization , as Mr. Lane points out , the universities may find that by giving over to the War Department such large areas of academic life to control they are introducing an element possibly more dangerous to academic freedom than ecclesiasticism or big business . Now this situation which has stolen upon the people more or less unawares is by no means irremediable . That is proved by the fight in the colleges and by the weight of some of the signatures indorsing Mr. Lane 's pamphlet . The most obvious objectives are ( 1 ) the entire abolition of military training in secondary schools where by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not belong ; and ( 2 ) the abolition of compulsion in the colleges . The former is in the hands of boards of education ; the latter of boards of trustees and regents . It would be a great gain if both these ends could be obtained . But the real remedy for the militarizing of our most ambitious youth goes deeper . It is n'ot enough that students should not be compelled to take military training ; they should not be bribed or cajoled into it . It is high time for Congress to amend the law and stop the appropriations which subvert our institutions ' of learning from their proper function of education for pedce . Tribes and nations since history began have sought safety by sacrificing the bright years of youth , its hopes and dreams , to war or preparation for war . And their sacrifices have been in vain . It is for our colleges to discover a better and nobler way of happiness and safety . To ask them , ' of all places , to become temples of a militarist cult , dedicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them a betrayal of their very souls . For they exist to woo the young man to love of science and art , beauty and truth . These are not purely national ; they are not born of war ; they are stifled by the discipline of the martinet . They spring from the peaceful intercourse of peoples and the commerce of great minds ; they grow strong only in the free air of fearless inquiry . In their increase is our hope . It is a hope not found in any military manual . The Civilian Aircraft Problem S O far as civilian flying is concerned , we agree with the recommendations of the special commission appointed by President Coolidge to deal with aircraft problems . The Morrow commission does not suggest direct subsidies , but does urge the establishment of a bureau of air navigation under an additional assistant secretary of commerce , the progressive extension of the air-mail service , preferably by contract , and additional airways and air-navigation facilities , including adequate weather reports . In addition , the Morrow board advises that governmental research in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aided by the adoption of a policy of continuity in orders and a standard rate of replacement , only those manufacturing companies to be utilized which maintain adequate engineering staffs . So far , so good . If the Government really sets itself to the task of encouraging civilian flying we ought to be able to make some progress . But the fact is that today we lag incredibly behind other countries , yet our public is calmly assured that in material and personnel we are keeping up with the great advances abroad . This we deny . There is not a single commercial passenger line in service in America today . All over Europe there are well-established lines with as regular departures and arrivals as any railroad trains , and with a minimum of fatalities . Months ago the German-Russian Air Travel Company celebrated the completion of flights between Moscow and Ktinigsberg which totaled 1,000,000 kilometers . There is a daily service between the cities . There are some twenty daily air ? plane departures from Hamburg over regularly established routes , and some of these serve not merely the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In England there are four commercial air routes , the most important being those between . London and Paris and London and Cologne . The problem is a difficult one because of the seasonal gales over the Channel and the North Sea , and yet there , too , the accidents are few , although they are bad enough when they occur . We have no single airplane in America comparable to one which the Imperial Airways is shortly to put in service on the London-Paris route . This machine weighs eight tons and is fitted with three engines which develop 1,200 horse-power . With only two engines running the airplane can make ninety-five miles an hour ; with two out of commission it can still keep going . The ventilation is electrically controlled and the " drumming , " which is so sickening to many passengers , is , it is claimed , entirely eliminated . This company alone carried 541 tons of freight in 1924 ; it will make 5,000 flights in 1925 . In view of these achievements it seems really incredible that we have no lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and between New York and Chicago . This is the more difficult to understand because , as the Hoover Committee on Civil Aviation which made its report on November 4 , last , declares : " Topographical and meteorological conditions in the United States are in general favorable to air navigation . " This Hoover committee also went on record as being strongly opposed to direct governmental subsidy . With that policy we are in hearty accord , but the committee seems justified in recommending that the Government provide funds for the design and construction by private industry of special aircraft and equipment under the joint direction of the executive heads of all departments concerned . The Government might also arrange with private individuals to offer prizes and bonuses for the best type of commercial airplane and for the company successfully completing the first one hundred commercial flights . We confess that we can not understand the failure of American initiative and enterprise to enter this field . From time to time we hear rumors of the establishment of this or that company , as , for instance , one headed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the promise being that this organization would have German airships in service for night flights between New York and Chicago by the spring of 1926 . The unfortunate catastrophe to the Shenandoah would probably make the establishment of such a service extraordinarily difficult ; yet it is possible if ' only competent and experienced men , irrespective of nationality , be employed . The Morrow commission , so far as civil aviation is concerned ' , is almost entirely of the same view as the Hoover committee . With these two bodies making virtually similar recommendations , Congress is in a position to act upon a basis of fact . But even the establishment of an assistant secretaryship of commerce will not do much . Commercial aviation will be established here only when business men can be interested in taking it up and developing it precisely as they did the automobile . That time ought not to be far distant . A Literary Executioner " IF a poem have genius , " said Dryden in 1681 , " it will I force its own reception in the world ; for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while it hurts ; and no man can be heartily angry with him who pleases him against his will . " The author of " Absalom and Achitophel " was speaking of satirical verse , and the truth of what he said applies more strictly to satire in general than it does to poetry in general . SO strictly does it apply to satire , indeed , that one may appropriate dt to another use in these days when satire is no longer composed in couplets ; one may speak of the sweetness in good prose which tickles even while it hurts . One might wish for a more perfect method than exists of determining just how much pleasure is given to the victim of ' an excellent diatribe . There is no record , for instance , that the Earl of Shaftesbury and the Duke of Buckingham cut joyful capers in 1681 when they read what Dryden had to say of them as Achitophel and Zimri . One can only insist that the victims ought to be tickled  --  according to the principle , if none other , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always fall back upon the fact that at any rate a third party , composed of more or less innocent bystanders , is rendered happy by the slaughter . Such a piece of excellent prose is Ernest Boyd 's article , in the current American Mercury on the followers of Walt Whitman . Now , we should never undertake to asmrtain the precise pleasure which the persons whom Mr. Boyd believes to be the literary descendants of Whitman will derive from a perusal of this article . Nor could we guarantee that the blindest of Whitman 's admirers will find it even in the slightest delectable . But , since we consider ourselves members of neither camp , and therefore are under no necessity of plucking poisoned arrows from our bosom , we freely admit the joy we have taken in the spectacle of Mr. Boyd 's sheer skill in denunciation . He is a rare phenomenon in these lean days of sat ; re , and it is as such that he needs to be recognized . Ben Jonson , Milton , Dryden , and Pope in their respective generations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reviewers of the early nineteenth century in England continued the tradition ; Poe nourished it in America in the thirties and forties ; Churton Collins on Edmund Gosse and W. E. Henley on Stevenson proved themselves a generation ago to be worthy successors of Jeffrey and Lockhart . Now Mr. Boyd employs the highly suitable medium of the Mercury for a series of essays in every way comparable to the best pieces executed by his predecessors . He is all but unique in his day  --  if Norman Douglas , author of a recent attack on D. H. Lawrence in . England , be excepted as the serious competitor he is . Mr. Mencken , after all , indicts a whole people ; Mr. Boyd indicts persons , or at any rate small groups of persons who can be identified if one takes the trouble . The circumstance that Mr. Boyd is wrong in most of his inferences and facts has nothing to do with the value of his article as art . It is not to the satirists with their indignatio that we go for literary history or even for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Henley 's strictures upon Stevenson were irrelevant to any discussion of the latter 's work . And so there should not be too much cause for resentment in Mr. Boyd 's careless connecting - of Whitman with the " aesthetic circles " whom he so heartily despises today . His processes seem to have been simple enough . He hated Whitman . He hated the Dial and Miss Marianne Moore . So he pretended to prove that the Dial and Miss Moore are the progeny of the Manhattan bard . Actually to prove this would require labor of a soberer sort than satirists have ever been known to undertake . There is the very respectable theory , for instance , that the " aesthetes " come straight out of France . The scholar would at least announce this theory before denouncing it . What does the satirist do ? Having quoted one of the flimsiest passages to be found in all of Whitm-an , he declares that " the transition is inevitable " to " the great deluge of Futurism , Dadaism , Ultraism , and Super-realism beneath which modern literature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the latter almost a column of Marianne Moore . Supposing , however , that Mr. Boyd 's literary history holds water  --  his criticism does not . If the aesthetes are damned by their derivation , it does not follow by any law of criticism that the father shall be damned for his children . The greatest of writers have worked havoc among their imitators . Shakespeare perhaps ruined the poetic drama until Yeats , and Milton certainly spoiled blank verse until Wordsworth . But we do not blame Shakespeare and Milton , as Mr. Boyd seems to blame Whitman . Nor would any responsible critic blame Whitman for the fact that his followers preferred his . dogma to his art , or even for that preference in Whitman himself . Some of the best of poets have misunderstood themselves ; Wordsworth , as it happens , overrated his philosophy also . Whitman was , of course , absurd when he said : " I do n't value the poetry in what I have written so much as the teaching . " He is valuable for what his practice preaches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The fact that Mr. Boyd is blind to the beauty of those forms matters little either in the criticism of Whitman or in the criticism of Mr. Boyd as satirist . ' " The Enemy " II N a world flooded with propaganda it is , it seems , an offense to produce a drama with a lesson to teach and a doctrine to expound . At least this is the only possible deduction from the lukewarmness of the metropolitan press to Mr. Channing Pollock 's remarkable play " The Enemy . " Received in small cities with praise so unbounded as to suggest gross extravagance , it was briefly dismissed ' or overlooked by one New York critic or another on the ground that it was pacifist doctrine which was produced less for stage than propaganda purposes . It did not matter that the play was brilliantly acted and that its action was simple , straightforward , and extraordinarily affecting . It was a play with a purpose and a mission , and so it received brief space compared to that bestowed upon the latest " girl show " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one has always been told that the stage must hold up the mirror to nature . If " The Enemy " does not reflect the actual life of not one but millions of families during the tragic days of the World War , we can not imagine what could . There is but one setting from beginning to end  --  the sitting-roam of a professor 's flat in Vienna , within which are enacted in miniature the misery , suffering , and starvation , the grief and the spiritual horror of the war which was but a foul conspiracy against the truth and the right from beginning to end and on every side . Mr. Pollock has been bold enough to let us look at the war from the Austrian side through the eyes of a professor who opposed the war and of his daughter who pays the price in the loss of her bridegroom and of the child his father never saw . There is nothing original or strikingly novel in the plot . These are familiar figures all : the profiteer ; the aspiring playwright who goes back on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who sticks to his beliefs and loses his professorship for asking everybody the unanswerable question , Why are we at war and what is it all about ? ; the young Englishman beloved of all until England enters the war , when he is stabbed in the house that he loved ; the journalist who without cause incites his countrymen to war and comes back shell-shocked to experience the ingratitude of his employers ; and the soldier-servant who brings back the tidings of the playwright 's death just as he is expected to return to his home . These are simple ingredients to work with and there are no startling dramatic scenes save the return of the soldier-servant with the horror of it all upon him  --  a really amazing piece of acting by Harold Vermilye . Yet the play reaches thrilling heights and profoundly stirs audiences , growing in number , whose memories react sharply to the picture presented ; who at last realize that they were enmeshed in lies from which we are just beginning to escape . " A great play " is a phrase so overworked as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it from one which so honestly earns it as " The Enemy . " But Mr. Pollock has done more than write a remarkable drama ; he has rendered a service to his country and to the cause of civilization . If our public has seen enough worth in " Abie 's Irish Rose " to keep it going for four years , it ought to keep " The Enemy " on the boards as long as has been " Uncle Tom 's Cabin . " We will add that the present caste is admirable , notably Fay Bainter as the bride and widow and Russ Whytal as the professor-father.                     