@@493296

Education for Grown-Ups THE World Association for Adult Educa ? tion , an English group with Mr. Albert Mansbridge at its head , has recently issued an interesting pamphlet on the Newer Adult Edu ? cation in Germany . It contains a sympathetic and instructive account of the recent development in Germany of the so-called Volkshochschulen or Peo ? ple 's Universities . These schools started up in different parts of the Republic after the war as the expression , not of a craving for useful knowl ? edge or technical discipline , but of a spiritual hun ? ger which turned to education rather than religion for its relief . The initiative came from people who a ? led for no encouragement from the state , but the movement soon attained such scope and momentum that the Prussian and other governments intro ? duced into their ministries departments for adult education . The departments were not created for the purpose of subordinating the new schools to regulation . Although the state aided them by plac ? ing assembly rooms and expert advice at their service , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in small fra ? ternities for joint educational . enlightenment . The membership of these groups was not limited to the wage-earners . It included large numbers of the lower middle class , who could no longer afford their former amusements and who took advantage of the loss to initiate a serious and in intention a lofty educational experiment . The defeat of their country in the war had disposed them to be more critical of themselves . ' They looked inside their minds and found the room empty and dreary or filled with rubbish . They did not wish to stock it with mere knowledge but with knowledge which would help them to more adequate living . " The Volkshochschule is not , " said an official instruction on adult education , " a continuation or a vocational school . Neither does it serve the recreative or pop ? ular form of instruction . Its aim is not the dis ? semination of knowledge or undigested learning but the development of powers of thought and discernment so ordered and interpreted as to make acquired knowledge productive . This aim can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be followed by discussion of the theme on the part of the student . Wherever possible writ ? ten work should be done . There are no examina ? tions . These schools offer education for educa ? tion 's sake , not for the sake of degrees . They must not serve a party-political purpose nor the propagation of a creed . The , enrollment of the groups should not exceed thirty . " The People 's Universities are , consequently , the expression of a ferment working ' in the mind of the German nation . Their object is to provide asocial medium which is favorable to the growth of the ferment in volume , in activity and in variety of expression . The Germans who seek this schooling realize that their practical occupations tend to stereotype their minds and dry up the sources of Curiosity and personal adventure . Under the con ? ditions of modern industrial work none but an un ? usual man or woman will survive ' spiritually the deadening routine of a wage-earning job . Wage-earners are for the most part only cogs in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have no responsibility and about which they know next to nothing . If capable of spiritual growth they nat ? urally express it by agitating against an organiza ? tion of industry which is so indifferent to their welfare . But it also takes an unusual person to survive spiritually the routine of a business man 's life . The management of a business ' may be , of course , absorbing and stimulating but in most in ? stances only for a while and for a small part of a man . A business life tends to limit a man 's ex ? perience and to place his imagination in bondage . His attention is occupied , his habits determined and his aspirations paralyzed by a petty routine of ac ? quisition . If life is to recover its savor for these people , they must try , as they grow older , an ex ? periment in learning which is also an experiment in living . A tug at their heart strings must open a window into and out of their minds . It is an object of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplish . They are sup ? posed to release the ' constructive and creative activi ? ties of human beings whom their ordinary occupa ? tion tends to harden , to specialize and to condemn to moral congestion . They begin , consequently , by taking account of the man as he is , what his inter ? ests are , what equipment he has and along what line he is movable . With these living motives as a point of departure " they deduce the means of attracting him towards education . They must start where the student is ready to start , no matter whether this , be , as Mr. Mansbridge says , a cart horse or , as a Thuringian educator declares , a fruit-growing allotment . It makes little difference whether they treat of the material of a man 's craft or its history so long as they do not forsake the road which leads towards the satisfaction of ulti ? mate aspirations . " This means in practice that the subjects which the groups study are infinitely various- . Flexibility in this matter , carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less es ? sential to the success of the experiment than the small size of the groups and the informality of the methods of instruction . The form which this experiment has assumed deserves the attentive scrutiny of those who are interested in the education of American adults . Although our grown-up fellow citizens , particular ? ly women , in many instances look upon themselves as people who still need to be educated , the educa ? tion which they seek is different in method and aim from that of the People 's Universities . The latter propose to disseMinate through education an emotional and moral stimulus which will counter ? act the tendency of their practical occupations to obscure their outlook , impoverish their sympathies and restrict their power of growth . American adults , on the other hand , seek an education which presupposes complete satisfaction with the quality and momentum of their present lives ? an educa ? tion which will help them to perform their jobs more competently or which will add a decoration to an achieved social success . Instead of starting fraternal groups the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by learning more , they buy tickets for lectures , subscribe to correspond ? ence and Chautauqua courses or attend continua ? tion schools . When they form groups for educa ? tional or semi-educational purposes , as is so fre ? quently the case with the literary and business men 's clubs in the smaller cities , these groups usually confuse education with advertising . They think of it as a way of " selling " useful information or undisputed patriotic principles to a reluctant , customer . The merit of the German experiment is that it conceives adult education as nothing if not moral and social . The young have a blithe morality in their blood which , as-long as it lasts , protects them from confusing a mere hardening of intellectual-and volitional arteries with wisdom , experience , authority and success . Their road to moral educa ? tion is paved largely with special disciplines . They need to be grooved . But unfortunately by the time they are grown up , , they need even more to re ? cover some of the indeterminateness of youth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupation , a narrow training , and a lack ofernotional adventurousness , and thereafter as a matter of self-esteem they become complacent about the pa'rticular grooves into which they are congealed . If continued education does not arouse in them discontent , a more experimental disposi ? tion , scepticism and curiosity , it is incapable of adding a cubit to their intellectual and moral stature . It must start something moving inside their souls which has momentum enough to dis ? locate their habits , unsettle their ideas , enlarge their sympathies and renew both their craving for ex ? perience and their ability to attach meanings to it . There may seem to be a grave discrepancy be ? tween the far-reaching aim of adult education , as I have indicated it , and the haphazard and almost trivial machinery through which the People 's Uni ? versity is supposed to make it good . Is it possible to introduce a moral reformation into the lives of // a group of twenty tired wage-earners or trades ? men on the strength of assembling fraternally to learn something about a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be true , as the pamphlet declares that " it makes little difference whether they treat of the material of a man 's craft or its history so long as they do not forsake the road which leads towards the satisfaction of ultimate aspirations , " but what assurance is there that these groups , by hypothesis composed of people who have lost their way , will know enough to keep bravely climbing an arduous and discouraging road ? There is no way of obtaining such an assurance in advance . The very attempt to safeguard these fraternities from losing the road , if it should re ? sult in providing them with too many guides and guide ' books , would tend to take away the self-direction which they most need . Just because adult education is essentially moral , it can not afford to be paternal . So long as the groups are not too big , so long as they contain men and women drawn from different occupations , so long as they study subjects which their members wish to study and so long as any instruction which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they impart to one another and which they obtain by asking one another questions and struggling for answers , then they can not forsake the road even though they do not travel very far along it . For an educational experiment of this kind ? free , dis ? interested , cooperative , democratic and self-deter ? mined ? would introduce a revolutionary bomb into many of their lives . A majority would doubtless be incapable of deriving much advantage from it , but though the percentage of pupils whom the ex ? perience might regenerate would be small corn . pared to their total number , their effect on their communities and upon their business associates would be disproportionately great . In so far as their own lives began to ferment , they could not refrain from communicating the infection to their neighbors and colleagues . Let us hope , consequently , that during the next five years , people 's universities , similar to those which sprang up spontaneously in Germany , will break through the soil of American society . The conditions are , it is true , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still on the whole too successful to feel the kind of discontent which will start a ' revolutionary activity in their minds . Even when they seek adult education , they will for a 1png time still obtain it chiefly from con ? tinuation schools , , lectures , correspondence courses and the like . Yet this is not the whole story . There is gathering , among the class of Americans who in the past have considered themselves individually and collectively ordained by Providence-to be pros ? perous and complacent , an increasing amount of uneasiness , dissatisfaction , scepticism and desire for mental adventure . The discontent still tends chiefly to concentrate on political and economic remedies , but it will not permanently stay there . Many grown-up Americans will soon feel an imper ? ative discontent with themselves which their pas ? tor 's sermons will not help them to assuage . They are likely in that event to appease it by an educa ? tional experiment which will seek self-regeneratiOn by a better synthesis of knowledge and life . This experiment when it comes will in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has assumed in Germany and Great Britain . But , of course , this form . is far from being final or adequate . As the people 's schools have started they are only spiritual kindergartens for grOwn ? ups . It is ominous that after so many centuries of secular and religious education there seems to be no better way of preventing the mass of people from being sterilized by maturity than the establishment of spiritual kindergartens , but so it seems to be . The ordinary adult is adolescent until some period in early middle life when he is suddenly stricken with old age . He needs a schooling which will treat him as if he were capable of fertilizing a germ of the flexibility of youth . Doubtless he would not need it , if his early education and experience of life had made for continuity of moral growth , butthe great difficulty is that such continuity rarely exists . If the ordinary adult is to save himself , he must in association with a group of his fellows start gardens in which he can cultivate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These gardens , should they serve their purpose , will not merely multiply rapidly in number but they will become infinitely various in the quality of their product . The most fertile of them will vindicate the enter ? prise by demanding more and ever more of the time and devotion of their farmers . They may become universities in the deepest meaning of that word . They may for their own , fellows repair the most dangerous lesion in the body of modern civili ? zation and reunite secular with religious education . But whether they do or do not concentrate a uni ? verse of discourse and life within the modest dimen ? sions of a fellowship , they will at least rescue many admirable people from premature moral senility by creating in them the practice of free , experimental and disinterested activity carried on in intimate as ? sociation with like-minded friends . Political and social democracy can not be expected to work much better than it is now working until such a revival occurs . HERBERT CROLY . Stop the Next War ! ONCE a nation declares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exceed ? ing difficulty . Many normally peace-de ? siring persons believe pacifism in war-time to be the equivalent of disloyalty to country and kind . Whether or not such a form of oft-proclaimed pacifism " as admits an exception to its doctrine in time of war is really deserving of the name , ' few more thoroughgoing and consistent opponents of war will deny that once the nation has embarked on war the pacifist 's sphere of action is seriously restricted . He is put on , the defensive and most of his energies are absorbed in maintaining his per ? sonal position . Affirmative action must be limited largely to work of charity and relief : Any other course will be but to court martyrdom . Despite the difficulty of the pacifist 's position once the passions of war have been loosed , pacifism is not a doctrine of quietism and inaction . On the contrary , in times of peace a large portion of America 's most active and influential leaders pro ? claim that they are at heart pacifists . The test of the sincerity of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during abnormal periods of war than it is in the actual accomplish ? ments , efforts and desires of such individuals dur ? ing time of peace . For the pacifist it is only in time of peace that his work can be in any sub ? stantial degree effective . Western Europe is now passing through a period which makes these tests apply with peculiar force . Governments , ruled by the forms of democracy but in the grip of military men , are pursuing policies which unless changed must eventually lead to open warfare . These policies of armed force will only be abandoned if the pacifists of Europe and Amer ? ica organize the machinery of peace with greater skill and support it with greater vigor , determina ? tion , and an overwhelmingly larger body of public opinion than that which supports the mechanism of war . This is not a small task , but its accom ? plishment so as to replace the ways of violence and killing is the very foundation and soul of the pacifist faith . In the present condition of Europe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond which ordinary men and women , even of pacific inclinations and de ? sires but falling short of religious faith in the ef ? fectiveness of non-resistance , will not suffer without fighting . Millions of pacifically inclined German working people have already passed beyond that point in their misery and suffering . They are re ? strained by lack , of arms and in some measure by memories of the futile suffering of the World War and also by some lingering hope of a peaceful solu ? tion through the help of England and America . The lack of arms can be remedied all too quickly , especially if fighting must in any case be chiefly of                     