@@493319

December 17,1924 THE NEW Why School ? WHENEVER the public schools are under consideration the matters which invariably engage our grave attention are the courses of study , the contents and the educational methods to which the schools are given over . Our gravity is justified . The custody and care of an entire generation is indeed a serious responsibility . But let us make no mistake about it : the nation has not been induced to turn its children over to the ministrations of the school authorities out of admiration for the pedagogical potency of their exercises . The children are sent to school because that is the place for children to be ; questions of what is to be taught to them and how , arise afterward . By their primary function , the schools constitute a national day-nursery . We may rule that children are to he kept out of factories . In the same spirit we rule that children are to be kept in school . The gross effect of the two rules is essentially the same , but ? and herein lies the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far stronger than the prohibition . The glee with which a large public has been chortling over the educational misfortune of Lita Grey is very instructive upon this point . Here is a young woman who is , perhaps , an accomplished actress . At all events she has met with a certain degree of success in her cinema career . Her professionA attainments are now , however , eclipsed by a remarkable matrimonial achievement : she has married one of the wealthiest and most widely heralded moving picture actors in the world , Mr. Charles Chaplin . And now it develops that the accomplished bride is two years under the compulsory school age of the state of California . Her mother and all the other principals have conspired to falsify the public records in the matter of Miss Grey 's age , but some busy-body has found her out . The school authorities are adamant : whatever her station in life , this child 's education must be " completed . " Accordingly she is mischievously portrayed for the amusement of the multitude painfully pursuing the elusive x across cryptic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt . But what the multitude is laughing at is not Miss Grey but algebra . Lila Grey is real ; algebra is fictitious , a part of the long-forgotten busy-work of the national day-nursery . The moral of the piece is that when the mighty police power of the state is attached not to school-going but to intellectual content it immediately becomes ridiculous . You can not make algebra a matter of compulsion . This is not the official theory of the public school . In the national self-consciousness the schools take on a deep mystic significance as instruments of social progress . By education , by compulsory common education , it has been thought , we shall accelerate social evolution . Democracy , itself an organization not merely for the expression btu for the uplift of the common people , has induced in us a belief in the possibility of general improvement by universal education . The horror of a democracy is illiteracy . Why ? Because illiteracy is wedded in all our imaginations with the other mental attributes of peasantry . By the simple and obvious association of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stolidity , and so on , as causer , and effects we have obtained the familiar and standard pedagogical dogma of democracy . To remove stolidity eliminate stupidity ; to remove stupidity , eliminate illiteracy . To remove illiteracy , compel all chil- dren to go to school and " master " the three R 's . The proposition attached by the federal Commissioner of Education to Illiteracy Day , of the recent Education Week , aroused much unfavorable comment . But his notion that illiteracy exposes its victims to the wiles of Bolshevik propaganda is only a negative statement of the established formula . The affirmative version of the Commissioner 's " slogan " is that literacy protects its votaries from political fallacy and misadventure , a statement which very few respectable people have the temerity to deny . Such claims as this , however , are usually made for " education . " But literacy and education , however different they may be in emotional texture , are nevertheless substantially the same . Each word designates the product of schooling , one as it is referred to by commencement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Education is what we expect of the schools , literacy what we achieve . The connotation of each acts as a distorting glass , one B2 THE NEW as the large , the other as the small , end of the telescope . Accordingly , the claims which proponents of social progress make seem justified when they are staked on education , preposterous when they depend simply on literacy . For whereas literacy is nothing more than the ability to read and write , education seams to connote a familiarity with the truth . If this discrimination could be maintained in practice , no doubt the millennium would supervene immediately . But alas , to teach the truth it is necessary to know it I What the schools actually do is to convey to pupils What the teachers think they know , and this process , taken in the large , is simply the familiar one , observable throughout all the parts of all civilizations , of cultural reproduction . All cultures are self-propagating , and in the nature of the case schools can he nothing more than a medium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eration to the next . Their knowledge will be the knowledge of the ruling generation , their wisdom the wisdom of the elders then alive . In the end , therefore , the case of the schools is practically that of the printed word itself : each is a medium through which civilization , such as it is , can circulate . The schools , like the printing presses , transmit not culture but a culture . Going to school , then , is of a piece with reading . Indeed , that is what it consists of , chiefly , reading and writing , including the use of the elementary symbols of mathematics . This is the national standard of education and of literacy : everyone must go to school , everyone most read and write . But there is in addition , the " school age . " We do not dismiss the children from school the moment they have reached the minimum degree of profi- ciency in the use of the common medium . On the contrary , wee xercise the police power to compel them to remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why ? The answer is to be found , as one would expect , embodied in the definition of the requirement . Do we require them to reach a certain level of cultivation ? Certainly not . Our examinations are standardized over Wide areas , so that a given rank in one school means precisely the same as the identical rank in another school hundreds of miles away . Technically , see are well equipped to enforce upon all children the attainment of a standardized minimum . of knowledge or proficiency . But in fact we slake no such attempt . What we do require is that children shall remain in school until they have reached a certain age . What eve wish to exact is not proficiency but presence . The school is a place of salubrious confinement . The distinction is significant . We enforce literacy because We can . All elections being conducted on paper , era can make literacy a qualification for citizenship , and we do , accordingly . The standard can be maintained without risk of the revolt of the mass of the electorate because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this condition does // not obtain in the case of algebra , to say nothing of higher forms of learning . The community as a whole can not possibly compel their acquisition he-cause the community as a whole does not qualify . The disciplinary authorities of the schools can exert a certain intra-mural pressure ; they can assign punitive tasks and threaten or actually withhold promotion . But these measures are effective exactly as far as they are reinforced by the general social pressure of families and friends . This pressure must obviously weaken progressively from grade to grade . For a numerical majority of all pupils it has wholly evaporated before the last grade of the grammar school is reached . Upon a college senior discipline rests so lightly as to be scarcely perceptible at all , whereas social pressure is nothing more than the vague expectation of a diploma . No one need regard this situation with horror and loathing ; it is perfectly inevitable , like the weather , and upon rational consideration no more disagreeable . It does mean , of course , that no standard of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization . But no such standard has ever been established or even seriously proposed . It also means that school rank is no sure guarantee of anything but proficiency in attaining school rank . This , also , is inevitable . The outraged intellectuals who start up from time to time in hysterical dismay over " discovering " that college graduates subsist chiefly on an intellectual diet composed of those magazines which are most kindly described as advertising media can always be corn. : forted by the assurance that the is not a phenomcorm of decay . The parents of these successful graduates read nothing better , nor their associates in professional and social life . in short , eve may take comfort from the reflection that schools have not altered civilization . Throughout history , culture has been transmitted in priinary groups , by personal contact and the pressure of direct compulsion . If the public school has not changed this , see are at least no poorer . Probably things will never be different . If the general cultural level is raised , that will probably come about not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educational Micetion from local nuclei . An increase in the relative size of the professional classes , for instance , would have precisely this effect . Confinement in the public schools , though it will serve this process , can never of itself bring it about . The question remains to he answered , therefore , why school attendance is obligatory upon the whole population to an age that bears no relation to the only enforceable standard of literacy . This is a question not of pedagogy but of statecraft . School compulsion is a fine democratic gesture . Learning can not be enforced ; but at least the state can stand betwen its children and adversity , and herein lies the travesty of the compulsory school law as enforced against the bride of the Chaplin millions . In this December .17 , 1924 THE NEW latest Chaplin comedy the clown is the truant officer . The vital , function of the school law is to keep children in a school-room who would otherwise be in a factory . That is all the school law can do ; but it can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the school law prescribes . Obligatory education has no justification in the extravagant presumption that the national level of literacy can be greatly modified by legislation . But it is abundantly justified by the fact that for those children for whom compulsion is necessary school is far and away the best place to be , whatever their intellectual ambitions . The whole case for the school law could not possibly be put more sharply than by its substitution for the pending child labor amendment . Such a substitution would clear away all the cobwebs of sophistry that have been spun about the child labor measure , and present to the nation the clear alternative : schools , or factories ?                     