@@457410

The army mental tests have shown that there are , roughly , forty-five million people in this country who have no sense . Their mental powers will never be greater than those of twelve-year-old children . The vast majority of these will never attain even this meagre intelligence . Besides the forty-five millions who have no sense , but a majority of votes , there are twenty-five millions who have a little sense . Their capacity for mental and spiritual growth is only that of thirteen- or fourteen-year-old children , and your education can add nothing to their intelligence . Next , there are twenty-five millions with fair-tomiddling sense . They have n't much , but what there is , is good . Then , lastly , there are a few over four millions who have a great deal of sense . They have the thing we call ' brains . ' THEsE statements , which I venture to quote from a popular magazine , are typical of much that has been written about ' army mental tests . ' Are they true ? No . Is there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worse than false . They discredit psychology and mislead the reader in important matters of fact . This is my excuse for turning from my scientific tasks to write a would-be popular article on the results of psychological examining in the army . Two types of statement appear repeatedly in popular and general accounts of the army work . The one is that the draft was but thirteen years old mentally ; the other that some 12 per cent of the soldiers were of very superior , or superior , intelligence , as indicated by the grades A or B ; some 64 per cent , of medium ability , grades C+ , C , and C ? ; and the remaining 24 per cent , of poor , or very poor , mental alertness , and therefore graded D or D ? . Unfortunately , both of these ways of expressing the general results of army mental examining are seriously misleading . It is my task to point out the chief reasons for misunderstanding , and to offer some more intelligible and reliable form of statement . Is our population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two possible grounds for dissatisfaction with the thirteen-year statement . On the one hand , it may be misunderstood or misinterpreted by most of us , and on the other hand it may be unreliable or inaccurate . Let me mention first few possible grounds for misinterpret ? ? tion . It is well known that most of no commonly overestimate the intelligence o our fellows . This is primarily because of our limited contact and familiarity with persons of low-grade ability . I would not flatter the Atlantic circle , but it is undoubtedly true that its average intelligence is far above the median ability of the population ! Inevitably we estimate the intelligence of man . kind from that of the individuals whom we know . Similarly we underestimate the ? a. tive intelligence of the average thirteen-year-old child . For we are greatly m pressed by the maturing influence education and experience beyond the ' . age of thirteen , and we tend to attribute to inborn intelligence what , instead , is purely acquisition . A child of thirteen years ordinarily is - well advanced in growth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capable of vast improvement in the use of intellect . Children are sexually mature at from ten to sixteen years , according to race , and climatic conditions . It would not be very surprising , in view of these facts , were it proved that intelligence is fully developed in some individuals by the age of thirteen , and in the majority before sixteen . Such considerations make the thirteen-year statement more credible . Or , again , it is entirely possible that the draft was not a fair and representative sample of the men of the country . To a certain extent those of low-grade intelligence were shielded by parents or guardians , and were rejected by draft boards . And to a far greater extent , probably , men of first-rate intelligence were reserved for the conduct of essential occupations , or were trained as officers . This heavy elimination at the top probably reduced the mental age of the drafted army by at least one year . Nor can we safely overlook the effect of men of foreign birth on the intellectual status of the army . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ native-born American . In the group of soldiers especially studied by the psychologists , about 18 per cent were foreign-born . The United States Census reports for the total population about 14 per cent of foreign birth ; so the draft was somewhat more heavily weighted than is the total population . - Whereas the mental age of the rnerican-born soldier is between thirteen and fourteen years , according to army statistics , that of the soldier of foreign birth serving in our army is less than twelve years . To claim , then , that the inclusion of foreigners lowers the average mental age of the group by one half-year certainly is conservative . If we should sum up these various considerations , we might say that the mental age of the native-born American male within the age-range of the draft probably approximates fifteen years . Such a result of army mental tests would not have caused general surprise , alarm , or skepticism . Turning now from the possibilities of misinterpretation to those of error , we should remember that the trustworthiness of the mental-age statement issued by army psychologists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from civilian sources . Now , it is definitely known that the mental-age standards for ages from five years to ten or twelve are fairly reliable , and that beyond twelve years they are of uncertain value . This casts serious doubt on the trustworthiness of the thirteen-year statement . So also does the fact that the average age of maximum native intelligence probably is nearer sixteen than thirteen years . It is but fair to say that mental age was not generally used by army psychologists as a method of stating the result of examination . Instead , the actual score made in examination was recorded and used as a basis for recommendation . I confess that I am not at all concerned , much less alarmed , by the statement that the average mental age of the draft was but slightly more than thirteen years . In view of all the possibilities of adverse selection , of the inclusion of a large percentage of men of foreign birth , of the probable unreliability of mental-age standards for adolescents and adults , and the near certainty that intelligence does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sixteen years , it seems to me that thirteen years is a very respectable showing for our army . Happily , the results of intelligence measurement of nearly two million soldiers do not stand or fall with the thirteen-year statement . It is merely a sort of by-product offered to the public by the army psychologist , on the mistaken assumption that it would be more intelligible and less likely to be misinterpreted than such descriptions of results in terms of examination scores and their distributions as I shall now present . Scarcely less a popular stimulant ? or shall we say irritant ? than the thirteen-year-mental-age statement , which we have put aside , is the often quoted distribution of letter grades in the army . It is on this doubtless that Mr. Wiggam , whose statements introduce this article , based his misleading paragraph . The alarmist now tells us that army measurements indicate that there is not more than 12 per cent of really good intelligence in our population , whereas low grades of intelligence are at least twice as frequent . This would be alarming , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The lay readers of army reports have overlooked , or ignored , the important fact that the frequency and distribution of letter grades of intelligence depend wholly upon the definition of the letter grades formulated by the army psychologists . Grade A , for example , was so defined in terms of the range of scores which it should include , that not more than 5 per cent of the men examined should receive it . Or , differently expressed , the army psychologists , by arbitrary definition and ruling , limited the number of soldiers who should be classed as of A intelligence . Why then become alarmed over the infrequency of A men ! There was , to be sure , nothing arbitrary about the scores made in their examinations by the tens of thousands of soldiers , or about the distribution of these scores . It was only the group ng of scores that was arbitrary , and merely a matter of convenience in connection with military use . Letter-grade die . tribution of intelligence is wholly value- less as a description of the intellectual status of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twice as many A and B men as D or D ? men , as the reverse It is solely a matter of definition ! The letter grades are useful , though , in corn . paring different army groups , ? such , for example , as officers and privates , whites and blacks , English and Irish , native-born and foreignborn , ? for the definitions remain constant . Having cast aside as misleading , or valueless , the statements that our army was only thirteen years old men . tally , and that there were more than twice as many men of inferior as of superior intelligence , we must substi ? tute some reasonably safe way of stating the general result of psychological measurement . Probably the most satis factory terms of statement are those of the combined scale ' ; for the results of all the different kinds of examination were reduced finally to terms of a single scale , the range of which was from zero to H points . On this scale the median score ? that is , the score which has u @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draft is 13.46 points ; that for offi cers , 18.84 ; for white soldiers dis charged from the army because men . tally incompetent , 6.8 . The extreme differences in intelligence between important groups of men within the army are still more impressively shown by the percentage of individuals falling below a certain score . We may arbitrarily take fourteen points , which is very near the median score for the white draft , as Our standard of comparison . It then appears that of commissioned officers only 1.6 per cent fall below the standard ; of the white draft , 59.4 per cent ; of the negro draft , 93.2 per cent ; of men of the white draft who had to be examined individually , 98.2 per cent ( the same figure applies to the negro draft as individually examined ) ; of men of the white draft discharged from the army as mentally incompetent , 96.8 per cent ; of men of the negro draft discharged . from the army , 100 per cent . These figures are valuable as indicating alike the differentiation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . ' t There is just one way of describing precisely the intelligence of the army , and that is by reproducing the distribution of scores on the ' combined scale . ' In view of all the misstatements and misunderstandings which have appeared , I beg to offer as a corrective the following table of percentage distributions for officers , for the white draft , and for the negro draft . How do we commonly estimate intelligence ? Scores and percentages mean little to us , unless we can somehow relate them to occupational or other forms of behavior , by which we ordinarily judge a person 's ' brightness ' or mental ability . Such comparison is possible because of the army 's classification of men according to their civilian occupations , and the relating of intelligence scores to occupation . The average intelligence of the army is just about the same as the averages for such important occupational groups as horseshoer , brick-layer , cook , baker , painter , general blacksmith , general carpenter , butcher , general machinist , riveter , telephone lineman , pipe-fitter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engaged in these trades have precisely average draft intelligence . Some are lower , some considerably higher . Our statement implies that the average intelligence found in a given occupation approximates the average for the white draft . The average intelligence in the army for such occupations as common laborer , miner , teamster , barber , is much lower than the average for the entire draft . On the other hand that for clerks , bookkeepers , draftsmen , accountants , dentists , engineers , doctors , clergymen , is very much higher . There are notable and tragic exceptions ; but , in general , persons gravitate toward the class of occupation which most nearly suits their intellectual ability and temperament . No one who is familiar with the facts would think of denying a high grade of intellectual ability to the commissioned officers of the United States Army . As a group , they were during the war , and are now , superior in endowment and education . The distribution of their intelligence grades strikingly confirms this assertion . Only three tenths of one per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C ? ; 3.3 per cent received the grade of C ; 12.5 per cent received C + ; 28.4 per cent , B ; 55 per cent received A. These figures are eloquent ; for we know what such men stand for in community and nation . By virtue of their superior ability , they are the leaders industrially , professionally , educationally , socially . It is a long step from the average intelligence of the white draft to that of the commissioned white officer . In the former , 72.9 per cent graded C or less ; in the latter , 3.6 per cent . We have rather good practical knowledge also of the performance and possibilities of those men who never progress beyond the sphere of the common laborer . ' Almost all the soldiers classified in this group occupationally graded below average in intelligence . Indeed , the majority received the grades C ? , D , or D ? , which , by interpretation , mean low average to very poor intellectual ability . The cost of low-grade intelligence to the army was appalling . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered about two in every hundred who were so inferior mentally that they could not safely be assigned to regular military training and duty . This justifies the statement that in our army of five million men , there were at least one hundred thousand with very low-grade intelligence . Some of these were discharged after psychological examination , but many were retained , and used in labor battalions or otherwise . Probably most of them were not worth what it cost the Government to draft , equip , train , and insure them , and to pay the other costs incident to their military service and its hazards . The initial rejection , on the basis of psychological examination , of this entire group of one hundred thousand men would have saved the United States enough to pay the cost of psychological service a hundred times over . HUMAN MIND IV Any citizen should be interested in relations of illiteracy , schooling , and in. telligence . As bearing on the educational status of our population , the following figures are illuminating . Only about 70 per cent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the group examination intended for men who could read and write Eng . lish . The remaining 30 per cent had to be given either individual examina. tions , or the group examination for those who were wholly illiterate , or illiterate in English . The soldiers classed by army psychologists as illiterate in English were unable to read newspapers or to write letters . Many of them undoubtedly could spell out words , and thus read with painful labor and slowness . But so much education as this profits the individual little and the nation less . Can we fairly consider ourselves a generally and highly educated people so long as three individuals out of every ten ( this proportion certainly would be increased if the age-range were extended from fifteen to fifty years , and women as well as men were considered ) can neither read nor write the language of our country ? Men who reported not more than four years of schooling scored on the average 22 points out of a possible 212 in examination Alpha ; those with five to eight years schooling scored 51 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school , 92 points ; those with eellege training , 118 points ; those with technical or professional training beyond college , 146 points . These figures might be interpreted to mean that intellectual ability is largely the result of education . Indeed , it is quite commonly believed that intelligence increases with schooling . This , however , is flatly , contradicted by results of research , for it turns out that the main reason that intelligence status improves with years of schooling is the elimination of the less capable pupil . All along the line , from kindergarten to professional school , the less able and less fortunate in home conditions tend to drop out . Not more than 50 per cent of our population are capable of satisfactorily completing the work of a first-rate high school . The remainder reach their - 31 , nearly one-third of the population - is amazingly high ; but of special import for our social status and outlook is the prevalence of illiteracy among the native-born to the extent of more than 16 per cent . If psychological examining in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of illiteracy , it would have been well lines at varying points on the educational ladder . Not more than 10 per cent of the population are intellectually capable of meeting the requirements for a bachelor 's degree in a reputable college . Education , instead of increasing our intellectual capacity , merely develops it and facilitates its use . Although army psychologists made no special study of illiteracy , they incidentally discovered the proportions of men among the native-born , the foreign-born , and American negroes nho could read and write English to a useful degree . The illiteracy showing of New England may readily be grasped by examination of the above table . Among the native-born in New England , illiteracy is least in Connecticut , 9 per cent , and next in Massachusetts , 11.5 per cent . Perhaps this indicates the difference in community service between Yale and Harvard ! The percentage of illiterates for New England What of the intelligence of different races ? Some years ago I read a book whose thesis was ' Mind is fundamentally one and the same for mankind . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that body - including such traits as hair-color and texture , complexion , height , cranial capacityis essentially the same for all mankind . I have marveled that the learned gentleman found it in his heart to write so much with the hope of establishing what , obviously , is false ! If we may safely judge by the army measurements of intelligence , races are quite as significantly different as individuals . To begin at home , the negro versus the white offers particularly valuable material for study . If intelligence is fundamentally the same in negroes and whites , the distribution of the letter grades shown below is puzzling . The education of the negro is poor in comparison with that of the white . Most of them are illiterate ; but this fact accounts only in small degree for the prevalence of low grades , D- and D , in the intelligence examination . The contrasting results for Northern and Southern negroes is doubtless significant of selective action . The more energetic , progressive , mentally alert members of the race have moved northward , to improved educational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group , 19.7 per cent graded A or B , and in the Polish group , one half of one per cent . The race differences are so pronounced , and of such obvious practical significance in connection with immigration , that it seems excusable to present the rank order of the several racial groups , first , for increasing fre. quency of inferior intelligence , second , for diminishing frequency of superior intelligence , and , finally , for deereas. ing average score on the ' combined scale . ' The measurements of intelligence for The intellectual status of the negro is greatly inferior to that of the white , and the figures already presented as typical are supported by measurements of the practical value of the negro soldier and by the opinions of commanding officers , who agree that he lacks initiative , displays little leadership , and can not safely accept responsibility . Almost as great as the intellectual difference between negro and white in the army are the differences between white racial groups . Of natives of England serving in the United States Army only 8.7 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Poland , 69.9 per cent . In the different races are appreciably ; nth ' . enced by familiarity with English and facility in its use , as well as by amount of schooling . However , there is no rea. son to suppose that the English or Scotch have marked advantage over the Irish in their familiarity with the English language . Nevertheless , the English and Scotch groups show fern intellectual inferiors and many superiors ; whereas for the Irish group the reverse is the case . More than 39 per cent of the Irish graded D or lower , and only 4 per cent graded A or B. The tragically poor showing , in these racial statistics , of the Italian and Polish groups is worthy of particular note , because these races at present figure so conspicuously among our immigrants . Dr. Carl C. Brigham of Princeton University has recently reexamined and carefully analyzed the army data bearing on nativity and length of residence in the United States . His results have not yet been published , but I am permitted to say that , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . lie has studied with care the intelligence of immigrants for different periods of the history of our country , and has discovered rather marked diminution of intelligence , which seemingly is due to change in the proportions of immigrants from Northern and Southern Europe . For the past ten years or so the intellectual status of immigrants has been disquietingly low . Perhaps this is because of the dominance of the Mediterranean races , as contrasted with the Nordic and Alpine . By some people meagre intelligence in immigrants has been considered an industrial necessity and blessing ; but when all the available facts are faced squarely , it looks more like a burden . Certainly the results of psychological examining in the United States Army establish the relation of inferior intelligence to delinquency and crime , and justify the belief that a country which encourages , or even permits , the immigration of simple-minded , uneducated , defective , diseased , or criminalistic persons , because it needs cheap labor , seeks trouble in the shape of public expense . It might almost be said that whoever desires high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools or defectives , of correctional institutions , penitentiaries , hospitals , and special classes in our public schools , should by all means work for unrestricted and nonselective immigration . Crime , delinquency , and dependency , as well as educability , are intimately related to intellectual ability . For , when records of special and summary courts-martial are related to measurements of intelligence , it appears that men of low-grade intelligence are particularly prone to minor delinquencies , or infractions of military regulations . In one camp , of 929 court-martial cases , 44 per cent were men of D ? grade intelligence or lower , and less than 6 per cent of men graded A or B. A chart used by army psychologists to exhibit graphically differences in intelligence between various groups , and to illustrate practical applications of mental measurement , shows the following startling facts . Of men with very poor , or poor , intellectual ability , who received in the examinations D , D ? , or E , there were none among commissioned officers ; very few among students in officers ' training-schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; something like 20 per cent among white recruits ; and , by contrast with the above , among disciplinary cases , ' men ranked by their officers as of ' low military value ' or unteachable , ' from 50 to 75 per cent . The graphic representation of these facts was impressive . It became more so as officers observed their men , and discovered for themselves that their estimates of military value agreed pretty closely with the intelligence grades supplied by the psychologist . These figures suggest a way in which our army might have used intelligence measurements to excellent purpose . The elimination of the lowest ten per cent of the draft would have lessened by one half the waste and annoyance incident to military offenses , slowness and refractoriness in training , weakness and inefficiency . The psychological examination of drafted men and other recruits was proposed originally as a quick , inexpensive , and reasonably sure way of discovering and eliminating men with too little intelligence to be worth training for regular military duty . But , as soon as the practical work of making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uses of its results revealed themselves ; and when the official inspector stated the purposes of examining , in his report to the Surgeon-General , he mentioned three important types : namely , the discovery and , as desirable , the elimination of the mentally defective ; the classification of all men according to their intellectual ability ; and assistance in the selection of men especially suitable for positions of responsibility , as in the case of commissioned officers . ? In summary appraisal of results , it may be said that psychological examining in the United States Army had many and considerable direct and indirect values . It focused the attention of thousands of intelligent army officers ? many of whom have now returned to civil life , taking their new knowledge of psychology with them ? on the possibility and practicability of measuring human traits , and of using the resulting information for the benefit of mankind . It led to the improving of old and the devising of new methods of mental measurement , such as would not , ordinarily , have become available in a score of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and relations , unprecedented alike in quantity and in value . It increased the faith of psychologists in their professional work , and greatly stimulated them to concentrated labor on methods , problems of mental development , and the relations of intellectual ability to professional and other demands . in connection with it ; conviction that service to our fellow beings is both a privilege and an obligation ; and faith pr that , while recognizing the importance of nature 's slower way , we may actively further the physical and spiritual wellbeing of mankind . Whereas heretofore too little has been expected of psychology by most people , now the pendulum has swung in the opposite direction , and hopes as well as demands are extravagant . It is needful , therefore , to emphasize the necessity for patience and temperance . The practical values of psychological methods and of their results depend almost entirely upon the thoroughness , skill , foresight , and disinterestedness with which the science is developed . VIII Can the value of a man be appraised ? ' Man is a delightfully complex and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now it is possible to estimate or predict certain of his ' values ' as a social being by measuring bodily and mental traits . Categorical reply to the question is unsafe , for in certain respects man can be measured accurately . In certain others he can not , at the present time . Assuredly we can not to-day appraise a man accurately . But this statement would be grossly misleading if I did not add that substantial progress has been made during the past half-century in the development of methods of measuring man , in our knowledge of his traits and their relations , and , consequently , in our ability to predict his values , or to appraise him . The preceding paragraph wholly neglects the optimistic note that seems to me legitimate . I beg therefore to declare my faith , and to present my scientific creed . They require few words . Theoretically , man is just as measurable as is a bar of steel or a humanly contrived machine . He is infinitely more complex in constitution , in possibilities of reaction and response , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of steel . But this does not alter measurability . It renders it a more difficult , tedious , and length ) task , but it also makes it more interesting , for it constantly challenges our faith , persistence , ingenuity , and intellectual resourcefulness . When asked nowadays , ' Can imaginativeness , skill , courage , honesty , inventiveness , or any similarly and seemingly intangible , unmeasured ability be measured ? ' I promptly and dogmatically reply , ' Yes . ' Then I hasten to qualify my optimistic assertion by explaining that , although convenient and readily usable methods may not be at hand to measure or evaluate the particular aspect of human nature in point , the experienced , skillful , and intelligent psychologist can make the desired observations . It may require weeks or months , but it can be done . Two decades ago it was possible to measure traits of intellect in psychological laboratories , but impossible to evaluate them simply , accurately , and serviceably , as is done to-day all over the world by means of the socalled intelligence tests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ optimism , and the spirit of prophecy , if we refused to maintain the probability that more and more aspects of man will become measurable , more and more modes of response predictable , and more and more social values appraisable . Can the value of man be accurately appraised ? In so far as it depends upon the form of his body , it can be : for height , weight , dimensions of bones , of muscles , cranial capacity , color of skin , hair , eyes , and scores of other aspects of the man as physical object may readily be measured , and the results compared with those obtained from other individuals . Such measurements are the special concern of anthropology . They enable us to identify stages of development , the sexes , different races , and the variety of defects and pathological conditions of the human body . Anthropometry and physical anthropology have developed through the curiosity of man , but also , and perhaps more , because of the need for accurate knowledge of bodily traits , their changes during growth and occupational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educational means . It has come to be recognized that an essential part of vocational guidance and placement is the attempt to fit the physical man to job or occupation . This requires definite knowledge of occupational requirement , stated in terms of bodily traits , and equally definite knowledge of the traits of a given individual . What has been said of bodily form is equally true of bodily functions . Response to fatigue or to cold or warmth , rapidity and accuracy of movement and coordination , are at once measurable , occupationally significant , and essential conditions of certain ' values . ' With traits of mind as contrasted with those of body , it is far different . As forms of experience , they appear to be immeasurable , but as expressed in action , behavior , conduct , they can be measured . So it happens that experi-mental psychology is the application of new and constantly improved ways of testing and measuring what man does under certain circumstances , or in cer-tain situations . Between physiology and psychology it is quite as impossible as unprofitable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in bodily processes ; but , whereas the physiologist attends chiefly to bodily functions in their relations to structure , the psychologist undertakes to study the relations of certain bodily functions or expressions to sense-impressions , feelings , emotions , ideas , thoughts . The whole of history is a record of human behavior . Man has always been interested in himself , always observant of his acts . But mostly his descriptions are impressionistic , colored by the purpose or bias of the writer , inaccurate and incomplete . The science of psychology has undertaken to supply carefully controlled and accurate descriptions of behavior , based upon objective measurements of what man actually does in certain definite circumstances . Here is a simple illustration of the con. trast between the old and the new descriptions . It has long been recognized that some people respond quickly to sights and sounds , others slowly . The psychologist has devised methods and mechanisms for measuring the time required by a given person to respond to a certain type of stimulus . Results of such measurement may class the individual not merely as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His speed of reaction may then be compared with the average for all persons measured , with the quickest or with the slowest , and he can be ranked objectively and precisely . The advantages of such definite objective information over the impressionistic sort are too obvious for comment . Just as it is possible to measure such a simple characteristic as quickness of response to any sort of stimulus , so likewise the presence of ideas and their use in thinking , the presence of images and their use in remembering or in imagining , may be evaluated by measure . ments of what a person actually does . Memory ? or , rather , memories , for there are several different kinds , which seem to vary independently ? is measured by getting reliable records of tire amount of material in the shape of words , phrases , sentences , names of objects or acts , which can be recalled under given conditions . For instance , I repeat to the person to be tested , with uniform emphasis , and at the rate of two per second , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as many as he can in the order in which they were given . Thus , by the use of nine digits , repeated in different orders , I can readily measure the memory-span of the individual for digits presented auditorially , that is , to the ear . There is a surprising difference among individuals in ability to recall such material . It has also been discovered that a person who can recall only five digits if he merely hears them may be able to recall nine when he sees as well as hears them . When the psychologist talks about measurements of intelligence , he is inevitably asked if traits of temperament and character , or yet other aspects of personality , can likewise be measured . In the army it was often said that measurement of leadership , reliability , and courage , certainly would be more useful than similarly dependable measures of mental alertness . Although this probably is not true , it is undeniable that the feelings , emotions , and other temperamental characteristics of the person are as important in most practical situations as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and temperamental traits . To appraise the value of a man without trustworthy measurements of his will-power , his reliability , his frankness or honesty , his patience , persistence , or irascibility , his courage or timidity , his self-dependence , his temperamental resourcefulness , his sympathy and self-forgetfulness , would be inexcusably stupid . Bodily traits alone , however accurately measured , are inadequate . Knowledge of intellectual functions constitutes a valuable supplement , but we still fall short of what is required . Knowledge of temperament , which may be defined as the constitutional ' or inborn tendency to feel and act in certain ways , goes far toward completing our picture ; but we still have neglected certain components of character and personality which result from the interaction of the above with conditions of life . It has proved more difficult to measure ' affective ' ? as temperamental traits are called ? characteristics , than intellectual . Little progress has been made as yet toward the development of reliable , readily used , and standardized methods of gauging honesty , courage , timidity , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ starts that have taken the psychologist out of his laboratory into the field of practical life . In connection with criminal procedure , he has been called upon to measure deception ; and , although he has not entirely succeeded in this task , he has made sufficient progress to justify optimism . Just as in the case of intellectual functions , he measures , not the experience of the individual , but one or another aspect of behavior or conduct . In a few years we shall be measuring affective traits as readily , as serviceably , and as accurately , as we now measure intellectual functions ! Knowledge is power as truly in the human sphere , intellectual , affective , and social , as in the environmental . Chemistry , and the branch of engineering based upon it , have revolutionized the conditions of human life . Physics , geology , mineralogy , likewise have found innumerable applications to our welfare . The so-called physical sciences have literally transformed man 's world . Modern medicine ? including surgery , preventive medicine , and hygiene ? not only has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in large measure gained control of them , but has also infinitely increased human comfort , happiness , and efficiency , by discovering the laws of health , and ways of preventing and avoiding disease or defect , and by developing sanitation and personal hygiene as phases of engineering . For psychology it remains to accomplish in the sphere of behavior and mind what the physical sciences and engineering have accomplished for our physical body and its functions . With increasingly safe and abundant knowledge of man 's mental traits and capacities , we shall intelligently , instead of blindly and by guess , help to fit ourselves and others into the social fabric , help even to change the design of our social system . Many of the things now viewed as foreordained and , therefore , unapproachable by us , many that are left to chance or accident , we ultimately shall deal with systematically , rationally , and on a basis of safe prediction of reaction and appraisal of values . Vocational and avocational choices , instead of being left to the wish or whim of parent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ease and openness of road , will corn more and more to rest on adequate knowledge of the traits and capacities of the self , and on the demands , requirements , and opportunities of different classes of occupation . Job-specifications and descriptions of the individual will become common . places of business and social relations . This vision of the not-remote future of mankind , and of the social order which will result when knowledge of man ? physical , mental , and spiritual ? is as nearly adequate as is knowledge of his environment to-day , might be elaborated indefinitely . We stand en the threshold of a new era . Mankind , heretofore infantile in his knowledge of himself and in his attitude toward such knowledge and its practical uses , is reflecting on the lessons of history , on the tragedies of ignorance , and on this vision of progress . May the value of a man be apprais. ed ? My confident reply is , ' Yes . ' If not to-day , to-morrow ; for never has there been greater open-mindedness toward knowledge of man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for increased ability wisely to direct and shape his individual and social life , than at present . To-day many things are possible to us which seemed unapproachable a generation ago . Evidently the part of wisdom is to be open-minded , optimistic , determined in our search for knowledge , and equally so in our use of it . We may not assume that we are wise enough safely to direct ourselves or our social order ; but , nevertheless , we must admit that we are responsible for the conduct of our own lives , and for the social order , with all its imperfections.                     