@@493246

Lions , German industry will certainly pass through a period of paralysis early next year . Everywhere the political situation is such that business enterprise will be at a low ebb . Manufacturing activity requires the purchase of raw materials far in advance of the time at which the finished product is sold and delivered . It is usually better to let one 's Plant lie idle than to undertake the risk incident to such a situation as will prevail in Europe during the next nine months . There is every prospect , then , for a curtailed output of manufactured goods in Europe for some time to come . But the European farmer , like the American farmer , will plant his fields and raise the largest crop of which he is capable . This will be somewhat below the normal crop of previous years ; but except in Russia not greatly so . There , as here , this relatively large volume of agricultural Product must be exchanged against the curtailed volume of manufactured output . If these two industrial groups are interdependent , this must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these low prices the American farmer must compete in the case of all those crops which we export . Unless something can be done to rehabilitate European industry and to revive its manufacture , it will be impossible to reestablish industrial prosperity by raising American agricultural prices . The present economic order is essentially a cooperative one . Its cooperation is effected through exchange , and between all the exchanging groups there is an intimate degree of interdependence . The American manufacturer and the American farmer depend upon each other . But the American farmer is tied to the European price level by the fact that he produces for export . The European farmer is in turn dependent upon Europe 's manufacturing communities . So we can do little for the American farmer unless we help the European manufacturer and his laborers . Whether we like it or not , the organization of industrial society has made us our brother 's keeper . DAVID FRIDAY . Leavenworth N innocent American abroad is often reminded in these lean , unhappy days that this country no longer enjoys the reputation , IvIldeh in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth , of being the world 's best hope . e learns with something approaching a shock that it is not only , concerning Europe that Euro- Pans are disillusioned . This is the open season for the American tourist , the first since the war , and i t is a sad fact that the chief indoor sport of certain s ? Phisticated Europeans is to make fun of him ? delicately , and by innuendo , to be sure ; but none the humiliatingly . Imagine the feelings of an American sojourning 14 Europe te Q4 ' 2 ' rope who , in spite of certain misgivings about ellt American diplomatic incompetence and be- , tra throbbing still feels a warm vein of patriotic feeling b ? ' li n within his kindly bosom , when in weary ; Rust at the all-to-well authenticated stories of dY terrorism and inhuman torture of political kison i thou ers on Hungary under Horthy he turns to ghts of home with some such healing reflection 4t : " After After all , that sort of thing is n't done in h erica @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you can , I elt he hears a coolly modulated British voice 1141:ng : " But what of Leavenworth ? . .. We 48 , e heard some most unpleasant things . " And , ' le blushes for lack of a retort courteous , the voice continues , with a rising inflection that is infinitely insolent : " Doubtless exaggerated , of course . The Germans did n't do half the things to British prisoners that we thought they did l " Of course . . . . But he really does n't know about it and can not say . The other day in Vienna Dr. Friedrich Adler was telling to a visiting American journalist the story of his life and imprisonment . At the end of the interesting recital he remarked : " The last official act of the Emperor before his flight from Vienna was to release me from prison . One good thing to his credit ? Hardly ; he thought it would appease the people . But your candidate for the presidency , ? what is his name ? Mr. Debs ? He is still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For ten years in a felon 's cell at cornpulsory labor . It is a high price ? almost a prohibitive price ? to pay for the privilege of speaking the truth in lie-time . In America there was no abdicating emperor who feared the wrath of an aroused people , to release him . There were only laws to put him there . . . . That he remains there is one of the results of the monstrous sophistry that there can be no political prisoners in a democracy and that there is a government of laws and not of men ! And not only Debs .. . . Under the north wall of the federal prison at Leavenworth , Kansas , there stands a long wooden shed , open to the weather on both sides . On the top of the thirty-foot wall overlooking the shed is a kind of cement turret from the battlements of which the black muzzle of a machine-gun points down menacingly . In that shed about seventy-five men stand for seven hours a day at long wooden troughs and break limestone rock with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denim jackets , and on the knees of their overalls , black numbers are stenciled , while up and down outside of the shed pace two guards armed with clubs of polished wood or leather . At lunch-time and at the end of the day the rock-breakers , who are often not even permitted to talk while at their absorbing work of making two hundred rocks grow where only one grew before , are lined up and marched either into the dining-room for stew or into their cells for fourteen hours of meditation between the evening and the morning . Their guards may at any time report a man for the most trivial irregularity , whether real or fabricated , with the absolute assurance that the prisoner will be made to feel still more keenly the hurt of his imprisonment by means of the loss of all his writing privileges , by refusal of permission to see his visitors , by confinement in his cell for a week of Sundays , ? the one day in which for two hours in the afternoon the population of the Forbidden City may enjoy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imprisonment in a dungeon for days and nights on a diet of bread and water . This ridiculous performance has been going on six days in the week , twelve months in the year , for three years . And who are they who have endured all of this and more ? They are neither murderers , illicit traffickers , morons , nor thieves . They have never been convicted by any court in the United States of any offence involving " moral turpitude , " or of any crime of avarice or vice . They are , most of them , self-controlled , well educated men who have done sustained reading and hard thinking . They have been caged and handed over to the ignorant and cruel agents of the law and the courts for punishment and imprisonment because they believed in , and were admitted members of an organization that believed in , anti-military propaganda in time of peace and , if it should be practically possible , in an effective and simultaneous strike by organized workers in the different countries immediately concerned when war should be declared . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they believed that only through action of this kind could war be prevented ; and their crime was that they were right . They were condemned by the judiciary agents of a supposedlyenlightened society because they admitted that they believed it ? not because it was proved that they ever acted upon the belief in any illegal way of that they ever did anything individually or collectively to obstruct the conduct of the war . Be ' cause they were members , and for years previouslY had been members of an organization of working ' men , founded in Chicago in 1905 and called the Industrial Workers of the World , they were convicted of the offence of conspiring illicitly and fe ? loniously to obstruct the recruiting and enlistment service of the United States and to cause disloyalty , insubordination and refusal of duty in the service thereof . They were therefore declared guilty and subject to the devastating penalties pre ' cribed by the Espionage act . They remain in prison under no other legal dictment or conviction than that of a " felonious conspiracy , " and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the prosecution of the War through the publication in various labor newt ' papers and magazines of articles designed to pro ' mote this purpose . In four-fifths of the cases there is absolutely nothing in any of the evidence intr ? ' duced to indicate that they ever did attempt t ? interfere with the prosecution of the war , even 5 ? indirectly as to publish criticism or condemnatil of it . The allegation of a conspiracy by reason ( 7 admitted membership in a labor union is a pate ? t absurdity . If this were a conspiracy then even ' member of the Quaker Church is guilty of a fed ' lonious conspiracy , because that organization 3ri its membership are pledged to oppose war and the fighting of war . These men were arrested in their P.aces of residence and work , villainously maltreated ' fld jails and houses of detention , finally condemned and sent for the penitentiary , because a ferocious and mendacious newspaper campaign against them had , aroused a fear , as ignorant as it was widesPre.1 , that they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also a belief , not without ? l basis , that their influence and the influence of their irl organization might provoke among laboring men . g , the essential industries of coal and iron , shiPPIP . og agriculture and lumber , and particularly nul ? , 10 , laboring men of foreign birth or descent , an ds willingness to submit to the manifold derrOurn , made by their employers in the name of the Vve if ' merit and during the war by the government itse , h'e Popular hysteria , deliberately stimulated , did rest . the One of these outcasts , more unfortunate than * Frank Little , who died four months before the iildicr ments were drawn or the arrests made . rest , Frederick Esmond , an intelligent , highly strung little Englishman , a former student at the University of Manchester and a wanderer , has collapsed under the intolerable strain and is now held in the federal asylum for the insane at Washington . The others live on , in a kind of living death , a picturesque fraternity of the damned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periodically thrown into underground dungeons for further " treatment " in starvation and terror . In a word , everything is being done to weaken and destroy their manhood and their intellectual and moral sanity . This policy is carried on at the command of an omnipotent deputy-warden who has acquired , if he did not already have , tle furtiveness , the indirection , the cruelty and the anti-social instincts of the underworld in which he has reigned as a kind of political Pluto for twenty years . Such is the story of Leavenworth , of the shame of Leavenworth ? as Leavenworth is the shame of America ? which has penetrated to the ears of Vdtropeans already surfeited with their own tales of horror and despair and crime . It is no wonder that they believe it . The coolly impudent Britisher Was not mistaken . The " most unpleasant things " heard about the United States are not exaggerated . And it will go on . The galley-slave philosophers of the rock-pile will continue to break limestone until they either eke out the bitter years or until they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it'that none of them are paroled because no man may even appear before the parole-board if within three months before the meeting of the board he has been reported for the infraction of rules and reporting a prisoner is a kind of diversion from the monotony of guard-duty , even when it is not ordered from the throne-room . The cruel idiocy will go on unless and until an aroused public ? Pinion , in the name of decency if not of justice , demands the release of all of the prisoners held under the Espionage act and their restoration to their families and to productive industry , by the amnesty , the long overdue amnesty of the President . ' their continued imprisonment if not their original conviction , like that of Mr. Debs , is a stain upon the Judiciary of the United States and an unanswerable indictment of the American people and their government . Their immediate release should be the unremitting concern not only of every peace o QietY in the United States but also of every American who still has the hardihood to believe ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lustre to the founding of the Republic . by is not their release demanded ? What have ' ? c'e come to ? BRENT Dow ALLINSON . English Speech and American Masters I remember watching Conrad dig his hands fiercely into the loose sand , and say , " Ah , if only I could write zee English good , well . But you see , you will see ! " . . . There is a foreign inflexion in his speech , never in his prose . . . . And my young literary friends call him Master. ? C. Lewis Hind , in Authors and I. A N anxious problem confronts the lover of the English language these days in the shape of many of our most interesting novels . Can we admit among reputable works of literary art stories so badly written ? Can we admit to the company of Fielding and Thackeray , of Hawthorne and Jane Austen , even of Dickens , writers who at every turn offend our ears with speech not English ? We are ready enough to take seriously a writer who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a trifle readier if he were a trifle less serious . We recognize , at any rate , the scientific spirit in which he undertakes his studies of Philadelphia finance or the Chicago saloon , ? realizing them as American institutions . But we have come to expect that great works of fiction should be at least decently written . And it gives us a shock to find the ambitious author of Sister Carrie falling continually into vulgarisms like , " equally well as " and " He saw where a new play was at the Casino . " Mr. Hergesheimer is one of the authors for whose next story we look with most excitement . We freely acknowledge him as our cleverest entertainer , our most colorful and inventive designer of patterns in the stuff of life . We are forever on the point of yielding ourselves up without reserve to the charm , the wizardry , of his romantic confections . But we are forever being brought up sharp , even in so late a book as Linda Condon , by the evidence that he has not mastered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nowhere does a language display its idiosyncrasy more surely than in the use of prepositions ; and we find Mr. Hergesh.eimer groping helplessly among our withs and bys and cats and tns . He does not seem aware of the fact that we make the pronoun agree in number with its antecedent ( " If she did n't . . . pay the bills every three months when it arrived . . . " ) ; that we use different pronouns for persons and things ( example below ) ; or of a dozen other facts of grammar which every schoolboy knows . He seems fond of a debonair indeterminateness of grammar , as in the sentence : " The gesture of her hands and lifted eyebrows were keenly expressive . . . ; " one might ponder long over the subject of the verb . As for what                     