@@430989

THE ART OF education is the oldest of the arts , the science of education almost the youngest of the sciences . It is safe to assume that men , and still more women , have always practised the art , since we see it practised by many of the animals . By far the greater part of what success we have in teaching is success in the practice of an art . It is usually achieved in dealing with the individual problem ? the individual pupil or group of pupils ? by empirical methods . These are derived from our own experience , from imitation , from common sense , from intuition ? only rarely , so far , from principles scientifically ascertained . We follow these methods in the main because we have found that they work , or at least work better than any others we know . The science of education is not only new but exceptionally difficult . One reason for its difficulty is its dependence on the science of psychology . This science is also in its infancy . There is as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods , or its conclusions . The science of education has often been discredited and thrown back because of its too hasty application of doubtful psychological principles . Another reason for its difficulty is the infinite variety of human nature and capacity . The subject that nourishes and stimulates one mind , blights and depresses another . One boy is ready for a certain discipline at six , his brother only at ten . No two people arrive at a truth or a skill by exactly the same path . One child works best under specific directions , another by being allowed to follow his own impulse or taste or desire . The educational principles of the layman are usually based on his single experience with his own mind and character . Its fundamental axiom is " The system that produced me must have been a good system . " To this principle he seldom has the assent of his neighbors . But even if he were right , it would not prove the system sound for his children . Yet the case is not hopeless , and progress toward a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers , repeated under varying conditions , are beginning to point to methods and principles valid for the majority of pupils . Students can be recognized as belonging to certain types , and the results of one method applied to a variety of types and repeated year after year begin to yield presumptions for or against its employment with this or  | that type . But , as I have said , we are only at the beginning . Meantime , millions of young people have to be educated every year , and we have to do what we can on the basis of experience and intuition . The following observations , therefore , are made without pretension to the possession of scientific principles , but chiefly on the basis of a somewhat varied experience extending over some thirty-five years . @# THE QUESTION of the differences , if any , which should exist between colleges for women and colleges for men would seem to depend upon the answers to two other questions : i . What are the intellectual and emotional differences between the sexes that need to be taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differences in aim in the education of the sexes ? The scientific literature on the subject of sex-differences is of very considerable bulk , and I can not profess to have a specialist 's knowledge or judgment concerning it . I gather that the tendency is toward more and more caution in making absolute distinctions . We hear less and less of such facile generalizations as , " Women are emotional , men rational , " or " Women have intuition , men judgment , " or " Women follow authority and tradition , men individual conviction . " Even if there should be an element of truth in these , it is agreed that it is a question not of absolute contrasts , but of less or more . More women may be swayed chiefly by their emotions than men , but there are many rational women , many emotional men . And so for the other supposed contrasts . I can find in such qualified distinctions no ground for differentiated educational programmes , for we have to provide for all degrees of masculinity in female minds and all degrees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other varieties of human nature . @# BEFORE BEGINNING the discussion of differentiated aims , it should be made clear that the present discussion deals solely with what is known as liberal education , not at all with vocational . With the latter it is clear that the aim varies with the vocation , and that the contents and method of training should vary accordingly . What debate there is on this matter is chiefly concerned with the age at which it should begin , and to what extent it should include non-technical subjects . But these are not our present affair . One would suppose that the distinction between the two types of education should be clear to everyone , but anyone engaged in liberal education is familiar with the parent who demands vocational results from the liberal college . It may be worth while , therefore , to state briefly once more the case for the institution devoted to purely cultural training . The distinction is usually made in some such terms as these : the vocational institutions prepare the student for making a living , the liberal college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has two aspects ? that of individual growth and development , and that of adjustment to environment . The first involves the development of the faculties , both active and receptive , for the enrichment of the personal life ; the second , the development for social intercourse and a wholesome influence in the community . Emphasis on this type of education is especially necessary in America . It is easier to make a living here than in the Old World , but fewer people know how to enjoy the living they make . We can command more money and more leisure , but we know less what to do with them . More people here are afraid to retire because they dread the void they have to face when they are no longer occupied with their work . More people fill their leisure with trivial recreation and enjoy it on a low level . Fewer people fill their leisure with intellectual and aesthetic interests , and the appreciative public necessary for great creative work is comparatively small . Hence the inferiority of our national distinction in the arts and speculative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business . It is fortunate that our educational system has crystallized in a form that permits great numbers of our youth to devote the years between eighteen and twenty-two to the enrichment of their minds and tastes . No other country gives this chance to so large a proportion of its young men and women , and if the colleges do their work , a few generations should see a profound change in our cultural quality .  | T0 RETURN to the question of the possible differences in aim in the liberal education o the two sexes , one must grant that the genera : aim can not well be differentiated . For women no less than for men , it is desirable to sharpen their sensibilities , to develop their faculties , to broaden their outlook , to provide themselves with means of self-expression , to store up those resources that make life rich and full and give the soul immunity from the changes of fortune and the shocks of fate . For women no less than for men , it is important to develop sympathy , to achieve tolerance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good neighbor . The question then comes down to this ? whether , to achieve these results in women , a different content or a different method is needed from that found effective for men . In the liberal college we attempt to supply certain tools , to cultivate certain capacities , and to impart certain kinds of knowledge . The tools are such things as languages for the penetration of foreign cultures ; mathematics , regarded as a weapon for other sciences ; the power of writing ordinary prose as a means of communication . The capacities are such as accurate reasoning and the detection of fallacies ; appreciation and practice of literature , art , or music ; imagination , insight into the significance and relation of facts . The kinds of knowledge are the masses of information in science , history , and the like , which the tools enable us to acquire and the capacities help us to understand , to use , and to evaluate . These distinctions are not absolute and the groups overlap , but they serve to remind us of the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that no one would hold that any of these factors should be withheld either from college men or college women . Any distinction , then , will have to be looked for either in a difference of emphasis , or in the addition to the men 's course I have vaguely outlined , of subjects peculiarly appropriate to women . Differences of emphasis there undoubtedly are . In most colleges , women elect physics , economics , mathematics in smaller proportionate numbers than men ; art , music , literature , religion in greater numbers . Especially since their enfranchisement , women are studying political science and sociology as much as men . They have a special interest in education , in psychology ( especially child psychology ) , and , in some institutions , in physiology . But all these variations are easily explained and easily defended ; they are sufficiently cared for by an almost universal degree of freedom of election . The more difficult problem arises with regard to subjects which should be added to the men 's curriculum . Because woman 's position in society has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because it has changed and is changing profoundly in our own time , there is room for courses in the history of women and of the family , and in comparative legislation affecting women , which are unlikely to be sought in men 's colleges . There is a frequent demand ( usually from alumnw rather than from undergraduates ) for courses preparatory to " motherhood . " One hears little of a demand for courses in " fatherhood " from the men 's colleges , and one might argue that one is as logical as the other . As a matter of fact , courses such as are generally given in physiology , hygiene , nutrition , and child psychology , which are treated as having a legitimate place in a cultural scheme , meet the greater part of the need . The coordination of these and similar subjects into a group , the purpose of which is the fitting of women into their environment , is the aim of . the Vassar course in euthenics ; and the further attempt to solve the problem of the continuation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem of professional careers for married women , is the programme of an institute which has been operating at Smith for the last three years . Experiments and investigations of a like nature are going on elsewhere in the field of women 's education , but none of these has disrupted the cultural course or led to any fundamental deviation from the traditional aims of the liberal college . They broaden and supplement these aims , they lead to the introduction of fresh points of view in the treatment of the old subjects , but they are not revolutionary . To the extent indicated by these supplements , there may be said to be a differentiation between women 's colleges and men 's ; but on the whole , the two classes of institutions are likely to remain closely parallel , providing , as they surely should , a common cultural basis for intellectual and social intercourse.  | THERE ARE , however , some difference : between men 's and women 's colleges whirlmay be pointed out , since they have a bearin ? upon their respective claims to the support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newer and hence less deeply rooted in tradition ; anc this enables them to engage somewhat more freely in educational experiment . Especially since they have passed the stage of having to prove themselves and their women student : capable of educational accomplishment equal to men 's colleges , they have been showing a marked progressive tendency . Not that they have a monopoly of educational advance , of that all women 's colleges are more progressive than all men 's , but that on the whole there are fewer of the women 's institutions willing to run in the old ruts . An important reason for this ? in addition to their youth ? is the attitude of their graduates , and the interest of these graduates in scholarship and athletics respectively . The women 's colleges have an enormous advantage in their freedom from the incubus of the intercollegiate athletic contest . They pay , on the whole , more attention to the health and exercise of the individual student than the men 's colleges do , and they have a healthy but not exaggerated interest in intramural competition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is all too manifest to teachers in men 's colleges . Furthermore , the alumnae let athletics alone , and , while they follow the intellectual interests and educational innovations in their college with eagerness and sometimes with apprehension , they do not , as far as I have experienced or observed , seek to interfere with its administration . For the last eleven years I have had to deal with a graduate body amounting now to over ten thousand women , and I recall only three cases of the withdrawal of possible financial support on account of disapproval of policy . I believe my experience to be typical , and I regard it as testifying to a remarkable quality of loyalty . Contrast this situation with that at almost any men 's college where a serious attempt has been made to restrain athletics from usurping more than their rightful share of importance , and the nature of the advantage I have spoken of will be clear . AGAINST THIS ADVANTAGE there is to be balanced a grave disadvantage . Some of the large and articulate group of athletic enthusiasts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who graduate from the men 's colleges show their loyalty by generosity in gifts . The women graduates , in proportion to their resources , are quite as generous ; but it does not need to be pointed out that their resources are infinitely less . Benefactors who have themselves no college affiliations have , in only a few instances , shown themselves aware that women 's colleges exist . As a result , the task of equipping and staffing the colleges for women has been rendered much more difficult through a constant struggle with poverty . When one considers the importance of the cultivated mother in the home and of the cultivated woman in the community , one is forced to the admission that the most completely demonstrated difference between the women 's college and the men 's is this of resources , and that its existence is a reflection on the men of our country rather than the women .  |                     