@@487277

When writing to advertisers , please mention The Nation it and can not recognize it when it is the attribute of groups of musical tones . A scientist , then , may not be able to distinguish one - phrase of music from another , since the intellectual discipline is distinct from the specialized musical discipline that makes it possible to apprehend a type of music . This may appear obvious , but many notions prevail which fail to observe the distinction . For example , a popular program , by which is meant one that consists of simple , obvious music , is regularly spoken of as suiting the taste of a popular audience , by which is meant one that consists of intellectually unsophisticated persons ; whereas in fact it suits the taste of even educated persons to whom all but the simplest of the special materials and processes of music are something of a mystery . And of late the demand has been more insistent than ever that music and its criticism and commentary be made intelligible to the layman ; or rather that music  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  be made intelligible to him by means of criticism and commentary that are intelligible ; a demand which again , as I shall show , ignores the distinction between music and ordinary experience and between the musical discipline and the intellectual . Parenthetically , it is interesting that the failure to observe this distinction  --  like most of the errors with which musical commentary swarms  --  results itself from the very distinction ignored , that is , from the fact that usually the man who knows his music can not think straight enough , and the man who can think straight does not ' know enough about music to avoid error . When  --  to take the first case  --  music is left , as apparently it should be , to be handled by the musical specialist , it is left in effect to one who usually has not learned objectivity , and who , therefore , is constantly guilty of special pleading  --  and this on behalf of nothing more than his little prejudices against this type of music or for that . He sets out , as he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a century ago and music , ' but in reality to make out a case against program music a-nd other more recent tendencies as being infantile . He ends , therefore , not only by not discovering the connection but by confusing , among other things , musical with intellectual sophistication . On the other hand , the identical confusion is made by the intellectually sophisticated person who out of his ignorance of music demands a musical counterpart of " Why We Behave Like Human Beings . " And it is this demand , as I have said , with the relation it implies between music and common sense , that calls for discussion . Music has its proper place with activities like philosophy and mathematics , which use a technical terminology or a special set of symbols , either to introduce a desirable economy in expression or to express relations that can not be expressed in any other way . But even in this class music stands apart . If Einstein 's final results can be expressed only in mathematical symbols , nevertheless the relations so symbolized can be reduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) other mathematical relations and this process continued until a relation is reached simple enough to be expressed adequately and clearly in ordinary language . The same can be done , with less difficulty , for the ideas of philosophy , and with comparative ease for those of anthropology . The layman must , then , be willing to learn the definitions of certain technical terms ( the successful popularizer , then , is one who can induce his readers to learn them ; the most easily popularized science that one of which the technical terms are most closely related to , and most easily incorporated in , the ordinary vocabulary ) ; but if he does learn these definitions he has the means , not , probably , of appreciating the aesthetic qualities of a philosophic or mathematical demonstration , but at least of understanding some of the materials and processes which exhibit , in certain combinations and to certain individuals , these aesthetic qualities . Not so with music . The simplest verbal definition or description of the simplest musical relation uses terms which stand for purely musical facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been apprehended directly as musical facts . There is , then , no making music intelligible to the absolute layman by using language that is intelligible as language . What such language makes intelligible is only whatever quantities and qualities the words refer to in ordinary experience ; the judgments that are made are judgments of only such quantities and qualities ; and the criteria that are introduced by these judgments are common-sense criteria which govern only the aforementioned quantities and qualities . It requires knowledge of music in addition to translate these quantities and qualities into musical facts , the judgments into musical judgments , and the criteria into musical criteria . And since one possessing the requisite knowledge of music does not need the intelligible language , the use and value of such language is in any case solely that of literature or entertainment , not of en . lightenment . I have , it is true , been dealing with the extreme and rare case of the absolute layman , the person absolutely unacquainted with music ; but what I have said of him remains true up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is adequate to a correct understanding of the verbal explanation the explanation is superfluous ; where the direct experience is not adequate the explanation is useless . And so , given a person with actual but slight musical sophistication , there is no making Brahms intelligible and enjoyable to him by mere verbal descriptions of the intricate materials and processes involved . Instead there must be direct , comprehending  --  which means educated  --  experience with the materials and processes , but experience itself educated by direct experience with less intricate materials and processes . Otherwise , if the reader ever gets to a concert he finds that the verbal descriptions he understood do not confront him , and the processes that confront him he does not understand . B. H. HAGGIN                     