@@488307

it is not necessary to take the word of a mere writer . The fact has been judicially decided by no less an authority than the Supreme Court , which said in the case of Cameron v. United States ( 252 U. S. , p. 456 ) : " It is the greatest eroded canyon in the United States , if not in the world . . . and annually draws to its borders thousands of visitors . " But a good while before the Grand Canyon became a natural wonder by decree of the Supreme Court it had sufficiently impressed the federal government so that it was made a forest reserve , an action that precluded private occupation except through a mining claim . That was in 1893 . In 1908 President Roosevelt made the Grand Canyon a national monument . This is a kind of purgatory midway between a forest reserve and a national park ; it bars even mining claims . In 1919 the Grand Cadiyon received the full status of a national park . With these few words in regard to the canyons we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduce a rival family for the possession of the land and the homage of the people of Arizona . CHAPTER II . THE CAMERONS The first of the Camerons , so far as the Southwest is concerned , was born in the State of Maine , but he did not linger there beyond his boyhood days . Instead Ralph H. Cameron took the advice of Horace Greeley as to where to go and in 1883 settled at Phoenix , Arizona . The Arizona Camerons , like the Arizona canyons , grew and prospered ; the family became a mighty one , so much so that in 1920 its head , by then a grisled frontiersman , was elected to the - United States Senate . And now the plot thickens . CHAPTER III . THE CONFLICT For many years travelers approaching the Grand Canyon from the southern rim have been accustomed to descend into it , mule back , by the Bright Angel Trail . The trail was built before the Grand Canyon was even a forest reserve , and in everything that has happened to the big ditch since , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been expressly recognized by the federal govern-WARNER ment . Coconino County has collected $1 a head as toll from persons using the trail . It is the only toll route in the national parks and a number of years ago the federal government realized the desirability of getting control of it . There was a wish to free it for travel and still more to remove certain tentacles clinging to it . These tentacles were the Camerons . Yes , there the Camerons were ; this family which had been in Arizona only since 1883 had waxed so great in a few short years that it was exercising a lordship over the mightiest of the canyons . The Camerons were there by virtue of certain mining claims made while the Grand Canyon was still a forest reserve . The claims embraced land around the rim of the canyon at the head of the Bright Angel Trail , and farther down . Especially they covered Indian Gardens , an oasis of trees down on the bottom , to which travelers naturally turned for rest and water . The Cameron claims bore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In order that a mining claim be recognized as such the claimants must prove the existence of minerals in paying quantities . This the Camerons failed to do to the satisfaction of the Department of the Interior , which de- , Glared the claims invalid . But the Camerons refused to budge . They took the controversy to the courts and fought it all the way up to the supreme bench . Thus far they were within their rights . But having appealed to Caesar they refused to accept his verdict . In the spring of 1920 the Supreme Court denied the claims of Ralph H. Cameron and his associates , declaring these persons to be trespassers in the Grand Canyon National Park . In the autumn of that year Ralph H. Cameron was elected to the Senate of the United States . The elevation of Mr. Cameron to the Senate did not apparently increase his respect for the Supreme Court or his willingness to comply with its decrees . His unsightly shacks continued to stand on the rim of the canyon ; his employees continued their obstructive tactics in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gardens , the oasis on the bottom of the canyon by way of the Bright Angel Trail . They prevented the erection of a public-comfort station for travelers and eventually the water upon which visitors depended for drinking at Indian Gardens became polluted with typhoid-fever germs which came , so officials of the National Park Service stated , from unsanitary conditions permitted by the Cameron employees . When the park officials put up signs warning travelers against drinking the water the placards were torn down . It was not an era when friends of the national parks or believers in enforcement of the law had much standing in Washington . Mr. Fall was Secretary of the Interior and Mr. Daugherty was at the head of the Department of Justice . The Camerons clung to the Grand Canyon , disobeying the Supreme Court and defying the National Park Service . CHAPTER IV . THUMBS DOWN Then a change came . Messrs . Fall and Daugherty-had to walk the plank . Hubert Work became Secretary of the Interior and Harlan F. Stone took over the office of Attorney General . Meanwhile Representative Louis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through his chairmanship of the sub-committee on national parks of the House Committee on Appropriations . He and a number of other federal officials conferred in 1923 with authorities of Coconino County , Arizona , and reached an agreement for the purchase of the Bright Angel Trail for $100,000 , subject  --  as the law required  --  to public auction and a referendum to the voters . Mr. Cramton found Dr. Work and Mr. Stone ready to assist in freeing the Grand Canyon from the clutches of the Camerons , and he himself brought the outrage to the attention of Congress in connection with the proposed appropriation of $100,000 . Congress has its book of etiquette as well as the rest of us . Mr. Cramton belonged to the same political party ( the Republican ) as Mr. Cameron and the latter was a Senator to boot . Mr. Cramton as a Representative did not denounce Mr. Cameron as a Senator . But in a carefully hedged speech early last year he referred to " one Ralph H. Cameron " and remarked upon certain " trespassers on the public domain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ snarling at the national government and endangering every park visitor who goes over the Bright Angel Trail . " Meanwhile Attorney General Stone was pressing the United States Attorney in Arizona to get busy . But somehow the latter generally had something else to do and at least one federal judge was as obstructive as possible . Finally Mr. Stone appointed Harold Baxter as special assistant to the Attorney General , putting him in charge of the matter . Mr. Baxter took off his coat and by autumn he had a sentence for contempt of court hanging so close over the head of the Senator from Phoenix that one day the forest rangers found the Cameron employees decamped , their property left behind in great disorder . In one deserted shack the park superintendent reported that he found " a large vessel containing about six or eight gallons of mash , ready for the still . There was evidently a hooch factory in embryo . " That ended the attempt of the Camerons to squat on the Bright Angel Trail , but just before pulling up stakes they got in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referendum in Coconino County to sell the Bright Angel Trail to the federal government went against the proposal  --  by what influences may be imagined . Not that it mattered . The chief object had already been accomplished  --  to get rid of the unsightly buildings , the unsanitary conditions , the obstructionist tactics that had existed under the clutch of the Camerons . CHAPTER V. FALLING WAIER But the mining speculations ' of the Camerons have not been confined to the Grand Canyon National Park . Beyond the limits of that park the Colorado River rushes precipitately westward , forming the boundary between Arizona and Nevada . For some twenty-five miles it drops and boils and bubbles , it drops and bubbles and boils , with vast possibilities for irrigation and power . The Colorado River atthis point is in a public reservation which , like the Grand Canyon from 1893 to 1908 , is open to private claims only under the mining law . For some years the federal government has been planning to impound the rushing stream by the proposed Boulder Dam . As this project became more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was plastered on both sides with mining claims . Whether because of their beauty , their instability , or what , these tracts were for the most part named after young ladies . There was the Hazel , the Goldie , the Irene , the Lulu . On one part of the river M 's seemed to be in especial favor : Mabel , Mildred , Madge , Minnie , Myrtle , and Mary . ( Perhaps in their hurry the claimants had merely had recourse to the roster of a young ladies ' seminary . ) When federal officials investigated the records there was a familiar name among the group of claimants to these tracts . The name of Ralph H. Cameron ( the Senator ) was missing , but in its place were those of his son , Ralph H. Cameron , Jr. , of his wife , I. M. Cameron , of various other relations , and of his private secretary . Most of the claims were recorded between 1920 and 1922 , but the Department of the Interior has not yet granted patents to them  --  necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them as made for " false and fraudulent purposes . " The Cameron mining claims in the Grand Canyon National Park were once described by Secretary Fall not as genuine mineral deposits but as " strategically located with reference to proposed and probable development of the canyon as a tourist attraction . " Similarly the government holds that the Cameron claims in the neighborhood of the Boulder Dam site do not cover bona fide mineral locations but are entered to gain control of water power . Suits to void the claims were begun last summer in the federal courts , and are now awaiting trial . Perhaps it is worth recalling in this connection that when Mr. Cameron was campaigning for the Senate in 1920 he sent out a letter to voters in which he said : For more than sixteen years I have been exploring and working in the Grand Canyon of Arizona on power sites . I now have the financial backing to build two huge hydroelectric plants in the Grand Canyon which will develop 965,000 kilowatts of electric power  --  enough to electrify every railroad , mine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at such a low cost that it will make it possible for the poorest to enjoy its advantages and comforts . . . . As a Senator I can more readily and quickly secure the concessions , rights of way , etc. , so necessary for the perfect development of these great enterprises . CHAPTER VI . SEETHING POLITICS These new Cameron cases in the federal courts , instituted since the head of the family became a United States Senator , have had the effect of a high-explosive shell in Arizona , with an appreciable repercussion upon federal politics . While the national government is charging fraud , Senator Cameron is making retort that the proceeding is a conspiracy to drive him out of public life . Although the charges have hurt him in many quarters , it is also true that he has friends in Arizona and elsewhere in the West who look upon him as a bulwark and defender of the old order against what are regarded as the dangerous encroachments of the federal government . Senator Cameron will be up for reelection to the Senate next autumn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington as well as in Arizona . Representative Hayden , a Democrat who has been on the side of the federal government in the claims fight , will probably be Mr. Cameron 's opponent in the election for the seat in the Senate ; party lines will be split right and left in the election . Meanwhile Senator Cameron 's friends in the West are attacking Secretary Work 's reclamation policy and are ac-cusing him of causing a schism in the Republican ranks in Washington when a united front is most needed . Senator Cameron himself has been touring the West as a member of a sub-committee of the Senate 's Committee on Public Lands , and has been denouncing the management of the Grand Canyon National Park and attacking other policies of the federal government in the West . The story of the canyons and the Camerons may have to be continued .                     