@@490126

NOW that Woolworth 's has gotten out its own version of the plain gold or silver necklet ( thereby making it unnecessary for many young women to mourn that the tin rings around Heinz pickle jars are not bigger ) , Bonwit Teller is bringing out an old-fashioned braided gold necklet , fastened with a little tailored gold buckle , and a bracelet to match . Most of the other shops , with a weary sigh , are turning back to the slave bracelet mode , which simply refuses to die the death . Many very smart girls , fully realizing that the circumference of the neck of the perfect woman should be exactly double that of her wrist , are connecting two of these bracelets for a choker . Arnold Constable 's antiqued slave chains , worn close around the throat , have already been spoken of here . Jay Thorpe has gone farther by importing a very long necklace of heavy gold links to accompany the rows of bangles on the wrist . March 15 , the Junior League will do its annual shopgirl act and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long , happy , bustling day  --  the proceeds of these royal endeavors to go , as usual , to charity . Bonwit Teller will also take this glorious opportunity to present a collection of spring fashions upon the aristocratic persons of the Junior Leaguers , the showings to take place at 10:30 a. m. and 2:3o p. m . On the same momentous day , the Conde Nast Educational Bureau will take up its quarters , until the twelfth of April , at Best &; Company  --  the bureau to furnish expert information about summer camps and schools , and the store to supply outfits for the Oh , yes , the Flower Show at the Grand Central Palace opens on the fifteenth , too ? goodness , what a strenuous day that is going to be for our more conscientious citizens ! AT 3o West Fifty-seventh Street , on the seventh floor , of all places , the shop of Atkins meekly awaits the distinguished patronage of you , Madame , and of Madame 's daughter , and Madame 's niece . The shop occupies but one room , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my official entrance , but let not the informality of the place mislead you . In fact , the informality of it is one of its most charming factors . And please do not get the idea that Atkins falls into the class of places where inexpensive clothes arc offered you at inexpensive prices , and your bargain for twenty-nine fifty drops to pieces on your back on the way home  --  because it is not . The clothes are most individual and , in comparison with those of the large specialty shops , the prices are reasonable . This for imported French models and original garments that fall under the head of " creations " . There is an excellent selection of evening dresses ( your correspondent fell by the wayside and her princely NEW YORKER salary is practically extinct for another week , if that means anything to you ) featuring the simple , fluttering chiffons in soft colors that are so very smart for every type of function at every time of year ; there are ensemble costumes for spring  --  notably one consisting of a two-piece sapphire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worn under a black kasha coat ? ; there are the inevitable jumper dresses in every possible color for town or country wear ; and there are some very smart imported French sports clothes , combining plain and checked woolens or featuring the plain skirt and the horizontally striped blouse that is so very good this year . In my opinion , well worth a visit . AN embattled reader , with com-mendable promptitude , has just written in to chant the praises of her favorite hair specialists  --  to wit , the Ogilvie Sisters , at 604 Fifth Avenue . This establishment has long been known for doing wonders towards preserving , restoring and improving the natural beauty of women 's hair . They advocate keeping the hair clean and exercised by frequent brushing ( their own brushes are carefully constructed so that every portion of the scalp and hair gets the full benefit of the operation ) , a monthly shampoo , and , in the intervals between the shampoos , the use of one of their three tonics to cleanse , nourish , and tone the scalp . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close gently the pores of a relaxed scalp ; the tonic for Dry Hair supplies the oils that are lacking and brings the scalp back to a normal condition ; the Special Remedy is for those who , through illness or worry , are in danger of losing their hair altogether . These tonics , aside from the fact that they preserve and restore a healthy gloss to the hair , takes the place of too frequent shampoos , which intensify any abnormal scalp condition , however slight The Ogilvie Sisters are especially proud of their work as Penna specialists , and also of their tonic for Whitening Gray Hair . With the latter , they claim to accelerate the natural whitening process and make the streaked stage shorter without in any sense bleaching it . ANYBOANYBODY with an observant eye DY might have beheld , a few days ago , the spectacle of a fashion editor who has plenty of luggage being dragged shrieking away from the tricky week-end sets , consisting of a tiny hatbox and suitcase , that are being shown at Best 's . These come in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ color ; in an excellent imitation of green fisliskin , with a darker border of plain leather ; in browns ; in roses ; and so on . The suitcases are a little larger than the size that is fondly supposed to be big enough for a week-end nowadays ; the hatboxes are about sixteen inches in diameter . Despite the price ( the cases are about eleven dollars and the boxes about seven ) they are very shipshape in construction and are so cunning they make you weep with joy . Incidentally , they would be ideal for children who like to feel grown-up while travelling  --  and tell me the name of a child who does n't ! ?                     