@@493248

December 28 , 1921 THE NEW Some color is given to this supposition by the one notable exception among the novelists of England to their adequate mastery of English . The most splendid of all their inventors , the boldest and surest of all their masters of technique , is the One who offends most often against the proprieties of English speech ; and he is , we can not forget , no Englishman at all , not even a native of England , but one born to the use of a Slavic tongue , who comes at his acquired English by way of his quired French . It is true that the linguistic complishment of Mr. Conrad is one of the seven Wonders of our time ; but for all that , and in spite 01 the opinion of Mr. Hind , one has but to read a few pages in almost any of his novels to learn that he is far from mastering all the niceties of our idiom . There is , for example , our way of expressing possibility in a subordinate clause after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It occurred to Captain Mitchell that his position Could ( might ) become disagreeable . " " It did not matter what that man would ( might ) say or do . " ( Nostromo . ) It is indeed amusing to watch out , in Conrad , for words and idioms which are direct transferences from the French : " deception " in the sense of " disillusionment " ; " I did my possible " ( Pai fait mon possible ) ; " I felt like a chill grip . " ( comme ) . ( Heart of Darkness . ) But here is just the point where the analogy breaks down . Mr. Conrad makes mistakes in 41glish simply from the ignorance of a foreigner . It is not , like Mr. Dreiser , from bad taste , from taking for model the style of Robert G. Inger- 8 , ? 11 : " The mystic chords which bind and thrill , Irle heart of the nation . . . " ( chords thrill , sure- tY , but it is cords that bind , as Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The ItlYstic cords of affection ! How they bind us all . " ) Mr. Conrad never , like Mr. Hergesjinier , affects the careless style of one putting Jon the page unaltered the jottings of his noteu ? ? It by way of being " impressionistic . " Nor do vve h , h , ever find in Conrad a ( psychological ? ) jargon this " The moment , the anxiety , she dreaded was arriving , and it found her no freer of doubt than had the other aspects of her own responses . " the taste is indeed as much as bad grammar : e of the symptoms of inferior culture . But bad taste is one of those crimes for which you can not iv wet a nation ; and we have too many honorable exceptions eions to the prevalence of this sort of bad taste for us to run into hasty generalization ; we Ire , for example , the writing of Miss Cathert " 1 Nebraska ? and that of Mr. Dell ? from ils ? So the case reduces itself to one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons of account ; and the better taste of Miss Cather and Mr. Dell would give us more comfort if we felt certain they were writers of equal force with Mr. Dreiser and Mr. Hergesheimer . That is why our problem is an anxious one . Mr. Hergesheimer , in particular , is likely to cause many a sleepless night to those of us who take the art of fiction seriously . We should like to hail his books as masterpieces ; we came near doing so with Java Head and The Three Black Pennies . But how can we hail as American masterpieces works not written in the language of these states . JOSEPH WARREN BEACH . Debs and the Builders Carpenters who cleave the wood For building houses , what 's the good ? If only mathematics dwell In dwelling-houses , build in hell . Men of steel for jails and ships , With froth of madness on your lips , Build many ships or build a few , Build enough for such of you As still are credulous of war , Though men have conquered men before . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ captives feed on asphodel ! WITTER BYNNER . Christmas Eve On Christmas Eve the brute Creation Lift up their heads and speak with human voices ; The Ox roars out his song of jubilation And the Ass rejoices . They dance for mirth in simple credence That man from devildom this day was saved , That of his froward spirit he has found riddance ; They hymn the Son of David . Ox and Ass cloistered in stable Break bounds to-night and see what shall astound you , A second Fall , a second death of Abel , Wars renewed around you . Cabals of great men against small men , Mobs , murders , informations , the packed jury , While Ignorance the lubber prince of all men , Glowers with old-time fury . Excellent beasts , resign your speaking Tempted in man 's own choleric tongue to name him . Hoof-and-horn vengeance have no thought of wreaking , Let your dumb grief shame him .                     