@@488110

INTO THE LAST LAP the campaign moves , and still the prophets are at sea . How much has the hullabaloo about the dear old Constitution  --  which has already been amended nineteen times without upsetting the Republic  --  alarmed the " silent voters " about the menace of La Fol  --  lette ? No one knows . How much has the picture of Repub  --  lican complacency in the face of corruption burned into the hearts of the voters ? No one knows . The electorate is becoming more and more of a mystery to the dopesters . The corner saloon is gone , and there is no political dope- , shop to take its place . The women 's vote is utterly incal  --  culable . Increasingly of late years the voters have shown their complete indifference to the editorial views of their favorite newspapers , and newspaper opinion is no longer a safe yardstick . Straw votes indicate a surprising strength for a President who has not dared to name the Ku Klux Klan or speak his mind on a single important issue  --  but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  perous sections of the population . Davis , the prophets agree , is surer of the border States than he seemed a month ago ; but what can he win in the Northeast and how far East will the La Follette landslide carry ? Those are the questions which the last week must answer . Meanwhile Davis and McAdoo , by their friendly tributes to La Fol  --  lette 's character , have introduced a healthy note of common sense into the campaign . T HE EAST thinks of ex-General Dawes as a valiant re- actionary ; a high-powered locomotive running rapidly in reverse . Wall Street thinks of him as a friend and ally . They do n't know Charley as he is pictured out where the La Follette vote rolls up darkly across the blue sky of Re  --  publican confidence , out where farmers and ranchmen and miners and oil workers live and vote . For instance , he spoke one recent day in Casper , Wyoming . A two-page spread advertisement contributed by leading citizens and business concerns heralded his arrival , and revealed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friend of the workingman . The announcement read in part : Charles Gates Dawes moved to Lincoln from Ohio in 1887 . He took a position as bookkeeper in a paper mill . Later he branched out into the law business . He was in tensely interested in the anti-monopoly fight , became a live foe of the railroads and a recognized leader of the farmer movement for lower freight rates . . . . He was always a friend of the under dog . He was sympathetic and particu larly fond of children . P. C. Spencer knew him in the early days , says that all the kids in town were his pals . . . . He became nationally and internationally prominent as a recon struction agent working for a lasting peace . Dawes was nominated at the Cleveland Convention through the council of progressives . We feel it our duty to let the bankers of the East know what a dangerous radical is this Minute Man Dawes to whom they have pledged their hearts and their dollars and their votes  --  or at least what he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EXPRESSED the conviction that the American Legion should not take sides in poli  --  tics , and on that account it seems unfortunate that Alvin Owsley , former national commander , and fourteen others prominent in the organization should have signed a state  --  ment arraigning the Republican Party for betraying our disabled ex-service men . Besides , the chargb  --  when used as an argument for the election of Mr. Davis  --  is not strictly fair because the beginnings of this national disgrace took place in a Democratic Administration . Both old parties are implicated in this incredibly base and cruel scandal , and this fact alone ought to be sufficient reason why not only every ex-service man but every other decent American should blast Republicans and Democrats alike at the polls . The voter should remember , as the statement of this group of American Legion men says , that Investigators have estimated that one-third of the money appropriated has been stolen by grafting politicians or wasted by incompetent office holders . A past director of the United States Veterans Bureau is under indictment for bribery . The present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by nonpartisan veterans ' organizations of keeping incompetent department chiefs in power . For the first time in the history of our republic men were found low enough to rob the wounded . These conditions , as the statement adds , are " intolerable and unforgivable " ? and should not be forgotten or forgiven on November 4.                     