@@486167

. B ETHMANN was utterly inadequate , Lichnowsky deluded , Max of Baden curse-branded  --  according to William Hohenzollern . He himself , despite all testimony to the contrary , sent the Kruger telegram against his will , made the Tangier speech against his will , gave the famous Telegraph interview against his will , sent the Panther to Agadir against his will , permitted a German Prince to accept the throne of Albania against his will ; indeed , to trust the Kaiser 's memoirs , all German mistakes were due to the failure of his chancellors to take their Kaiser 's advice . Indeed , in his new modesty , he tells us that the pre-war picture of him as a splendid ruler was pure fabrication . " The Emperor has influence on foreign policy only in so far as the Chancellor grants it to him , " he reiterates . To be sure , within thirty pages of this passage he pipes another tune : " I caused the initiation of measures . . . I particularly told . . . I immediately telegraphed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mirrors a vain , apologetic  --  apology and vanity often go hand in hand  --  and utterly inconsistent second-rate character . The man is a braggart , a blow-hard , a credulous self-deceiver . His naive credulity is revealed in two of his many explanations of the origin of the war . He quotes from Roland Usher 's " Pan-Germanism " ? a book which makes such absurd statements about Germany that a German should have been suspicious of its treatment of his enemies  --  a reference to a supposed " gentlemen 's agreement " between France , England , and the United States , " probably before the summer of 1897 " ( when France and England were in the Fashoda stage of glare-andgrowl and the United States was still valiantly twisting the lion 's tail ) . To this fabulous anti-German agreement he returns again and again . He has not room to tell of his judgment of the Austrian ultimatum , or of Germany 's early authorization to Austria to go full steam ahead . But there are pages devoted to such stuff as this : " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the preparation of the World War directed against the monarchical Central Powers by the policy of the international " Great Orient Lodge " ; a policy extending over many years and always envisaging the goal at which it aimed . . . . The distinguished German Freemason who explained to me this whole interrelationship . . . said that in 1917 ( sic ) an international meeting of the lodges of the ' Great Orient ' was held , after which there was a subsequent conference in Switzerland ; at this the following program was adopted : Dismemberment of Austria-Hungary , democratization of Germany . . . . " Then , after reciting this post-war poppycock , and giving absolutely nothing new about the origin of the war , he explains his decision to flee to Holland instead of committing suicide by saying " I knew that I was called upon to champion the cause of my people in the clearing up of the question of war guilt . " There is a plenty to be cleared up in that complex question , but no such nitwit as this ex-Kaiser can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old block . He , too , is vain , omniscient , self-defending . Yet , surprisingly , there is more human warmth in his narrative than in his father 's . Perhaps it is because he called in a professional journalist to help him write it . Perhaps it is because he was always gayer , more zestful of life . He is less sour , although even more sentimental . It is in his attitude to his father  --  proud , defending him against outside attack in the end , yet frankly and bitterly resentful that his father did not take him more seriously  --  that he is most human and most likable . Like his father he makes Tirpitz his hero . After lauding Tirpitz to the skies he frankly explains it thus : " Tirpitz was the only man in the Government who showedany understanding of my fears and anxieties . " Bethmann he hates and despises ? " a sluggish and irresolute bureaucrat . " Bethmann 's admission of the wrong in marching through Belgium was " the loss of the first great battle " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hohenzollern 's story . He savagely defends his enthusiastic share in the Zabern uproar , and denounces pacifists and Socialists as a Hohenzollern should ; then , on other pages , announces a spurious liberalism as the policy which Germany lost in losing him . One suspects the hand of the journalist-prompter . All in all , it is a pity that the Hohenzollern family did not take to writing memoirs long ago . It would have given a powerful fillip to the republican movement in Germany . LEWIS S. GANNETT Exit the Kaiser And the Kaiser Abdicates : the German Revolution , November , 1918-August , 1919 . By S. Miles Bouton . Revised Edition . Yale University Press . $2.50 . NE obstacle to clear thinking in social matters is the per- nicious tendency to personify nations : " France is sincere ; America loves justice . " Equally pernicious is the use of words of a biological or pathological implication . The German Empire , says Mr. Bouton , was destroyed " by a cancer that had been eating at its vitals for eighty years . The cancer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , begs the question , assuming what has to be demonstrated , namely , that socialism is the disease and not the remedy . How easy to reply : No , the cancer that destroyed the German Empire was " militarism , " or " hohenzollernism " ; socialism was only nature 's method of counteracting the poison . Both metaphors are fantastic , and both are nonsense . Fortunately , this little excursus into philosophy does very little to detract from the high value of the book as a whole , which is a plain narrative of events mostly observed at first hand , together with conclusions and judgments in respect to particular men and circumstances which are based rather upon the facts than upon preconceived ideas . What particularly stands out in this day-by-day , almost hour-by-hour account is that the German Revolution , like most great revolutions , was not the result of far-sighted and deliberate planning . The image of " revolution " as a mighty upheaval overturning something solid is a false one . On the contrary , the revolution was really accomplished before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The German Empire , like the absolute monarchy in France , like the autocracy of the Czar , simply collapsed for want of foundation ; when people realized that nothing any longer sustained the government they began to plan a new regime . Mr. Bouton quotes at length from Count von Schulenberg'a narrative of what occurred at Headquarters on November 9 . The account is both interesting and illuminating . The monarchy had fallen before the revolutionists , except the extreme left , were prepared to establish a republic ; the Kaiser without knowing it had ceased to rule before he abdicated . He abdicated as Kaiser only when it was at last borne in upon him that he could command neither voluntary obedience nor the military force to compel it . Even then he abdicated only as Kaiser , and fled to Holland , under pressure and against his own judgment , still thinking he was King of Prussia . The Body Politic was dead before the cancer ? ( I ca n't finish this metaphor ; let Mr. Bouton do it ) . Mr. Bouton 's account of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account of the Revolution . Ons obtains a clear idea of the relative strength of the three wings of the socialists , of the efforts and the failure of the radicals to make a bolshevist government , and of the extreme difficulties of the situation in which the Germans formed their constitution . That the new constitution is democratic , that it adopts a modified form of the English system of parliamentary responsibility , that it greatly diminishes the autonomy of the states , that it is much concerned with " principles which . . . make possible far-reaching changes along Marxian lines " ? all these points are well brought out . Mr. Bouton 's final estimate is just and admirable : " Considering all the attendant circumstances of its birth . . . the framers and proponents of the constitution accomplished a national deed of dignity and worth . They might easily have done much worse ; it is impossible for one who watched the developments of those trying days to assert that they could have done much better . " ( p. 290-291 . ) Mr. Bouton is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least of bolshevism , and is as anxious to destroy it as the statesmen of the Entente Powers were in 1919 . His estimate of the effectiveness of their methods , since he disagrees with them , has therefore a special value . Being on the spot , he saw clearly that the armistice , the continuation of the blockade , and the peace of Versailles all contributed to weaken the conservative democratic elements and to strengthen the Bolsheviks . He quotes with approval Lord Henry 's statement that " the blockade was the Bolshevists ' best friend and had no other purpose effect ? than to enable England to cut off her own nose in order to spite Germany 's face . " ( p. 252 . ) Apropos of the Senate 's refusal to allow any of the money appropriated for food-relief in Europe to be used in Germany , he comments : " Just how an ulcer in Germany was to be cured by poulticing similar ulcers in other countries is doubtless a statesman 's secret . " ( p. 53 . ) Of the peace of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " The Treaty of Versailles has Balkanized Europe ; it has to a large degree reestablished the multiplicity of territorial sovereignties that handicapped progress and caused continuous strife more than a century ago ; it has revived smoldering race-antagonisms which were in a fair way to be extinguished ; it has created a dozen new irredentas , new breeding-places of war ; it has liberated thousands from foreign domination but placed tens of thousands under the yoke of other foreign domination , and has tried to insure the permanency not only of their subjection , but of that of other subject races which have for centuries been struggling for independence . Preaching general disarmament , it has strengthened the armed power of one Power by disarming its neighbors , and has given to it the military and political domination of Europe . To another Power it has given the control of the high seas . It has refused to let the laboring masses of the world  --  the men who fought and suffered  --  be represented at the conference by delegates of their own choosing . Such a treaty could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions were less critical and complex . As they are , it will hasten and aggravate what the world will soon discover to be the most serious , vital , and revolutionary consequences of the war . " ( p. 269-270 . ) CARL BECKER From Drake to Smuts The Development of the British Empire . By Howard Robinson . Houghton Mifflin Company . $3.50 . O NCE upon a time salt meat and salt fish were the staple articles of food in Europe during the long winters . Hence the British Empire . For the search for something to make so monotonous a diet appetizing led to the opening of trade routes to the East , whence alone spices could be obtained . To satisfy the demand for nutmegs , cloves , and pepper intrepid explorers ? Italian , Portuguese , Dutch , and British  --  made perilous journeys by land and sea , and out of rivalry in this commercial expansion came ultimately the empire on which the sun never sets . If anyone imagines that in these days the necessities of the menu no longer provoke international complications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not many years ago . In this compact volume , a model of historical summary , Dr. Robinson traces for us the successive stages in Great Britain 's acquisition and administration of her overseas dominions , large and small . He shows us that the popular imperialist slogan , " Trade follows the flag , " is an inversion of the facts . He points out , again and again , that the course of empire followed , instead of preceding , private commercial enterprise . In his story we see how , as far back as Elizabethan times , the colonial development of England was hampered by her political relation to the Continent , and how during the Stuart period the energies of France were similarly diverted from the utilization of colonizing opportunities to fruitless efforts to make large territorial gains in Europe . Holland , too , lost her early commercial leadership largely through the drain of foreign wars upon her resources . Fighting , after all , is not good business . But even the peaceful trader can muddle things when he concentrates his attention too narrowly upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of mercantilism every American should be familiar , though the lesson seems not yet to have been learned by tariff-makers and subsidy-propagandists at Washington . Dr. Robinson rightly emphasizes the imperial as well as commercial benefits derived by Great Britain from her adoption of a free-trade policy in the nineteenth century . It stimulated manufactures in the home country , which the colonies found to be the best market for their raw materials , with the result that Britain became the emporium for colonial trade . A considerable portion of this book necessarily traverses ground that has already been covered by the historical textbooks . Even so , it is of service to the student to get so well-balanced a grouping and so concise a survey of the essential facts in the history of British imperial development . The gradual supplanting of the old autocratic colonial system by the modern practice of judicious compromise is especially well brought out . It is in its record of what has happened since the accession of Queen Victoria that Dr. Robinson 's treatise is of greatest value , for it brings together important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources . The author gives us a lucid analysis of the new imperialism which has been so significant a phenomenon of the last few decades . He calls attention to the stimulus it received from the appearance of rival empires and to the effect of the pressure of colonial feeling toward extension of territory . He does not ignore even the influence of Kipling 's verses in promoting the imperial sentiment . On the political side , an outstanding feature is the movement toward federation or union in British colonies in all parts of the world . Canada , the New Zealand provinces , Australia , and South Africa have in turn responded to this impulse , and the end is not yet . Imperial federation is another matter , and Dr. Robinson is probably right in judging that its prospects of being realized are less promising today than they seemed to be a generation ago . Incidentally , the narrative throws into relief many points of curious interest . One is reminded , for instance , of how an explorer sometimes misses what he might have been expected to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completely around Australia without once sighting its shores . It is strange , too , to remember today that the British only just forestalled the French in both New Zealand and Australia . Had Australia been opened for settlement half a century earlier , Dr. Robinson comments , it is not at all improbable that it might have been divided among the European Powers , as were India and North America , and might have become the scene of colonial wars . Another remarkable incident was the request of Western Australia , owing to scarcity of labor , to receive convicts at a time when the other Australian colonies were trying to rid themselves of this incubus . The indulgence of this unwholesome appetite had the unexpected result of delaying the grant of representative government to Western Australia until forty years after that boon had been conferred upon her neighbors.                     