@@493258

French Policy and the Sub-marine THE French are opposed to the outlawing of . the submarine . They argue that the sub-marine , if used under a humane code of naval warfare , is just as legitimate a weapon as the capital ship . Of the two , is not the capital ship the more definitely committed to offence ? No doubt . Is not the capital ship the more properly an instrument of the great nation for the oppression of the small ? No doubt . Then why should Englishmen of every variety of political opinion denounce the French plans of submarine development ? They say that in building submarines France is arming against England . If America chose to build submarines , would not the English say we were arming against them ? They might , but they would know it was nonsense . For the last thing America wants is war with England . Let it be granted that our naval experts have England in mind when they work out their program , and that in certain technical exercises , England is premised as " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a real enemy out of England , nor will the actual building of submarines . No one can point to a probability of issues arising between America and England that could draw the two nations into a war . Is the same thing true of the relations between England and France ? There are differences between the two nations in respect to the collection of the indemnity . There are also differences in policy in Asia Minor . But it is difficult to see in these differences a cause of dispute so serious as to lead statesmen of sound mind toward a war . Therefore most Americans , we believe , regard as somewhat hysterical the British opinion that the French submarine ambition presents an actual menace to England . But before we conclude finally that the British fear of French submarines is altogether tn1- founded , we ought to make up our minds yell clearly as to what the present policy of France i9 likely to lead to . Of course much depends on the future political complexion of the French government . If the French liberals , backed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hold it , French policy would no doubt assurn. such a character as ought to reassure England that no aggression on the part of France need be feared . But the chances are as good , or better , that the French government will remain in the hands of parties at least as nationalistic and militarist as that of Briand , and very likely even more extreme . And nationalistic French opinion can see only one way of guaranteeing the future of France . That is by keeping Germany down and by building up the military power of France . The military power of France is at present overwhelmingly superior to any power the Germans Could develop . But the fact remains that the French population is much less than the German . Moreover , the disproportion is practically certain to become more marked with time , if Germany gets on her feet again . There are fewer people within the French boundaries than there were before the war , in spite of the recovery of Alsace-Lorraine . Apparently the forces making for a decrease in population have been accentuated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand , a fairly rapid increase may confidently be predicted , unless the French can prevent it . Here then is one point in any purely nationalistic French policy that may be definitely assumed . Keep Germany down . Exact from her the maximum possible tribute , and if this keeps her chronically poor and disorganized , and forces a heavy death rate and a heavy emigration , so much the better . If it prevents the recovery of central and eastern Europe , that will not materially injure Prance . For France is economically self-sufficing , and will best maintain her military strength by remaining self-sufficing . Standing on guard over even a chronically Poverty stricken and disordered Germany requires , however , large armies ever ready to execute ruthlessly the decisions of the French government . The armies conscripted from the peasants and workers of France can not be wholly satisfactory for this Purpose . Such soldiers fought heroically to de-'end French soil against the invader , but would they be sufficiently hard to execute a systematic Polley of crushing out every germ of civil progress In a neighboring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the French population would feel keenly the economic and social cost of the devotion of a large part of the young manhood of France to garrison duty . If such a policy is to be executed , there is need of a body of soldiers who stand in no close relation to the pacific and kindly masses o ' f the French people , and who are in no danger of infection with working class internationalis m . Now as everyone knows , France has in her vast African possessions a population from which she can draw soldiers exactly adapted to the requirements of a ruthless policy of keeping Germany down . Their adaptation consists precisely in the fact that they come out of a milieu alien to the conditions of Europe . On the soil of Europe , far from their own peoples , they would be soldiers and nothing else . If they had qualms about enforcing any order , they would have to suppress them . For no public sentiment would mitigate the measures that might be used to discipline them .. We may leave out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact of difference in standards of civilization . Alienism is the one relevant characteristic of such a force . There is not the least doubt that the political party now in power in France means to draw largely upon African forces for the defence of France . The contemplated reduction to eighteen months of the term of compulsory military service is accomplished by the authorization of an increase in African forces . The certain prospect of the future is an ever increasing number of African troops in service on European soil . And in the event of the outbreak of war in Europe , France would seek to rush hundreds of thousands of African troops across the Mediterranean . She must have , as it were , a lane which she can defend against any attack . And she can create such a lane only by building submarines in numbers sufficient to bar the British navy from the Mediterranean . But it is not to be forgotten that the British can have very little sympathy with any policy designed to keep Germany permanently in poverty and disorder . The results of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Like the Americans , the British are subject to color prejudice , and will sooner or later find themselves revolted by ' the spectacle of a white population kept in chains by an army of colored conscripts . The French nationalistic policy is thus destined to come into conflict with the most powerful economic interests , as well as the deepest prejudices , of the English . Can the French then afford to leave the most important link in the chain of their policy , the lines of transportation from Africa , at the mercy of the British navy ? Obviously not . If France is to attain security through the supplementing of her man power by large drafts upon her African possessions , she must make sure of the line of transportation across the Mediterranean . The French militarist party see a way by which France can hold her present position of security and power provided that England does not interfere with the development of their policy . They see in the submarine a weapon which would make it dangerous for England so to interfere . It is only in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England . But it is a very real sense , for it is unthinkable that England will be able indefinitely to refrain from interfering . Is it an alarmist view that in a situation like this there is serious risk of another international conflict that may finish the destruction of European civilization ? We do not think so .                     