@@486209

j ABLY last fall hints were dropped from Olympus that a Republican victory would be followed by a largess to business of unusual , indeed unparalleled propor-tions . Since November 6 belief in this largess has grown . Yet , among newspaper seers , political prophets , and others who should be in the know , the exact nature of the largess is still a moot question , the general opinion , however , being that the Big Lift , as it has been called , would have to do with hydro-electric development . . - This opinion , I think , is incorrect . For , though generosity to the hydro-electric group is obviously on the cards , my belief is that the Hoover Administration will hitch its wagon to a higher star ; and that the Big Lift will turn out to be a grand offensive against the Sherman Anti-Trust ' Law . Five years ago Mr. Hoover wrote a book about his political and economic philosophy . " American Individualism , " by Herbert Hoover ( Doubleday , Page and Company , 1923 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private business . And it is to this subject that Mr. Hoover applies the test of individualism , the philosophy to which he moors both his political and economic thinking . Now , a man 's philosophy is perhaps the most important thing about him . Once we understand it , we are in a fair way not only to comprehension of his past , but to a more or less accurate forecast of his future . For this reason " American Individualism " is of more than passing in " rest . For , though with characteristic reticence Mr. Hoover does not mention the Sherman law by name , he nevertheless inserts it as a major theme in his book . Now , the theory of individualism , as applied to government and business is a simple and , to most of our minds , a sound one . It is that the government should keep its hands off business , leaving it to its own devices , except when restraint is clearly necessary , in order to safeguard equal opportunity and competition , i.e. , to preserve the essentials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book Mr. Hoover sets this down fairly enough , adding that his faith in individualism is rooted in personal experience as well as in theory . He has seen America ; he has seen Europe ; he has experienced " the backwash and misery of war . " " And from it all , " he concludes , " I emerge an individualist  --  an unashamed individualist . " So far Mr. Hoover is not saying anything startling . He is merely restating the faith that Jefferson , the loving disciple of John Locke , published in his epic struggle with Hamilton , the argument that Senators Sherman , Hoar , and Edmunds brought to a favorable , indeed unanimous , vote in the great debates on the Sherman law in 1889 and 1890 . From this point , however  --  from the point at which , having stated his theory , the writer begins to apply it to actual conditions  --  the book takes a sudden and rather disconcerting turn . Mr. Hoover becomes a politician instead of a philosopher , and a politician revamping his theory to fit a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearer as the book proceeds . In short , though Mr. Hoover does not cease to praise individualism and " its corollaries , " equality of opportunity and " the free-rolling mills of competition , " he , at the same time , gives a clean bill of health to American industrialism  --  quite irrespective of the fact that its attack on individualism has never been so severe or so effective as it is today : first , by denying that concentration of wealth and power is any longer a thing to be feared ( though there was a time , he admits , when " domination by business groups " threat . ened us " with a form of autocracy " ) ; second , by rebuking the government for too much regulation of big business ; and third , by incorporating in his book four seemingly commonplace sentences which , nevertheless , carry implications that no monopolist , or would-be monopolist , can consider without a thrill of joy . These sentences are : Excluding the temporary measures of the war , the period of regulation has now been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its effect upon our social system . It has been highly beneficial , but it has also developed weaknesses in the throttling of proper initiative that require some revision . We have already granted relief to labor organizations and to agriculture from some forms of regulation . There is , however , a large field of cooperative possibilities far outside agriculture that are needlessly hampered . Now , just what do these sentences mean ? To the person unfamiliar with the provisions of the so-called Clayton and Capper-Volstead Acts , they mean little or nothing . But , if one happens to recall that , on October 15 , 1914 , Congress " relieved " labor and agricultural organizations by placing them beyond the reach of the Sherman Anti-Trust Law , and , again , on February 18 , 1922 , " relieved " dairy farming , ranching , fruit growing , and other cooperatives , by a similar grant of immunity , the gist of the sentences at once becomes important . To be specific , Mr. Hoover 's meaningful , though veiled , sentences are notice , to those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Hoover is philosophically an individualist , he is , nevertheless , practically a safe man . Safe because he believes the government should cut loose from its traditional opposition to monopoly . Safe since he suggests that , just as it has guaranteed labor unions and farm cooperatives ( which , by the way , Congress never intended to bring under the Sherman law ) against prosecution , it shall now guarantee big business , and give monopoly and price-fixing a free hand . It should be noted in this connection that Mr. Hoover uses the term " cooperative possibilities " in the sentence in which he asserts that the government is hampering industry : " There is , however , a large field of cooperative possibilities far outside agriculture that are needlessly hampered . " In the language of big business , " cooperation " is almost invariably used as a polite but deceptive synonym for monopoly . When Judge Gary defended the steel and iron monopoly before the Stanley Committee , he called it " cooperation . " Last year , when heavy production broke the oil trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went up a cry that the Sherman law was thwarting " cooperation . " Many years ago this country came to the conclusion that to allow individuals , or groups of them , to crush competition , control production , and fix the price of the essentials of life , was not merely an expensive policy , but one distinctly dangerous to the integrity of government . Wherefore , the Sherman Anti-Trust Law of 1890 and subsequent supporting legislation . It is not my purpose to uphold the Sherman law as a complete or adequate solution of the monopoly question . Yet , although it has failed in conspicuous cases to protect the public from monopoly and extortion , it has , nevertheless , in a multitude of less-known cases , been useful in preventing the formation of monopolies and in keeping prices down , the latter being the law 's main purpose . Moreover , its failures have been due less to faults in its theory and original provisions than to the refusal of the courts to construe it liberally and the neglect of Congress to amend it in accordance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had early taken the position that the functions of production and distribution should be rigidly divorced so that no industrial producer or distributor should own or in any way control a railroad and vice versa ( a reform urged by more than one Congressional committee ) , America 's industro-financial history , as well as her political history , might today be read on a cleaner page . However , with all its faults , the Sherman law , besides being a threat and at times a bar to monopoly , has been immensely valuable as a searchlight on the methods of big business . The prosecutions carried on under its authority , the scathing opinions handed down by justices of the Supreme Court , and the disclosures of committees and commissions investigating alleged illegal mergers and suppressions of competition have centered public attention on industrial questions , at the same time penalizing monopolists by forcing them to expend vast sums for legal expenses , propaganda , etc . Undoubtedly , the Sherman law has served to keep the more lawless elements of big business on the defensive , so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not stuck at packing courts , congresses , and cabinets . For example , about the time that Mr. Morgan the elder , at a meeting of his lawyers , expressed the fear that his merger of some two hundred plants into the United States Steel Corporation would , if attacked by the Department of Justice , result in conviction under the Sherman law , there found their way into President Roosevelt 's Cabinet two former members of the legal staff of the Steel Corporation , one president of a subsidiary of the Steel Corporation , and a director of the Steel Corporation , who was also a partner in the Morgan firm . At the present moment , the Sherman law is holding up the merger of two competing coal-carrying railroads , and threatening the Mellon aluminum , the Havemeyer sugar , and other trusts with indictments that no doubt will be side-tracked , but not without a good deal of embarrassment and some scandal . Despite the propaganda to the contrary the Sherman law is rarely , if ever , invoked against legitimate business consolidations or large units of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or invention . It attacks only monopoly , price-fixing , and unfair competition , for which reason it is more hated by monopolists , more misrepresented , and more schemed against than any law ever signed by a President . Mr. Hoover , in " American Individualism , " paints a glowing picture of our economic system . He declares it to be free from Europe 's socialistic degeneration ; and , in this , he is quite right . But when he adds that the United States is " steadily developing the ideals that constitute progressive individualism , " he is not right and not on firm ground . In-deed , no man should know better than the ex-Secretary of Commerce that , so far from being individualistic , our basic industries are dominated by monopoly groups , which have so successfully warred on individualism , equal opportunity , and competition that , unless the tide of battle turns , they will before long disappear , and , like prehistoric beasts , be known henceforth only by their bones . For example , Senate Document 1263 , 67th Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Committee on Manufactures which investigated the oil industry in 1922 and 1923 . After taking the testimony of the outstanding leaders of the oil and gasoline world and examining their records for months , the committee finds that neither individualism , equal opportunity , nor competition has survived in this sector of enterprise , which employs over eleven billions of capital and produces commodities of an annual value of about two and a half billions . The committee reports : The dominating fact in the oil industry today is its complete control by the Standard companies . Any discussion of the subject which does not frankly recognize this control can only be misleading . Standard Oil today fixes the price which the producer of crude oil receives at the well , the price which the refiner receives for his gasoline and kerosene , as well as the retail price paid by the consumer . And this state of things the committee finds to be the chronic one , except for brief periods , in which development of new fields speeds up production and temporarily breaks monopoly 's power . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the control exercised by the Standard Oil interests over the oil-carrying railroads , and especially the pipe-lines , in both of which differentials favorable to the trust are established and used as clubs with which to bring the independents to heel : Through the Standard control of pipe-lines connecting the producing centers of the West with the consuming centers of the East and Middle West not only is the price fixed according to the will of the Standard group which any other - interest must pay for the transportation of petroleum , but members of the group really determine whether any concern outside their group shall have petroleum transported at any price . On the score of price-fixing the committee goes on to say that Mr. James E. O'Neil , lately president of the Prairie Oil and Gas Company , a Standard subsidiary , and at present a fugitive in Europe owing to his complicity in the Continental oil deal , part of the proceeds of which were used to pay the deficit of the Republican National Committee , is the individual who guides the price movements of crude oil for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar , but , if anything , worse condition is disclosed by numerous government reports , of which Mr. Hoover can hardly be ignorant . Here , monopoly and control of prices have become so effective that people living in towns built directly above the Pennsylvania mines pay as much for their hard coal as people in New York or Maine . And this has been going on for nearly half a century , to be exact , since 1886 , when Mr. Morgan the elder summoned the leaders of the oil and coal interests to his library and perfected his plan for ending competition by tying up the avenues of transportation . The story of the steel industry , as brought out by the last Congressional investigation , of 1911-1912 , is not essentially different . The entire business has been turned into a feudal system , in which the Steel Corporation , through its control of ore and coal-hauling railroads , has expelled competition , and fixed prices arbitrarily . In his testimony in the United States versus the Steel Corporation , Judge Gary admitted a differential of several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Julian Kennedy , testified before the Stanley Committee that , through its railroad and raw-material differentials , the Steel Corporation could , if it chose , destroy the so-called " independents , " a fact that , whatever Mr. Hoover may say , is hardly consistent with individualism . The beef-packing industry , the aluminum industry , the shoe-machinery industry , and many others have followed in similar unindividualistic paths . And , though in a few large industries such as automobile-making and chain grocery and department stores , competitive conditions survive and create higher efficiency and better service to the public than are known where monopoly prevails , these have escaped monopolization only because no individual or group within any of them has , so far , been able to corner and control any really essential industrial element . The disadvantage of having a man of Mr. Hoover 's training in the White House is likely , I fear , to exceed the advantages by a wide margin . Mr. Hoover has so thoroughly absorbed the point of view of his former employers and associates that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of doing things , or to study impartially the political and economic problems in which they are concerned . Consequently , though in his book and later in his campaign for the Presidency , Mr. Hoover presents individualism as his ideal , the fact that the industro-financial hierarchy , of which he has himself been a part , is laying violent hands on his ideal , tearing it down under the pretense of " cooperation , " and setting up monopoly and privilege in its place , does not register in his mind . The only danger he sees to individualism is socialism  --  socialism , which has never been at a lower ebb in this country than now . On the whole , forecasting Mr. Hoover 's attitude by the philosophy of his book , which is more a plea for privilege than for individualism , it seems probable that a concerted drive against the Sherman law  --  the Big Lift that big business , and particularly the oil group , demands  --  will take place within the year ; that monopoly , beneath the warming rays of Presidential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the public-utilities interests will consolidate their power , defeating government operation of Muscle Shoals and Boulder Dam , and , no doubt , escaping effective regulation , since effective regulation of privately owned utilities does not , and , for sufficient reasons , probably never will exist ; and finally that at the end of four years Mr. Hoover , having by righteous and legal means done more for plutocracy than ever Mr. Harding did by winking at villainies , will again be the choice of a nation gone serenely Babbitt.                     