@@486528

Nonsense is in a stage of spasmodic convulsions . She has been D China , struggling to give birth to a modern nation , begging the Powers to leave her alone , to stop dosing her with their medicine . And at a moment when she seems to have some hope of pulling herself together , when the Canton group is at last uniting the country , the Powers , deaf these many years , suddenly present their report , which says in effect : We will not change our tactics until you get well . The Extraterritoriality Commission , with Silas Strawn as chairman , having spent some months studying China , notes her chaotic condition and coolly concludes , if the preliminary summaries are to be trusted , that this is no time to change medicine . In the future , maybe , if conditions mend , perhaps , the Powers will consider , possibly , local changes in their claims of extraterritoriality . This is nonsense . It exhibits an appalling lack of sense of proportion . Here is a solemn report , signed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Belgium , Holland , Norway , Sweden , Denmark , France , the British Empire , and the United States  --  the " Treaty Powers . " Italy , Spain , and Portugal are ruled by military juntas , Japan by a despotic clique ; Britain holds India by force alone ; Belgium and Italy have compounded their debts , but France is simply stalling , with no apparent intention of paying her debt to the United States ; and the United States seems utterly incapable of solving its own gunman and lynching problems . Yet the representatives of these nations presume to sit in judgment on China , to complain that she is governed by military leaders , that her treasury is depleted , that " the extension and protection of the new legal and judicial systems are being retarded , " and smugly demand that China reform herself . Before the Powers withdraw their claims to separate jurisdiction in China , they assert , China must reform her police , her prisons , her commercial code ( " including negotiable-instruments law , maritime law , and insurance law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through a long string of requirements to the condescending conclusion that After the principal items thereof have been carried out the Powers concerned , if so desired by the Chinese Government , might consider the abolition of extraterritoriality , according to such progressive schemes ( whether geographical , partial , or otherwise ) as may be agreed upon . Preposterous as this is on the face of it , it is even more ridiculous in view of the facts of the Chinese situation . China is in civil war ; but in her attitude toward foreigners she is united . " The gravest situation since the Boxer uprising , " British dispatches call the present patriotic effervescence . The Powers are in no position to dictate to her , partly because there is no government to dictate to , still more because they have no power to coerce four hundred million people scattered along the river valleys of a nation as big as a continent , feeling , thinking , and acting  --  toward the foreigners  --  as one . One American diplomat put it thus : " We Westerners are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moving train and trying to keep his footing . " China , huge , apparently chaotic , is driving powerfully toward independence . Bit by bit she is destroying the shackling treaties . The Powers can accept gracefully now or , later , yield clumsily ; to attempt to refuse is to ignore dynamic facts . 0 , not Mexican signals , but United States signals , and for the fourth time in 1926 . Secretary- Kellogg has broken loose again . He has , first , inspired a vicious press attack on Mexico apropos of Nicaragua , so that for several days our highly reliable dailies were filled with assertions that from Mexico , that hotbed of Bolshevism , a most dangerous communistic and anti-American propaganda was going all through Central and South America . This he followed up by similarly inspired suggestions that if Mexico persisted in her course in regard . to her constitution and land laws there was every prospect that there would be a rupture of diplomatic relations . Simultaneously with this appeared the stories of various minor revolts and of impending revolts in Mexico to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearer case of government-inspired propaganda , and , to our regret , we must record that the Associated Press lent itself to this outrage by carrying the sensational anti-Mexican matter without citing the source . Hitherto it has been Associated Press policy , according to our understanding , to state the origin of a story in order that no charge of being used for propaganda purposes might lie against it . - We regard these developments as serious despite the fact that this is the fourth flurry in this year and that the English oil companies in Mexico have announced their acceptance of those provisions of the Mexican petroleum laws which have so excited our State Department under Messrs . Hughes and Kellogg . Our anxiety is due to the fact that the foreign policy of the United States is in the hands of two exceptionally weak men , Mr. Kellogg and Mr. Coolidge , the latter of- whom has , if Washington dispatches are to be trusted , about made up his mind to attempt to break the third-term tradition by becoming a candidate for the Presidency in 1928 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs than strong men  --  witness the readiness of William McKinley to plunge this country into war with Spain purely for partisan reasons , to which fact the historian James Ford Rhodes is the latest witness . We are well aware of the high-sounding words used by President Coolidge in regard to our foreign affairs , to which the New York World calls attention in this connection . He said to Congress that for a hundred years we had been pledged " to the peaceful settlement of controversies between nations ; by example and by treaty we have advocated arbitration . " He also told Congress in his last message that " the policy of our foreign relations , casting aside any suggestion of force , rests solely on the foundation of peace , good-will , and good works . " But coming from Mr. Coolidge these sentiments are nothing but the ordinary politician-bunk . They mean nothing . They afford not the slightest guaranty that our policy toward Mexico and Nicaragua will be decent or humane , for Mr. Coolidge is the tool of big business and what big business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investments in Mexico do not desire to be reasonable and sensible , like their British brethren , we shall undoubtedly have a rupture of diplomatic relations and a policy based upon force  --  perhaps even a nice little war . We therefore urge all who have the interest of both countries at heart to rouse themselves - once more to makeit known in Washington that they do not propose to have the United States play the bully and put itself in the position of attempting to dictate to Mexico what her laws and her constitution shall be  --  a policy we should never dare to assume toward any country of our own size . Right now is the time to make those protests felt in Washington , not after the breaking off of relations . This time those who deliberately seek strife with Mexico are reinforced by many thousands of our countrymen of the Catholic faith who , not without some reason , feel themselves outraged by the policy of the Mexican Government toward the Catholic faith . President Coolidge wisely refused to make this religious issue the basis of a remonstrance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to record- to his credit even though we can not help suspecting that he was more afraid of the Catholic issue than inspired by a desire to keep his hands off a purely domestic Mexican issue . But multitudes of Catholics will stand behind Congressman John J. Boylan of New York in his announced determination to compel the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House to act upon his resolution for the severance of diplomatic relations with Mexico . Fortunately Senator Borah has spoken out well and refuses to be stampeded in this direction . Again must we call attention to the deliberate propa. ganda to get us into war with Mexico . The worst offenders are the owners of the Chicago Tribune and Liberty , men who in their callous disregard of justice and right-dealing are constantly urging upon the United States the forcible annexation of Mexico upon the purely materialistic ground that the Mexicans are not exploiting their natural resources and that therefore we should . Liberty has just been caught printing a picture which purported to portray " Catholics Withdrawing Deposits from the Bank of Mexico in Protest Against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a picture taken and published eleven months before the attempted boycott , in fact before the troubles with the Catholics began , and represented persons depositing instead of withdrawing funds . It is thus that feeling is aroused against Mexico , and always these inciters to strife assume that the United States is inevitably and invariably right , and that we have the power , the right , and the duty to supervise her conduct of her own affairs and even of her foreign relations . The assertion that Mexico is bolshevik and is spreading bolshevist propaganda is the merest nonsense . Under President Calles , as we have repeatedly pointed out , there is being carried on a progressive , social policy in the interest of the Mexican masses , which the United States in some respects ought rather to be imitating than criticizing . Least of all should there be criticism of her oil laws at the moment when Fail , Sinclair , and Doheny are on trial for alienating part of the birthright of the American people . If certain Mexicans choose to supply arms to revolutionists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been doing in most of the republics to the south of us for the last hundred years . Blustering against Mexico and the threats against her can have only one effect ? the rousing of all the Central and South American republics against us . Britannia Still Rules T HE British Empire has been indulging in a mild ses- sion of psychoanalysis . The result is a document which indicates no profound change in the relations of the component parts of the empire , but a considerable gain in self-knowledge . The assembled imperial statesmen admit on paper conditions which already existed in fact . They prove themselves true to the British tradition of writing constitutions only after muddling them out in practice . We print in the International Relations Section this week the first part of the report of the Inter-Imperial Relations Committee of the Imperial Conference . It has not yet been accepted by the governments concerned , but in view of the fact that the prime ministers of every Dominion participated in its sessions there can be little doubt that the report may be accepted at face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dominions " are autonomous communities within the British Empire , equal in status , in no way subordinate one to another in any aspect of their domestic or external affairs , though united by common allegiance to the Crown and freely associated as members of the British commonwealth of nations . This recognition of the independence and sovereignty of the Dominions is essentially a mere formulation of a fact made evident by the separate membership of the Dominions in the League of Nations , by Canada 's independent negotiation of a treaty with the United States , and Ireland 's and Canada 's appointment of their own ministers to Washington . But it is new as a formulation of a principle which had been growing without definition . To realize how new is the acceptance of that formulation it is only necessary to recall the furore aroused by General Hertzog 's speech at Stellenbosch last May ( reprinted in The Nation for July 14 ) , when the South African Prime Minister said : Each Dominion is , by virtue of its self-governing constitution , created a free , independent state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but with a common connecting link between itself and Great Britain , centered in the King . . . . All unity among the Dominions themselves and between the Dominions and Great Britain must originate in agreement and cooperation . For that speech General Hertzog was denounced by the British in South Africa as a traitor to the empire , and at the opening of the Imperial Conference he was treated by the London press as a dangerous wild man . It was not yet permissible to assert in plain words what was already in fact the practice of half the Dominions . Yet after weeks of earnest study the committee has reached a formula which can scarcely be differentiated from General Hertzog 's . It must be recognized that the British Empire is still a dual organism . Recognition of the independence of the Dominions , with a home population essentially similar to that of Great Britain itself , does not alter by one iota the far-flung structure of the great red empire on which the sun never sets . Gibraltar , Malta , Cyprus , Suez , Aden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sudan , East and West Africa , Kenya , Rhodesia , the Falkland Islands , the British West Indies , and the rest  --  they remain as before , outposts of an empire which rules them primarily in its own interest . Nowhere in the report is that harshest of imperial problems , the color line , touched upon . South Africa may , conceivably , have a little freer hand than before in holding down her natives and barring the Hindus ; India remains precisely where she was . Some of these domains may be conceived , as Mr. Zimmern optimistically paints them , as part of a parade of colonies marching upward toward dominion status , self-government , and essential independence ; but the Imperial Conference changes their status only in so far as it alters the position of the Dominions , which may be regarded as their ideal . While this long report deals with the intricate questions of independent and semi-independent treaty-making , of dominion merchant marines and of dominion consuls in foreign countries , of conflicts of dominion legislation and of appeal to the Privy Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristically sidestepping this stumbling-block by a thoroughly ambiguous form of words ) , it nowhere touches upon the questions of imperial preference and of imperial economic unity . The emphasis has shifted since the early post-war days . Then there was talk both of preference and of a joint imperial foreign policy for which the Dominions would share responsibility . Times have changed ; the Dominions have in practice worked out their salvation , and in-the main this document accepts their independence . It is an impressive object-lesson in political evolution without the rumble of threatened armed conflict . Since the war the Dominions have grown mightily , and Britain , with some anguish of soul , has had the good sense freely to recognize their new stature . The chief troubles of empire have come not from those regions to which the greatest autonomy has been granted but in those where the ruling country still tries to sit on the lid . - Midway in the Season ' s Books T HOUGH only one-half of the books announced by American publishers in their fall lists have yet been issued , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree of understanding which will justify generalizations . The first of these is that the much abused two-volume biography is holding its own , at least with the publishers . Poe gets two long biographies almost simultaneously , Hervey Allen and Mary E. Phillips entering into competition for the honor of having written the most exhaustive life of that unhappy man . John Wanamaker , as will be seen in the literary supplement to the present issue of The Nation , gets another without exactly deserving it ; it remains to be seen whether Joseph Conrad is worth the two volumes promised by G. Jean Aubry . There can scarcely be a doubt that Asquith and Ex-Secretary Houston in their memoirs , and H. A. L. Fisher and Francis Hirst in their lives of Lord Bryce and Lord Morley , and Sidney Lee in his continuation of the " Edward VII " will make contributions to the history of politics and political theory . Cobden-Sanderson and Rider Haggard , lately dead , have left copious autobiographies . Rupert Hughes 's recent volume on George Washington was only the first , presumably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still to come an extensive work on Washington ? a " pictorial biography " ? from Joseph Dillaway Sawyer . Then Walter Edwin Peck will devote two volumes to Shelley , and Percy MacKaye two more to the life of his father in the American theater . The two-volume form , it would seem , is still anything but vanquished . In the department of literary criticism two developments are particularly noticeable . The American critical renaissance bears fruit this season in three anthologies of contemporary reviews and articles prepared by William A. Drake , Lewis Worthington Smith , and James Cloyd Bowman . The range of theme and skill exhibited by the three volumes will surprise any reader who has not been aware of - the strides made within the past five or six years by the Tenth Muse in the United States . In the second place there is a notable increase in the number of volumes devoted to figures in French literature . W. F. Giese 's " Hugo , " Cleveland B. Chase 's " The Young Voltaire , " E. B. D'Auvergne 's " Pierre Loti @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Garber Palache 's " Gautier and the French Romantics , " and Ernest Boyd 's and Robert Sherard 's studies of de Maupassant  --  no such attention is being paid just now to any other foreign literature ; and while this list may be more or less an accident of the current season , it seems that the younger American writers are set upon making themselves acquainted with both past and contemporary France . The newest idol of all , Paul Val  --  ry , succeeding , as it seems , Anatole France and Remy de Gourmont , is represented by " Variety , " a collection of his essays . Anatole France himself , though he is honored with one more volume of reminiscences in the worshipful vein ? Kemeri 's " Rambles with Anatole France " ? hears this year the first echo in America , in a book by Barry Cerf , of the detraction which has been his fate in France almost from the day of his death . In fiction and poetry we find , as always , old names riding the top of the wave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ novels or stories , from Anderson , Bennett , Cabell , Willa Cather , Zona Gale , Dreiser , Hamlin Garland , Ellen Glasgow , Hergesheimer , Kipling , Maugham , May Sinclair , Van Vechten , Walpole , Wells , and Elinor Wylie . And that might seem to be the whole story  --  except for the certainty that among the novels by less known persons there are a few which will one day be considered as having made the literary history of 1926 . Some of these , it is likely , have received little notice or  --  none ; and guessing who of all the newcomers will survive longest is extremely hazardous business . Will it not be , however , one of the following : H. E. Bates , E. R. Eddison , " H. D. " ( as a novelist ) , Ernest Hemingway , Frances Newman , Elizabeth Madox Roberts , E. H. Young ? As to poetry , the crop is the poorest in years  --  collections and selections predominating in the list and thus attesting better than anything else could do the lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up over night . Most interesting this fall are the John Day Company and the Vanguard Press . The first , in accordance with what has come to be the conventional practice , drew much of the talent for its staff from older houses ; and its program , so far admirably carried out , is to issue only a few books each season , to see that as many of these as may be are good , to print them well , and to keep their dust-jackets innocent of meaningless superlatives . The Vanguard Press will sell all of its books at cost ; and its aim will be to furnish cheaply the means of a radical education . Its reprints from Karl Marx , Ruskin , Tolstoi , Lenin , Kropotkin , Wells , Henry George , Thorstein Veblen , William Morris , Upton Sinclair , Edward Bellamy , Benjamin R. Tucker , Darwin , Haeckel , Buckle , and Lecky promise much in this direction ; of the volumes which contain new material time and criticism will have more to say . Ghosts at the Horse Show T @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Horse Show Association of America , Limited , held in New York the week of Thanksgiving . There was the ghost of Eohippus , rabbit-sized , five-toed , monkey-toothed , tapir-nosed , scurrying about under the flat-backed draft horses . There were the ghosts of Orohippus and Mesohippus and Parahippus and Merichyppus , tossing their fossil heads and prancing on feet which in one stage after another came nearer to the hard , single hoofs of Equus caballus . There were the ghosts of the descendant horses which men learned first to eat , then to draw on the walls of smoky caves , then to ride , then to hitch to carts and plows and chariots and wagons and carriages , and finally , as at the Horse Show , to make the playthings of prosperous leisure . There were the ghosts of chargers screaming on battle-fields , of ponies deep underground in laborious mines , of stallions matched in bloody conflicts for the sport of Vikings , of wild horses sweeping over wilder plains in swift freedom , of mangy , beaten plugs , and of philosophical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neat floor of the arena were but a handful to the ghostly tribes which drifted through and over it . Not even the elaborate specialization which always marks the Horse Show could drive the ghosts out of mind . Officers ' chargers , horses suitable to become hunters , hackneys in harness , novice saddle horses , artillery teams , four-in-hands , ladies ' qualified hunters , novice five-gaited saddle horses , thoroughbred hunters , geldings under saddle , tandems , hunt teams , pairs of roadsters , pairs of wagon horses , polo mounts , children 's ponies , green hunters other than thoroughbreds  --  what were all these but the heirs of Eohippus ? And what was the intense , patient curiosity of the spectators but a survival of the centuries of interest in man 's most diversified servant and pet ? Perhaps acquired characteristics are not inheritable , and perhaps a fondness for horses has not really been handed dawn from father to son in the human cells themselves . And yet the feeling for horses has so long been so profoundly a part of human culture that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feeling out . Even when the last man who ever rode or drove a horse is dead there will still be literature and oral memories . In the meantime , plenty of horses still live to preserve the ancient tradition . They keep to the side of the road while motors rush by them . They have given over to steam and gas the work of drawing the heaviest loads . But on soft ground they have no serious rivals ; on the hunting field and the race course they have no rivals to speak of ; and in a large department of human affection and concern they have no rivals at all . They are the most splendid playthings ever used by men . If horses should become entirely useless , there would still be men who could not be quite themselves away from stables and paddocks . " The first money I laid out , " said Lemuel Gulliver on his return from his travels , " was to buy two young stone-horses , which I keep in a good stable , and next to them the groom is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Show were not merely shadows out of history . They were strands woven into the complex constitution of mankind itself .                     