@@488304

This is the positive side of the Butler record in the Senate . The negative side is somewhat more imposing . He voted against the Walsh report on the oil scandal and in favor of whitewashing Teapot Dome . He voted against the motion for a Senate investigation of Mellon 's alum  --  inum company . He voted against a resolution for investi  --  gation of the alleged monopolization of electric energy by the General Electric Company . When the President nomi  --  nated Charles Beecher Warren , one of the chief agents and promoters of the beet-sugar trust , then under investigation by the Federal Trade Commission , for Attorney General , Senator Butler not only voted for confirmation but made a feeble and futile effort to lead the Administration fight to save Warren on the floor of the Senate . Butler voted to untax wealth right down the line when the revenue bill was under consideration . He voted to lease the Government 's $150,000,000 plant at Muscle Shoals to private interests ; in other words , for selling out to the power trust . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate committee to investigate campaignexpenditures , Senator Butler voted against it , but switched later , when it was obvious that the measure would pass , reluctantly giving his indorsement to the investigation in view . Later , when Senator Neely , West Virginia , introduced a resolution denouncing the primary scandals in Pennsylvania and Illinois and proposing to put the Senate on record against campaign expenditures of more than $25,000 by a candidate for the Senate , Senator Cameron , Old Guardsman , talked this measure to death , orating on the Verde River irrigation scheme until the gavel fell . The New York World reported next day that the first Senator to grasp the hand of Cameron and to-congratulate him on his noble effort was Senator Butler of Massachusetts . But reactionary Senators no longer make their records an issue . If the opposition asks Butler about his record , he solemnly warns the people of Massachusetts to stand by Coolidge like the God-fearing men and women they are . As Butler remarked in the Methodist Tabernacle at Oak Bluffs : " Now is the time to show that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Election Time G LENN FRANK has remarked : " The time will probably never come when English will be the one language spoken and written in the United States . " These words were uttered in 1920 , when the quota bar  --  rier for the immigrants was not yet invented . Five years of the Johnson atrocities , launched in 1921 , failed , however , to diminish the use of foreign languages in the United States and did not affect to any noticeable extent the powers of the foreign-language press in America . One-tenth of the population of the United States is still served by the foreign-language press . The latest statistics show over 900 newspapers and magazines , published daily , weekly , semi-weekly , monthly , and semi-monthly in thirty-seven different languages , other than English , in various cities and towns of the United States . This fact has great political significance , for there are millions of voters among the readers of these papers and magazines . The two major American parties are aware of this . When dates of general or local elections draw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hungry glances of the party campaign managers no less than the great American dailies serving the natives . Strange to say , there still are naive campaign man  --  agers in both camps , Republican and Democratic , who imagine that they will get all the space in the foreign-lan  --  guage press they need ( and of course all the votes of its readers ) by merely sending to the editors glowing circulars with candidates ' biographies and speeches marked : " For Immediate Release . " When an editor comes across a bulky envelope of such nature in his mail he is not likely to call upon anyone of his small and overburdened staff to translate the item from English into thelanguage of his paper . True , most of the immigrant sheets are fed with translations from English . For almost all of their news they depend on the American dailies . I knew a case where a New York Rus Small space is devoted to American politics . The immi  --  grant does not quite understand , and little effort has been made to help him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the news matter . This is due rather to the neglect of the immigrant by the native-born than to any constitutional apathy on the part of the immigrant himself . Thd case of the Czecho-Slovakian press holds for the papers of other nationalities in America , with a few excep  --  tions . As to the causes of it , the immigrant 's apathy , in our opinion , has more to do with the phenomena than the native-born 's neglect , and this apathy is quite plausible and forgivable , even to an American eye of more or less in  --  telligence : the - foreign editors , like any editors , look for news ; weather , murder , fire , and rape are news , but Ameri  --  can politics is machine made and therefore not news . The American public itself is coming slowly to a realization of this ; the foreign population of the country realized it much earlier , with the help and encouragement of their editors . But the party campaign managers still believe in the ir  --  resistible powers of their circulars . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not always as dumb as they sound when they speak English . They also do not know that an average foreign journalist in America hates the sight of typewritten news  --  he would rather translate two columns of dry material from a newspaper than a short paragraph of most lively and amazing happenings from a typewritten or mimeographed sheet . The campaign man  --  ager should see the bored expression with which the aver  --  age foreign editor views his " For Immediate Release " and with which he releases the circular into his waste-basket . Few campaign managers , either of the Republican creed or of the Democratic variety , realize how far away many foreign-language editors and their subordinates keep themselves from American life , and how crude their knowl  --  edge of the native language , customs , and politics is . Abraham Mitrie Rihbany , the editor of Kowkab America , a Syrian newspaper in New York , confesses in his auto  --  biography that at the time of the Presidential elections in 1892 he , hearing cries of Democrats that Harrison was beaten because " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grab the people 's money and put it in their own pockets , " thought that since there was a city of Minneapolis " the Minneapolists were the highway robbers . " Yet this editor showed more interest in American politics than the average foreign-language journalist before or since . He prided himself on being a staunch Republican and he enlightened from time to time his Syrian audience with " learned " edi  --  torials on all the sides and questions of American politics ! ? Some years ago there was a Russian editor in New York who directed bitter attacks against " the dirty hire  --  ling of capitalists , the Presidential nominee Mr. Scatter  --  ing . " He thus understood the reports of a Republican convention , where , during one of the ballots , two or three candidates received fewer than half of the total votes , while the rest of the ballots were recorded as " Scattering . " Fortunately for themselves the campaign managers do not restrict their efforts to the editorial depae tments of immigrant newspapers . They attack the advertising de  --  partments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , first , because they distribute dollars and cents along with the eloquence , and , secondly , because the men who run the pub  --  lishing and advertising departments are of a more busi  --  nesslike and more Americanized type than the men of the editorial departments . Consequently the campaign man  --  agers ' , eloquence finds its way into the foreign nrint , mostly in the form of advertisements and sometimes in the form ' of editorials and news items dictated to men on the editorial staff by men from the advertising department . On the whole , campaign managers get their dollars ' worth from the advertising departments of f6reign news  --  papers , but even here mistakes were and are rampant . Politicians feel that the foreign-language press is a con  --  siderable power , which can be used by them to a very good advantage , but they do not know how to use it . The foreign publishers in their turn do not know much about American politics , their acquaintances among politicians not ranking above petty district leaders and other small fry . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advertising ) are entirely out of their reach . Consequently , intermediaries early appeared in the field , men who could easily , if they wished to , take advantage of the ignorance of each other of the two sides . The most notorious type of such a go-between was found in Louis N. Hammerling , head of what was formerly the American Association of Foreign Language News  --  papers . This imposing title condoned nothing more than an advertising agency , which started with no newspapers under its control but soon had several hundreds of them in its fold . Hammerling , a poor Austrian immigrant , was formerly connected with a small Polish newspaper in Wilkes-Barre , Pennsylvania , and was also employed as a solicitor of ad  --  vertisements for the United Mine Workers ' Journal . Local politicians cast an appreciative eye upon him , and Mr. Hammerling did not let the opportunity slip by . Soon we find him in New York , where in 1904 he took charge of the foreign-language press for the Republican Party in the campaign of that year . Apparently he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this party through the year of 1916 . In 1908 he decided to settle in New York permanently in order to milk the fat , cow of the Republican Party and to bully the simple calves of the foreign-language press in a more efficient way . He bought the so-called Italian-American Advertising Agency , changed its name to the high-sounding one of the American Association of Foreign Language Newspapers , and began his work . In 1912 the Republican National Committee distributed through him over $100,000 worth of advertising . In 1916 the Republicans bought through Hammerling 30,000 lines in the dailies , and 40,000 lines in various other publica  --  tions , 70,000 in all , for which Hammerling paid to the foreign publishers $52,500 , but for which he charged the G. 0 . P. over $100,000 . We must add that Hammerling made the foreign publishers accept a good part of the $52,500 in stock issued by his organization , and they never saw either dividends or their investment back . Frank Zotti , the editor of the Narodni List , a Croatian newspaper , related of Hammerling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would get the 30-inch advertisement for the second insertion they would receive a letter from Hammerling stating that their paper has no circulation and that the company wants to withdraw , but that he will use his influence so that the company will keep the adver  --  tisement , but that he can not pay the rate . He would pay him a little less rate , if he gets the advertisement again , but he would advise the publisher to keep the " ad " for the time being , and show his good-will . In this way a good many of those poor fellows kept the " ad " for fifty-two weeks and got paid for two weeks . This particular instance is cited in connection with the commercial advertising distributed by Hammerling , but he used similar methods with equal success in his efforts to make the foreigners vote for the Grand Old Party . These methods helped Hammerling to amass a great fortune , and when , under fire for his alleged pro-Germap propaganda , he was compelled to leave this country , he returned to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In his dealings with the press he acquired a taste for journal  --  ism , and now , with the money of the fooled Republicans and cheated immigrant publishers , he runs his own news  --  paper , the New Reform , in Krakow , Poland , with a circula  --  tion of 100,000 . Yet he was seldom cursed by his victims . The ban  --  quets arranged by him at the heyday of his glory were attended by distinguished Republicans , a few Cabinet mem  --  bers among them , who eulogized Hammerling as " presi  --  dent of 500 or 600 foreign newspapers , " one who never failed to deliver the goods at elections . The foreign-language publishers appreciated the advertisements , which without him they would never get and for which , instead of the paltry twenty-five or fifty cents of other agents , he paid them sometimes as high as seventy-five cents per inch . Foreign publishers tell me that their rates stand now at the point to which Hammerling brought them , and they mention Hammerling 's name in warm voice . When a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his mysterious trips he was greeted by most appreciative articles by most of the foreign-language newspapers  --  with a few exceptions . These few exceptions warrant a special chapter . In  --  deed , if not for them , the situation of the foreign press in its relations with American politics would be wholly un  --  bearable . The intelligent minority consists largely of the German and Yiddish newspapers . We note that German newspapers , almost the only national group of all the foreign papers in America , did not become clients and vassals of the almighty Hammerling , a German by nativity and mother tongue ! The German editors and publishers of long and well-established papers are , as a rule , well versed in the politics and business methods of Anierica , and neither campaign managers nor advertising agents can prey on them as easily as on editors and publishers of the more recent immigration . The German newspapers can be classed with the native American press in the way they treat American politics . American politics is news to the German editors . The chief of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper interview on the eve of the Presidential campaign of 1920 : " Germans have been here so long that they are in local politics . The average reader of a German paper is much more interested in Bill Miller 's chance for the town council than he is in the fate of the Kaiser . " The Jewish editors appeared in this country much later than their German confreres , but what they lack in years of American experience they make up by their racial in  --  telligence and inborn shrewdness . The Yiddish papers dis  --  play some independence in their dealings with campaign managers . The newspaper with the greatest circulation  --  the Socialist Vormerts  --  is entirely out of their reach . The rapidly growing Communist Freiheit is closed to their en  --  deavors too . The other smaller papers , while open to traffic with the Republican and Democratic parties , are rapidly waning in influence . Yet even with them the campaign managers and advertising brokers are obliged to be decent . real world ; that adolescent whose - stormy inner life had been so neatly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be an anomaly  --  but what I knew of my friends made me doubt it . Certainly I put up as good a bluff as any of them . It was fifteen years since I married my lovable and sympa  --  thetic husband . Our marriage had been a happy one . Our home was comfortable and well-ordered ; our children were robust and jolly . I had a job . And I managed to conduct myself on most occasions with dignity and sense . But ? I kept right on adolescing . The lecturer had a real feeling for adolescents  --  at least for young ones . He said , in substance , that their im  --  pulses were healthy and growth-promoting . It was n't that they particularly wanted to get drunk or stay out all night or row with their families . Those things were only abor  --  tive ; irrelevant symbols of their vigorous urge to cut loose , to stand on their own feet . That seems to me to fit old-time adolescents like myself , as well as the novices to whom his statements were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were when I was eighteen , and as conflicting . They are only more sharply defined , more poignant , and they have perhaps found new " abortive and irrelevant sym- bols . " , I do not very often drink or stay out on wild parties , and my rows with my family are models of civilized reason  --  ableness . But am I any less rebellious now that I have a husband helping my parents direct my welfare ? Am I more independent since I have two children ? Have I been " emotionally freed " because I love three people , besides those I already loved at eighteen ? My impulses are as healthy and as growth-promoting as they ever were . And their expression , though different , is just as absurd and inadequate as when I sauntered hatless on the campus , cut . classes to moon by the lake , or smoked forbidden cigarettes in the dormitory bathroom .                     