@@493470

The Week IT was clear from the beginning that the second Painleve government was only a makeshift and could not survive for long . It seems almost equally certain that the present Chamber of Deputies can not give birth to a government which is capable of facing and overcoming the financial crisis . If so , the only alternatives would be either some other combination of the radicals and the socialists or a coalition government of national defence with Briand as its probable chief . The first of these alternatives would have no better chance of success than had the government which has just fallen . The second does not seem possible . The differences between the right and the left are too radical . There is apparently no parliamentary party in France or no combination of parliamentary parties which is capable of passing legislation drastic enough to save French national credit . Neither does it look as if a dissolution and a new election would provide a way out . For the election would mean a deplorable and costly delay , and the new Chamber could hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people will have to suffer theghastly results of a further decline in the franc before they will reconcile themselves to the sacrifices which their national financial liabilities impose on them . A QUICK and considerable depreciation of the franc now seems inevitable . Further inflation is the only means . which France is capable of adopting in order to distribute the costs of her national bankruptcy . The politicians and the bankers are both opposed to the honest repudiation which would be implied by reducing the interest on the national debt to 2 percent . The necessary repudiation will consequently take the form of allowing the franc to decline in value . How far the decline goes will depend , so it would appear , on its political consequences . At some moment in the downward career of the franc there will occur a political convulsion which may or may not produce a government strong enough to check the decline . If the salutary policy were obvious and simple such a government would , of course , appear quickly , but it is neither one nor the other . The salutary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As poor M. Painleve complained , he called in all the experts , and they all differed . There is taking place underneath the political turmoil a conflict among the classes for a cheap escape . The question is which class is more adroit and capable of protecting its interests . It will not be the rentier , the farmer or the wage-earner . It will be the financier and industrialist . THE American bankers who have floated Italian bonds to the amount of $100,000,000 have sold to their fellow-countrymen doubtful security and have done to Italian people a sorry service . The prestige and the strength of the Mussolini government will be substantially increased as a result of this American credit and of the additional credits which will undoubtedly follow . In fact the money which the Italian dictator has borrowed and will borrow in this country may have an effect similar to the loan which the tottering government of the Russian Tsar was able in 1906 to negotiate in Paris and London . It will help to prolong the life of a thoroughly vicious political system and consequently it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to overthrow the Fascist tyranny . There is every indication that Mussolini , like other dictators , will have to exaggerate his abuse of power in order to safeguard its foundations . He will continually demand additional financial assistance which Americgin bankers in order to maintain the price of the recent loan will have to supply . But in the end the Mussolini government will fall , and the fall will mean a costly convulsion in Italy . The present Italian government is a poor risk because it is revolutionary and some future Italian government may feel justified in repudiating its obligations . The American bankers should listen more attentively to the wise words of their leader . " When government is bad , " Mr. Coolidge recently declared , " business is bad . " But as from the American standpoint the Italian government is unmistakably bad , Italian business must be bad , and it must be bad business for good Americans to do business with them . THROUGHOUT the whole incident of the Italian debt settlement , the American government and the American bankers have played Mussolini 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of settling the Italian debt to America when as a matter of fact he has practically repudiated it , and after practical repudiation they have allowed him to borrow money in this country just as if he and his government had by their behavior really earned American confidence . As a matter of fact the present Italian government is for exclusively business reasons less deserving of American confidence now than at any previous moment in its career . During the early years of its supremacy its financial policy was comparatively sound . It accomplished a great deal in the direction of increasing the resources and diminishing the liabilities of the state . But recently its original impetus toward reform has been checked , and it has turned to the expedient of borrowing money in order to keep itself going . The funds which it has just raised in this country are the first evidence of this change in policy , and it will doubtless soon be asking for further loans which will be used for a similar purpose . His access to the American money market will be a bad thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the primrose path of borrowing instead of saving in order to meet his liabilities . BUSINESS in its true nature is service , providing the economic necessities of the world ; government in its true nature is a policeman to keep people within the realm of true business and out of the realm of theft and extortion . Government should not go into business ; business should not attempt to use government for private gain . Business and government should be independent but sympathetic . When an outburst of thievery and extortion some years ago forced the policeman to adopt strict regulations , the good had to be cramped in order that the wicked might be restrained . That , however , was a tem- // porary phase now happily passed ; business hal learned to discipline itself and the energies of the government have been released to help true busi ' ness . As a result , waste is being rapidly eliminated , profits are high , wages have gone up and prices have gone down . We are all swimming in pros ' perity and have the fortunate opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coolidge to the New York Chamber of Commerce . Well ! there is something in it ; it is a cogent statement of the administration 's sincere economic and political philosophy , appealing to good Rotarians . We should like , however , to see the questions that might have arisen from an audience of bituminous coal miners , occupants of crowded tenements , rail ' road track workers , underpaid federal employes would-be . purchasers of anthracite , textile opera ' tives ? anyone you please whose immediate meas. ure of welfare is not.private profit . And we should like to see the address repeated when depression overtakes us again ? as it surely will . How fat from independent business and government now are is indicated by the fact that Mr. Coolidge does see anything which business men ignore . A WORD as to the President 's style . Wo do not know whether he wrote the speech to the New Yod ' Chamber of Commerce himself , but it would not be proper to assume the contrary . Among all the dreary collections of flat polysyllables , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his sleep And a thorough reading will put you in the salve state . . While our system gives an opportunity for great benefit by encouraging detachment and breadth of vision which ought not to be sacrificed , it does COt have the advantages which could be secured if each had a better conception of their mutual requirernenta And so on , through acres of mild vague repetitions bubbles rising from emptiness . BUT let his style speak for itself . It is a rare specimen of the Siamese twin style , than which 0 ? style more palpably reveals absence of real mean ' ing . Here are some of the twins : expenditure and depreciation economic and statistical economy and efficiency significance and importance envy or unfriendliness irritation and ill will efforts and accomplishments civilizing and humanizing understanding and reason population and business autocratic and uncontrolled extravagance and inefficiency fossilization and autocracy opportunities and benefits supporting and financing disturbing and wasteful December 2 , 1925 disagreeable and expensive own and control organization and management order and security - economy and construction persons and property progress and prosperity reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they say that language is a habit . And a had one at that . Now that the first attempts to settle the anthracite strike have failed the bituminous controversy begins to assume an important place in the picture . A letter from Mr. Lewis of the miners calls the attention Of the President to the well known fact that many union operators in the soft coal industry have vi-plated the Jacksonville agreement , in the negotiation of which federal agencies took an important Part , and are paying wage scales lower than those . agreed upon . Will the government intervene to sustain the agreement ? If it does not , can the miners be blamed for making " their own efforts in that direction ? " This sounds like the preface to a soft coal strike . Such a strike was vaguely foreshadowed by Mr. Lewis last summer . Since then there has been an important change in the situation : the anthracite suspension , combined with industrial prosperity , has brought activity to the soft coal fields , and a bituminous strike would be more annoying to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The crucial test for the miners remains , however , the possibility of organizing and calling Out the workers in the non-union fields , chiefly in - West Virginia . If that can be done , they can regain a position in the industry ; if not , a strike might easily complete the collapse . ' of the union in bituminous coal mining . THE Customs conference at Peking has finally de- eided upon the full recognition of the Chinese derfland for tariff autonomy , beginning January 1 , 1929 . Though China agrees to abolish the internal tax - on goods in transport on the same date , the  - -  former action is unconditional . Sub-committees Were appointed to deal with the rates and purposes of the surtaxes which China is permitted to collect 1 ? qfore the full autonomy comes into effect . The decision of the conference will certainly strengthen the hand of China in the conference on extraterritoriality which . meets on December 18 . What will strengthen it still more is the extension of the truce between the rival military leaders . The campaignadvertised for this autumn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind Dr. C. T. 1Vang is strong enough to control personal amb itions and allow China to present a united front to the powers the situation begins to take on a hopeful aspect . ISS AGNES REPPLIER , in this issue of the New Republic , writes of one of the tasks confronting civilization ? the abolition of leprosy . Thereare two possible methods . One is segregation . If this could be accomplished leprosy would die out with one generation . But there are 2,000,000 lepers in the world , and no international action on the scale required is possible . The other method , that of cure , has lately become a possibility . TWo American physicians , Dr. Heiser in the Philippines and Jr . Dean in Hawaii have lately achieved complete success in cases not too far advanced , with a treatment based on chaulmoogra oil . The United States has the largest leper colony in the world , at Culion in the Philippines in charge of Dr. H. W. Wade . To provide a fund for special research Governor-General Wood is asking the public for $1,000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in sight ? the freeing of the world from this historic scourge . Contributions should be sent to General Frank McIntyre , The War department , Washington . SEVEN years after the end of the War , military training is still compulsory in many of our colleges . It consists mainly of old-fashioned parade drill that would be of most trifling value in an actual war . It is , however , generally defended on the ground that it stimulates patriotism and benefits the physical and moral character of the student . Few of those who know the actual conditions under which the drills are carried on can make such claims with a straight face . The real reason for the retention of this so-called military training is rather that college authorities habitually desire peace and do not like to be distracted by denunciations from loudmouthed self-appointed censors of other people 's patriotism , who used to find it rather easy to attain brief and cheap notoriety by denouncing others as pacifists , bolshevists , traitors , etc . But there are signs of returning sobriety ; and it is encouraging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the efforts of the New York . City College students to have military training in their institution made optional rather than compulsory . Almost all the New York daily papers reprinted the striking Armistice Day editorial of the City College Campus . which pulverized the pretended moral value of military training by quoting the official military manual to the effect that the real object of military training is to win battles by stimulating the inherent desire to fight and kill and that the principles of fair play and consideration for your opponent have no place in it . The newspapers ' also reported without any note of horror the resulting overwhelming vote of the students against compulsory military training . The expected outburst of abusive epithets such as " cowards , " " liars , " " communists " and " potential traitors " from the mouth of the notorious Mr. Cuvillier and others made little impression . Whatever may be the future action of the City College authorities in respect to the request of the students , President Mezes certainly deserves the commendation of liberal Americans for allowing his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a question on which they have had actual experience , and in which they primarily are interested .                     