@@487231

C HRISTMAS is truly in the air when President Harding , the Pope , and Anatole France join hands to urge relief for the Volga famine sufferers . Communist , Catholic , and Protestant President have not actually signed a joint appeal ? though such extremes come near to meeting in the famine campaign in New York  --  yet in one week we read that Anatole France has given the 400,000 francs of his Nobel Prize to Russian relief , that the Pope has given $160,000 and plans to give more through Mr. Nansen , and that the President of the United States urges the Congress to appropriate money to buy 10,000,000 bushels of seed-corn and a million bushels of wheat for the same purpose . The blockade of human sympathy is lifting . We can only urge our readers to be as generous within their means , and give them three addresses : American Federated Russian Famine Committee ( distributing through Soviet Russian Red Cross ) , 110 West 40th Street ; Russian Famine Fund ( collecting for distribution by the Quakers ) , 15 Park Row @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Broadway , all New York City . Choose which you will  --  but give ! T HE Canadian elections resulted in. a sweeping defeat for conservatism rather than in a victory for liberalism . The differences between the Liberals and Conservatives are not very much more important than those between the Republican and Democratic parties in the United States ; but at least the Liberal landslide may result in tariff reduc-Lions and in a more friendly policy toward the United States  --  which American protectionists do little enough to encourage . The interesting feature of the election was the geographical cleavage shown in the result . The Liberals swept the East , winning all of Quebec 's 65 seats , while the Progressives , representing the organized farmers , made tremendous gains in Manitoba , Alberta , Saskatchewan , and in Ontario as well , establishing themselves as the chief opposition party . The present Government party , the Conservative , fell to third place , nine of their ministers failing of reelection . What will come of the new alignment it is hard to say . W. L. Mackenzie King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but his support will be local rather than national , and he will have to breast a heavy tide of dissatisfaction from the West . N India the British Government seems definitely to have abandoned its comparative tolerance of the non-coopera-tion movement in favor of rigorous suppression . Lajpat Rai has been arrested . Motilal Mehru , ex-president of the Indian National Congress , has been sentenced to six months ' imprisonment . Mr. Tandon , chairman of the municipal board of Allahabad , has been sentenced for eighteen months . These are only the more famous of the non-cooperators who have been sent to prison . The wife , son , and sister of Mr. C. R. Das  --  the president-elect of the forthcoming session of the Indian National Congress , which appears to have been proscribed  --  were arrested with more than fifty others for selling homespun cloth from house to house . It was alleged that under cover of these sales they were advocating a hartal ( general strike ) for the day the Prince of Wales visits Calcutta . More than 260 picketers were arrested in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these wholesale arrests and sentences has gone no charge that the victims advocated violence . The English are taking strange methods to secure the peace of India or an enthusiastic welcome to the Prince of Wales , and he at least ought to be a good enough sport to know it . To imprison men for peaceful non-cooperation is to invite violence . Perhaps the British raj thinks it would be easier to deal with that than with Gandhi 's tactics . " W HO was the last President of Haiti who took office by force of arms ? " Senator Jones asked Georges Sylvain of the Haitian Patriotic Union at the opening hearing of the Senatorial Commission at Port au Prince . " The present President , " M. Sylvain replied ; " he holds office by virtue of the armed forces of the United States . " Whereat the subject was abruptly changed . But the incident is typical of the spirit in which the Senators began their task . Senator Jones , to be sure , was new to the job , replacing the late Senator Knox ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conception of the seriousness of the situation in Haiti . Martial law still prevails in Haiti ; witnesses testifying to the abuses of the military authorities received no guaranties of protection  --  instead Senator McCormick 's proclamation gratuitously warned against perjury . Yet despite the reign of terrorism , witnesses did come forward and testified to torture , illegal imprisonment , and burning of villages , mentioning names of officers and dates and places . The worst abuses are , of course , old ; conditions , at least as regards atrocities , have improved in Haiti in recent years ; but the more important question is , Will Haiti be freed , not merely from individual brutes such as always appear in any military force , given unbridled control , but from the persistent deadening burden of alien military rule ? Have the Senators realized what that means , both to the soul of Haiti and to the soul of America ? There is one good sign in Washington : the reappointment of William E. Pulliam as Receiver General of Dominican Customs . He organized that service under the treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the period of " deserving Democrats . " But what is needed is more than good men ; it is a return to legality , to recognition and practice of Haitian and Dominican sovereignty . G UATEMALA has had another mild little revolution . The president who succeeded Estrada Cabrera a year and a half ago has been put in prison , Cabrera has been released , and his congress , dissolved after the last revolution , has been recalled to receive the resignation of the president who recalled it , while Herrera 's congress is dissolved and all its acts declared null and void . These revolutions are ordinarily hardly more upsetting than a lynching in Georgia or a riot in Chicago , but the present revolution has disquieting aspects . This Cabrera was an old-fashioned dictator , and our Government has wasted much effort to obtain his release ; the Washington report that the State Department was not surprised at the revolution is almost suspicious . The London Economist is convinced , after study of the complicated finances of the Central American republics , that the recent federation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escape over-penetration and control by American financiers ; Herrera was strongly pro-federation and Cabrera is said to be opposed  --  which again is suspicious . And we should be grieved if the new constitution of the Central American Federation had no chance to be tried out . Its electoral prescriptions have the spice of novelty . Voting is compulsory for men , optional for women ; men vote when 21 , or when 18 if married and able to read and write , but not if they are in the army ; married women vote at 21 , spinsters who can read and write , and have independent means , at 25 . It would be a pity to have such a law go by the boards because of a mere revolution . W HAT is wrong with the agricultural bloc ? One would think from the tone of newspaper editorials and the speeches of administration leaders that the very foundations of our government were shaken by the existence of a group of men who quite frankly put the interest of a class  --  the farmers  --  above party regularity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both reality and honesty in politics . Special interests have always been represented at Washington , but their agents usually lobby in secret and bring pressure to bear in party caucuses rather than openly on the floor of Congress . Farmers may well have more in common as farmers than because they happen to be Republicans or Democrats . The bloc is human and probably narrow in its viewpoint , but it is leading the way toward occupational representation in legislation . It is , moreover , serving as an admirable check upon Secretary Mellon 's taxation program : His recent report assumes that the only investors in the country are men with great means who , therefore , must not be taxed . The ordinary man , runs Mr. Mellon 's logic , probably spends all that he can get anyhow  --  therefore , tax the spendthrift . M R. Harding 's proposal for a flexible tariff subject to constant alteration by the Tariff Commission doubtless foreshadows a similar scheme in connection with ship subsidies in regard to which he announces a special message in the near future . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting sign of Republican uneasiness in regard to the tariff . Mr. Thomas W. Lamont prophesied last March that the Republicans would find it difficult to pass a new tariff law . Business delegations have appeared in Washington asking for lower tariffs or none at all  --  something hitherto unheard of . This was notably true of the automobile-makers , who wanted no tariff at all , but who , if reports are correct , were told by Ways and Means committeemen that that would never do  --  they must have a tariff . Else what would become of the Republican Party and its chief policy ? Mr. Harding hopes " a way will be found to make for flexibility and elasticity " by extending the powers of the Tariff Commission " so that it can adapt itself to a scientific and wholly just sic administration of the law . " But the Tariff Commission is now one of the most useless vermiform appendices in Washington . What will happen to business if the commission receives power to alter rates at will ? Will anybody dare make long-time contracts abroad ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor the tariff evil to be remedied . N the same day it was announced that the American Institute of Chemical Engineers unanimously indorsed the use of poison gas in war as both effective and humane , and that the American Advisory Committee to the Washington Conference , of which General Pershing is chairman , urged the complete abandonment of all forms of chemical warfare . One may commend the humane instincts of the Committee and recognize that the chemists , who were not uninfluenced by the dye interests , lamentably failed to understand the service their profession could render by refusal to use science for the suicide of mankind  --  and yet the simple fact remains that the views of the chemists will prevail . It is no more possible to believe that if there is a next war it will be waged without poison gas than to imagine that a resolution of knights in council could have prevented the use of gunpowder . ? After the Armistice , according to the Associated Press , it was formally stated that the American Army would not develop gas for offensive use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which might use it first . Who can doubt that this provocation from the enemy would be as readily discovered or created as were the famous French airplanes which brought Germany into the war by bombarding Niirnberg ? I F the American Advisory Committee seriously desires 1 to check the development of the chemical industry as well as other branches of armament-making it might well consider the plan submitted to it by Edgar Park , one of the largest manufacturers of munitions during the Great War . He proposes international control of all armament-making of every sort whatever , private manufacture to be punishable " by the maximum penalty of each government 's Crimi , - nal Code . " The international committee in control of armament-making is to be made up of representatives of different nations appointed on the basis of population , and the places where arms are manufactured under its control are to be declared neutral territory . " In the event of war munitions are to be distributed by the international committee to the nations involved in proportion to their per cent of interest in the international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reader usually begins to laugh . But why ? Is not such a program really a step toward efficiency and sanity which would be highly commended by the Martian who has heretofore been so disturbed by earth 's lunacies ? If international government is possible at all , why not begin at this point ? We would suggest that the commission be given power to set aside Heligoland and Yap as the theaters of future wars and to select contestants whose elimination would aid the progress of the race  --  but we will not insist . International instead of private control of armament making would be a good beginning . R ECENT investigations bring serious charges of wastefulness and corruption against certain labor organizations and labor ? leaders . Deliberate inefficiency is a bad social practice but unfortunately the present serious scarcity of work may excuse labor for suspecting that the more efficient the workers are the sooner the jobs are over . Not even this partial apology can be made in some of the cases that have recently come to light . The Federal Government has indicted the president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep up the price of glass . Among other things it is alleged that he wrote a letter offering to keep the working year for men in his own union down to twenty-three weeks . That is to say , he conspired not only against the public but against his own comrades . According to testimony before the Lockwood Committee , Inside Electrical Workers ' Union No. 3 of New York is nothing in the world but a conspiracy of a comparatively few workers to hold up their fellow-workers by refusing to allow them to join the union and by charging them exorbitant sums for working permits . It should be noticed that all these unions are not composed of the much-detested " Reds , " but of good , solid , conservative workmen . If labor is going to shape a decent future for itself or for mankind it must get rid of practices on a level with those of the Interborough Rapid Transit Company . WE have so often had to criticize the daily press that it is a genuine pleasure to be th to call attention to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Evening Sun . For many years the most im-portant journal in Maryland , the Sun is presenting the best news of the Washington Conference of all the newspapers that come under our observation . This is not merely due to the fact that its editors have not lost their sense of pro-portion , or to the excellent display and make-up of its pages , but in largest measure to the intelligence displayed in the head-lining and editing . The foreign correspondents as-sembled in Washington are reported to be enthusiastic in their admiration and are especially struck by the ability of the editorial page . Whether this is due wholly to its own worth or to the contrast it presents to the average dull and uninformed American editorial page , of which the Washington Star and Post are such terrible examples , is not clear . Baltimore may be proud of having such a daily . W ITH the adoption of the Sheppard-Towner Bill , after three years of strenuous lobbying and campaigning on the part of almost all the organized women of the country , a new educational system was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States will have an opportunity to receive instruction in matters of infant and prenatal care ? subjects omitted from the curriculums of our schools , but more important to the actual life of the nation than any subject commonly taught . Opponents of the bill charged that the measure was " socialistic " and that it would lead straight to the dissemination of information on birth con- trol . Unfortunately , however , they were quite wrong . Under the present laws , no birth-control information will be available through any public agency . The Sheppard- Towner bill provides for the accomplishment of only one- half the job waiting to be done . Mothers may now be able to find out how to take proper care of their children ; they should have an equal opportunity to learn how scientifically to prevent the birth of children which they have not the strength to bear or the means to support . The task to which the women who have supported the Sheppard-Towner bill should now turn their energies is the harder one of securing the repeal of all laws prohibiting education in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York City tell a pretty story to explain why milk comes later now than it used to when there were union men to bring it to the door . It seems that the distributors are anxious to have the milk-men meet the families they serve , and so send them after breakfast instead of before . A charming picture , that  --  the milkman handing his bottle to the housewife and chatting lightly for a few moments about the children 's croup , the husband 's taste for apple fritters , the latest news concern-ing Billy Sunday , Mary Pickford , and Babe Ruth . We really regret to murmur that for years the union drivers have tried to win later- hours for themselves , and have regularly been told that the public must have its milk before break-fast or not at all . These exigent scabs  --  we hear they have to sleep longer in the morning because of the burden of their night-school classes , where they learn the languages re-quired by their social obligations at the thresholds ! T WO thousand seats there are in the lunch-room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and all two thousand went unoccupied when the fifteen student waiters who work their way through college by waiting on table struck against the proposed reduction of their noonday wages from sixty to fifty cents an hour . Two obtuse students who had considered working at the lower rate changed their minds when they saw that college sPirit  --  which , in America , is a fearsome thing without parallel even in those ranks of labor which prate most of solidarity  --  was against them . Manager Charles Hammond , a rank outsider , announced that he would hire girls to scab in place of the boys ; it remains to be seen whether their charms will offset the unity of City College and fill the lunch-room . Meanwhile the student waiters have formed the Amalgamated Association of Student Waiters and Restaurant Workers of the College of the City of New York . Having noted the eagerness with which the leisured youth of other colleges  --  doubly class-conscious young men  --  have volunteered to help rob over-ailed men of their jobs and pay envelopes , we cry three cheers for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ !                     