@@301160

Wealthy collectors of art are usually old men who , upon retiring from business , find little to do . In Washington , D. C. , there is , however , a young man who is devoting his life to picture collecting and propaganda . He is Duncan Phillips , tall , slender son of the late Major D. Clinch Phillips , Pittsburgh manufacturer ( glass ) . For eleven years young Phillips has been owner of a one-man museum of modern art . <P> When he graduated from Yale ( 1908 ) Duncan Phillips had more literary than esthetic interest . As a child he had lived in gloomy Pittsburgh where his father 's house was hung with murky landscapes of the Hudson River School in massive , gilded frames . Small Phillips decided he disliked pictures . After college he traveled widely in search , he says , of something to interest him . Paintings did it . His first enthusiasm was Honore Daumier ( 1808-79 ) French caricaturist and painter ; afterward there were others : the French Impressionists , French and American moderns . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has the best Daumier collection in the world . In 1918 he had enough pictures to open the Phillips Memorial Gallery in his home on 21st Street , Washington . Since then the collection has grown so large that paintings are crowding the family out . Another house is now being built where the family will live , but when they move they will not strip the 21st Street house of its furnishings . It is one of Mr. Phillips ' theories that pictures should be seen in incidental surroundings , not in the vaultlike rooms of great museums . His collection is open to all visitors , but Mr. Phillips does not want it to be a rubberneckers ' haunt . Unlike most collectors , he gives no extemporaneous lectures to casual visitors but will talk privately to the interested . <P> Last fortnight Duncan Phillips published for the first time a magazine named Art and Understanding . It is hereafter to appear twice a year . Called " A Phillips Publication , " and written for the most part by the publisher himself , its illustrations are from canvases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by John Galsworthy and Virgil Barker . In the opening editorial Collector Phillips gives his credo : " There is nothing esoteric and beyond the comprehension of the average man in that incessant spiritual activity , almost as old as the human species , which we call art . . . . The machine age promises to provide more and more opportunity for leisure . Those who tire of the accelerated pace of modern life and the furious tempo of its entertainments may turn to the fine arts for a cultivation of their vacant time . In such a belief I am striving year after year to interpret to people , distracted by . . . worthless diversions , not only the artist 's point of view , collectively , as a state of mind common ' to all true artists . . . but also an artist 's point of view , whichever of the million and one I happen to be considering . "                     