@@486275

FTo GEORGE W. NORRIS , UNITED STATES SENATOR , GREETING : OR twenty years you have sat in the seats of the powerful in Washington and served your country faithfully and well . During all that time , unlike many- of your legislative associates , your soul has been your own , your voice the voice of reason and justice , your vote the vote of conscience . Wherever you have gone men have respected you , political opponents have envied and feared you . They saw you enter the Senate a reformer , a progressive ; some among them laughed cynically and , pointing to many an example in the Senate Chamber , declared : " The system will overcome him . " The system found itself baffled by a brave and honest man . The years passed ; you were progressive still . The Great War came , beclouding men 's minds , instilling passion into their hearts , making them give out only words of hate and unreason . You remained clear in vision , temperate of speech , loyal to the core . You @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its every ideal , and in so doing you kept the American faith . You have kept it ever since . Always you have been the captain of your soul . And now today , twenty years after your entrance into public life in Washington , you tell us that it is all in vain , that you are laying down your burdens , that you will not return to your constituents seeking anew their votes and their approval . The " system " has conquered you , not by bribes , or by illusions , but by sheer weariness and the force of repeated disappointments . In homely language you declare : " Under the present conditions in Washington and conditions which have existed ever since I came to Congress , it is almost impossible to obtain effective legislation in the interest of the people . I have been bucking this game for twenty years and there is no way of beating it . I 've done all I could . Now I 'm through . " " His lined face , " writes the correspondent who took down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his hair- grown white , the resignation of his speech and gesture , all testify to his utter weariness , and his words are almost despairing . " We realize how the strain has told ; we are aware that you have held your office all these years without any other financial resources than your salary and that this has added enormously to your difficulties and constantly kept you in the background when it would have been to the public welfare had you been free to travel , to speak , and to study . We understand full well the wear and tear of the daily senatorial drudgery upon him who is worthy of the office . We know that the fulness of years approaches  --  you have passed your sixty-second birthday . And yet , understand " - ing all this , we can but say to you this is no time to flinch . It is the wrong hour for loss of faith or confession of defeat ; the wrong hour to lay down burdens , however they may bind and chafe . For in America the skies are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everywhere there are signs of an awakening to the real costs of the war , a growing appreciation of the wisdom of those who stood against it and have been justified by its total failure to salvage the world and by the destruction of human and moral values which has followed in its train . Everywhere there are indications that the inevitable period of black reaction is drawing to a close , that the tideof liberalism is rising again . Truth is abroad in the land once more and the sober common sense of the plain people of Lincoln is beginning to make itself felt . The day of the fooling of nearly all the people is once more almost at an end . New allies and new friends are sitting at your right and at your left in the chamber you have so long graced . Then why surrender now ? To you , Senator , the brightening political skies should be an imperative summons , not to lay down the fight , but to take it up anew . It was you , George W. Norris , who when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House . If there is a new fight on now against the Congressmen of special privilege , it is , however , true that the conditions today are not as bad as when you led the fray . More than that , political progress means repeated battles and a never-ending series of victories and defeats , as it is the law of our life that each succeeding generation must fight some of our battles over again . Not all ; some are won for all time . It was you who led in numerous struggles to better the plight of the farmer you know and understand so well . If his situation is again acute , perhaps more so than ever before , that is no reason for despair and no excuse for retirement from the dust and the heat of the day . On the contrary , it is the very reason why the plume of Richmond should wave above them all . Even if it were failure , as you allege , which moves you to lay down your arms now , why then it is once more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crime . The aim must be to fight to the very last no matter what the odds . The very worth of your service , the very fidelity with which you have wrought and battled , is the unanswerable reason why you , a patriot of the finest water , should stay in harness until the last . Do you not remember Cyrano de Bergerac ? His dying eyes see a thousand foes round about him ; his failing rapier thrusts to the end at Prejudice , Hypocrisy , Compromise , Cowardice , Stupidity : I know I shall be beaten by your might . What matters it ! I fight ! I fight ! I fight ! And there was Terentius Varro , Roman consul . Have you forgotten him ? He and his fellow-consul lost their battle to the enemy ; his comrade fell . But when Varro returned to Rome with his beaten legions , the populace and the Senate greeted him with acclaim , for , they said , " in the darkest hour he had not despaired of the republic . " If it were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outpouring of the populace upon the . plaza behind the noblest building in the world , within which you labor . We should have no patricians , no lictors , no centurions , and no pro-consuls in the gathering  --  only the humblest of our citizens , attired not in garments of ceremony but in the garb of arduous toil . We should have them call you forth and ask that you still serve on . We believe that you would not be able to resist such a call to further service , for you have been of the humble and you have labored for the lowly . For these , until the end of time , must their champions forswear rest and peace and content . We can not by any magic wand call forth this gathering ; we must continue to see it in our mind 's eye . But on its behalf we speak its unspoken words : " Thou shalt not despair . " The Case of the Fundamentalists UR psychoanalyst friends are having a lot of fun with the Fundamentalist brethren . What repressed desires , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with which these Christian soldiers refuse to sit at meat with such enemies of Christ as Dr. Fosdick and sentence to hell all poor sinners who happen to doubt , or not to care , whether Jesus of Nazareth was born of a virgin ! Yet such intolerance is not peculiar to religious controversy . A newspaper columnist has suggested that he knows men who would people hell with those who do not reverence the books of Joseph Conrad . Doubtless in private life these Fundamentalist champions of Jehovah who send their enemies to an eternal hell are good neighbors and stern foes of cruelty even to animals . In a world of nationalists , Ku Klux Klans , and embattled labor internationals there is , alas , nothing strange in intolerance . What gives Fundamentalism its strange savor is its reassertion of the ancient faith that no mundane affair is comparable in importance to eternal salvation and that eternal salvation by fiat of God depends upon the acceptance of His revealed scheme of things . In this conviction the Fundamentalists have the general backing of the church . To be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reformers alike would look with suspicion on the Baptist brother who would reduce the essentials of faith to belief in the deity of Christ , his Virgin birth and bodily resurrection . They would also protest against the brethren-who would make the ancient faith in the imminent return of the risen Christ an essential dogma of Christianity . Nevertheless , despite some vagaries , in its general conception of God , the universe , and salvation , Fundamentalism is undoubtedly in the main stream of Christian tradition while Modernism represents a religious revolution as far-reaching as the Protestant Reformation . Those liberals who insist that they are only reinterpreting the essential truths of Christianity in the thought forms of a modern world have to go very far back  --  back not only to the Gospels but to a critical interpretation of the Gospels  --  to rid themselves of all those theological dogmas which they reject . In the Baptist church the lack of a rigid creed and the liberty of the individual conscience make the lot of the liberals somewhat easier . But in creedal churches like the Episcopal and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Episcopal bishops say that the doctrine of the Virgin birth is an integral part of the accepted creeds , and should be accepted by the clergy , the statement seems plausible to the layman in the pew and the man in the street . It is not easy to answer such an argument as the Philadelphia convention of Presbyterian Fundamentalists set forth : We believe that men should be as free to teach as the winds are to blow . But we also believe that the Presbyterian church is a church whose creed in the most explicit and unmistakable language commits its ministers to certain definite views of Christ and the Scriptures . No men should be ordained to the ministry of the Presbyterian church who can not cheerfully- accept its doctrinal teachings ; and to countenance in Presbyterian pulpits a teaching which violates the creed of the church is as contrary to right as it is contrary to common sense . It is not enough to say in reply that liberals are good men or fine preachers . It is not enough to talk of tolerance . All that may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is necessary to prove that creeds do not mean what they say or are more elastic than they seem . Far be it from us to declare such proof impossible . We are not theologians and our sympathies are with the liberals , ' but it does seem as if the symbolic and eclectic sense in which Modernists are forced to accept the Bible and the creeds was a decided handicap in the battle before them . But whatever the difficulties , from the standpoint of sound religion and clear thinking it is well that the battle should be joined and not evaded . The true answer to Fundamentalism , as the Fundamentalists realize , is not a plea for a comprehensive church . It is proof that Fundamentalism is wrong in its understanding of God 's plan for salvation . If it is right , not it but God is to blame for the whimsical cruelty with which men are sent to damnation . And when one begins to speak of God in this universe of ours , not all the questions asked of the Modernists will come from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beauty of the modernist theology will perhaps sorrowfully question its truth , while others will point to the fact that enlightened Modernism has been scarcely more successful in making its believers the uncompromising protagonists of a warless world or of human brotherhood than has rigid Fundamentalism . The Twilight of a Noble Art 71 1 HE New York newspapers , which are making such a hullabaloo over what they call " the recrudescence of banditry , " seem to be missing the vital point at issue . It is not the increase in banditry but the deterioration in its quality that is distressing . the profession of highwayman or high-sea man is one of the most ancient and honorable of callings  --  synonymous with imagination , resource , and courage . The names of famous brigands and pirates and buccaneers have come down to us from centuries whose princes and governors  --  respectable , house-broken , and uninteresting men  --  have long since been forgotten . Of course there have always been some bad eggs among bandits  --  some men who were merely cruel and greedy  --  but the same is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our best bandits have generally fought fair and sometimes chivalrously . Men like Robin Hood have come to be regarded as positive benefactors . It is disturbing to turn from this picture of when banditry was in flower to the situation in New York and several other large cities . The newspaper estimates of annual losses through banditry are beside the point . It is doubtful if there is any substantial loss of wealth at all  --  merely a redistribution of it . As equalizers of wealth bandits are much more successful than income-tax laws or regulation of prices ; they are more discriminating in their victims than profiteering landlords , bucket-shops , or real estate swindlers . Yet banditry is at ebb tide for all that . The sad fact is that , like journalism and the stage , it has been commercialized ; the soul , the glamor , the joy have gone out of it . Our bandits are no longer men of courage and imagination ; they are mere thugs and gunmen . They refuse to take a chance  --  or to give their victims one . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A once noble and gallant profession has been reduced to a sordid twentieth-century business . It ought forthwith to be admitted to our chambers of commerce and boards of trade . Apparently the only hope for banditry is to do with it as we are doing with the stage  --  to revivify it through importations from abroad . For the fine traditions of the profession still persist in Europe . We read with pleasure the other day of how Mucha , the illustrious Polish bandit , was living up to his duties as a citizen and a taxpayer . He made out an itemized income-tax return , giving the date and place of each robbery during the year , with the amount realized in each case , and sent the statement to the proper public officials with the sum due . He did not even charge off anything for depreciation or dependents . Then there is Romanetti , the popular brigand of Corsica . In the recent senatorial election in the island both the candidates ? Francois Coty , the manufacturer of perfumes , and Adolphe Landry  --  sought the brigand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beneath his dignity as a gentleman and a robber to take sides . The night before the election the police surrounded the Grand Hotel in Ajaccio , the capital of Corsica , saying that they had come to arrest Romanetti , but in the morning they searched the hotel without finding the bandit . Coty was elected . Landry then charged that his rival had ordered the display of police to make the natives think their hero was in conference with the perfume-maker . Coty replied that the police demonstration was to prevent him from communicating with his lieutenants . Whereupon Romanetti wrote to the Paris newspapers declaring that he had had nothing to do with the election , although offered 50,000 francs by one of the candidates . Naturally no clean-handed bandit would soil his fingers with politics . The Woman Without a Country If a female citizen of the United States marries a British subject she retains her American nationality and becomes a British subject under British law . If . . . a female British subject marries a United States citizen she becomes stateless . U NTIL something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States could become citizens in three ways : they could remain unmarried and qualify for naturalization ; they could marry a citizen ; they could marry an alien who became naturalized and acquire citizenship through his act . Unmarried , they were as free to choose as nadn . Married , they were as helpless as babies . They might live here a lifetime and learn " the Constitution by heart , but never , never could they acquire citizenship unless they were married to a citizen . On the other hand they might have reasons for not swearing allegiance to the country of their adoption  --  willy-nilly they became citizens if they were married to a citizen . American women followed their husbands with the same choiceless submission , and lost their citizenship by the act of marrying an alien . And so a bill was passed , without any discussion , making the citizenship of women independent of their marital status . American women were to keep their citizenship if they chose , though they married foreigners ; alien women must acquire citizenship just as men do  --  except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year of residence in the United States to be naturalized . It is easy to pass laws but it is hard to eliminate the chances of personal tragedy resulting from them . Enoughmisery accumulated under the old law to wipe it off the books , but the new law has its tragedies as well . One of them , a case of flagrant , vicious cruelty to young Anna Lerner , American in every but a technical sense , is told in detail on page 727 . And other cases are piling up . Foreign women come here ignorant of our laws , unused to the idea of an independent status . Their husbands are likely to get out into the current of American life and in time to be naturalized . The women , left to themselves , are most unlikely . to . And so , though the law has transformed them into the equals of men , they become in fact unequal before-the law . The Woman 's Trade Union League in reviewing this situation says : In a question of separation , financial transaction , divorce and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ husband is that of an alien against an American citizen . Should the naturalized husband want to rid himself of his wife he has only to persuade her to leave the country on a visit . Her return is that of an alien and therefore problematical . . . . In time of war the father and children may live under the protection of the American flag , while the wife , if an enemy alien , is open to camp detention or deportation . And not only may an immigrant married woman who fails to become naturalized forfeit the protection of our flag ; she may have no other protection . In the course of a recent conference of the British International Law Association devoted to the discussion of the nationality of married women , Dr. Ernest Schuster , a leading English authority , made the statement quoted at the beginning of this article . His concern was with the status of British women married to Americans . Neither here nor in Great Britain have they any legal nationality or any citizenship rights . To the British authorities the Englishwoman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such , but the United States disowns her . This situation obtains in most countries , although a few have passed laws making it possible for a woman marrying a foreigner to retain her original nationality if under the law of the husband 's country she does not acquire his nationality . The complications which may arise where women have no such protection , especially in matters of travel or immigration , are manifold ; and decidedly more painful than those of the American woman married to an Englishman , who can claim the privileges of British subject and of American citizen wherever she may go . In 1922 a joint committee of both houses of Parliament in England was appointed to look into the proposal to adopt the American law , but it appears to be indefinitely deadlocked . It is to be hoped that the difficulties which have cropped up under our new system will not discourage other countries from a change which would have the advantage of ending the anomolous situation now existing between them and the United States , as well as equalizing the status of men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already proposed a general adoption by all countries of the principle that a woman 's nationality should be determined without respect to her marital status ; this would wipe out the present international difficulties . In the United States a vigorous campaign should be set on foot by labor organizations and social agencies of all sorts to make the position of alien women clear to them . Finally , should not the United States take the lead in calling an international conference , to adopt , if possible , some uniform principles in establishing nationality ? We have international codes in regard to navigation , postal service , and the like . Why not in regard to citizenship ?                     