@@164695

Hero-worshipping men-children of Giggleswick School , Yorkshire , were addressed last fortnight by Lord Byng of Vimy , 65 , the grizzled War hero who is about to become Police Commissioner at London 's famed Scotland Yard . Even at Giggleswick little boys know that Scotland Yard has been rocked by scandalous exposures ( TIME , July 16 ) and that the weighty War prestige of Lord Byng is counted on to steady matters down . Especially do naughty little Giggleswickers know about Miss Irene Savidge , who was made to show her pink petticoat in the course of a Scotland Yard Third Degree which caused the scandal to break . With a rousing , boyish cheer the Giggleswickers greeted great Viscount Byng of Vimy . At 65 some men have grown a little old , querulous and malapropian but Hero Byng would speak inspiring words . Soon his address climaxed as follows : " We funny old things look to you lads to be the future leaders of the country . " . . . Made public last week were the majority and minority reports of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parliament to determine whether or not an improper Third Degree had been administered to Miss Irene Savidge , an admittedly innocent young woman . The majority report stated that the Scotland Yard police had acted in accordance with traditional procedure and must not therefore be censured , but added that the procedure ought to be modified to protect from embarrassment or indignities innocent persons summoned to the Yard for questioning . Promptly the recommended modifications were ordered introduced at Scotland Yard by special fiat of the Home Secretary , Sir William ( " Jix " ) Joynson-Hicks ( Arch-Conservative ) . The minority report , signed by a Laborite , flayed Scotland Yard for administering an indefensible and scandalous Third Degree , accused police inspectors of collusion and prevarication , and expressed the opinion that Inspector Collins , who grilled Miss Savidge , had deliberately twisted her replies in a misleading manner for purposes of police record . . . . A most unfortunate impression was created when a Laborite asked " Does corruption exist at Scotland Yard ? " and Sir William Joynson-Hicks triumphantly and almost airily replied : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort from time to time , but they wo n't hold water . "                     