@@493472

Civilization and Population EVER since Malthus broke the taboo on the study of population the subject has been beset by alarmists and pessimists . From the time of Malthus to that of Huxley the menace was over ? population . The world was faced with the sheer dilemma of human instinct and outer necessity , the instinct to be fruitful and multiply , and the necessity imposed by the limitations of the food supply . The obscure but formidable Law of Diminishing Returns baffled continually the imperious urgency of sex . The voice of prudence was too weak and thin to hold men back from the destructive impact , whose chief manifestations were famine , war , and disease . Civilization , the striving of mankind towards corn-fort and " progress , " was frustrated at every step by the clash of these mightier forces . Nor was the menace merely a nightmafe . There were real facts behind it . Mankind has a potential ? ity of reproduction whose limit , say sixty new births per thousand of the population per annum , is set far above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law of diminishing returns , bereft of capitals , remains valid . The cultivable earth is nearly all meted out , and intensive agriculture has in every period its quite perceptible limits . The his ? tory of the world afforded to Malthus and his suc ? cessors abundant illustrations of their theme . Migration and conquest , massacre and enslavement , revealed the desperate struggle of social groups to escape the relentless pressure of population . In ? fanticide , abortion , and various dark customs that still prevail on the earth were other epimethean methods of relief . The retrospect gave strong sup ? port to the pessimists of population . Yet the menace has passed or is passing . Certain writers ? one may cite as an instance Professor East in his recently published work on Mankind at the Crossroads ? still use the old Malthusian language , and prophetically picture the fast approaching date at which the earth can no longer support any net increase of population . Nevertheless for all civil ? ized peoples this particular dread has lost its reality . Calculations in terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worth making . Under conditions of civilization there is no such thing as a level of mere subsistence . What all strive for , even the poorest , is not living but a way of living . The standard of living is con ? trolling , for all classes according to its degree , the reproductive instinct which , to the same extent , has become differentiated from the sex instinct . The control is the more powerful the further a class or a people is removed above the unknown level of sub ? sistence . Not the thin virtue of prudence , but the strong urge of a whole mode of life , has intervened . It has interposed , between civilized man and the terror of Malthus , a barrier exactly as high as the height of his civilization . // No sooner was this menace lifted than the pessi ? mist discovered fresh alarms in the very methods which removed it . Civilization , interpreted in terms of a standard of living , has meant a falling birth rate and a falling death rate , a retardation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lessened fre ? quency of marriage . This holds true both for peoples and for social classes . The alarmists there ? upon discovered that civilization was committing suicide and shuddered for the fate of France as the pioneer on the downward road . But the experience of other low-birth-rate countries , such as Sweden , Holland and England , shows that a considerable " natural increase " can be maintained with a falling birth rate and a falling death rate , an achievement which means a vast conservation of human energy , health , and happiness . The case for the pessimist was more obvious when he turned from.peoples to classes . Not race suicide but race deterioration is here the cry , in which writers of all degrees of dis tinction , from Karl Pearson down to Lothrop Stoddard , have joined . The charge is that the more prosperous classes are making a dwindling contribu ? tion to the total population , that in fact there is an inverse relation between quantity and quality in re ? spect of effective fertility , that therefore the popula ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change of composition , being recruited in proportions disparate to their numbers from the less advanced , less educated , less skilled , and less successful elements . - So profound a contradiction of the doctrine of survival through fitness deserves the most careful scrutiny . Hitherto we have been embarrassed by the lack of accurate statistics . The English Report on the Fertility of Marriage , based on the 1911 Census but only published last year , for the first time makes possible a real comparison of social classes . The following table has been compiled from evi ? dence provided by this Report . It has certain minor statistical defects , but may be taken as giving us a very near approximation to the true comparison of social classes , so far as effective fertility is con ? cerned . One of the classes enumerated in the Re ? port , intermediate between the upper and middle classes and the skilled workmen , is omitted because of inadequate data . It would appear that in England , at the date of the 1911 Census , there was truth in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their numbers from the professional and well-to-do classes , but that the counterpart of the charge was much less true , viz. , that the population was most recruited from the least successful and socially lowest elements . It is noteworthy that the very large class of skilled workmen fully held their own as parents of the rising generation . But the posi ? tion of Class I , comprising the professions as well as " capitalists , enterpriserS , managers , " was dis ? quieting . If the condition shown were a permanent one , it would certainly go some way to justify those who maintain that civilization itself is dysgenic , that the social and the biological factors are at war , even that the fulfilment of the individual or the group is , as Spencer foreboded , achieved at the expense of the race . Before we yield to these alarms let us be quite clear on certain points . In the first place , there can be no question that the general decline in the birth rate as well as the differential decline for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? one who still doubts it will find a thousand evidences in the Report we have cited . If English cotton-spinners are far less fertile than English miners we find the explanation in their mode of life , involving as it does the extensive employment of married women in factories . If domestic chauffeurs are less fertile than taxi-drivers , a like explanation is near at hand . Throughout the whole list of occupations and professions it is remarkable how directly effec ? tive fertility responds to conditions arising out of the mode of life . Thus actors have the lowest fer ? tility among the professions and clergymen the highest , though even the latter rank in this respect very far below the classes of manual workers . In passing , it is not without interest that clergymen of the Church of England exhibit a greater retardation of marriage and a lower fertility after marriage than do clergymen of other denominations , while the latter in turn are less fertile than " scripture readers , itinerant preachers , mission workers . " Those who still believe that the falling birth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exercise vast ingenuity to explain such variations . In the second place , as we have pointed out , the concomitant decline in the two vital rates is part of the process by which civilization protects itself against forces which would undermine it . It is not suicide but self-defence . It is likewise a significant fact that the alternative control , the dismal checks of war , famine , and disease , do not under conditions of civilization relieve , but rather intensify , the pres ? sure of population . These evils aggravate the economic stress of the peoples they visit . Modern warfare leaves in its wake more unemployment and a lower standard of living . The alternative con ? trol is therefore no longer an alternative . Civiliza ? tion admits of no real control from without , through the death rate ; it must , if it , is to live and flourish , be controlled from within , through the birth rate . In the third place , it appears that differences of nationality or race or religion or climatic or geographical condition have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and standard of life . The latter may occur rapidly while the former arc wholly or relatively unaffected , and they seem to be immediately translated into terms of fertility . The recent fall in the birth rate of the Catholic countries of Europe , Austria , Hungary , and Italy , is a good illustration . The general decline of birth rate and death rate in all civilized countries shows that we are in the sweep of a movement which is as broad and deep as the current of civilization . And the fact that for the latest periods the range of variation in fertility is greater for intranational groups or classes than for nations as wholes indi ? cates , what indeed we might infer from many other evidences , that nations are more assimilated within a common civilization than are the groups of which they are composed . If we bear these facts in mind we can save our ? selves from the conclusions of our alarmists . Like all great social movements this change in fertility reveals itself first and most at the salient points , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thence permeates the rest of society . This truth must always be remembered when we seek to interpret recent changes which in their first onset widen the differentiation of social classes . The tendency of civilization is to assimilate and not to dissociate further the respective modes of life of the various social classes . May it not be that the contrary tendency which the study of fer ? tility reveals is due to the fact that the whole pro ? cess is only in its initial stages ? There are numerous indications which point in this direction . The English Report shows a re ? markable continuity in the decline , since the late seventies , of both birth rate and death rate for all classes , and also a progressive retardation of the age at marriage . There is , of course , a limit to the fall , set in the nature of things , and as it is ap ? proached it seems reasonable to expect that the classes which have yielded more slowly to these in ? fluences will continue to reveal their operation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case of nations . While the countries of rela ? tively higher fertility have exhibited a more con ? tinuous decline , France , in particular , seems to have approached its limit , so that its birth rate approxi ? mates much more nearly than before to that of other civilized countries . The psychological and " sympathetic " nature of the process is revealed by the interesting fact that " the birthplace of the hus ? band has much more influence upon the size of the family than that of the wife . " When , for example , rural-born husbands marry in London London-born wives their families approximate to the rural type , but when rural-born wives marry in London Lon ? don-born husbands their families arc smaller , ap ? proaching the city type . A similar phenomenon occurs in marriages where husband and wife are of different nationalities . We wish the United States Census authorities would provide us with American figures on this subject . They should certainly be of great significance for a coun ? try of immigration . Influences that bear on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the classes which stand higher in prestige and wealth . More ? over in this case there are no economic barriers which prevent the other ranks of society from fol ? lowing the lead . In times of compulsory education and some degree of prohibition of child labor the economic persuasion is towards the restriction of fertility for the poorer classes . One further con ? consideration of importance should be added . Birth rate and death rate undoubtedly react on one another , but there is a distinction to be made . The fall of the birth rate depends on a cultural condi ? tion , the fall of the death rate depends on the ap ? plication of science which arises within but extends beyond the cultural condition . In other words the fall in the birth rate is primarily a matter of psychol ? ogy , whereas the fall in the death rate is a matter of hygiene and sanitation . Now preventive medi ? cine is socialized medicine , and its development affects at once , even if not equally , the whole of society . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in child mortality , is likely to precede , in the less educated ranks of society , a fall in the birth rate and so to increase their comparative ad ? vantage over other classes . But this most desirable conservation of child life may prepare the way for the reception of the influences which make for birth control . Again we may appeal to the case of coun ? tries , where , as in England , the death rate had been falling somewhat before the decline of the birth rate became manifest . In this as in other respects the external conditions of civilization were being prepared before the new psychology took posses ? sion . We conclude that if the trend continues k is not unlikely to reduce the class disparities which at first it accentuates . This at least is the hope which we are justified in setting against the fear which the present disparity has inspired . It bids us rely upon , and asks us to encourage , the diffusion of education , and perhaps in the first place of that elementary knowledge which our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The situation in this re ? gard is far worse in America than in Europe . It is not realized by our Solons , or by certain agencies professing to exist for the furtherance of social wel ? fare which instigate them to further repression , that they are in fact endeavoring to prevent the poor and the uneducated from following the example of the well-to-do , and thus seeking to confirm that very disparity between the classes which is not merely anti-democratic but anti-social . Were it to continue it would be ominous for the future of civilized man . But political barriers , though they may impede , can certainly not control a process which is inwrought in the very being of modern civilization .                     