@@493501

The Week THE fall of the Briand government in France seems likely to have no important effect upon international relations one way or the other . As we go to press , it is possible but not certain that Edouard Deladier will become Premier , with a Left government and with Briand back at his old post as Foreign Minister . This is a role he plays better than he does that of Premier , except when he is hampered by the rigidity of a Poincare as his chief ; and any new government will be at least as conciliatory in its foreign policy as that which has just ' fallen . French fears that Great Britain and the United States were planning some sort of definite entente have been allayed , and there now seems little danger of a movement for rapproachment with Germany as an answer , though , fantastic as it seems on this side of the Atlantic , some of the militarists in both countries have been playing with that idea . There is still grave doubt whether France will agree to the proposals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which will be made at London in January ; but at least , the chances of success are as good as they have been at any time in the past eight years . THE chief difficulties with which the naval conference will be confronted are four in number . Japan wants a cruiser strength which is seven-tenths of that of the United States and Great Britain , instead of six-tenths . France objects to the abolition of the submarine , desired by Great Britain and , much less heartily , by the United States . Italy demands parity with France , which the French feel is illogical because they have both the Mediterranean and the Atlantic to consider , whereas Mussolini need worry about the Mediterranean only . Finally , there is the way in which Great Britain and the United States are to dispose of their cruiser tonnage under the agreement as to parity ? how many ten-thousand ton ships each power is to have . As to one of these problems , that between France and Italy , an ingenious suggestion comes from Paris . It is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fleet larger than that of Italy , thus giving effectual parity in that region . It is proposed that Great Britain might be the underwriter of this agreement , making it in effect " a Mediterranean Locarno , " for which a precedent would be found in the British guarantee of peace between Germany and France contained in the original Locarno treaty . Great Britain , it is pointed out , would gain directly from such a scheme , since it is her policy never to permit in the Mediterranean any assemblage of fleets which could endanger her own control of Imperial communications through the Suez canal . It is an interesting suggestion , and one to which no objection could be made , certainly , by the United States . It would , however , be a bitter pill for Mussolini to swallow , since it would relegate Italy once and for all to a position of inferiority to France . AS THE British Labor Cabinet faces its first Parliament , it must tackle a far more difficult problem than it has already solved in winning prestige through progress in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about coal and other distressed industries which depend on foreign trade . These evils can not be remedied promptly , : even by the most suitable measures which could be devised . There is the further danger that the government will be embarrassed in seeking their solution by the preconceptions of some of its most powerful groups of supporters . One suggested cure for unemployment is a large volume of public construction . This may furnish temporary relief , but after all the chief need of the basic British industries is lower costs , which can not be achieved by higher taxes . The coal miners want an immediate return to shorter hours of work ? which is not a measure assuring lower costs . Many of the measures of public welfare to which the government is pledged , , such as educational reform and a better pension system , do not promise any prompt increase of national productivity , while they are certain to impose additional burdens on the budget . The only way out of this ' dilemma would seem to be a firm and daring program for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rational lines , which would reduce excess and marginal production and enable them to compete more successfully in world markets . Basic reforms are necessary , which British industry probably would not adopt if left to its own devices . THE threatened civil war in China has begun and fighting is in progress . The generals allied against the Nanking government have started an offensive to capture Hankow , the industrial center on the Yangtsze River . Next to Shanghai , Hankow is the most coveted prize in the country , not only because of its strategic situation as a port and railhead , but because of its wealth . Command of Hankow gives access to the revenues which can be derived both from the legitimate taxation of the modern banks and factories and from the illegitimate pressure which can be applied for the same purpose . Business in China gives its allegiance , willy-nilly , to the general on the spot . China has become modern enough for its wars to be decided by the possession of the largest coffers , and in this connection it is significant that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a loan of $7,000,000 to the Nanking government , a greater asset to this government than its presumable superiority in men and munitions , or in other sinews of war . AS TO THE battle in progress , nothing is clear . In Chinese civil wars nothing is ever clear except the beginning and the end . Events in the interim take place behind a cloud . There is fighting , and there is intrigue to win over opposing generals without fighting . Both appear to be taking place now , with both sides claiming successes in their official reports and enforcing censorship in their respective areas . In that respect , also , China is modern . It is certain , however , that there has been no decisive result to the fighting so far , and it is probable that unless the rebel generals can win a definite victory fairly soon , their coalition will collapse , for Nanking has not only the prestige of the established government , but the support of the commercial classes in Shanghai , which desire peace and the status quo . COUNT AND @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to enter the United States . Secretary Stimson announces that the ban against them , imposed by Secretary Kellogg four years ago , has been lifted . Mr. Stimson , naturally , can not officially admit that " Nervous Nellie " was guilty of a ridiculous error of judgment ; so he says that the present action is based upon one set of facts , and that the previous refusal to let the Karolyis in was based upon another . He omits to add that the facts which he now uses certainly existed in 1925 , and that it was the business of his predecessor to find them out . Thus ends one of the most needlessly humiliating episodes in our recent history , an episode due in about equal parts to the pressure brought to bear by Count Szechenyi , husband of Gladys Vanderbilt , by Mr. Kellogg 's absurd timidity , and by Mr. Coolidge 's unequalled apathy , about any violation of civil rights . LOOKING back upon the Gastonia trial , one of its most surprising aspects is the reception , by press and public throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no doubt that he tried to be fair , though it is hard to understand why , in the closing days of the trial , he permitted the issue Of atheism to be brought in after all , with a result which was undoubtedly prejudicial to the opinion of the defendants held by the jurors . However , as soon as it became apparent , in the early days of the trial , that he was doing his best to be impartial , a wave of surprise swept over the whole nation . ro paraphrase once again the much-battered definition attributed to Charles A. Dana : when a judge tries to do his duty to a group of workers brought before him , that 's news . 147I-IEN an alien is deported from the United States , should the government compel him to go t ? a country where he is likely to be executed for reasons which have nothing to do with his deportation ? That is the interesting problem raised by the case of Mario Giletti , which is now under consideraion in the United States Circuit Court of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an anti-Fascist . He came to America , got into a fight with , a Fascist named Di Giacomo , was arrested , tried and imprisoned for a year and a half . The law say 's that any alien who commits a crime involving moral turpitude , within five years of entering this country , shall be deported ; Giletti was held to be guilty of moral turpitude , and the government started proceedings to have him deported . As a conspicuous anti-Fascist , however , he seems reasonably certain to be killed if he is sent back to Italy , and under the law , he is supposed to be returned to the country of which he is a citizen , or from which he came . 1 ' 1 other cases of a similar character the Department of Labor has permitted aliens who were subject to deportation to depart voluntarily , and when they ' did so , has allowed them to go to some other coun- , try ; in the past year , 1,900 aliens , or about one-fifth of the total number deported , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to whom it is a matter of life and death , has been denied by the Secretary of Labor the permission he needs . The decision by the Court of Appeals may establish an important precedent in regard to aliens in Giletti 's plight , of whom , unhappily , we seem likely to have an increasing number . THE MOVIES , God knows , seemed to have troubles enough , between trying to delight the millions of their customers and appease the several thousands of their censors , who are appointed to decide what the customers should delight in . But certain organizations of women have now generously made the task harder by appointing a representative , who is to have an office in Hollywood and whose job is " to interpret to the makers of motion pictures the feelings and wishes of womanhood in regard to that medium 's development to its highest usefulness " I This worthy and . conscientious lady , whose name is Mrs. Thomas G. Winter , was chosen after much winnowing . A " conference of two hundred religious and civic leaders from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such organizations as the Daughters of the American Revolution , the General Federation of Women 's Clubs , the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America , and others , to decide what should be done to elevate the movies . This committee in turn appointed Mrs. Winter , who is to work under Mr. Will Hays ' wing and is to be officially introduced to " all producers and other persons actually working on productions " in Hollywood . Now it may be that the producers will be too busy to pay much attenion to Mrs. Winter , and that would probably be the best thing for all concerned , including the public . For this method of improving the movies is essentially misguided . While the producers ' notions as to what constitutes a good picture occasionally result in something interesting , the official opinion of an organization to interpret Womanhood could only result in tying a bib and tucker on any unexpected idea that might sprout in Hollywood . The movies are at present a compromise between a powerful industry and a feeble art ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ germ can not be officially guided by organized champions of such conceptions as Womanhood . If it is to grow at all , it will be only through the slow , blundering attempts of the men in whose hands it is . It is better for us to have silly , and even corrupt movies , with the possibility of a popular art , than movies that have been sterilized by self-appointed censors on the outside . ANYONE with a taste for the irony of events can find plenty of palatable food in the Wall Street . disaster . He may reflect , for instance , on the many disparaging remarks now made about the excesses of speculators , who first greatly over-valued stocks and then under-valued them ; and lie may compare this record with the classical economic theory regarding the function of speculation , which assumes that it tends to stabilize prices and relieves ordinary trade of the risk due to the uncertainty of the future , since , according to this theory , speculators are wiser about future values than ordinary business men . He may also think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the prestige of the Hoover administration . Hoover was carried into office on the wave of " Coolidge prosperity " ? of which a booming stock market was a dramatic symptom . But if the market had not boomed so violently , it never would have fallen with such a thud . And for the boom , incautious optimistic statements by Coolidge and Mellon , if not by Hoover himself , were in some measure responsible . Coolidge prosperity , as an anticle in The New Republic predicted at the time of Mr. Hoover 's inauguration , has turned out to be the greatest danger confronting him . SENATOR Reed of Pennsylvania says that Congress will not pass any tariff bill , since the stalwart Republicans will never pass any such measure as the Progressive-Democratic coalition has forced through the Senate . Senator Smoot , the old high priest of protection , says that at any rate the bill can not be passed before the special session ends at the beginning of December . These announcements are welcome to those who , like The New Republic , see no need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . They were not made , however , with any purpose of reassuring us . They were made for the purpose of scaring enough Senators of the opposition so that they will vote for a bill which is more nearly of the kind wanted by Messrs . Reed and Smoot . These gentlemen shrewdly assume that numerous Democrats and Progressives really want increased duties for the benefit of some of their own constituents . The announcements serve as a threat that their increases will be lost along with all others in the bill unless the recalcitrants consent to be good and come into camp . It is just another demonstration that every tariff bill is the result of logrolling , and that any legislator is incautious to ask for increases in one duty unless he is prepared to bargain for increases in others . Representatives of the farmers put themselves in a weak position when they first started to play the game of protection . DIRECT negotiations between the United States and Germany concerning the payment of Germany 's debt to us for the expenses of our army of occupation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are insisting that the payments agreed to by the Young conferees be transferred directly to this government instead of through the Bank for International Settlements . Yet this bank is generally supposed to be an American invention , and to be sponsored , indirectly of course , by the government of the United States . It is true that the government would not permit the New York Federal Reserve Bank , like the central banks of other nations , to appoint a director to the board of the International Bank . Yet it has been given a veto power over that institution 's activities , and it is assumed that the president of the bank will be an American . The probable truth is that the administration looks more askance at the bank than do the influential financial powers in this country . President Hoover does not want to give official recognition to the bank in the smallest detail , because he does not want to compromise his fixed position that the Allied debt settlements must stand , no matter what may be the future of German reparations payments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the ground that contracts for power and water could not be obtained have been proved exaggerated indeed . The act authorizing construction of the dam specified that it could not be built until contracts were in hand sufficient to pay for the cost of construction of the dam and power plant . Contracts for 65 percent of the available electric energy , at the rate of 1.63 mills per kilowatt hour , will provide an annual revenue sufficient to meet this cost . Applications for power exceeded the amount to be sold . The allotment made by the Secretary of the Interior is probably the best compromise among the applicants which could be arranged . Half the power is to go to the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California for pumping water . Another quarter of it is to go to the city of Los Angeles , arid the remainder to the Southern California Edison and assodate companies . Power is to be sold to other applicants by the principal lessees at cost , and the federal government retains a right to regulate the prices at which the power is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority to operate the plant , this is the best possible safeguard of the consumers ' rights . But Congress failed to specify a wter-power authority and gave the Secretary power to lease the generating facilities . We are glad that so much of the project is to be under public auspices of some sort . Copyright of New Republic is the property of New Republic and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listsery without the copyright holder 's express written permission . However , users may print , download , or email articles for individual use .                     