@@468125

ONE hundred and twenty-six years ago my great-great-grandfather was living in a farmhouse with a pitch to its back roof and a great fireplace , ovened and wainscotted , in the town of Newburyport , Massachusetts . He lived in a community that raised the bulk of its own food , built its own houses out of local materials , and spun and wove most of its own clothing . Withal , it was good food , durable and comely clothing , and housing of a unique and lasting beauty . On High Street were the square white houses of the shipbuilders , and out along the country roads were the farmhouses with their well-sweeps and their dipping eaves . And lovely as were the houses of the shipbuilders , lovelier still were ships ( soon it was to be clipper ships ) which they built . In fact , upon an astonishing amount of the materials which passed through the hands of the men and women of Newburyport , and the other New England towns ? upon iron work , pewter , glass , woodwork , textiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which all the banalities of the traffic in antiques can not efface . Reasonably well fed , snugly housed , and with articles to his hand for daily use which now are jealously guarded in museums , my great-great-grandfather lived his life . Anon he hitched up and went over the hills to the town meeting . The steam engine was yet to come , the first textile mill was yet to be built in New England , the industrial revolution was waiting to be born . A century and a quarter later , after the most stupendous increase in thetechnical arts which the world has ever seen or is ever likely to see , I look about the place where I live in New York City , and out of the window of that place where the sun never rests , and wonder what , in terms of the life more abundant , the industrial revolution has done for me . How much more rewarding , not only in respect to beauty and the things of the spirit , but in absolute material comfort , is my existence than that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inconvenient , my food is softer and less succulent , my clothing is uglier and infinitely less durable ; the day-by-day pressure of the sights and shadows and odors about me is depressing , and cumulative in its depression . In the matter of income , my great-great-grandfather was not above the average of his community ; quite possibly , as a farmer , he was below it . The joint income of my wife and myself is probably three times the average of the community in which we live . Compare the average householder in New York to-day with the average citizen in Newburyport in 1800 , and where does the advantage , in terms of the good life , lie ? Look abroad out of these sullen canyons to other cities ? Chicago , Pittsburgh , Cleveland , St. Louis , San Francisco , New Orleans to the suburban cubicles which girdle modern cities , to Main Street , to the farms of the cotton belt and of the tobacco belt , aye , to Newburyport and its outlying farms as they are to-day . What tangible improvements in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unprecedented invention brought to the inhabitants of these places ? I ask the question . I know that it has brought some well-being , perhaps a great deal to some people . But , looking into dead walls from my apartment window , I wonder again what are the gifts which Arkwright and Stevenson and Watts have placed in my hands . The amazing thing is that I should wonder at all . There is a machine now which can make plows thirty-two times faster than the blacksmith of Newburyport could ever fashion them , a machine which can make cotton sheeting one hundred and three times faster than my great-great-grandmother could ever spin and weave it , and we have in the energy released by the engines and turbines of America , the labor of three billions of slaves , or nearly thirty servants for every man , woman , and child in the country . Engineers have assured us that technical knowledge is now available , which ? if it could be put to work ? would banish poverty , double or treble the standard of living , turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giant power and decentralization bring the culture of the town to the countryside . Why has this not been done ? Why do I look out at my blank wall , why are millions infinitely worse housed in slums , why does the tobacco grower of Kentucky abandon the losing struggle against the marching weeds ? This is a question not lightly to be answered , a complex and baffling question . But my guess is this . It has not been done because an economy like that of Newburyport , for all its lack of engines , was well within the range of human capacity to administer , being in fact the immemorial economy of self-sustaining groups the world round ; but the economy of the machine with its immense distances of transport and its great clots of workers who make no food , and of food growers who make nothing else , has proved to date , except in time of war , to be beyond human administrative capacity . Or better , under the prevailing system of business enterprise , it is held that the machine needs no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and whatever potential administrative capacity there may be accordingly never gets a chance to function . The prime charge upon every politician is the welfare of business in terms of monetary profit ; only in passing and incidentally may he regard the welfare of the whole community . For it is held as axiomatic that what is good for business is good for everybody ; what hurts business , hurts everybody . When Adam Smith spoke of the " invisible hand " which directed this consummation , he little realized that he was founding what has come to be almost a new religion . . The learned Smith and the business men and the politicians may of course be right . Perhaps by scrupulously safeguarding self-interest and anarchy in business we do secure more in net welfare than we should by any other method . All other methods are , to date , largely a matter of theory because , since the coming of the machine , business anarchy is the only method which has been tried The Russian experiment is too young to give any sound evidence on either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contradiction is that if business anarchy is the best way to regulate the machine , while it may keep a few more of us alive per acre of crop land , most of us have not gained anything compared with Newburyport , if , indeed , we have not lost . If this is indeed the best way , it is painful to contemplate the results of any other way . Where would a hundred years of co-operation or state socialism or some combination of these two with laissez-faire have landed us ? With two-thirds of the families of America now beneath the line of the United States Department of Labor 's budget of health and decency , presumably most of us would have long since starved to death had the three billions of power slaves been in any other bands than those of business . Not many of us die of starvation and perhaps , Mr. Coolidge , that is proof enough that yours is the wisest way . Whatever its ultimate wisdom , anarchy is by definition and by practice wasteful . Nor should business anarchy reflect any exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take inventory of certain major leakages and losses which are implicit in the going economic structure . Down what blind alleys has technical knowledge gone ; what dams have choked and diverted the free flow of invention and discovery ; what are the three billions of slaves concerned with that they have not time to destroy these slums , uproot these weeds , build me a decent house in a noble city ? The factor which II is primarily responsible for the dispersion of energy is , I suppose , the lack of community and regional planning . That the rush of the pioneers to conquer a continent must inevitably be planless is as manifest as is the fact that absence of plan makes for an incredible volume of waste . Cities sprang up on the wrong sites , crops were grown on the wrong soil , factories were built in the wrong places , railways paralleled and choked waterways , forests were butchered to the glory of fire and flood , long hauls displaced short hauls , gas wells blew their billions of cubic feet into the air , pools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diluted its output with a tremendous tonnage of ugly , flimsy , shoddy , jerry-built , and generally adulterated products . " Everything turned to profit . The towns had their profitable dirt , their profitable smoke , their profitable slums , their profitable disorder , their profitable ignorance , their profitable despair . The curse of Midas was on this society : on its corporate life , on its common mind , on the decisive and impatient step it had taken from the peasant to the industrial age . For the new town was not a home where man could find beauty , happiness , leisure , learning , religion , the influences that civilize outlook and habit , hut a bare and desolate place , without color , air , or laughter , where man , woman , and child worked , ate , and slept . This was to be the lot of the mass of mankind ; this the sullen rhythm of their lives . The new factories and the new furnaces were like the Pyramids , telling of man 's enslavement rather than of his power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such pride in them . " Thus the Hammonds conclude their exhaustive study of the coming of the industrial revolution to England . It was not greatly different in New England or generally in urban America . Of all the great American cities , only Washington was planned for comfortable living rather than for selling real estate by the front foot . No local region has ever been planned at all and , save for a brief interval during the World War , no budget of national requirements has ever been cast , or the productive capacity to meet these requirements assessed . It is only the sheer fecundity of the machine which has permitted such a sprawling , haphazard growth . If every engine stripped its gears to-morrow , in a few days most of us , in our present geographical location , should begin to starve . In a month we should be dead . Without steam and electricity Newburyport could take no such chances in hurling its people to the economic peripheries , could afford no man power wasted on the shoddy and the jerry-built , could tolerate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blacksmith shops or twice the shipways which normal demand called for ? nor maintain the luxury of a reserve squadron of unemployed workers . Its economy forced a moderately accurate adaption of production to require . ments , and the dependability of the plan is evidenced in the time which still remained , after stark necessities were met , to elaborate and beautify , and stamp upon the output the seal of craftsmanship . To plan for a continent is a harder task than to plan for a town . During the pioneering decades it was folly to ask for any plan at all . But as the Pacific was reached , some rough appraisal , some conscious attempts at co-ordination were certainly not beyond human capacity . Regions have been planned from Mesopotamia down . More American cities might have followed Washington ? and Paris . Waterways might have been aided instead of strangled . The people through their Government might have controlled the exploitation of natural resources . As invention and the technical arts expanded , the co-ordination of national economic life might have become the more competent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was it possible to outdistance Newburyport , only so could the fecundity of the machine create an accelerating reserve of welfare for the whole community . But the religion of private enterprise said no . Take New York City for example . The congestion of its streets puts a premium on death and injury , and adds enormously in transportation cost to every article the city dweller buys , and to every structure built . I know a building where four hundred bricklayers stand in rows , trowel in hand . Yet so great is the pressure of traffic below them , that never more than a single hour 's supply of bricks can be stored in advance ? which means a constant stream of trucks delivering hand to mouth . And when the trucks are halted in a traffic jam ? as they often are ? the masons stand idle . But that idle time goes into the cost of the building . As land values shift , it has become a recognized practice in New York to look on construction as a short-term investment . Thus , instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even ten years ago ? perfectly sound buildings many of them ? are being torn down and scrapped . New buildings spring up , only to be scrapped , undepreciated , in their turn . Consider the colossal cost , the gigantic waste of such a program . Consider the cost of digging a subway , which , when it is finished , far from reliev ing congestion , has only accelerated it . Consider the cost of furnishing water , gas , sewage , electricity , telephone service , foodstuffs to a city so badly planned ; think of the unbelievable number of bottlenecks through which all these services must pass . Think of the plumbing which has to be renewed on the average every eight years , at a labor cost twice that of the original installation . Yet the technical arts can tell us how to install plumbing which will last a generation . Consider the absurd terminal facilities , the half-loaded milk wagons , the hauls and the cross-hauls , the additional cleaning due to the lack of smoke prevention . Above all , consider the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the speculators , the ticket scalpers , the prostitutes , the bootleggers , the dope peddlers , the flunkies , door openers , wash-room dusters ; the purveyors of the ultra , the modish , and the snobbish . In Newburyport there were no parasites , there were no problems of congestion , of subway building , of cross-hauling , of short-term housing investments , of idle bricklayers standing four hundred in a line . There were no seasons of unemployment when half the clothing workers walked the streets . There were no business cycles There was no importing of bulk foodstuffs over half the world . There were no spirited campaigns , supported by expert psychologists , for the smashing of sales resistance . There was no installment buying . These merry things cost unbelievable sums of money ? and what is more to the point th an mon ey , they cost 712 an power . What the machine , what the industrial revolution have done in effect is to permit New York City to support a large population of idle , an enormous population of working parasites , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the congestion and planlessness of the urban area . No little of the energy of the three billion slaves goes down this trapdoor . The technical knowledge is available to plan cities , to plan regions . Mr. J. Russell Smith alone , one suspects , could tell us how to double living standards . But there is no private profit to be made from such plans . They are proscribed . III I am convinced that it is the lack of regional planning which constitutes the main reasons for my failure to gain on my great-great-grandfather in anything like the ratio that productivity per capita gains . Most of the productivity goes into bridging the fissures in the underlying chaos . But this is a large , general and , no doubt , an arguable indictment . It is possible to outline certain other leakages of knowledge more specifically . Consider for instance the concern of the science of physics , chemistry , and biology with modern warfare . As everybody knows and as corporation income-tax returns make quantitatively evident , war is good for business . War has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern science took charge , has there been such a malady as " shell shock . " Science as applied to warfare is well on its way to shrivel up the nervous systems of those it does not kill . Gone in battle are the virtues of strength , determination , skill at arms ? aye , of courage . A little man with a leaky heart valve pushes a button somewhere miles away , and the strength and skill and courage go hundreds of feet into the air together with fragments of arms and legs and viscera . Of the ten million killed and the twenty million wounded in the late crusade for democracy , how many received their hurt in hand-to-hand struggle such as the Romans knew ? Probably not one per cent . The ninety and nine were stricken by the engines of science . Furthermore , with the development of psychology , the importance of civilian morale in war time is being given its due weight ? which means that applied science must not only be directed to the destruction of armies and navies , but to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Which means the wiping out of cities , the utter terrorizing of general populations , behind the lines . Competent technicians are at this moment giving their undivided attention to the most efficient means of destroying London , Paris , and Berlin . Yet when it was recently proposed in Washington that army engineers should design , and army privates should build a bridge across the Potomac , thus salvaging a little of their technical education for the community , the construction industry rallied to a man , and in convention assembled , resolved that the project was an abomination ; that construct ion undertaken for any other end than private profit threatened the whole fabric of the republic . So the army engineers were happily permitted to go back to their plans for blowing the bottom out of the Suez Canal . Consider next the extent to which the technical arts have been overborne by quacks bent on the profitable exploitation of new knowledge . On the skirts of every advance in physics , chemistry , biology , and medicine hangs a well-organized group of astute men of business ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wide publicity which the new discovery has received : vaccines , radiations , glands , salvarsans , vitamines , and even the electron . Let J. B. S. Haldane , the noted English biologist , state the case ; " For every dollar which we can spend on research and publicity together , the food-faking firms have a thousand for advertising scientific ' foods . . . . The faker is already on the market with radiations to cure rheumatism and make your hair grow . These are mostly harmless , but probably the sale of X-ray tubes which may cause cancer , will some day be as carefully regulated as that of strychnine . . . . There is no serious reason to believe that any of the rather expensive products of the sex glands now on the market , and often prescribed by doctors , are of any value except as faith cures . " Consider the mauling which science receives at the hands of the high priests of the Nordic saga . In primitive society men who rose to the chieftainship of the tribe looked suspiciously at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the royal medicine men to help them hold their power . To-day men of property , of so-called Anglo-Saxon stock , and thus possessing prestige and power , find their possession threatened by radical labor movements , by an incoming hoard of shrewd foreigners . They appeal , as always , to the medicine men . But a little difficulty presents itself . The emergence of science has delegated to a twilight zone the gods and myths invoked by the old-time medicine men . Science is on the throne . Softly ; what does the commonalty know about science ? Only enough not to blow out the gas , and to read scientific supplements in the Sunday newspapers . Good . Science , for the mass of men , is only a new mysticism ; a shift from elves in glades to elves in molecules and air waves and germ plasms . And with a zeal which would have distinguished them in the days of the Aztecs , the modern medicine men proceed to " prove by the aid of science " that the Nordics are the anointed race , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chemistry of the germ plasm , that heredity is everything and environment nothing . In brief , they summon science to support each and every prejudice of the American man of property . Meanwhile , on some of their pronouncements science has come to no conclusion at all , while on the balance the drift of impartial evidence points to diametrically opposite conclusions . More and more , for instance , particularly since the behaviorists began laboratory experiments on new-born babies , it appears that environment . as reflected in acquired habits , is the shaping influence on character . But gullible millions swill down this witchcraft , and thus is the new knowledge traduced again . Consider the predicament in which applied psychology has landed . Psychology is not yet a full-fledged science , but it has made important and far-reaching advances in the past few years . The behaviorists , the psychoanalysts , and the industrial psychologists are laying the basis for profound changes in the technic of group control . Where is this new knowledge being principally utilized at the present time ? In the offices of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something to sell knows how to turn into cash three fundamental aspects of human nature : the desire to attract the opposite sex , the desire to exert power over one 's neighbors , the desire to get safely and honorably to heaven . In brief , the higher salesmanship has captured applied psychology , horse , foot , and guns . And the very knowledge which might render us significant help is turned against us to create new wants , new desires , new forms of waste . ( Some psychologist should write , as he starves , a monograph entitled : How To Build up Sales Resistance . No one will read it now , but in a hundred years he will have a statue in the market-place . ) The consumer at large has to-day no standard of reference by which he can determine quality of goods . Only through the painful and wasteful method of trial and error can he hope to separate the shoddy from the sound . The shoddy makers can say as impressive things about their product as the conscientious manufacturer . A certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Government orders during the war . The stock , after careful test , was rejected as inferior . Nothing daunted , the company , by means of a high-pressure sales campaign , disposed of the whole order to the general public . Yet here and there in well-equipped laboratories an enormous volume of data as to consumer products and their relative values for specific uses is being accumulated . The Bureau of Standards at Washington has been making such tests for years . As a result , the federal government saves a hundred million dollars annually by purchasing materials , not on the stimulation of high-pressure salesmanship , but according to specifications laid down by the Bureau . For building materials , textiles , clothing , soaps , cleansing fluids , lubricants , motors , paper stock , ink , stationery , hardware , leather goods ? for nearly every kind of thing which the common citizen uses ? the government pays a lower price for a more durable product ? a price below the usual discount for quantity orders because of the standards and specifications determined by the Bureau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the policy of the government to release this knowledge to the country at large . Imagine the tearing of beards in the business world if it should . The Bureau of Standards in its laboratories has found out which makes of textiles stand up and which go to pieces , which paints and varnishes are good and which are bad , which inks keep their color and which do not , what types of filling station pumps invariably give short weight ; but so hallowed is the conception of private business that this knowledge has remained locked in government files , serving only government purposes . " Sure , " said an ex-Ford employee , " if I went on tightening up nut number 999 any longer , I 'd have become nut number 999 myself . " Industrial standardization is one of the mightiest achievements of the new technology , but it is a two-edged sword . Applied with due regard for the human equation , it promises the elimination of untold duplication , confusion , and waste , and a tremendous gain in the general standard of living . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profit in dollars , it can readily become an unmitigated curse . True to the formula of business iiber cities , it is the latter course which industry has pursued to date . Thirty years ago when Frederick W. Taylor was laying down the principles of Scientific I Management , motion study was frankly an experiment . It promised well from the standpoint of increasing output , and nobody knew what it would do to the employee . To-day we do know . Not completely and finally , but psychologists in industry have already developed the general laws governing the effects of rhythm , sound , vision , fatigue . They have estimated that of the million man-years lost annually in America by industrial accidents , a full half of them is preventable . We have a body of knowledge sufficient to fix the limits of factory standardization . Is it applied ? It is not . With very little exception it is unutilized , wasted knowledge . Nor is the standardization of the goods which the factory worker makes in much better state . Obviously , the great values here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , measurements , tools , supplies ? combined with minimum standardization in those eud products where variety adds to the spice of life . As Cornelia Stratton Parker puts it , " I see no reason why the aesthetic spirit of the nation would be degraded if we all used 21-inch sewer pipes instead of some 22-inch , but I do n't want to see all women wearing the same hats . " These values find little place in the going business structure . There is an appalling lack of standardization in intermediate processes and in end products , like sewer pipes , where standards have only virtue ? a lack fostered by trade secrecy and the desire to secure competitive advantages . The United States Chamber of Commerce so far forgets itself as to assess this waste at one-quarter of all industrial effort in America . Meanwhile there is over-standardization in many end products where variety is essential . Standardization is a magnificent technic when rightly used , but in the hands of the business motive it has so far succeeded only in running amuck . One more item , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by no means complete , must end . Under the acquisitive organization of industry , society shares in new engineering devices , but only to a degree , and only after a period of maximum obstruction . Chief Clerk Woolard of the United States Patent Office states the case , " There are countless numbers of patents which , if in operation , would much cheapen the articles they could produce , but they are intentionally shelved to prevent competition . Concerns operating under old inventions for which they have expended great sums to erect plants , buy up these new and cheaper methods to prevent competitors from getting hold of them . They then tuck them away in their safes , never to be used . " New inventions may not only be suppressed ; they may be presuppressed . A concern may get patents on a whole series of processes in order to tie up the field for the next generation or more . The weighing scale industry is said to have secured advanced patents ( by taking them out on some foolish toy ) sufficient to close the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social loss of this one case alone has been estimated at a hundred million dollars . A member of the United States Tariff Commission in a recent book has put the challenge squarely up to us : " The business world knows no waste unless the saving can be accomplished at a profit . What can not he salvaged at a profit is not waste in the economic sense . As well talk of the waste of atmospheric nitrogen . " And there we are . To release the data of the Bureau of Standards would be alarmingly unprofitable for many corporations . To restrict patent monopolies would stagger the balance sheets of many more . To put the army to building bridges congeals the vitals of the private contractor ; to liquidate the blah of advertising would shrink untold dividend checks ; to make durable goods would lessen turnover . For every obstruction , every hindrance to the free flow of knowledge has been , so far as may be , capitalized at substantially what the traffic will bear . It earns aprofit and is not waste in the business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the direct relief of the community is treason to business principles and , therefore , unthinkable . But as the inventory of planlessness and thwarted knowledge unrolls before us it almost moves us to the brink of treason . Why should we bow meekly before a dogma which , measured by its concrete results , has netted us so little in a century and a quarter ? Why should we accept as an act of faith the somewhat preposterous theory that a few hundred thousand business men , each working within the high walls of his own back yard with never a look at the world outside , can provide the community at large with more and better food , shelter , and clothing than anyone else ever could ? Why dogma at all ? Why does it have to be pure individualism versus pure collectivism , or pure cooperation ? Why all the blood and tears over the " thin entering wedge " ? Governor Smith of New York wants the state to develop the waterpower of the St. Lawrence , which the state owns . Owns , mind you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power remain in the hands of private business . Technically the combination is admirable . The dams and the turbines can be built and operated more economically by the state than by any private company , while distribution can quite possibly be handled more economically by those already skilled in the technic . Yet for this proposal , Governor Smith is held little better than a Bolshevik . Mr. Charles Evans Hughes on behalf of the Petroleum Institute has just petitioned the Government to let oil production go on committing harikari ? at the rate of three needlessly wasted barrels for every one reclaimed ? because private enterprise must not be interfered with . On all long-term projects dealing with the exploitation of natural resources , private business simply can not afford to wait to exploit them systematically and with a minimum of waste . Forests have got to come down , oil fields gush , the cream to be skimmed from coal and minerals , instanter ! The principles of profit demand it . Yet whenever and wherever it is proposed that the community handle such exploitation because only the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project according to technically sound principles , the thin opening wedge is brandished , and a thousand editors sniff treason . And so with any fundamental proposal for community planning . There are doubtless many things that private business can do better and less wastefully than anyone else can do them . There are other things which the community through its government can do best . And still other things which cooperative groups within the community can excel in It does not stand to reason that there is any one divine way of economic behavior for one hundred and sixteen millions of people over three thousand miles of continent . The assumption of high sanctuary by the theory of business anarchy is undoubtedly as much stuff and nonsense as one hundred per cent state socialism . It must be more than a little of a bore to be a business man dedicated to a lifetime of unrelenting greed . No wonder he and his fellows go into conference , or play golf on the slightest excuse , or take specials to Florida , or wear paper hats , or grow maudlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own trough , a herd across whose backs no statecraft can hurdle . Good , decent citizens mostly , but their dogmas are costing us all that the machine and the industrial arts and the billions of power slaves might have done for us . And I guess ? it may be a wild guess ? that until we smash those dogmas Newburyport will continuo to hold its own .                     