@@493357

The Confessions of an Economist A LEARNED friend who has lived in China tells me that these subtle and polite people have no word for economist that signifies anything like our own , so that when they print an article of mine describing American economic conditions they designate my profession and magnify my authority by an ideograph which means literally " philosopher of material things . " This is charming , to be sure , but for me the velvety sarcasm in this suave description has only made more insistent the still , small voice that asks just what and why I , as an economist , am anyway . If " philosopher , " in the prevalent pragmatic American sense , means one who takes things as they are , and as much as possible of them , the Chinese definition may be conceded a half-truth . But if the philosophy in it implies any measure of evaluation or revaluation of material things in terms of life , any quality of creative criticism or prophecy , then it must be taken as a Chinese joke . Despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sincere moments , when we ourselves are not under the spell of the complacent deceptions of our trade , we know and derive no small compensation from the knowledge that as economists we may count ourselves today not only among , but in a sense the archetype of all those professional " philosophers " who wander like wraiths between two worlds , the one dead or dying , the other powerless to be born . And our tragedy and its solace lie in the fact that , though the spotlight of popular expectancy has been turned full upon us since the War , we know we are powerless to aid in the accouchement of any new world , or even to say confidently what , if any , is being or should be born . Indeed , we are rather inclined to suspect that the apocalyptic parturition that has been prophesied is probably a false alarm . At any rate , we hope so , for we know full well that somehow our body of scientific knowledge , our system of belief and our stock of practical wisdom have lost their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a tangle of dry and feeble formulas and phrases , quite inadequate for the impending Utopia . Nor is this self-realization the worst . We know that our real force has evaporated because we have wandered , or been seduced , like Peer Gynt , into a desert where all economic and social doctrine have gradually conformed in their optimism to the eternally cloudless skies , in their social fatalism to the endless undulations of the shifting sands , and in their principle of progress to the periodic peace and prosperity of the occasional oasis . In the chaotic caravans that cross this Sahara in search of an easy and everlasting Cathay , we economists have become the mendicant Kalenders , soothing the uncertainties of the merchant princes with **25;55;TOOLONG and diverting them from doubt and depression with the whirling dervish dances of industrial " dope . " The carpe diem cynicism of the sincere economist in this time has arisen inevitably and almost unconsciously . It is , as I see it in myself , partly the result of a realization of the remoteness of our scientific lore from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the strength of the temptations that have been offered to seduce us from the detachment of scholarship and the solitary search for truth . After some fifteen years of teaching economics , writing and lecturing on economic subjects for the general public , editing economic literature , directing and carrying on research for practical purposes , seeking to bring into our business and industrial organization something of economic rationality as it has come down to us from the patriarchs of political economy , I have to confess to a profound sense of futility and scepticism regarding the cogency or certainty of most of our economic doctrine in face of the protean and fluid reality of our current economic life . It is not that any particular principles in the body of doctrine have flatly been given the lie by the facts . It would be a blessing if this were so , and if one could definitely amputate , say , a part of the classical theory of value , or any of the numerous theories of wages and interest , and forget them or preserve them only as archwological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have so largely become since the skyscraping schools of business administration and commerce have risen on our campuses . Rather is it characteristic of the position of the economist today that not only is there no longer any consistent body of principles to which he can dogmatically subscribe if he wishes , but they all seem equally irrelevant because they all seem equally true . As is the fate of all dead truth , the facts do not refute , but rather ignore them . Anything , - from the price of stocks to the salaries of advertising executives , may be explained by them , for it does not appear to matter in practice what they prove or assert by way of truth , or suggest by way of policy . There is little left for economics to supply but the echo of the tune to which we all dance and for which most of us pay the piper through the nose . This is so , I feel , because economic life has so clearly won the upper hand . It has become so nearly all of life today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age when economic motives and behavior could be more or less clearly segregated because life was much else , it was possible to formulate a body of economic doctrine of some definiteness and pertinency , applicable with some success to the material aspects of human . affairs . But when economic motives have so penetrated and been infused into all behavior as they are today , when economic activity indeed has become the essential form of life , economics is faced with the necessity of explaining everything and so can explain nothing . To realize this concretely you have only to ask a few economists for an opinion on the economic significance of such a current economic phenomenon as instalment buying , for instance . An honest one will tell you he does n't know , that it does n't matter whether it is economically " sound " or not , that the important thing is why it has taken place , and that this is a question that has its roots in our whole contemporaneous culture and one on which economic theory alone can throw little light . The rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and credit , or from abstract computation , that it is sound or that it is n't , and from the moral maxims of Massachusetts or the laissez-faire philosophy of Florida that it is good or bad , and you can take your choice as safely on geographical as on scientific grounds . So , too , there is not an economist in a hundred who can claim any honest understanding of , or who , understanding , dares to question , those principles of prestidigitation that constitute the financial system of the time and that are perhaps the core of our current economic life. - The failure of economics to take fuller account of the whole range of individual and social motives which are now actually embraced in it , though they were not in the Kircaldy or Glasgow of Adam Smith , and its persistent pretense of regarding itself as some sort of natural or physical science , a kind of engineering system by which some superior mentality called " management " manipulates money , men , materials and machines according to some body of preEstablished principles ? all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all the sciences which had their roots in and formed the basis of the mechanistic century , the age of physical conquest that is passing . But the economist much less than others has been touched by the creative point of view ; the dogma of causal relation and the spell of mechanistic repetition dominate him to a greater degree today than they do even the physicist , and certainly much more than the biologist , psychologist or sociologist . The futility of the economist today is due essentially to the fact that there is in us neither the power nor in this period the time to make that intellectual and spiritual synthesis which is necessary to give validity and force to knowledge and experience and to enable it to serve as an effective guide and faith by reason of the real responsibility which attaches to it . This it was that , in its way , gave the pre-war body of economic doctrine its vitality . This was the economics of a machine era which looked no further than the solution of the technological problem of production , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were regarded only as part of the mechanics of management , and in which the problems of distribution and consumption or utilization figured hardly at all . It was the science of blind produc tivity , the rationale of endless acquisition , the outcome of a century of cultivation and ten years of final synthesis of the mechanistic philosophy which dominated every field of thought from international policy to private pleasure . Under the force majeure of the War , which abolished the problem of the market and made that of industrial relations at most a political one , this economic system reached its fulfillment . It taught how to turn out the goods and the way to make men work . What , why and what of it , it never asked . But the powerful organization of economic appetites that it created and that has gripped the world in consequence of it is facing quite new and other problems than that of production . It has grown itself a stomach of unlimited capacity , but its total blindness and its rudimentary circulatory system and nervous organization predispose it to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ataxia , or what not , parallels pathology presents to political economy . The question it puts to the economist , and to everyone else , is no longer , as before and during the War , " how to get it , " but " what to do with it now that you 've got it . " It is altogether natural that the economic science and political philosophy that generated this amoebic monstrosity should , when carried over into this new stage of economic evolution , become a religious system , and its economists , as they feel themselves increasingly impotent , become a priesthood , with a hierarchy ranging from the pontifical Hoovers who issue bulls against depression down to the Fra Rogerses who carry the gospel of periodic prosperity to the aboriginal Kiwanis , converting the wisdom of Wellesley Hills into cash in the coffers of Oshkosh . In an occasional Veblen or Foster-and-Catchings , to be sure , this vast economic ecclesiasticism has roused its academic Jeremiahs or its lay Luthers , but they have usually soon sunk into silence under the force of excommunication , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the jesuitical exegesis of the gospel of supply and demand . This restless , unstable system of snatch and scramble demands of us only a service of consolation and catharsis , and we resign ourselves to it as the harassed medic does to his perfunctory prescriptions of calomel and cascara . In its anxious insecurity our industrial infantilism cries for its statistical soothing syrup as the kids are supposed to cry for Castoria . An age that has ignored or sacrificed the creative spirit of life for a mechanistic science inevitably seeks its sole religion , refuge and reassurance in the abstraction of number and is driven to deify the Index . Only what can be counted can be counted upon , and it is the statistics of the swallows that fall that certify the existence of God . Heaven becomes a cosmic census bureau , the Almighty the Chief Statistician , and we economists are his prophets who interpret the tables of the law of supply and demand . Since all our economic exegesis still fails to solace the business psyche in its insecurity , it has asked us for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cycle which moves in mysterious ways its wonders to perform . Nor does our service here cease . Since words are of supreme importance when there is nothing to ' do , we have become the scribes , the orators , rhetoricians , logographoi and minnesingers of the com mercial court circles , illuminating the missals of " management , " laboriously lettering the lives of the successful industrial saints , emblazoning the beatitudes of business , embellishing the epic of efficiency , chanting the canticles of commerce and tuning the trumpets for the troubadours of trade , at the conventions and conferences that are the tournaments and jousts of this age of commercial chivalry . All this , of course , has ended the scholastic isolation and the academic asceticism which were once our pride and ridicule . The schools of business have installed the cash register on the campus and put the ledger in the library . The radiance of the golden wheel of Rotary has penetrated the contemplative shadows of the academic cloister . No longer do we burn dim , distant candles before the shrine of science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lantern of merchandising . Instead of fingering the philosophic flute we sway the seductive saxophone in the jazz band of big business . But in this , whatever we have profited in professional prosperity we have paid in prestige . Our calling has ceased to be a science or a culture and has become at best an art and at worst an occupation in which the field is ad free and as honest as chiropractic , prohibition enforcement and palmistry . It is neither accident nor knavery that a leading business magazine publishes monthly market forecasts by an astrologer , for the signs of the zodiac and the oscillations of the business cycle are sisters under their statistical skins . Sumner used to say , in the day when economics could pretend to be an ordered system of esoteric truth , that it could never win any distinction because the man in the street who had to have a veterinary to physic his horse had no hesitation about being his own economist even though he starved from it . Today we complain not , for there is no answer to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as we do . The only difference is that the man in the street has become the man in the Street , and like honest soothsayers we know that what he thinks is certainly so and what he wants is bound to be true . ( This is the eleventh in a series of anonymous confessions , in which men and women in various walks of life are giving their professional or spiritual autobiographies. )                     