@@487241

B. New Zealand 's Holdings ( a ) The Cook and Hervey Islands . The South Pacific Islands lying between the Fijis and French Polynesia known as the Cook and Hervey Islands are scattered holdings including between 280 and 390 square miles and a population of 12,797 Polynesians . Taking on the guardianship of - British interests here in 1901 , New Zealand annexed the many small groups and in 1915 gave them membership in the Executive Council of the Dominion . ' ( b ) Mandatary for Ex-German Samoa . Partitioned between Germany and the United States by agreement reached in 1899-1900 , under which Great Britain abandoned all claims on the Samoan group , the Great War brought the British back into possession of the German half . New Zealand was given the mandate in the settlement over ex-German Samoa 's 1,300 square miles of territory - and population of 41,000 ( including 37,000 natives ) . III . BRITAIN 'S " COLONIAL NATIONS " ON THE PACIFIC The motive back of the aggressive participation of - Britain 's " colonial nations " on the Pacific in this reallocation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought to . defend their own weakly occupied territory by a firm control of the-far-flung insular approaches from the over-populated East . These commonwealths have come to have a threefold general concern in events across the Pacific : ( 1 ) In imperial matters , especially where a relationship such as the Anglo-Japanese Alliance is involved ; ( 2 ) with respect to the - status quo in the Far East itself , i.e. , whether or not conditions ? are such - that a nation - situated like Japan will find an outlet for its energies Asia-ward or Pacific-ward ; . and ( 3 ) the growing industrialization of the Pacific basin . and the rise of competing economies giving the Pacific Islands a new commercial significance . The Russian Monarchists at - Play T HE Russian monarchists in several countries are still active and apparently undiscouraged . A statement - Ias lately been put out by Boris Brasol , the representative in the United States - of the Supreme Council of the Russian Monarchical Party , for the purpose of confuting the " many misstatements " recently made about his party . We print - the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Mr. - Brasol 's own pronouncement . The - Far Ibid. , No. 146 . See " Stewart 's Handbook of Pacific Islands , " annual gazetteer , Sidney , Australia . Eastern Republic is not headed " by Tobelsohn alias Goloshchokoff " as is stated in paragraph 6 . Its president is Nicholas Matveyev , elected on September 27 , 1921 . The former head of the government was Stoller Tobinson , who has also gone by the name of Krasnoshchokov . The Russian Monarchical Party takes the following stand on the Far Eastern situation as far as Russian national interests are involved : 1 . The violation of the integrity of Russian territory and Russian interests in the Far East would be liable to cause grave international complications in the near future . 2 . Russia 's legitimate rights in China and more specifically Russia 's right to exploit the Eastern Chinese railroad- must be recognized by the Powers on the Pacific . 3 . Russian consular jurisdiction in China based upon the different treaties concluded between the Russian Empire and China must remain intact . 4 . While Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Japanese capital in the exploitation of Russia 's natural resources in the Far East ( fisheries , mining , furs , coal ) nevertheless any attempt to use the intrusion of foreign capital in the Russian Far East for ulterior political motives is liable to cause grave political disturbances in the Far East . 5 . The secret treaty between Imperial Russia and Japan , concluded in 1916 , shall be abrogated because of its possible interpretation as having an aggressive character toward other Powers on the Pacific and toward the principle of the open door in China . 6 . The Far Eastern Republic , headed by Tobelsohn , alias Goloshchokoff , and Shatoff , shall not be recognized by the foreign Powers because it is a Soviet Republic closely tied to and directed by the Moscow Soviet Government , and also on account of the fact that the recognition of such a republic would constitute a further attempt to dismember the territory of the former Russian Empire . 7 . Siberia as a whole shall be recognized as a field for the cultural expansion of the white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Every attempt must be made to preserve peace between Japan and the United States , since it is realized that an armed conflict between these two Pacific Powers would inevitably cause a social catastrophe both in the United States and in Japan , while the whole world would inevitably feel the disastrous consequences of social explosions on both sides of the Pacific . The Russian Monarchical Party is unreservedly opposed to the Soviet regime and is resolved to carry its fight to a finish against the alien oppressors of the Russian people , simultaneously expressing the deep conviction that the hour of victory is close at hand . The Russian Monarchical Party likewise is unreservedly opposed to those semi-bolshevist , socialist , and radical factions which , although ostensibly disagreeing with the soviets , are nevertheless working for the achievement of the sinister aims of internationalism . The Russian Monarchical Party unreservedly condemns the revolution in Russia which has wrought upon that country misery and ruin . The Russian Monarchical Party believes that the regeneration of Russia can and will be attained only through the reinstitution of the monarchical regime , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Russian people at large . The Russian Monarchical Party is strongly in favor of the widest participation of all classes of the Russian people in affairs of statesmanship including legislation and administration . The Russian Monarchical Party believes that the land question can not be solved otherwise than by means of the utmost encouragement of small or farmers ' land-ownership which will be the basis of Russia 's agricultural progress , provided the lands given to the peasants will be owned by them on the basis of individual ownership . The Russian Monarchical Party is extremely anxious to encourage by all means the commercial intercourse between the United States and - regenerated Russia , and expresses its deep conviction that in the future reconstruction of Russia American capital and business initiative will play a prominent role . THE PRAYER OF A MONARCHIST A wide participation in affairs of statesmanship is not , however , the aim of Russian monarchist agents at present in Constantinople , who have circulated for signatures among the numerous Russian refugees in that city the following declaration : I , signed below , deeply convinced that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rallying of all sincere patriots around the Holy Czar 's banner , and in fulfilment of my duty toward the Fatherland , declare herewith , that not only will I not demand the right of unbounded political free will which has been given me as a result of the sad events of 1917 and the exercise of which by every one of us has logically brought the country to a state of anarchy , but that I will joyfully renounce this pernicious gift by participating in a most earnest prayer to the Oldest Representative of the Russian Imperial House to take upon Himself the great burden of the Supreme Power . I will do this in the firm hope that His Imperial Highness in His Grace will remove from me the heavy responsibility for the further fate of the Russian people , thus granting me the opportunity in clear conscience to take up again a part in the general Russian cause corresponding to my powers and vocation and not interfering at the same time with my duties toward the Church , Humanity , and the Family , which at present I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our Fatherland . 192 .... ( signature ) EDUCATING RUSSIAN-AMERICANS An amazing amount of Russian monarchist literature , some printed in the United States , some imported from Berlin , Constantinople , and Belgrade , the chief centers of monarchist propaganda , is secretly or openly being distributed among Russians of the Greek-Orthodox faith in this country , in order to " educate " them and make them ready , when the opportune time arrives , to go back to Russia and help a Czarist counter revolution . Covering its front page in deep mourning , the Bulletin , a monarchist weekly sheet in pamphlet form , printed in New York , laments Russia 's present fate , and says , in an article entitled The Death of the Nation : Russia will not be saved by the Hoover Relief Commission . The nation will continue to die along the whole vastness of Russia . The salvation of Russia and its people will only be found in the single firm czarist power . To the Czar we must pray . . . . Him we must beg to come and feed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sooner Russia falls on its knees with a prayer to the Czar , the less will be the number of victims of the disaster . Let our prayers in millions of voices , as from a single powerful chest , ring out in the old national hymn : Reign for our glory 's sake , Reign for our enemies ' fear , Czar of Greek-Orthodox faith . ? ? The hour is nearing . . . . The secret concealed desires of the people are near their realization . Already the hearts of the people are throbbing , warmed by his lovely smile . His stern eyes bring terror to the hearts of his enemies . The Czar is coming . . . .                     