@@486192

To the Farmer and for the Farmer The Labor Movement and the Farmer . By Hayes Robbins . Harcourt , Brace and Company . $1.25 . The Agricultural Bloc . By Arthur Capper . Harcourt , Brace and Company . $1.25 . M R. ROBBINS writes to explain the labor movement to the farmer . Senator Capper writes to explain the farmer 's discontent and the rise of a farmer group in Congress to the rest of the country . There is good reason for both books , and both fill their purpose fairly well . The leaders of farm thought and the more thoughtful farmers need better to understand the desires and ideals back of the labor organizations and to have a broader , truer idea of where the labor movement comes from and where it is going . It is doubtful if the farmers of the country , as a class , were ever less in sympathy with organized labor as a body , ever more inclined to doubt the immediate purposes and to question the essential sanity of the men who have been directing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward them the labor unions have themselves to blame . Much of it is due directly to the poor pay the farmers have been receiving for their own labor the last few years . Much of it , I am persuaded , is due to the muddled thinking of the whole country which has confused every movement of a radical , or even a progressive , nature with the extremest ideas of the few real promoters of violence and disorder . The farmer is naturally a conservative ; it is only when things are going decidedly wrong that he becomes a radical , and even then he is likely to be distrustful of the radicalism of other people . Engaged in a business in which he must stick to his job or go under he is not likely to be patient of strikes , and when those strikes directly injure him he is likely to become excessively impatient with all strikers . Rightly or wrongly the mass of farmers blame union labor for many of their own present troubles . The great majority of farmers have scant knowledge of the long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not in position , because of this lack of knowledge , to judge fairly the labor struggles of the present . Mr. Robbins has done his work well . That he is an attorney and not a judge is plain throughout the book , but he impresses one as a fair pleader and as one who believes in his case . Farmers and laborers in industry have interests in common and interests in direct opposition , but each side will do well to keep in mind that , as Mr. Robbins says , the great fight of both is a fight for essentially the same thing , a higher standard of life , and that a misunderstanding of each other 's aims may result in futile and costly effort to prevent what is both desirable and inevitable . If the farmer needs better to understand what laboring men are trying to get and what they have to contend against , the country at large needs the same better understanding of the farmers ' aims and their causes of complaint . Senator Capper is the farmers ' attorney , and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole justly . His book is essentially timely  --  it deals with conditions which may be entirely changed in two or three years , and may be altogether out of date by that time , but it does make clear how farmers feel and why they feel so just at the present time . It is fair , I think , to say that almost every measure advocated  --  a high protective tariff alone excepted  --  will help the farmers of the country in some measure to strengthen their position economically and to make their work yield them a more satisfactory living . That the Senator could look to a protective tariff as one of the means of agricultural reconstruction , however , shows how superficial his study of the whole question has been . The things he advocates are the things the farmer sentiment of the country has demanded . Valuable as his work for the freedom of cooperative marketing has been , he seems to have only a faint idea of the deeper meaning of the development of cooperative business methods and the ideals of cooperation . One is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say that it is a fallacy to suppose that increasing land prices are a benefit to farmers in general , but that they are an indication of a drift toward tenant farming , and an increase in the fixed charges against production which the consumer must pay . It is doubtful if there is another expression in the book with which the majority of farmers would not agree . That one is an exceedingly hopeful sign . It may mean that some day this very capable Senator will really get down to a study of the basic problems of agriculture and really lead the farmers in a definite movement toward a real economic freedom . The book , none the less , is a good book for the man off the farm to read , for it is a mirror of the typical farmer 's mind . E. E. MILLER                     