@@254285

( See front cover ) <P> Grave issues of state and politics sharply focused world interest , last week , on Edward of Wales and on the leaders of Great Britain 's three political parties . The secret had leaked out-after months of official concealment-that President William T. Cosgrave of the Irish Free State has been challenging the authority of the Crown Council as at present constituted . All ordinary powers of the King-Emperor were signed over by stricken George V ( TIME , Dec. 17 ) , to this Council , which consists of the Prime Minister , Lord High Chancellor , the Archbishop of Canterbury , the Duke of York , Edward of Wales and Queen Mary , who has thus far presided . Cables from Dublin revealed that the Irish Free State has been quietly refusing to deal with the Crown Council . Thus a grave issue of state was raised , even as the British Isles were politically in ferment , last week , over five crucial by-elections , and the coming General Parliamentary Election ( TIME , March 11 ) for which camp-arguing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's political complexion that many looked for reassurance upon the face and symbol of Edward of Wales . Wildest Irishmen like him . He has just cemented his popularity with all classes-especially the lower-by what may yet grow to seem an epochal tour of the British Coal Fields ( TIME , Feb. 1 ) , where millions are jobless , well nigh starving , and might conceivably have turned against the Crown . With two gestures of convincing sincerity Edward of Wales did much to forestall that . The first gesture was his report on the unemployment situation , which he denounced in heartfelt fashion as " A ghastly mess ! Worse than I would ever have believed ! " His second gesture was to sell his whole string of horses , renounce the Royal sport of foxhunting , and settle down to the business of the Crown . <P> Today it is not a question of Power behind the Throne . Rather the British Empire , face to face with grave problems of curtailed trade and dire unemployment , looks to the Throne as a source of strength superior to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken by President Cosgrave is that the Irish Free State will not recognize as competent to represent the British Crown any Council not composed exclusively of members of the Royal Family . The presence of such a politician as Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin is , in the Irish Free State view , something not to be endured without the explicit and joint consent of all the British Dominions . <P> Of course all this is just Irish tosh , but the Queen-Empress and her advisers have apparently thought it unwise to overrule President Cosgrave openly . They were faced with a nasty dilemma when occasion arose for the Crown Council to accredit Mr. Michael MacWhite as Irish Free State Minister to the U.S. ( TIME , March 25 ) . But they found a weasel way out . Since the Irish were determined to honor none but Royal signatures , the necessary papers were signed by the Duke of York , Queen Mary and Edward of Wales only .                     