@@490156

IT SEEMS almost certain that before this writing appears our splendid government will have discontinued its practice of poisoning the alcohol which goes into bootleg whiskey . The pressure at the moment is very heavy upon them at Washington . For once  --  once in a weary , long while  --  it appears that the newspapers have been able to brandish an explicit influence upon the administration of public affairs . It is to their everlasting credit that they caught up the issue of poison booze and succeeded in making that curious fellow , the American citizen , even faintly angry about it . Public anger seemed , until the press accomplished this feat , a thing utterly impossible for our voters to experience . Somewhat further revealing of our national character  --  and our national press  --  is the indisputable fact that the issue was largely a fabricated one . It gives me profound pain to acknowledge that Mr. Wayne B. Wheeler was right when he said that the poison booze issue was mostly bunk . Yet , one seeks the truth . Confess that the newspapers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confess that they really turned a worthy trick when they forced our government to admit , for a single moment , that it was being ridiculous in the matter of prohibition ; still the fact remains that most of the talk about poisonous liquor is put on . The issue , indeed , is largely a spurious one , for the simple reason that there is precious little poisonous liquor threatening our lives . Most of us see only the headlines in newspapers . And most of us spent a few miserable moments during the Christmas season : remembering the headlines that told of wholesale deaths , remembering the drink we had just tossed off , and suddenly conscious of a queer , sinking feeling at the pit of the stomach . But nothing happened . Nobody that I know was listed among those pitiable victims mourned by the press , and nobody that you know . And if we had bothered to read the stories underneath those terrifying headlines , we would have been spared even the moments of dismay that came upon us when we were weak with revelry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stories beneath them were inspected . It developed , down in the small type , that the physicians really could not tell the difference between wood alcohol poisoning and acute alcoholism . It developed that most of the people who died were poor devils of the slums , already weak and sick from cold and hunger , who were unwary enough to swallow off too many of the fifteen cent drinks proffered in cellar dives . And it developed that they were classifying all sorts of catastrophes as deaths from alcohol . An old woman took a drink , grew tipsy , and allowed a Park Row trolley to run her down . She was listed as a victim of poison drink . And there were many , many more like her . Further , it is a matter of fact that even in the balmy old days when nobody ever heard of wood alcohol , there were heavy casualties among poverty-stricken drunkards during the gay Christmas season . In short , the statistics upon which the press based its bitter arraignment of the murderous government were somewhat dubious . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There were not half a dozen cases which could be definitely set down as wood-alcohol poisoning . FROM THIS , naturally , we gather encouragement . And proceeding further into the mazes that the statistician provides , we find even more cause for jubilation . The firm of Munsch &; Co. , analytical chemists , were helpful enough to turn over to me an abstract of the several thousand samples of liquor which they have tested within the past few months . Of all these samples , approximately five per cent more contained traces of diethylphthalate , iso-propyl alcohol and poisonous alkaloids . Approximately five per cent more contained traces of wood alcohol . But in no single case were these poisons present in lethal quantities , or even quantities sufficient to cause more than a slight , temporary nausea . In other words , a cross-section of the city 's whiskey supply reveals that ten per cent contains insignificant traces of poisonous materials . From five to seven per cent , according to the Munsch report , is genuine , unadulterated whiskey . This does not mean aged liquor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Scotland , where the manufacture can not possibly keep up with the demand . The remaining eighty or eighty-five per cent of the samples represented ( a ) genuine liquors which have been diluted and adulterated , and ( b ) synthetic liquors , in about equal quantities . These figures seem to me to be of immense importance , for the simple reason that they are obtained from an entirely reliable chemist who is seeking to prove nothing whatever . They make Mr. Buckner 's heart-stopping statistics seem ridiculous and entirely false . They do not represent , of course , the sort of liquor that is sold at fifteen cents a throw in a Park Row bootleg joint . But they do represent the sort of liquor that you and I buy . They show also that the bootlegging gentlemen have first rate practical chemists working for them  --  scientists who have some regard for our life , even if it is only a self-protective regard , and whom we may trust to watch over us . For that eighty-five per cent of adulterated or synthetic liquor which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once contained the deadly government liquids , wood alcohol and the others . By their actions they have proved that they can remove these liquids from grain alcohol , and make it safely potable . This purifying of the poisonous stuff , I am informed by one practiced in the art , is virtually a simple business , even to the removing of wood alcohol . It entails merely a succession cf distillations , which eventually leave the retorts full of passably pure grain alcohol . Wood alcohol removal is the most difficult . But this liquid is not so volatile as grain alcohol . The distillation is carried on at a fixed , relatively low temperature : the methyl alcohol vaporizes rapidly and is carried over ; the wood alcohol vaporizes slowly , and the process is stopped before it has a chance to pass through the coils . Sometimes a drop of it does go through , as our chemist has proven . But the quantity is negligible . STILLTILL , even if our liquor is not , poisonous , it is not very good stuff  - -  and therein lies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We do not mind the prices , considering the current value of money . We do not mind the whispering and conniving necessary to procure the stuff , but indeed rather enjoy it . We are not afraid of going blind , or dying from our tippling . But we are aware that the stuff we drink has none of that fine old musty bouquet that good whiskey once had . We remember that a drink in the old days was healing to the cockles of the heart  --  and we know that bootleg booze is n't , precisely . The bootleggers themselves but rarely contend now for the age and quality of their wares . They say : " Well , it 's what it is , " and gesture philosophically . They know , all of us know , that this is approximately what happened to the stuff we pour from our non-refillable bottles : A reasonable quantity of real Scotch liqueur whiskey is brought into this country , new and faintly raw , but genuine .. A quart of it is divided into four parts , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is filled out with re-distilled government alcohol and water . The color , under this process , pales out , and it is enriched with burnt sugar . Burnt sugar was present in practically all of the whiskey analyzed by the chemists . The varying prices that we pay -- from fifty to one hundred dollars a case  --  actually represent in most instances a variation in quality . Hundred dollar liquor is more carefully made ; greater efforts are spent toward the preservation of the aroma in that original bit of Scotch which fills the bottle 's bottom ; the contraband alcohol with which it is padded out is more thoughtfully distilled ; the bottles and the labels are more neatly contrived . These are desiderata . THE HOST who pays a hundred dollars for his case of whiskey in all truth need not bother to have it analyzed . And the great majority of such fellows do not . There is not a case of record within the past three years in which expensive bootleg whiskey has caused death or a serious illness . Bootleggers , after all , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good customers are scarce . For the casual buyer , on the other hand , who likes to splurge on an occasional sixty-dollar case , the best place to buy is one of the midtown , or far downtown saloons . In such instances , the seller has a permanent establishment which he wishes to Conti nue ; lie knows that the purchaser will have no difficulty putting the cops on him if a few of the guests go blind ; and he is therefore cautious . The danger is in the casual quart , picked up in an unknown speakeasy or from a hotel bellboy . It is through such channels that the bootlegger gentlemen dispose of the stuff which did not quite come up to standard . Most of such whiskey should be suspect . Still , on the whole , there is no great danger . And in any event there is always a simple and reliable test for the presence of wood alcohol . I have already reminded you that grain alcohol is considerably more volatile than wood alcohol , and that is the basis of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in your palm and rub your hands together briskly . Inhale , and you will perceive the sharp and pungent fumes of alcohol . But since it is good whiskey and therefore extremely volatile , the odor will disappear almost immediately . If , on the other hand , the sample contains evtn a trace of wood alcohol , the latter juice will be slow to vaporize . Its aroma , harsh and unpleasant , will linger upon the palms for several minutes : unmistakable in its acridity. 0 MUCH , then , for the scare . 0 It will be pleasant to reflect that perhaps I have helped to make your evening highball a carefree episode . But I do wish to say a bit more about the newspaper activity in the troubled Christmas season . I ant heartily in favor of the uproar that the press created  --  even if there was a bit of exaggeration . The dry people have done so lamentably much of it : lying , and posturing- , and befuddling the simpleminded with distorted facts . If it had seemed likely that the campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sturdy lying in this department , I would have done it with a will . But I am sure it would not have helped , and I am sure that a little truth-telling in this space will not hurt . The Prohibition matter does not lock any too bright for 1927 anyway , what with Congress , and Mr. Coolidge , and the like . So we may at least drown our chagrin and disappointment in an untroubled cup or two .                     