@@468041

WHAT contributions are scientific method and its results likely to make to general thought ; what influence may it be expected to have as its results and ideas are incorporated into general culture in the broader sense of that word ? Before attempting an answer to this question , I Should like to remind you a little more in detail of the position in which natural science stands to-day . Each science or branch of science seems roughly to go through three main phases in its development . There is first a preliminary phase in which miscellaneous sporadic knowledge is amassed and is dated ; theories are pursued , often only to be proved valueless . There then comes a classic or heroic age , in which a general foundation of firmly interrelated principles is gradually laid down , upon which in its turn a coherent architecture of theory can be built , and finally this 16asses over into a period of maturity , in which the position is consolidated , the ; cope of the principles widened , their ) aces more finally tested , and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage lasts for a considerable time , and in many cases a science which thought itself securely embarked upon the third phase is reminded by some fundamental discovery that it is still only in the second . Mathematics , mechanics , and astronomy all emerged into the beginning of their second period ( thanks especially to Galileo and Newton ) before the end of the seventeenth century , while chemistry can hardly be said to have left her empiricist or preliminary phase until Lavoisier and Dalton ; nor physics ? in spite of men like Torrieeli , Boyle , and Cavendish ? until the time of Faraday and Joule . Nor can even the notable achievement of Haney or Hales or Wolff , of Linnaeus or Buffon or Cuvier be said to have carried either physiological or evolutionary biology to a point at which any unity of principle could be seen ; and it was not till the time of Schwann , Claude Bernard , and Pasteur on the one hand , and on the other Darwin with his associates such as Huxley and Hooker ? a time less than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Meanwhile geology remained in her speculative childhood until William Smith and I , yall in the early nineteenth century ; and seems to wait to-day for some new verifying ideas , perhaps from geophysics , perhaps from paleontology , to attain to its maturity . Physics , it had been thought , had reached her third stage before the close of the last century . But the discovery of radioactivity and the development of spectroscopy opened a new world , and finally the conceptions of quanta and of relativity have thrown her old and her new world alike into the melting-pot . She continues youthful and heroic even in maturity . Finally there come the latest sciences of all ? psychology and human biology . Psychology , as even her warmest admirers would admit , is still in her first period . She teems with violent and mutually contradictory theories , about which the feelings of partisans run nearly as high as they once did about rival theological dogmas . I do not know who first made the caustic remark that the vigor with which an opinion is held is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be brought forward in its support ; but one sometimes feels like reminding Freudians and Jungians and the other psychological sects that it contains a considerable element of truth ! None the less , it is clear that the work of men like Mesmer , Braid , Charcot , Richet , Janet , and later of Feud , Jung , Rivers , and many others , has totally altered the position of psychology . Psychology used to lead a dual existence , partly as the academic and introspective handmaid of philosophy , partly as an epiphenomenal ghost or Brocken specter attendant on nervous physiology . From that uncomfortable state she has been raised to the dignity of an independent science ; so that psychological data are now acknowledged to have as complete validity on their own level as do biological data on the biological level , irrespective of whether their explanation is possible in terms of chemistry ; and whatis more , vast realms open before her to be conquered by her own special methods . Finally , there is human biology - in other words , the social sciences : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sub-sciences of anthropology , of comparative religion , of sociology , economics , of political philosophy , we are only at the threshold . We can see that the social sciences can and must become a full-blown science ; but we have not yet quite found out how to effect the transformation . However , both here and in psychology the scientific method is actively at work ; and that is the main point . As a result of all this activity of the mind , we are now reaching a new position . We are , I suppose , nearing the end of what may rightly be called the Scientific Revolution , since it has effected a. real revolution of thought . But revolution , whether in government or thought , can obviously not be a permanent phase ; and we need not be surprised that many , especially of conservative upbringing or turn of mind , have demanded not without alarm , to know where the scientific revolution is leading the world . II I think that the answer is fairly plain . It is leading us , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempts at obstruction , to what we may call Scientific Humanism . The term Humanism , according to the dictionary , is applied to " any system of thought or action which assigns a predominant interest to the affairs of men as compared with the supernatural or the abstract . " It is a particular form of naturalism . It has in the past been specially applied to the Humanism of the Renaissance , which was of course primarily a revolt against the authority of ecclesiasticism in general , and theology and scholastic philosophy in particular , and a revolt which drew its inspiration from the re-discovery of the classics . The scientific humanism of to-day is again a form of naturalism ? how could it be otherwise ? ? and again is beginning to concentrate its different rays upon human life . But it has penetrated far wider and deeper in digging its foundations . It has started with an aim quite other than that of humanism ? the pursuit of natural knowledge for its own sake . And gradually the increase of natural knowledge has overflowed into knowledge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the rest of the world . Science universalized the laws of mechanics , and the planets became servants of man 's thought ? because intelligible ? instead of the supposed arbiters of his destiny . She reduced all material properties , whether of the stars , of the air , of the rocks , or of living bodies , to the combination and permutation of a few dozen chemical elements . And now she is making further studies in the direction of reducing these to permutations and combinations of electrons and protons . All energies become interchangeable before her analysis . The whole infinite variety of things is generated from one matter , one energy , world without end . On the biological level , she established the continuity of life within the species ; and then through the evolution concept , of the whole of life , existing and past . She showed that life was built of the same matter and operated with the same energy and changes as the rest of reality . She showed that man , too , had an evolution , and could only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the light of his past . And meanwhile psychology and anthropology were becoming sciences and archaeology was opening new doors to history ; and the principles of philosophy and the dogmas of religion were being shaken or remodelled under the influence of scientific advance . It may be as well to remind ourselves of some of the ways in which our whole perspective and view of ourselves has been altered . In the first place historyhas enlarged . Until less than a hundred years ago men reckoned the whole life of humanity as a few thousand years . " Antiquity , " so called , was sharply marked off against modernity , and antiquity meant the civilizations of classical Greece and Rome , and of the Israelites . It is difficult to realize to-day what a revolution such work as Layard 's on Nineveh created when it was first published ; for to-day we see a perspective of cultures reaching back far into the past . Beyond the classics and the Old Testament are Crete , Babylonia , Assyria , Egypt . We know something now of ancient India and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only Mexico and Peru . but the strange lost world of Maya civilization . Not only did these extend far back in history , but culture is seen to have formed a number of separate lines . Time suddenly enlarges at a bound , and classical . Greece and Rome suddenly shrink and cease to have the exaggerated and one-sided importance with which they had previously been invested a fact not without its moral for educationalists . Then comes prehistoric archeology and opens vaster vistas . We see high civilizations already existing close on ten thousand years ago . Flint implements take us back through a space of time that must be measured in hundreds of thousands of years . Even the Cro-Magnons had a splendid art ; and they were of the paleolithic period . Behind them there stretch dim ages of eolithic culture , back now , it would seem fairly certain , well into the Tertiary period , perhaps half a million years ago , before man fades out of the record . And Archbishop Ussher dated the creation at 4004 B.C. . . Poor man , what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if these human sciences have made man seem old , geology has rejuvenated him . When we begin to think geologically , in terms not of millenia but of geological formations , and to compare the length of time taken for the evolution of the human type and human society with that needed for the evolution of a new type of animal like the mammals or a new special type like the horse or the elephant , we find man a mere stripling . What is more , it is seen to be not only the absolute amount of time in his past history that matters , but the position of the present moment in the whole cycle of human evolution . The rapidity of human evolution , in so far as concerns man 's tools and traditions , has become increasingly swift since the time of the first recorded flint implement until now . The paleolithic age is far longer than the neolithic , the neolithic age than the age of bronze ; and from that time on fundamental inventions have followed one another with increasing rapidity , until finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the motor vehicle , anaesthetics , asepsis , wireless , and flying , all crowded into less than one millennium . Moreover , the rate of change shows no sign of slackening ? rather the reverse . It is abundantly clear that man as a species is still on the rapid up-grade of his development , in the wild tide of an adolescence that is still far from the peace of stable maturity , let alone , from senility or degeneration . Nor does the evolutionary view of man permit either the false optimism of a necessary human progress , or the false pessimism of inevitable collapse of each and every civilization . Dean Inge and Professor Bury have dealt faithfully with the former : perhaps too faithfully , for it is at least true that the movement of human affairs has been , in broad outline , consistently progressive . The prophets of cyclical recurrence and inevitable degeneration can he readily disposed of ; they can of course point to the fact that civilization after civilization has collapsed in the past , but they studiously forget that the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in at least , four fundamental characteristics ? the increase of population , the rapidity of communications , the rise of science , and the increase of humanity 's knowledge of its past mistakes . Never before has it been even possible to think of progress of thought or movement in the world as a whole ; the world had had no unity . The Roman Republic and the Roman Empire were first attempts in this direction ; but beyond their confines other civilizations were pursuing independent ends , and whole regions and peoples were still undiscovered . III The sober doctrine of progress that emerges from biological studies is this : That slow progress has been a constant accompaniment of evolution , and appears to be a necessary accompaniment of solution intelligible on simple Darwinian principles , so long as the external conditions remain within certain limits . But that it never affects all organisms , and need not affect any particular one ? either standstill or degeneration may equally occur . But with man the matter is on a new plane , since his evolution is in part at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world-process is open to him . Thus we are back at the age-old , obvious idea that advance is in our own hands ? the gods help them that help themselves . Only there is a wider background ? a background on which are depicted all the failures of the past of the world , whether plant or beast or man ; and on the other hand the vision of a general progress of a certain limited kind , a progress slowly ground out by the machinery of existence , of which movement we are the latest and highest product ; our direction one with the general direction of what has gone before . But it remains to ask how the sheer naturalism of science , not merely not humanist but almost inhuman , with all its beams directed outwards , can be generating a new humanism , and once more focussing light upon the central figure of man ? The astronomer is occopied in weighing and analyzing the stars , discovering their history and movements ; that interest absorbs him and carries him on , even if he trample @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physicist , pushing farther and farther into the nature of matter , finally robs it of all of its attributes that are most familiar and most comfortable to us , and leaves us with a world of units all alike save in positive or negative nature , impalpable , invisible , without taste or smell , their very mass appearing to dissolve at the last into energy , their very materiality perhaps being only a local distortion of a more universal substratum . Biology often continues quietly to dissect and describe , and to apply the method of physics and chemistry to living matter , only because biologists are desirous of knowing . They must know , even if the consequences of knowledge are to link man 's ancestry , once regarded as heroic or divine , with that of the apes : to overthrow the accounts of self-styled revelation ; to show the complete interdependence of brain and mind , and the necessity ( even for the apparently simplest and most unitary acts of consciousness ) of an almost inconceivably complex machinery of thousands of millions of carefully arranged brain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspect , pure chemistry . The combined effect of all the sciences has been quietly to cot away the simple framework of divine purpose on which the older civilisations trained the tendrils of the growing human plant . At first sight it seems that science , this emanation from human minds , has not only turned her face outwards from man , hut stripped him of all the robes of his divinity , turned him out of the palace that he had so laboriously built in the center of the world , and left him in rags , pitiably insignificant and suddenly transported to an outlying corner of the cosmos . How can this be humanism , or how can it even lead to humanism ? The answer springs from the application of the methods of natural science to human problems , and the consequent building up of new constructions of thought in the place of those which , with a crash or slowly bit by bit , have fallen before the nationalist attack . It springs in particular from a proper grasp of values . IV To the child most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to conform its life are external , imposed from without . It is to be " good " because it is told to be good , and because it finds that obedience pays . It is to tell the truth because it is assured that to tell the truth is right , and that one day it will understand why it is right . So with most grown men and women up to a very late stage in history . They are to submit to events because events are the will of God : they are to do right in order ? like performing dogs ? to avoid punishment and to attain rewards ; they are to carry out certain ritual and m oral ordinances because these have been divinely revealed . Even when religious and philosophic thought rises to higher levels and asserts the need for loving righteousness , for loving the sacrifice that at first thought seems so disagreeable , even for loving one 's enemies ? such precepts are almost invariably in relation to some fundamentally external standard , whether a divine command , or the necessity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wrong , or the desirability of closer union with God or the Absolute . Anthropology , the higher criticism , and the implications of the general principles of scientific law and order have between them , it seems to me and many others to-day , made these views untenable . Gone is the authoritarianism of revelation , gone the complacent assumptions of a simple personal theism and the consequences which followed so logically therefrom . Gone ? clean gone ? to an ever-increasing number of thinking men and women is all the necessary basis for that whole magnificent scheme of thought which has dominated the western world for over a thousand years , that comprehensive scheme of theology and philosophy which rose to its greatest heights towards the thirteenth century ; and with its basis is gone all its compulsive force upon the mind . But ? and a most important butf ? the realities by virtue of which that construction had life ? they are found to persist . Orthodoxy prophesies for the inquirer and doubter the penalties of blank negation and hopelessness if he venture outside the orthodox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no more build a new house in place of an old without passing through a houseless stage , than one can break down old constructions of thought , philosophies , religions without at least passing through a time of mental homelessness . But the values are there . They may be perceived practically by the man who ruefully surveys the self-caused ruin of his old beliefs ; or they may be perceived intellectually by the scientific mind which has analyzed away the sanctions of the codes and theologies of humanity into myth , or false assumption , or error . The former will find that he still has within himself the mainsprings that prompt him to the same kind of conduct as before ; the latter , if he be not superficial , will ask himself how it was that any purely external standards and commands could have caused the amazingly powerful effects which in point of fact they did . Even the complete mechanist can not escape the facts of life ? he must acknowledge that the ecstasy of the emotion of beauty , the overpowering awe that sometimes seizes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and have utmost value for men ; and the more mechanist lie be , the more will he wonder and glory in the fact that such phenomena are properties of human nature . We find that some values are higher than others ; there is a scale of values . Some are ends in themselves , some only means to ends . The ultimate values , which are ends in themselves , all result from the full realization and free exercise of our various human faculties ; and the higher among them , by universal consent , are the values of truth , beauty , love , and goodness . Why should men be willing to die for their country , to slave on a pittance in pursuit of natural knowledge , to live in a garret in order to be free to write or paint as they desire , to go through fire and water to gain the object of their love , to suffer ostracism or martyrdom for their convictions ? Not because of external commands , but because the value of those activities is to them above the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value in themselves , for their own sake . To put it in another way , certain activities of man , to the evolutionary philosopher , are not only high or valuable in themselves , but the highest and most valuable phenomena of which we human beings have any certain cognizance . Indeed , it is possible to go farther and to assert that , in so far as we have definite knowledge ( and it is a good principle to remain agnostic in regions where our knowledge is not definite ) , it is only in the interaction of objects with minds that value is generated . There is on record the definition , presumably by a bored philosopher , of existence as consisting in the moving of objects from one position to another . But this leaves out of account the setting of objects into relation with minds , and in so doing generating experiences which in their turn have value . The planets move in their courses whether we think about them or not ; but the laws of their motion are a product of human mind . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the steady progress of evolution are only perceived as such ( so far as we know ) by our minds ; and they acquire interest , significance , or grandeur only when so perceived . The beauty of a mountain view , of a tree against the sunset , or of a human face is a joint product of the external object and the mind which finds it beautiful . The mind of a sheep or a cow apparently does not co-operate with such objects to produce beauty ? at any rate these animals are not observed to waste time in looking at them . And most moral philosophers agree that moral values are only possible because of freedom to go wrong . " It is better for a man to go wrong in freedom than to go right in chains . " In any case , science , in taking stock of the world , is brought up against the existence of values , and must then acknowledge that certain attributes of man possess the highest values known . And it is in this way that science is brought back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ search for truth for its own sake , irrespective of apparent value ; the realization of the existence of value and of a scale of values as facts ; and then the adjustment of mental knowledge and of the control born of that knowledge to the value-charged scheme of human thought ? those arc , it seems to me , the steps in the process . V But to what sort of a culture does this scientific humanism lead us ? Even to attempt to answer this would be to expand this essay into a book ; but I am tempted to touch on a few points . In the first place , of course it leads to naturalism , in however exalted a form . It leads to the view that artistic inspiration for instance , or religion , are human functions as natural , if not as universal , as memory or digestion . Too often in the past , and even in the present , do we find the view that religion is a regimen imposed by an external authority , a spiritual patent medicine , to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by force if necessary ? though it is only fair to add that in every age the truly religious have heartily repudiated this conception . Religion has two functions , one individual , the other social ? which naturally overlap and blend in certain places . For the individual it represents an attempt to bring the whole of his personality , including those hidden parts that are not called upon in every-day life , and may be scarcely realized by their possessor , into a relation of harmony and meaning ? with as much as possible of the rest of the universe , the external environment in which , through no fault or desire of his own , he finds himself . In this external world there of course bulks very largely the society in which he is brought up . Or we might alter our definition a little , though in reality keeping to its essentials , by saying that religion was an attempt to harmonize our scale of values with external fact , and to harmonize them not only theoretically ( which is theology ) , but in everyday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by special expressions of religious emotion ( which constitute worship , prayer , and mystical experience ) . And the social function of religion is , or should be , to provide a common basis for the behavior of society ? a common basis which shall contain both intellectual and emotional elements , both feeling and belief , and out of which therefore action can readily spring . A religion , to exercise its social function , must concern itself with the realities of society . To point my moral , I may perhaps refer to some recent articles by J. M. Keynes in which he points out that the Communism of Russia acquires its force from being tinged with feeling . At one point he says , " to me it seems clearer every day that the moral problem of our age is concerned with the Love of Money , " and goes on to assert that the present decay of orthodox religions is due to the fact that they " have lost their moral significance just because ? unlike some of their earlier versions ? they do not touch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolution in our ways of thinking and feeling about money may become the growing purpose of contemporary embodiments of the Ideal . " While not altogether agreeing with Mr. Keynes , I feel that he does clarify the matter considerably . The growth of science , of democracy , and of material and spiritual opportunity appear to many to-day to make it impossible for any supernaturalist and other-worldly religion to become the basis of future civilization . But if future civilization is to reach a fruitful maturity , it must have some religion ; nor do I see insuperable difficulties in the way of its growth of some new religious form . What we call religious feeling is an inevitable outcome of human nature in any state of society which we can imagine as possible ; and it is that which will always provide the motive power , it is that which will generate religions . When Lord Morley wrote that , " the next great task of science is to create a new religion for humanity , " I do not think he was being accurate ; her task is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the religious spirit to clothe , a new mechanism for the power of the religious emotion to operate . Many people appear to regard dogma as unnecessary and even undesirable . For instance , some of my scientific friends , when I tell them that every morning on the way up to my laboratory I pass a large door labelled " Dogmatic Theology " evince a tendency to laugh , while others gloomily shake their heads . But dogma in some form , theology in some form , is a necessary part of any developed religion . Perhaps some of you read the articles on " My religion , " recently contributed to one of the daily papers by a series of well-known authors . Most of them were in revolt against accepted orthodoxy and , in their distaste for what they believed to be false dogma , had overbalanced into a position in which they were without dogma at all . And the effect was often nebulous . A modern society with such absence of beliefs would be like an organism essaying motion on land without a skeleton ? itwould @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for two reasons : in the first place to guard it against doing the wrong things ; and in the second to help it to do the right things . Organization is as necessary to a religion as to an animal or a business ? though it is an organization of ideas that is needed . Without its tested framework of ideas it may tend to the excesses of intolerance and of exaggeration of its own importance , and will certainly proceed to draw false conclusions from half-baked premises if the utmost pains is not taken to do the baking in the most scientific way . In other words , an intellectual basis is needed for religion , because religion must overflow into action , and because in the long run the qualities and values of actions are always determined by the correctness of the intellectual premises on which they are based . Science too has its dogmas , but is ( or should be ) willing to change them quickly and painlessly as occasion demands . In the same way , the set of dogmas for any future type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so that they may not incur the evil repute which , not without considerable reason , attaches to the term at the present day . VI Here it is that I must call a halt , and content myself with a final throwing before you , without any particular arrangement , of a few more of the facts and ideas , all sprung from the advance of scientific knowledge , which will inevitably modify human life and human outlook in the future . Human life , then , is no static affair , but is engaged in evolutionary movement upon a time-scale far vaster than anything previously imagined by the most unorthodox of speculative minds . Human evolution during the historical period , however , has differed from other organic evolutions in that man has developed a new racial organ , namely tradition , with all that it implies of tools , machines , history , and government ; and that , therefore , the evolution of the human species during this period has been the evolution of his tradition , not of his innate physical or mental characteristics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be guided by consciousness , and it is increasingly so guided . But our conscious knowledge is now opening to us possibilities of changing the innate character of humanity as well as modifying tradition . It is exciting to contest nature ; and our contest over nature is certainly reacting upon our mode of life , but a good many people are feeling a little skeptical about its advantages . Mr. Grant Robertson the other day seemed inclined to think that printing and the universal ability to read , between them had had as chief result only what he called " slums of the mind " ; and certainly the modern inventions of telegraphy , journalism , cinema , radio , and the like have so far produced as their most prominent and obvious effect the substitution of effortless mental occupation for any pretence at thinking . To take this view too seriously would be to forget that the cure for education is more education , as for democracy it is more democracy , and for progress more progress ; and that in any case universal education is such an absurdly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any adverse conclusions about its ultimate value than a Martian would be in drawing adverse conclusions about the ultimate value of human beings if his experience of them were confined to a baby of a month old . However , it is true that mechanical contrivances do not alter human nature , and that so long as human nature remains what it is , the bulk of humanity 's spare timewill be wasted in one way or another . But what we most of us forget is the fact that there now exists a science of biology as well as one of physics andchemistry . Physico-chemical knowledge has already given human nature a vast increase of control over its non-living environment . Biological knowledge gives human nature the promise of control over itself . There is no reason whatever which we can see in the nature of things why human capabilities should be evolution 's last word , instead of merely its dernier eri . Our faculties are no more superior to those of a cat than are a cat 's to those of a sea-anemone ; and there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than elsewhere . Eugenics , in other words , is a possibility . A practicable eugenics seems to roe to bear about the same relation to existing biological knowledge as flying would have done to the physico-ehemical knowledge of the time of Empedoeles , and stranger things than flying have come into being since then ? things like wireless transmission of speech and television which the alert men of his time could not have imagined possible . And then to-day we are continually reminded of the orderliness of nature a view with which primitive man radically disagreed , and the realization of the necessity of organization , and of a certain type of organization , for ensuing efficiency and progress ? and I do not use the terms efficiency and progress in the sense in which they are customarily employed by American advertising experts , but as meaning the smoothest possible working of our faculties , the greatest opportunity for self-realization , and a door open to improvement of what most deserves to be improved . But the kernel of the changed outlook lies in this ? that the control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latest child of evolution , consciousness ? conscious knowledge , purpose and goodwill ? as embodied in man . The cynic will continue to call men forked radishes or by other depreciatory names ; but , forked radish or not , man is the highest thing that we know , and he is being offered the trusteeship of evolution .                     