@@488317

R. HOOVER let his darling child , the handpicked Unemployment Conference , march right up to hang its clothes on the hickory limb , but never did he let it go near the water wherein no man knows how many jobless Americans are likely to perish before the winter is over . Which is to say that the Unemployed Conference was debarred at the very beginning from considering unemployment insurance or any scheme of government doles , to say nothing of more radical measures . Its zeal for minimizing the extent of unemployment makes one suspect the accuracy of its figures which purport to show that it is necessary to provide emergency help of some sort for " only one fifth " of the unemployed , that is , not more than 1,000,000 men . The conference from which all radicals were carefully excluded , achieved a formal unity by the simple device of not passing as a whole on committee reports when there was a difference of opinion between Mr. Gompers and the employers . Nevertheless it doubtless did something to increase the amount of money to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it left behind a kind of clearing house under the direction of that able executive Colonel Arthur Woods . On the whole , the Conference gave the employers one more chance to make good their boast that they can manage all the problems of our modern industrial order if only they are let alone . T is not only the railroads which have adopted the plan which the New York World rightly calls " putting the whole burden on labor . " Consider the Standard Oil Company and the Steel Corporation . Both have won some praise by announcing substantial additions to their plants to be constructed so far as possible by their own men who would otherwise be unemployed . But the Standard gets the $2,000,000 it is to spend at Bayonne by dropping the bonus paid until recently to its workers . And the Steel Trust gets its $10,000,000 by a 30 per cent wage cut recently put into effect . According to figures presented to the Unemployment Conference the wages of the steel laborers have risen fifty points since 1913 , while the cost of living has risen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bills for the companies ' efforts to relieve unemployment . Yet not they but the companies will own the new factories that are to be built . T WO recent events in the labor world are of more than usual significance . The first is the announcement of the successful federation of various independent unions among the textile workers . The industrial revolution began in the manufacture of textiles and from that day to this the condition of textile workers and their scale of wages have left a great deal to be desired . In America the field has been largely unorganized . The orthodox A. F. of L. body , the United Textile Workers , has seemed to the mass of the workers neither aggressive nor resolute in. pushing their interests . The I. W. W. has staged some dramatic strikes but has failed to organize effectively . Hence the multitude of independent unions of which the Amalgamated was the strongest . This new federation , which it is hoped the United Textile Workers will join , ought to prepare the way for effective organization even in the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ news is less encouraging . President Lewis of the United Mine Workers has deposed Alexander Howat , president of the Kansas miners . The reason he alleges is Howat 's support of a strike said to violate an agreement with the employers . We are sympathetic with every effort to maintain good faith in labor organizations , but it is to be feared that Mr. Lewis is less inspired by morals than by jealousy of a rival who has proved more courageous in standing for the workers ' rights . Whatever his faults , Mr. Howat has had a sure instinct for real justice in fighting the Kansas industrial court as an unfair and impossible device for ending the industrial conflict . The very strike which at present prevails is not directed against the operators but against the court itself . This open war among the mine workers , whoever may be to blame , is one more evidence of a disquieting disintegration in labor ranks at a time when the anti-union campaign is at its height . rT7 ' 1HE Massachusetts Minimum Wage Commission has handed down a decision of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least amount of money a woman can live on and retain her health with no one dependent upon her is $13.50 a week , the women workers in the " minor candies " industry shall receive $12 . This decision is based on a consideration of the state of the industry , which leads the commissioners to believe that it could pay no higher wage and yet survive . But what of the odd $1.50 ? As the $13.50 budget stands it takes no account whatever of possible dependents , allows but 20 cents a week for laundry , 25 cents for " incidentals , " and a 30-cent reserve for emergencies  --  very modest , unpretentious emergencies we must assume . What with $1.50 a week less than this is a self-respecting woman worker in the candy industry to do ? The answer is tragically easy . She will do what the workers , men and women , in almost every industry in the country are doing  --  live on less than the least possible amount necessary to health and decency , support children on the bitter edge of starvation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gloomy jest . But " the industry can not pay more and live . " - 0 NE bit of evidence before the Senatorial Commission inquiring into the American Occupation of Haiti and Santo Domingo , deserves preservation in the consciousness of all those strong-arm-chair patriots , newspaper editorial writers , believers in " manifest destiny , " Nordicists , and the others who demand that the United States intervene anywhere and everywhere , but especially in weaker countries , when an American life is taken or even an American corn trod upon . It is not our purpose to discuss this thesis here , but merely to quote some official testimony : The Chairman ( Senator McCormick ) ? What specific instances to your knowledge were there , either in the Vilbrun Guillaume Sam Revolution or others , of injury to the property of foreigners or loss of life by foreigners at the hands of the revolutionists ? Can you tell of any case where a foreigner was killed by the Revolutionary or Government forces , or whether property was destroyed ? A'dmiral Caperton ? I do not believe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not allowed to own property land by the Constitution . The Chairman ? Do you know of any case where any of them were ever killed ? Admiral Caperton ? I do not know that I can recall now , sir . Neither now nor at any other time ! Admiral Caperton commanded the forces which seized Haiti . Admiral Caperton it was who , two weeks previous to the brief revolutionary disturbance of July 27 , 1915 , at Port-au-Prince , had already landed troops at Cap Haitien at the other end of the island ; who , acting under orders which will make interesting reading in the near future , then occupied Port-au-Prince and overthrew the established government of the Haitian Republic . If there is anyone who should be acquainted with any possible record of violence against foreigners and particularly against Americans , it is Admiral Caperton . He recalls none because there was none . T HAT committee appointed by the League of Nations to study methods of " helping " Russia in her hour of famine need  --  the same committee headed by the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first suggested sending a commission of twenty-odd men to tour the starving regions and investigate  --  has now decided , according to press reports , that relief for Russia is impossible until she agrees to pay the debts contracted by the Czar . The Revolution of 1905 was stifled and the promises of democracy once exacted from the Czar were violated with the aid of those very French millions which this most Christian commission now insists that the hungry Russians must pay . Many of our American States defaulted their debts some decades ago ; France , like England , is some hundreds of millions of dollars in arrears on her debts to the United States  --  but no lean Russian baby is to be fattened with French milk until the old debts are recognized . May France never suffer famine in her turn ; and if she does , may the world be too compassionate to turn her own logic to her own starvation . I F we are going to copy and improve upon the European custom of putting men in jail for their political and economic opinions we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ privileges not accorded to felons , among others the right to be candidates for public office . The denial of the latter right means the disfranchising of many citizens and an interference with the ballot as a means of ascertaining the popular will . These reileetions are prompted by the action of the New York Board of Elections in removing from the municipal ballot the names of Messrs . Gitlow and Winitsky , nominated by the Workers ' League . The technical reason given was that the address of these gentlemen was given as Ossining ( Sing Sing ) , whereas they are required to be residents of New York City . New petitions are to be filed claiming legal residence for these political prisoners in New York City . It is to be hoped that the new petitions will be accepted . The best way to advance radicalism of the extreme left is to prove that there is no chance for radical points of view to find expression at the polls . T HE plan of the new Transit Commission for the reorganization of the transportation lines of New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its chairman , Mr. George McAneny , asked in putting forth what was avowedly a preliminary plan subject to alteration in details . Mr. Samuel Untermyer and Comptroller Craig have made the most effective points against the scheme thus far , but Mr. McAneny has already countered upon Mr. Untermyer by declaring that his lawyers stamp as unconstitutional Mr. Untermyer 's proposal that the city maintain a five-cent fare as a matter of social utility even if it involves a temporary deficit . As we pointed out everything depends upon the fairness of the coming valuation of the roads , and on this score the city 's interests appear to need more careful protection than the first draft of the plan affords . The companies should not be forgiven overdue taxes and debts to the city , they should not have so large a voice in management under the new regime , and certainly the operators rather than the bondholders should receive whatever extra compensation may be allowed as an inducement for efficient service . The barometer plan for determining cost of service , and hence the size of fares , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again urge the high importance of direct labor representation on the board of control . But it is a striking fact that no one has yet challenged the principle of municipal ownership ; the only question is whether the city will be sufficiently safeguarded and adequate service secured . IN all probability Mr. Newberry of Michigan will hold his seat in the Senate because he is a Republican and so is the majority of the committee which investigated his case . He was convicted , it will be remembered , before a United States court of violating the Corrupt Practices Act by his huge expenditure in the Republican primaries and is in the Senate now instead of in jail only because the Supreme Court ruled that Congress had no power to regulate primary elections . The argument of the Democratic minority that his seat should be-declared vacant is entirely sound , but it is a safe guess that if Mr. Newberry had been a Democrat the opinions of majority and minority of the committee would have been exactly reversed . In New York State the Democratic convention is eloquent on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City the Republican-controlled Meyer committee is at last showing up not only incompetence but something very close to corruption . But when its counsel ex-Senator Elon R. Brown thunders condemnation of police officials who " can not watch criminals and the ticker at the same time " the public is little moved . Perhaps it remembers his own life-long subservience to reaction , and the easy conscience of his close associate Lusk with his one hundred and fifty-three pieces of silver . Yet it is always possible to hope that when as a result of these mutual recriminations it dawns upon a considerable number of Americans that there is something woefully lacking in a system of " democracy " which gives them only the choice between the pot and the kettle , they may be moved to look a little more deeply into the cause and cure of our present political government . W E gather from the Arizona Labor Journal , which re- printed the foregoing invitation , that a " good time was enjoyed by all . " And such is the zest of certain Americans for this form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hangings ; they have to arrange unofficial burnings at the stake . From Texas we learn that on October 11 " several hundred persons witnessed the burning " of a Negro youth of nineteen years . Everything was orderly and all evidence of the affair was promptly removed  --  perhaps by the curio hunters . The crimes charged against the victims of these popular holidays were heinous ( the charge against the Negro was , of course , not proved ) but no individual guilt can be as socially disastrous as the morbid crowd psychology which makes entertainment out of executions . N Cleveland , Ohio , the manufacture of women 's cloth ' ing is conducted under a " continuing agreement " between the Manufacturers ' Association and the International Ladies ' Garment Workers . The agreement provides for reference of controversies to a Board of Referees composed of Judge Julian W. Mack , Samuel Rosensohn , and John . R. McLane . These referees decided that the firm of John Meyer and Son had not conformed to wage standards and therefore should not be employed for certain manufacturing work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the continuing agreement . Meyer went into court and secured an injunction whose net effect , if sustained , will be to disrupt the " continuing agreement " which has meant so much for peace and well-being in what had been a sweat-shop industry . The most extraordinary feature of the decision was its discrimination between the defendants in the assessment of damages . Manufacturers ' Association , Ladies ' Garment Workers , and referees were all parties to the conspiracy of which the plaintiff complained , but the court ruled that only the union should be responsible for damages . It argued that the manufacturers acted as they did " under compulsion , " and the referees were " men of high standing , well known as to their ability and integrity , " whose errors were honestly made , but the union whose contention the referees upheld was possessed of a purpose which was " unwise , unfair , and unjust , " and so ought to pay damages . Could there be better evidence of the degree in which courts are class conscious in their use of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws been made to appear more grotesque than in a recent decision of Justice Finch of the New York Supreme Court . Since the law proclaims that any woman eligible for citizenship becomes a citizen by the admission of her husband to that status , the court has insisted upon an oath of allegiance from the wife of the applicant . But along comes Mr. Maier , a Russian jeweler , who wants to achieve citizenship and is amply eligible for it in his own person , but who is the uncomfortable husband of an anarchist wife who refuses to take an oath of allegiance to any government . Since the act of making him a citizen would automatically include his wife , the court , with statesmanlike caution , withholds it , and poor Mr. Maier , who is no anarchist but an honest , God-fearing jeweler , is kept with her in outer and alien darkness . As the result of this ludicrous perversion of justice it may occur to some of our law-makers that the law should be so framed that no woman would either receive or lose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harding was assuring his corre- spondent , Mrs. Fried , that it was not possible to do much disarming without a " revolutionary organization " of " human nature " for which as a good Republican he could not consider this a " hopeful time , " his ambassador , Mr. Child , was preaching a different sermon to the Italians . " It is a mistake , " said he , " to believe the weight of useless armament , of taxes , and of waste will be tolerated forever by the people of the various nations . " And still worse follows . Not human nature , it appears , but imperialism leads men to burden themselves with armaments . " The voice that says openly , or whispers in secret , that the limitation of armament is not practical is the voice of imperialism . " This will never do . President Harding will have to send Mr. Child a copy of his collected works on " Do n't expect much and You wo n't be disappointed . " Evidently this Child is another enfant terrible in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is up to the good old game of finding out whether the textbooks in history used by the schools of the city are adequately loyal . And now explains the District Superintendent that the question is not " whether the statements made in the textbooks are true but whether propriety would be observed if they were included in them . " Said a man who was saving society With patriotism and piety : " It is n't the truth We need for our youth So much as emphatic propriety . "                     