@@490095

Invasion SOME for rags and some for tags and some for velvet gowns . The buyers have come to town ! The chairs in the restaurants facing the Avenue groan in touching memory of the Van Bibbers who only yesterday , it seems , were leisurely finishing their liqueurs while the hansom cabs waited without . And now fattish men from Wichita and Wilkes-Barre and even Chicago sit amply where once there were Van Bibbers , and boom : New York is all right to visit but not to live in , say , I would n't take the town for a gift , that was sure a hot party we had last night , Mr. Kinkelstein , I could n't sell that line you stuck us with last year , so why should I pay twenty-seven-fifty for that imitation wrap . . . . And the chairs groan and groan and over the room there passes the sobbing wraith of an old New York that had places for its visiting buyers and kept them there , but that has not now where to lay its head . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they discuss a gross of lead pipes , thirty days , two per cent off for cash ; in the Metropolitan Museum and what was the drawing room of Mrs. Stuyvesant Van Rensselaer , but is now the foyer of Abe Smulyan 's co-operative apartment , there is talk of the very latest thing from 0 , ; ....  - -  Paris , and amenable young women and why positively twenty-five dollars is the lowest price even my own father would be offered in job lots . Their trade-mark is their leer . For months and months they have been the upstanding , the prominently moral pillars of their communities , leading noisily righteous lives while within them festered the poison of discontent  --  and yearning for the fleshiest pots . And so , one morning , at the time of year that suits not the conveniences of the business world butthat has been fixed with both eyes on the business of escape , they depart for the modern Gomorrah , repeating over and over again the assurance to the little women that they will positively call up Cousin Jennie and have dinner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then the three o'clock gets under way and the semiannual Great Adventure lifts its lurid head above the advancing horizon . The buyers we shall have always with us , and it were well to remember in our wrath that they are buyers , after all , primarily because we are sellers . The Week WASHINGTON police ordered to enforce law forbidding immoral music and Judge E. H. Gary conducts inquiry into cause of crime prevalence in United States . Man in Hacken-sack draws ten-spot needed to fill royal flush and London Bridge really is falling down , slipping into Thames . American reporter expelled from Italy by Mussolini for cabling unflattering accounts of government there and Mr. Frank Munsey , on eve of sailing home , praises France highly . Bank savings increase one hundred twenty-four millions in month and clerk is arrested for stealing thirty dollars from till to pay ali-mony . Cardinal Gasquet , Vati-can Librarian , in London , de-nounces women showing their spines and Egyptian importer sees danger in Mohammedans converting Christians to their faith . Christie 's sale of Sargent 's works sets record figure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Balmoral . Coast Guard , denies their machine gun bullet wounded woman on yacht in lower bay and President Coolidge plans to call new arms conference in Spring . Yankees win three straight baseball games and Japanese cabinet resigns . Mrs. Gute Fox , aged one hundred five , wants to live forever and death of eighteen-year-old girl is attributed to germs on earrings . Saxophoning MR . VINCENT LOPEZ had on his musical hands the press and music publishers of London after he had aired his fox trot paraphrase of tunes from " H. M. S. Pinafore , " and the protests against the injunction , alleged to have been made by Americans , drew a caustic squib in the Daily Mail . A " horn rim " is quoted as saying , " I reckon your Arthur Sullivan would have liked it if he had been alive to hear it , and that he would have put his own music into jazz form if he had been clever enough when he was alive . " This American comes straight from the pages of Wells , with his " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clever , " but it may be , as the Daily Mail 's writer continues , that Sullivan hated the saxophone . Nevertheless , the saxophone was in good symphonic society even before Sir Arthur Sullivan was good form . You can hear it in Bizet 's first " L'Arlesienne " Suite , and when Mr. Mengelberg played it with the Philharmonic last Winter he engaged none other than the celebrated Nathan Glantz to play the saxophone passages . Richard Strauss has listened to it and found it good , and it 's becoming fashionable in modern French scores . Sullivan might not have been " clever enough " to write jazz , but among the European jazz writers of to-day may be listed Stravinsky , Casella , Poulenc , Hindemith and Milhaud . The only trouble with them , say our American critics , is that they are n't quite clever enough to write real jazz . Welcome AT the celebration welcoming Mr. Lopez , returned to the Pennsylvania Hotel , it was his employer , Mr. Statler , who tendered supper to one hundred and some odd welcomers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through journalistic representatives . And great was the babble thereof when Mr. Statler seated his " personal guests " in the Roof Garden , across the floor from several hundred of the paying variety . One after another the entertaining artists were stormed under by the confusion ; not even Mr , Julius Tannen 's announcing voice was loud enough to ride the din . Thus the welcome to the musical conquerer of Kings ! Dropping down in the elevator , the regular visitor to the Pennsylvania was heard to remark loudly and clearly : " Well , they think that 's a good show in New York . We would n't book it a night back in . . . . " Heavenly Rest HERE and there amongst the surging tourists of August stroll a few of us who are in town because we like New York for itself , Summer or Winter . And the price of devotion is to watch the demolitions which kind contractors have scheduled for months when no one should be in town . Thus I have long regretted the sight of a huge sign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fifth Avenue , which read , ON THE SITE OF THIS BUILDING WE SHALL ERECT A THIRTY-ONE STORY OFFICE BUILDING . And this week its prophecy began to be fulfilled . . . crow bars and sledge hammers were flung at last into the tired skeleton of the hallowed structure . It was hardly beautiful , the Heavenly Rest , and under three score years of age , and yet it was a landmark , only a block from the tradition that was Delmonico 's . It had grown dull with the city 's grime as the decades passed and had watched the tall , white marts of commerce rise around it . Contemporary neighbors had already fallen before steady choking pressure  --  old Doctor Tyng 's church of the Holy Disciple with its oilcloth patterned tower of black and white checks , gone under the Liggett Building ; more recently St. Bartholomews , retreating to Park Avenue and Fiftieth . ONCE Doctor Howland 's church owned the whole 1. -1 wide corner on the Avenue , its parish house setting far back towards Madison Avenue . But bit by bit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there remained only the main building , squeezed tightly , and the parish ground in Forty-fifth Street . Manhattan has grown up around its churches  --  and grown away from them . Only here and there , the length of our long , slim city , have landmarks been left behind  --  Trinity , St. Paul 's , St. Mark 's In-TheBouwerie , others . The churches which once led their congregations into the wilderness , now follow them into metropolitan wildernesses uptown . The papers cry of a new Heavenly Rest so far north as Ninetieth . Perhaps when I come to live there I shall humor myself with melancholy as my friends drift away to the " exclusive hundreds . " the evening stroller , the stately dignity of our only avenue sans electric signs is shattered by the flashing red light on the Forty-fifth Street corner which claims , for the company which succeeds the Heavenly Rest , " The Most Preferred Stock in the World . " A fit companion in tone to the garish placard across the old church . One wonders if the mere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insult in the critical eyes of the Fifth Avenue Association . And further , under the forceful feeding of this information , just what they mean by " the most preferred stock , " anyway . Connections F OR some years the travelling salesman had seen former President Taft breakfasting at the table next his own several times a week , when the present Chief Justice held the Kent Chair of International Law at Yale . The scene was that favorite haunt of commuters and early travellers , Mendel 's Restaurant in Grand Central . A genial soul was the former President , replying affably to his waitress ' gum-choked efforts at small talk . Then , after President Harding had draped Mr. Taft 's ample shoulders with the ermine , the salesman saw him no more at those early and solitary breakfasts , for the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court , naturally , no longer travelled periodically to New Haven . One morning the familiar figure bulked large again in the doorway and Justice Taft proceeded to his customary table for breakfast . " Ai n't seen you in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What 's th ' matter ; ai n't you with them New Haven people any more ? " " No , " replied the Chief Justice , gravely . " I 'm back with the first people I used to work for . Good job , and better hours . " The Law 6 , RECENT Grand Jury was good enough to in-j diet Mr. Horace B. Liveright and Mr. Thomas B. Smith for publication of " Replenishing Jessica , " by Mr. Maxwell Bodenheim , a procedure always appreciated by such victims as are , among other things , business men . Two limbs of the law  --  Central Office operatives , which is a term also used in the cloak and suit industry  --  arrived at 6t West Forty-eighth Street to escort Mr. Liveright and Mr. Smith to the hoosegow , in the event they were unable to furnish bail . The Messrs . Liveright a n d Smith were informed that they were at once to accompany the detectives to the subway , for transportation to the legal downtown . " We prefer to go by taxi , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The guardians of the law went into earnest and executive conference on this request . Finally they emerged with an irrevocable decision . " You will have to pay the taxi fare , " they said . And so the taxi started on its jolting way to the dread Bastile . Smith and one gendarme sat on the back seat , Liveright and the other gendarme on the emergency seats facing them . Mr. Liveright remarked that he proposed immediately to get in touch with his friend and counsel , Mr. Arthur Garfield Hayes . Silence . Mr. Smith intimated that his first phone call would he to Jimmy Walker ( which would be the State Senator James J. Walker of whom there is such frequent and odd mention in the public prints as our possibly next mayor ) . Mr. Smith 's guard turned to him . " Do you know Jimmie Walker ? " he asked . " Very well , " said Mr. Smith , with a simple dignity . The constable sighed and pressed his ample body against the side of the taxi . " You @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he asked anxiously . POSSIBLY new Two golfers reach the green of a blind two hundred-yard hole and are earnestly putting , when from over the hill comes a third ball . It thuds just off the green , bounces on , rolls and finally wiggles to the edge of the cup  --  drops softly in . Great Heavens , hole in one ! Over the hill , after his ball , comes the owner . Golfers on green shout the great news to him . His ball is in . " Hey , Harry , " he turns and shouts behind hitn . " It 's in . I holed out in nine . " Diplomacy IT was the Universal FiIm Company 's London agent who duped a British territorial officer  --  akin to our National Guard  --  into furnishing a military escort for a moving picture negative , all in the inter-ests of publicity , and thereby provoked the English War Office into ordering a court-martial for the too trustful victim . Mr. Carl Laemmle , who signs all Universal 's pronunciamentos in the advertising columns of the Saturday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this trick reached its boiling point . He decided that , in an affair of such world-wide import , the British government deserved nothing less than an apology from the highest sources ; that is to say , himself . Accordingly , he despatched his apology to the Foreign Office , which bureau leisurely replied , professing never to have heard of Mr. Laemmle and not to know what he was apologizing about . However , some thin-lipped Under Secretary further advised , if Mr Laemmle insisted that an apology was due His Majesty 's Government , for reasons unknown , the place and time for making it would he at a Consular office next time Mr. Laemmle wished a British vise on his passport . In Our Midst IN town , Mr. Charles Chaplin , famed parent , for I opening of much-delayed , " The Gold Rush . " Silver rush expected at Strand Theatre . . . Mr. and Mrs. Haldeman-Julius , in large limousine , fresh from collecting material for a new blue booklet , to be issued about Dayton doings . . . Irene Castle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . . Desperate Desmond Adams , under sombrero . . . . Definitions vary according to locality , avers Mr. David H. Wallace . In Fifty-seventh Street , he instances , atheist is man who does n't believe in Dr. John Roach Straton . . Back safe from trawling , thank Heavens , Professor William Beebe , but first page of Times can never look the same .... For the first time to the bobbing barber : Mistress June Walker , Ellen Mackay , Helen Hayes , Peggy Leach , last named seedling novelist . . . . Advanced bobs , showing ears of victims , now seen in some numbers about town ... . Club item from the Century : Important painter asked why he does n't do portrait of President Coolidge . " No good on still life , " he drawls . . . . Added to Squire John Murray Anderson 's faculty , School of Stage : Mistresses Margaret Anglin , May Irwin . . . . Item de jour : Major Maurice B. Blake , abstemious Britisher , sailing after investigating prohibition , complains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Outlander halts Mr. James Hussey on Forty-second Street , West , inquires , " ) , Vhat 's ' at ? " pointing to gilt-daubed American Radiator Building . " Gilda Gray 's town house , " murmurs Mr. Hussey , passing on . . . . Beaux Arts note : Secretary Mellon 's pointed criticism , on dit , eliminated Mr. John Russel Pope 's design in competition for President Warren G. Harding 's memorial . Mr. Gallagher , without Mr. Shear but with young lady assistant , approaches vaudeville booking agents , preliminary to committing new act . Thousand a week , while breaking-in , suggests Mr. Gallagher with much confidence . Terrible , reply agents . Four hundred . . . . Many fluttering about attentive to details of forthcoming Bellows Memorial Show at Metropolitan Museum in Fall . Difficulty agreeing on writer of monograph . Sargent Memorial Show coming also . Same place . Approximately same time . News received : In Glacier National Park , Montana , Mr. Irvin Shrewsbury Cobb , best known as Irvin Cobb . With Josef Hofmann , in Adirondacks , Miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not write " Serena Blandish " after all . Toronto Mail and Express , saying she did and commenting on decadent tone of novel , has up and paid five hundred dollars to Rumanian orphans by way of extra apology . . . . Nor will Duke of York be enticed here , for next year 's celebration of town 's founding , nor there , for doings at Yorktown , Virginia . Mayhap he 's waiting to hear from Mr. Tex Rickard whose new Madison Square Garden will be in order for many events by late Fall . Will have skating rink . The new Garden , that is . . . . Flourishing : Embassy Club of Newport , Rhode Island , whose older sister on the Avenue waits the coming of Autumn 's gold . . . . Popular name , Embassy , for a theatre is thus christened , one wherein Mrs. Gloria Gould Bishop will continue to pursue career . . . . Tact P in ish actor recently arrived i E son of a well-known EngNew York , some fifteen years after his father 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a guest of the evening in the hospitable air of acquaintances living on Park Avenue , and there was duly entertained . He was sitting sipping a cocktail and chatting with his host , when suddenly his hostess turned on a phonograph about which she had been mysteriously busy for some minutes . The gentleman sipping the cocktail suddenly went white . For the record was one of those that have a recitation on each side  --  and the voice was that of his father . The Charleston FOR the Man in the Street and the Man in the Supper Club , the Charleston is for to see and to admire  --  or condemn . Nut since the Tango provided luscious livelihoods for many svelte youths has so devastating a dance agitated the town . Your casual devotee is lost . The thing is altogether too intricate for those males who can merely make passable efforts in the shuffling ease of the one-step and its variants . Even by semi-professional dancing males the Charleston is not done exceptionally well . They are still awkward about it . The grace of familiarity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urchins who have sprung tip on our sidewalks , adding an extra bit of life to the flowing of people along the streets . Of a sudden these youngsters have become common sights . One day the town walked its accustomed way and the next it came to know why groups formed abruptly on the mainways . In their centers an urchin breathing heavily into a harmonica or strumming at an ukulele , shifty-eyed against the approach of a policeman , while a companion wriggled limberly through the measures of the Charleston . Little colored lads here ; swarthy young Italians there . They do the Charleston well . Perhaps it is acknowledgment of their proficiency that swells the tones of the carillon of silver ringing within their cavernous caps ; or perhaps the coins are contributions from males grateful for some enlightenment about the intricacies of this newest and most puzzling dance .                     