@@487240

- " ' UTE new Britain on the Pacific is a factor which has I appeared with disconcerting vigor in the settlement of recent imperial destinies . Differing entirely from the Indian Empire and its train of political liabilities in the Middle East , from the hard-headed British business imperialism in the Far East , out across the South Pacific there has grown up a British control which is dominated by the needs of the new commonwealths of Australasia . Thus into the world politics centering in the East there has come an Anglo-Saxon triangle of mutual interest , binding together the Pacific destinies of the Canadian , Australian , and New Zealand commonwealths and the United States . Barring Japan 's control of the approaches to East Asia and the French possessions below the Equator on the opposite side of the Pacific , the British Empire and the United States jointly control the vast majority of the seventy million square miles of the world 's largest water area . I. BRITAIN 'S IMPERIAL PARTNERS ON THE PACIFIC A. Extent Above the Equator , the British Empire finds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States dominating both flanks by reason of its continental American position , plus the Alaskan and Hawaiian territories . The Dominion of Canada , spreading over the upper half of North America with its 3,729,000 square miles area and a population of 7,206,000 , although itself still in the period of extensive exploitation , has come to play a considerable . part in the development of Britain 's Pacific interests . Then , below the Equator , Australia and New Zealand likewise have grown from colonies to commonwealths of the British Empire . A quarter of a century after the allocation of Canada to England as a result of the Seven ' Years ' War , terminating in 1763 , the British began the occupation of Australasia . From this colonization by penal servitude initiated by the arrival of the " First Fleet " at Botany Bay in 1788 , has come the Commonwealth of Australia formed by a federalization of the hitherto separate " colonies " proclaimed in 1901 , and the Dominion of New Zealand subsequently created in 1907-after having been separated from its neighbor in 1840 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spain 's Pacific supremacy of the 1600 's became an overseas home of the English people ? 2,794,000 square miles of territory peopled by 5,247,000 men and women of British stock who regard themselves as the westernmost outpost on the frontier between East and West . And twelve hundred miles east of Australia stands New Zealand with its 103,581 square miles and 1,106,000 whites . B. Pacific Interests Since Chamberlain 's empire-binding policies were advanced in the eighties when the Pacific 's new age of world politics was dawning , there has been a growing conviction in Australasia , finding sympathetic support from the Domin ion of Canada , that here was a buffer between Asia and the West which must be maintained intact . The British imperial point of view has found expression in the coordination of imperial defense and the development in the South Pacific of a dominion sea-power ; in a renewed insistence upon an imperial economic union based on a preferential commercial system , in effect not unlike the earlier mercantile colonialism , but founded upon equality between a mother-country and its overseas partners ; and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destinies . On the other hand , these Pacific commonwealths by no means have been willing to follow blindly Downing Street 's leads , as was evidenced in the sessions of the Imperial Conference at London last summer . In short , there is a well-developed Pacific interest zealously held by Australia and New Zealand in conjunction with Canada to the north . It is necessarily a defensive position forced upon these newer of the white commonwealths by reason of the fact that their territories , although highly organized according to the material standards of our Western civilization , are nevertheless areas of vast natural potentialities lightly populated and threatened with the overflow of teeming Asia . II . BRITAIN 'S REGIONAL AND IMPERIAL COLONIALISM ON THE PACIFIC There are two distinct British colonial interests on the Pacific . The first represents the direct imperial holdings of the British Empire acquired and administered as part of a general insular expansion . The second marks the manhood of the commonwealths in the South Pacific , with their administration of the lesser British Islands of the Pacific  --  either in fee simple or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Nations . BRITISH IMPERIAL HOLDINGS . British occupation of the insular Pacific was precipitated on a large scale , beginning with the middle of the ninetenth century , by the old Anglo-French rivalry . Thus , to forestall France 's ambitions , on the Pacific , there ensued a rapid extension of Great Britain 's insular stakes , intensified by subsequent colonial competition from the German Empire toward the close of the century . The outcome found the British in general possession of the mid-Pacific ; that is , scattered holdings in the main not more than 5 degrees above the Equator and extending southward through Polynesia , ranging from about 170 degrees east to 155 degrees west longitude . The Germans , replaced by Japan through the Great War , were in occupation to the north and Asiaward , and the French to the south and toward the Americas . ' ( a ) The Gilbert and Ellice Islands . Lying across the Equator just 180 miles south of Japan 's Marshall Islands , the Gilbert and Ellice groups mark the most important and northernmost possessions of Britain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ( British ) Foreign Office for the Peace Conference , " Nos. 139 and 144 ; C. Brunsdon Fletcher , " The Problem of the Pacific . " nesian population makes the archipelagos , comprising 180 square miles , among the most heavily peopled areas in the Pacific . ( Protectorate 1892 ; annexed at request of native governments 1915 ; Ocean Island the administrative sub-center of the High Commissionership for the Western Pacific. ) ( b ) British Solomon Islands . To the east of the New Guinea and below the Bismarck Archipelago ( mandated to Australia ) are the British Solomon Islands under a protectorate covering 14,600 square miles with 150,000 natives , not completely subjugated . ( Under jurisdiction of the High Commissionership for the Western Pacific at Fiji ; included in the Resident Commissionership of the Solomon Islands is the Santa Cruz group with an area of 380 square miles and a population of 5,000 Melanesians. ) ( c ) The New Hebrides . Southward lies the condominium of the New Hebrides , jointly occupied with France since the 1880 's , covering 6,000 square @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) The Fiji Islands . Just to the east of the New Hebrides and 1,000 miles north of New Zealand are the Fiji Islands , ceded to Britain by the native Melanesian peoples as early as 1874 . The center of British influence in Oceania , the Fijis total about 200 islands in eight main clusters forming the Leeward and Windward groups containing 7,083 square miles . An extensive plantation economy has been developed , especially since the bulk of the area is found on the main islands of Viti Levu and Vanua Levu , totaling 4,053 and 2,130 square miles each respectively . The-population of the Fijis aggregates 166,000 , this including 61,153 Indian immigrants supplying the labor-power lacking so generally throughout the insular Pacific . Suva , the seat of government , is the administrative heart of the British Empire 's direct holdings in this part of the world , the Governor of Fiji being the High Commissioner of the Western Pacific . Attached thereto are a number of minor possessions such as the British " Line Islands " which are scattered along the Equator  --  the Phoenix , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) ? as well as Pitcairn , etc. , to the far south . ( e ) The Tonga Islands . Known also as the Friendly Islands , the Tongas have been under British protectorate since 1899 after having been neutralized under the Declaration of Berlin in 1886 . The four groups total 390 square miles and support a Polynesian population of 24,000 lying between the Fijis and French Oceania. ( f ) Mandatary for Nauru . Great Britain holds the mandate for the strategic phosphate deposits on Nauru , an ex-German island near the Gilbert group exploited from 1906 by British capital on a 94-year concession given by the Jaluit Gesellschaft for Nauru and the other Marshall Islands . ' POSSESSIONS OF THE BRITISH COMMONWEALTHS ON THE PACIFIC . Both the Commonwealth of Australia and the Dominion of New Zealand hold extensive colonial equities on the Pacific . A. Australian Possessions ( a ) British New Guinea . As well as administering the vast unoccupied area of Australia known as the Northern Territory , the commonwealth also controls for Britain the southeastern portion of New Guinea ( British Papua ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the west by the Dutch  --  just to the north of the island 2 See French Vested Interests at the Arms Conference , The Nation , Nov. 16 , 1921 , p. 580. 8 " Papers Prepared by the Historical Section of the ( British ) Foreign Office for the Peace Conference , " No 146. continent . It has an area of 90,540 square miles with a Melanesian population of about 200,000 ; considerable progress has been made since the beginnings of Australian control in the eighties to extend the plantation economy . ( b ) Mandatary for Ex-German Melanesia . In addition , Australia has been allocated the mandate for the former German holdings directly above British Papua ? Kaiser Wilhelm 's Land and the Bismarck Archipelago . Occupied by the German Empire in 1884 as part of its plans for a rapid colonial extension , Kaiser Wilhelm 's Land has an area of 70,000 square miles and a population estimated to range from 110,000 to 350,000 , while the Bismarck Archipelago Protectorate included some 8,000 square miles and 82,000 natives , plus 380 square miles of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Zealand 's Holdings ( a ) The Cook and Hervey Islands . The South Pacific Islands lying between the Fijis and French Polynesia known as the Cook and Hervey Islands are scattered holdings including between 280 and 390 square miles and a population of 12,797 Polynesians . Taking on the guardianship of - British interests here in 1901 , New Zealand annexed the many small groups and in 1915 gave them membership in the Executive Council of the Dominion . ' ( b ) Mandatary for Ex-German Samoa . Partitioned between Germany and the United States by agreement reached in 1899-1900 , under which Great Britain abandoned all claims on the Samoan group , the Great War brought the British back into possession of the German half . New Zealand was given the mandate in the settlement over ex-German Samoa 's 1,300 square miles of territory - and population of 41,000 ( including 37,000 natives ) . III . BRITAIN 'S " COLONIAL NATIONS " ON THE PACIFIC The motive back of the aggressive participation of - Britain 's " colonial nations " on the Pacific in this reallocation of imperial interests has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own weakly occupied territory by a firm control of the-far-flung insular approaches from the over-populated East . These commonwealths have come to have a threefold general concern in events across the Pacific : ( 1 ) In imperial matters , especially where a relationship such as the Anglo-Japanese Alliance is involved ; ( 2 ) with respect to the - status quo in the Far East itself , i.e. , whether or not conditions ? are such - that a nation - situated like Japan will find an outlet for its energies Asia-ward or Pacific-ward ; . and ( 3 ) the growing industrialization of the Pacific basin . and the rise of competing economies giving the Pacific Islands a new commercial significance .                     