@@493122

R. HOOVER 'S appeal on behalf of the tariff bill has not strengthened his prestige . In the first place , it will almost certainly fail to achieve the purpose intended : the chance that the bill will be passed at the special session is hardly any better than it was before he spoke , and is still dim . More over , his argument for hasty action had a hollow ring ; the only reason he could adduce was the neces sity of getting the tariff bill out of the way to clear the track for important legislation at the next regu lar session . What legislation does the President have in mind , so important that it would justify haste in this highly important question of the tariff schedules under which we must live for the next few years ? Moreover , his reference to the Progressive Democratic coalition was unfair by inference . He gave credence to the report that they do not intend to " give adequate protection to industry " ? as though industry were not already adequately pro tected by the Fordney-McCumber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the high-tariff wolves who have been doing their best to write a bill so Out rageous that he could not sign it ; and he recom mended the flexible provision without making , the all Important distinction as to whether flexibility should be within the control of the Tariff Commission , the President or Congress . Altogether , his statement is a disappointing performance . We have repeated ? ly pointed out that the whole tariff mess is one into which Mr. Hoover got himself needlessly . There was no necessity for him to promise more , during the campaign , than a revision of the agricultural schedules . The fight in the Senate has resulted in a complete loss of control by the regular Republicans ; and it now seems likely that the Democrats and Progressives between them will write a bill far more ' decent than we had any right to expect , and that the President will sign it . ? I'OSEPI-I R. GRUNDY , president of the Penn ? sylvania Manufacturers ' Association , lobbyist for a prohibitive tariff and archetype of eastern conser ? vatism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of progress . Badgered by the five Sen ? ators of the Lobby Committee , he put them efficient ? ly in their places , at the cost of revealing his own belief in government by big business . By his derisive attack on the " backward " states ? not necessarily backward in culture or population , but backward in the sense that their wealth or poverty is based on agriculture rather than manufacturing --  -- he has aroused public opinion in those states , has ensured the reelection of progressive Senators , has strength ? ened the opposition to tariff schedules written for and by the manufacturers who are to profit by them , and has made it practically impossible for the tariff bill to be passed by Congress in its present form . The New Republic congratulates Mr. Grundy on his inestimable and unwilling services . THE best news in many a ' clay is that Senator Nor ? ris of Nebraska has decided to be a candidate to succeed himself in 1.930 -- -a decision which , we take it , is tantamount to a guarantee that the Senate will enjoy the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no disparagement of the other pre ? gressives in the upper house to say that we hate to think what that body would be like without him . His courage and intelligence , his unswerving loyalty to the cause of the plain people , have been made more useful by his long experience in public office , which includes live terms in the House of Represen ? tatives and seventeen years in the Senate , Senator Norris is not cnamored of public life : it vv.ic with great difficulty that his friends persuaded him to be a candidate in 1924 , and he would not have entered the race in 1930 if the Republican machine in Ne ? braska had not so openly announced its intention of replacing him by a rigid conservative . For this bit of stupidity , the Republican machine deserves the warm gratitude of the country . PROHIBITION in Canada suffered two heavy blows last week . On Wednesday a general elec ? tion was held in Ontario , formerly a center of anti ? liquor sentiment . The Conservatives , who support the recently adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an impressive majority , winning ninety seats as against twenty-one for their combined opponents , not all of whom are prohi ? bitionists . On Thursday , at a referendum in Nova Scotia , almost the last of the dry provinces , the majority in favor of government sale was more than 20,000 , whereas at the last referendum , ten years before , there had been a majority of nearly 60,000 for absolute prohibition . The reasons for this reversal of sentiment in the Canadian provinces are largely economic . Liquor taxes are a rich source of government revenue , often the difference between a deficit and a surplus , and moreover , the sale of liquor contributes to the wealth of a prov ? ince indirectly , by attracting thirsty tourists from the utopia south of the border . Indeed , people have said that the abandonment of prohibition in almost all of Canada was partially the result of its adoption in the United States . It must be ad ? mitted that most Canadians regard our " noble ex ? periment " as a failure , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ con ? trol , after several years of trial , as at least a rela ? tive success . PRESIDENT HOOVER is right in saying that it is better to build waterways than battleships . But is this the only fruitful comparison ? Is it better to build waterways than railroads , for instance , if we need more carrying capacity ? That depends on the relative costs of transportation . And it is just here that most of the advocates of waterways become myopic . They rarely , if ever , include the cost of con ? structing and maintaining the waterway improve ? ments , which have to be paid out of taxation if they are not met out of freight rates . Few interior water ? ways in the country , and few that are proposed , could meet their costs on such a basis of reckoning . Mr. Hoover has ignored , so far , Mr. 1-I . G. Moul. ton 's devastating study of the economic unwisdom of the projected St. Lawrence waterway . It may possibly be sound economic policy to provide means of transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay their way by fares . But in that case , why not provide the cheapest and most efficient means of transportation ? Why not build railroads , at public expense ? We are not mourn ? ing over any losses the railroads may suffer through the competition from public waterways . But we do deplore the economic loss which is involved in pro ? viding this competition , when really cheaper trans ? portation might be obtained by more direct methods . FOR many years , a fight has been in progress against the international traffic in opium and other habit-forming drugs ; but up to now , the results can only be described as thoroughly disappointing . Nearly two decades ago , the chief Powers agreed that the production and distribution of these drugs ought to be limited to the " legitimate needs " of the world . The difficulty was that no one knew what " legitimate needs " were . A few years ago , the phrase " medical and scientific needs " was substi ? tuted ; but this , also , has been so vague @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as drugs are manufactured by several countries on a large scale , it seems hopeless to reduce the traffic to its proper limits ; it is impossible to prevent smuggling , and each of the producing countries , when told that the world production was far too large , could reply that the other countries were the ones which should curtail . For the first time , however , really effective activity to do away with the traffic now seems to be in sight . At the recent meeting of the League of Nations Assembly , a resolution , proposed by Great Britain , was adopted , declaring that a limit should be put on world production , and that each of the manufacturing countries should accept a quota . Drugs can not be smuggled if they do not exist ? a fact which has long been obvious , and would have been embodied in international action years ago were it not for the fact that certain countries , for reasons of their own , pursued obstructionist tactics . While the battle is by no means over , a meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at which the chief producing countries and an equal number of the chief consuming countries will be rep ? resented . At this meeting , attempts will be made to say what quantity of drugs the world needs , and to allocate this production . If the plan succeeds , this appalling traffic will have received what may prove its death blow . THE Senate committee which was investigating Mr. Shearer and his misdeeds at Geneva in 1927 politely stepped aside during Mr. MacDonald 's visit . It also kept out of the limelight while the investigation of domestic propaganda , which turned up Senator Bingham and his boy friend Eyansora was in progress . Now , we suggest , it is time that the first committee went to work again . It has put Mr. Shearer and the shipbuilders on the stand , but thus far it has been singularly tender toward the officials of the United States Navy . It has made no real attempt to find out whether their attitude in 1927 was the undesirable one reported by Mr. Drew Pearson , a reliable and intelligent newspaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascertaining who , in the Navy Department , provided Shearer with the confidential official infor ? mation which he used so successfully at Geneva . It Is whispered in Washington that this neglect of the Navy Department by the committee has not been a piece of inadvertence ; that on the contrary , some at least of the committee members have been praying that the public attention would be diverted in some other direction so that they could leave the Navy alone . We await , with fascinated . interest , the course of events which will show whether or not these insinuations are well founded . AT last a Washington jury has been found with enough intelligence and courage to decide one of the oil cases in accordance with the obvious facts . Its efforts have been supplemented by those of a judge who did not let sentimental regard for an aged man deter him from inflicting punishment . The $100,000 fine inflicted on former Secretary Fall was just equal to the amount of his bribe in the particular transaction for which he was tried , and the further sentence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his age and his ' enfeebled health . The New Republic believes that the outcome of this case will satisfy the sense of justice of the American people , which has so often been thwarted in the course of the long series of attempts to rectify this , the blackest of all the black deeds of the Harding Administration . A CORRESPONDENT sends us two items which crossed his desk one morning , between which he sees a pleasant contrast . One is a release from the Iron and Steel Division of the Department of Com ? merce , urging manufacturers to exploit the potential market for oil burners in Germany . The other is an advertisement from the Boston Transcript , signed by the American . Trademark Association , urging readers to buy American products . Do n't buy abroad , but sell there I The first part of the formula , according to the Boston advertisement , will " develop our pay-rolls , prosper our industries and maintain the purchasing power of our people . " But how are the Germans , who are expected to buy our oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the purchasing power of their people ? By buying German products only ? Perhaps good would be achieved , by carrying the policy still further . Let Boston people buy only things made in Boston , and New Yorkers only things made in New York . Let the Back Bay buy only things made in the Back Bay , and Charlestown only things made in Charlestown . Let nobody buy anything at all , but simply employ himself to make everything he wants . There is no ' doubt that this ne plus ultra of protection would keep everyone fully employed . But perhaps our Boston friends cherish the delusion that Germans are going to keep on buying our oil burners , while we buy nothing from them , until we have all their money . Then we could lend the money back to them to repeat the process . If we did this forever , It would certainly be an act of charity to the Germans ? they would be well supplied with our goods , with ? out having to keep employed at all A DISPATCH from the Federated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Detroit , due to the shutdowns of automobile factories which produced cars so feverishly in the first half of this year . It is undoubtedly true that our present equipment ' for making automobiles can in nine months turn out more than can he sold for a year . This is the price we pay for competition and lack of plan . It is also the price we pay for the lack of a sufficient market , ' due to low farm earnings , low wages in mines and textile mills , and retarded prosperity in Europe and elsewhere , conditions which arise in large measure from protective tariffs . The automobile industry was always irregular in operation , and caused much waste and suffering through unemployment , but financially its stronger units have so far been on velvet because of the continually expanding market . When , for any reason , the limits of that market are reached for any considerable length of time , it will join the ranks of over-equipped and depressed in ? dustries , along with coal and cotton textiles . Then it will either continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation 's economic life , or it will be consoli ? dated and reorganized at the cost of much tempor ? ary waste and loss . Messrs . Ford , duPont , Chrysler and the rest will in the end have to adopt a dif ? ferent economic philosophy , if they are to continue to receive the plaudits of an enraptured world as industrial wizards . It is too bad that their conver ? sion did not begin early enough to avoid the present state of chaos . JOHN ROACH STRATON , who died last week at the age of fifty-four , was typical of a per ? sistent contrast in our national life , a contrast be ? tween spirit and technique . In spirit , he was a Bap ? tist of the old school , attached to the letter of the Old Testament ; in technique , he was a New Yorker of the twentieth century . He preached against evolution , and he preached over the radio . He at ? tacked the morals of the younger generation , and attacked them almost in the language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temperance , in ? temperately . He planned a skyscraper church as a shrine for doctrines in which he believed as lit ? erally as did the tent-dwelling patriarchs to whom they were first proclaimed in Palestine . And he quarreled with four trustees of this church because , although slightly more liberal in religious questions , they were more conservative in matters of finance . In general , he used all the technical resources of modern life to oppose the modern spirit . A lean crusader , a relentless fighter in an age when most arguments die in lethargy , he was respected by some of his most bitter opponents . However , it is to be questioned whether his attacks on evolu ? tion did not encourage people to read Darwin , whether his sermons on modern immorality did not encourage modern sensationalism , and whether his battle with the atheists , by the violence of his methods , did not lend strength to opponents who were being disregarded . WE TRUST that the negotiations on international disarmament will meet with more success than the stern maneuvers which have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between West Point and Annapolis . Admirals and generals have en ? tered into controversy and almost into open war ? fare ; " Bring on your 2,000 midshipmen , " ex ? claims Major General William R. Smith , Superin ? tendent of West Point , " and our 1,200 cadets will play them eleven at a time , " The military author ? ities have been severely censured in Congress , by a Republican from Illinois ; the Secretary of War has thundered against Annapolis ; the Secretary of the Navy has angrily replied ; there are rumors of inter ? vention from higher quarters ; and the total result is even more negative than that of the Geneva Con ? ference . Both academies , unwilling to concede parity , continue to build up their football arma ? ments , even though war is " unthinkable . " IF THE game were played , it would be played in Chicago . If it were played in Chicago , Illinois would be safe for the G. 0 . P. at the next elec ? tion . Upon the Illinois @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fate of the coun ? try ? the fate of disarmament ; upon it may depend , who knows , the possibility of another world war . All of which is very interesting ; but much more in ? teresting , to us , is the question of whether it will dawn upon the young men who study and play games at West Point and Annapolis , and on the young men in other institutions of learning in the country , that their own importance in the colossal business of football is about the same as that of the wooden goalposts . The cadets and midship ? men are supposed to take orders , and do ; and whether these orders send them to Chicago for a football game or to Nicaragua for a war is six of one and half a dozen of the other . THE resignation of John V. A. MacMurray , Min ? ister to China , should have an interesting effect upon relations between that country and the United States . Mr. MacMurray is an able and experienced diplomat ; but his attitude toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marked by " the Shanghai mind . " He has not been sympathetic toward the Chinese demand for free ? dom from foreign impositions , and his opinion has , obviously , been received with great respect in Wash ? ington . His resignation opens the door for the se ? lection of someone much more acceptable , not in the technical but in the real sense , to China . SENATOR BINGHAM 'S troubles are not ended with the incident of his employing Eyanson . He is under fire again , the charge being that he has acted in too close harmony with the air-craft interests . It is alleged that an " aviation trust " exists in the United States ; that it has been active in bringing pressure to bear on Congress ; that it has forced in ? ferior equipment upon the Army and Navy flying services , and that many fatalities have been caused in consequence . These are grave charges , but they are not new . Ever since the notorious scandals in connection with the production of Liberty motors during the War , allegations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them with ample justifi ? cation . Here is certainly another subject for inves ? tigation by a senatorial committee of such a caliber that it will not be afraid to find out the facts , no matter how important the persons involved . IS THERE anybody who would argue that the behavior of the stock exchange during the past year has been a useful element in the nation 's life ? What good does it do for wealth ? even paper wealth ? to be won and lost so quickly ? While the market was going up , the successful bulls and those who profited by their over-confidence loudly pro ? claimed , despite all critics , the virtues of specula ? tion for the rise , but many of these same forces now console the speculators for their losses only by pointing out their folly . The question is insistent , what could have been done to prevent what has happened ? What can be done to prevent its hap ? pening again ? The New Republic is not among those who fear industrial disaster as a result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will of course be hit , but they do not constitute the backbone of pro ? duction and trade . Industry may now decline , but if this happens it will be largely as a consequence of tendencies which would have been injurious even if the market had retained its self-possession . The disturbance which the vagaries of stock speculation cause , in so far as it is economic , occurs as much during the rise of prices as after , the fall . The diversion of savings and credit to operations in stocks has had unfortunate results . Anyone de ? pendent on bank credit for normal operations has been having a hard time for at least six months . There are localities where even first mortgages , granted to home-owners on the safest of security , have been called or not renewed , where building operations are stagnant because of a shortage ot loanable funds , If it had not been for the money which the Farm Board was able to lend for holding wheat and cotton , the stock crisis would have hit the farmers a body blow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people with money could use it to greater advantage in buying stocks or lend ? ing on security collateral than in financing crop operations , next because many of those dealing on the commodity exchanges liquidated their holdings in order to protect their shares . Many business men deserted their normal occupations because they , could make so much more so easily by speculation . This must have affected the total of useful produc ? tion and trade . Such a vast amount of energy and credit utilized in pursuing a phantom can not be                     