@@493234

THE landslide did not discriminate . The Nonpartisan League , political organ of faimer discontent , went down with the rest . In Colorado and Montana where it was oper ? ating in the name of the Democratic party it was , of course , engulfed . In Minnesota and Nebraska , Where it ran independent tickets , it fell to the rear . In North Dakota , where it had the advantage of bearing the winning party name , it elected a Senator and saved the governorship , but lost the legislature . Those lately in panic over the growth of the Nonpartisan League are breathing easily new . They think the league is done for . They may be right . No one knows the vitality of the league . It may disappoint its enemies . Farmer discontent over the disastrous drop in prices of farm products may yet save the league . On the other hand , the centralized control which made the league so rapid to rise and so efficient at a fight may be a fatal weakness when it comes to outliving a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There Would be , of course , a moral residue even in that ease . The unrest which the league reflected and the projects which it promoted will remain even should the league disintegrate from the effects of the more or less accidental blow which it has suffer ? ed . But the opponents of the league are entitled , on the whole , to hope that they have , fatally Weakened this political movement . They have re ? pulsed an army ; but have they won the war ? That is a larger question . Its opponents fought the Nonpartisan League With a desperation not often displayed in western Political contests because they felt their economic Rowerimperiled . The league menaced the control , 3 private business of the flow of goods between farm and factory . By means of political control employed to establish state competition it proposed t ? reduce the banker , the grain dealer , the miller , the packer and what middleman not , to the control of an agrarian dictatorship . The old-time masters of commerce and of politics were to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be un ? der the heel of an association of farmers . So the average business man saw it , and he was not muchmistaken . The league did propose a transtilier of class control , a political and economic over Nothing less was the stake . The cataclysm had already occurred in North Dakota . It threatened the surrounding states . Such a contest could b e 49 such genial pillow fight as Democrats and Re ? Ptthlicans commonly engage in . That was the issue . It was not a new alignment . Thirty years ago western farmers went into politics for the purpose , among many others , of shackling the middleman . The Populist party made scarce a dent in the enemy armor before it died . From its fall to the recent rise of the Nonpartisan League nothing has been heard in politics of the middleman . The league has risen and , its opponents think , fall ? en , without accomplishing anything outside North Dakota . Elsewhere the middleman would seem to be safe as ever . Yet if one casts his eye over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in strange unaccord with that supposition . Let the village of Potter illustrate . Potter is a place of a few hundred souls in the new wheat Eden of what was lately the cow country of western Nebraska . The grain elevator through which the farmers about Potter market their wheat is owned and operated by themselves through a co ? operative association . This association also mar ? kets their live stock and it has put in a flouring mill and handles certain lines of farmers ' supplies . An electric plant was needed to light the association 's buildings . While they were about it the farmers put in a plant large enough to light the whole village . At Potter , accordingly , the farmers have eliminated the grain middleman , the livestock middleman , the miller manufacturer and middleman , part of the retail middleman and have made themselves public utility magnates " exploiting " the town folk . And there are many scores of Potters in the state of Nebraska . About the time of the waning of the populists , twenty-odd years ago , Nebraska @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into their own hands . By steady , sure growth , the number of farmers ' elevators has increased to about four hun ? dred , enough to control the local marketing of grain . With the handling of grain has usually gone the handling of coal . The local marketing of live ? stock is now largely in the hands of farmers ' ele ? vator associations or associations formed for the special purpose . To take care of the central mar ? ket the farmers now have cooperative commission agencies at Omaha and other packing centres . At Omaha they handled last year $9,000,000 worth of live stock and returned to shippers in patronage dividends fifty per cent of their commission charges . There are now many cooperative lumber yards and implement stores . Two cooperative centralized creameries and many flouring mills , large and small , are now in operation . Long ago , by means of county mutuals , the farmers took com ? mand of their own fire insurance . Lately the farmers have returned to the cooper ? ative general store . In this complicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the number grows . There are now about two hundred such stores centring about a cooperative wholesale as ? sociation with a million dollars of farmers ' money . They are now thinking some day of acquiring a coal mine , possibly with the cooperative wholesale association as owner , operator and distributor . Cooperative banks are in the offing . An account of the wreckage which strews the path of this movement would be a witness to its momentum . All the farmers ' stores and factories of the granger movement are dead . The average private grain dealer can tell endless true tales of incompetency and mismanagement in the operation of farmers ' elevators . The story of the stores is even more ghastly . At the beginning the farmers knew nothing of cooperative practice . The first farmers ' elevators were merely farmer owned cor ? porations . The farmers were often victimized by promoters bent on organizing cooperative enter ? prises for a commission or a profit . All these ill conceived ventures and numberless well conceived , but badly managed ones , fell by the wayside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem to like to lose their money that way . Having mastered the local grain market , Neb ? raska farmers are now incorporating a coopera ? tive terminal elevator to connect them directly with the miller and the exporter . That is the Nebraska proposal for taking the measure of the big final middleman in grain , the end sought by North Da ? kota through state owned terminal elevators . About 75,000 farmers , nearly two-thirds of all the farmers of the state , are now members of one or more of these cooperative associations . At that , the movement is young . The farmers ' union , which has grown in about eight years to a Neb ? raska membership of about 40,000 , devotes itself mainly to the promotion of cooperative enterprise . A force of organizers is kept busy meeting calls for help in starting new local associations . Now there is coming into the field a new organization , the farm bureau , which promises further to unify the farmers for their conquest of distribution . Among otherthings , it is planned to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reau auspices , the entire marketing of livestock for member farmers . The single buyer whom the farmer is accustomed to meeting at the stockyards bids fair soon to confront a single seller . The farmer seems to be on the way to being as organ ? ized and as class conscious as capital or labor . Following California experience , the pooling of crops is beginning . The Nebraska wool growers are beginning to pool their clip . The potato grow ers , the apple growers , the sugar beet growers and the milk producers have their special association de ? signing ways to eliminate the dealer and the specu ? lator . Even wheat growers , unterrified at the size of the job , are casting their eyes in the direction of a federated national association powerful enough to beard the lion of the grain exchange in his pit . The farmers can be forgiven some smiles at sight of worried business men in furious pursuit of the Nonpartisan League . While the business men chased the league out of the window , the cooperators strolled in by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nebraska , the league has been a boon to the cooperative movement . It has drawn the fire , leaving the cooperators to advance unopposed . Thus without resort to politics the Nebraskan farmers have taken much of the terri ? tory which the assailed business men fought the league to save . They had taken much of it , in fact , before the league was thought of . And what they have taken is less important than what they have got in position to take . The farmers of Nebraska ? and it should be Ile ' derstood that a similar process is under WaY throughout the West , ? have done this much by and for themselves . Still , when it has pleased then1 to look to the state for succor they have not hesl ' tated to do so ; nor have they waited for Nonpar ? tisan League help . Without resort to politics Neb " raska farmers have made such inroads on middle man territory that the middlemen of Nebraska , where the Nonpartisan League has been kept un ' der , have lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where the league prevailed . When different communities go to thesame , mark by such different routes as Nebraska and North Dakota have ' taken , one looks for a cool ' mon force , deeper than political or economic meth " ods . Such a common force is distinctly visible ' A fundamental and apparently irresistible shifting , of equilibrium is under way in the agricultural West . Circumstances and the character of the re ' sistance modify the form and direction of the move ' ment . They do not stop it . For fifty years the farmers have been accumulat ? ing weariness at being mere growers of products , leaving the returns to providence and the middle ; man . That feeling began with the beginnings of monopolistic manipulation of distribution . Abuses of transportation were first attacked , notably in the grangergranger movement . The populists broadened tn attack to include other businesses which were veloping monopolistic tendencies , such as the gra ' ' ' . In , 1906 . It overturned the railroad ring at that time in control of its politics and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This abrogation of railroad and other special interest control of politics enabled farmers to ob ? tain trackage for their elevators , commonly denied before . It enabled them to enforce equality in railroad service and rates for their various enter-Prises . It led to state supervision of the stock-Yards through which most of Nebraska 's livestock Passes to market . It paved the way in general for i.et farmers ' cooperation which I have described . In North Dakota the corresponding political re ' Orin was long held in check . There the familiar machinekept its grip for another ten years . Legis- latures continued contemptuous of farmer demands . , , . Grievances such as were redressed one by one in Nebraska piled up in North Dakota to be re ? dressed , finally , all at once . The dam had to burst sttle time . When the flood finally came , the Non-Partisan League , with its sweeping program of quick relief , was the natural resort . It was too late then to ? satisfy North Dakota with a slow curing c , ? oPerative remedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disease to de i'el ? P ? Their reward was a drastic remedy . Western farmers are not naturally partial to state adventures in business . They are as far from socialistic as a people could get , especially that half ? f them who still own the farms they till . They have too little confidence in the ways of politics to want any more business under political control than is absolutely necessary . Nebraska 's course of con ? quest by economic cooperation , is the natural one to the western farmer . North Dakota 's course was an emergency product . But the farmers are not theoretical . They act according to circum ? stances . The Nebraskans took the North Dakota route when an emergency demanded a state hog culture serum plant . Crowd them to it and they will do the same in any other case , league or no league . The business man 's autocracy , whatever of it there was , is going . It has only one thing to gain from beating the league . That is the chance that this may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competition . Here the clearer headed business man has a decid- , ed preference . The Nebraska middleman has probably lost his ground more irretrievably than his North Dakota neighbor . Yet Nebraska business is more content . Many business men , perhaps a majority , have ig ? norantly opposed cooperators and leaguers indis ? criminately . Not so the middleman with eyes in his head and sporting blood in his veins . To him state competition is one thing . It is competition that pays no taxes and may even tax him for its support . It holds over him the power of life and death . Cooperative associations , standing on their own bottom , are another thing . These , he admits , permanently narrow his field and end his hope of salvation in a monopoly heaven . But they are fair competition , one system against another . They permit the private middleman to thrive according to his merits . Many a middleman who fights the Nonpartisan League as for his life says to the co ? operative associations : " Come on in . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I deserve to die . " ' Whether the farmer 's conquest takes this course or the other is a question lying largely with those in present control of the politics and business of the agricultural states . The farmer is on his way . Where he is as numerous , wealthy and intelligent as he is in the grain growing states , he is going to arrive . I do not think that anything can prevent his setting ' up and maintaining whether by economic action or political or both , a force of his own to balance the economic power of private business and industry . Where he is resisted too long and strongly and blindly , as in North Dakota , he is apt to go by radical jumps . Where he is let go his own way , as in Nebraska , he goes by cautious , sure steps . In any case , he goes .                     