@@220554

From Boston , from Baltimore , from Rochester , from all the outlying districts of Manhattan came pilgrims last week for the opening of the Wagner Matinee Cycle at the Metropolitan Opera House . Ever since the Mad Ludwig allowed him Bayreuth , it has been the way of musical folk to take the midsummer pilgrimage to bask in the glory of Richard Wagner . In the U. S. his glory spread more slowly . At first it was the matter of importing a great new musical idea , a new school of conductors , singers . There came the day then of Lehmann , of Ternina , Fremstad , Schumann-Heink , of Jean de Reszke , Anton Seidl , of Toscanini-and Wagner was indeed a Titan . There came the War , and German singers , German music were in disfavor , but Wagner grew even in exile . His operas crept back into the repertoire one by one until Lohengrin had arrived , Tannhuser , Tristan , Meister singer , the four Ring operas-Rheingold , Walkre , Siegfried , Gtterdmmerung-and the valedictory Parsifal . Today enthusiasm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the announcement of special Wagner matinees . <P> Credit goes in part to the German-singers now at the Metropolitan , to Conductor Artur Bodanzky who holds tight reins over them all . There is Maria Jeritza who gave last week her most gracious performance of the season as Elizabeth ( Tannhuser ) , whose Elsa ( Lohengrin ) and Sieglinde ( Walkre ) are compelling flesh-and-blood women worthy of the music given them to sing . There is Karin Branzell , worthy successor to Schumann-Heink as Erda ( Rheingold and Siegfried ) , Fricka ( Walkre ) , Waltraute ( Gtterdmmerung ) , Brangaene ( Tristan ) , Baritone Friedrich Schorr vocally unequalled as Wolfram ( Tannhuser ) , Sachs ( Meistersinger ) , Gunther ( Gtterdmmerung ) ; Basso Michael Bohnen , big , commanding as King Marke ( Tristan ) , as Hagen ( Gtterdmmerung ) ; Baritone Clarence Whitehill , impressive always for the kindness , the dignity of his Amfortas ( Parsifal ) , his Hans Sachs . Many of the routine artists make much of lesser opportunities-George Meader with his David ( Meister singer ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Florence Easton with whatever she does in her cool , intelligent way , be it Sieglinde ( Walkre ) , Eva ( Meistersinger ) , Brunnhilde ( the Ring ) . There is now most important of all Soprano Gertrude Kappel who arrived recently from Munich , gave such beautiful performances of Isolde , of Brunnhilde in Walkre and Gotterdammerung as to make die-hards swallow their last struggling complaints of " no Wagnerian sopranos ' ' and set her down reverently as one of the Fremstad ilk .                     