@@486234

N OW that the Sick Man has sufficiently recovered to kick the Greeks out of Asia Minor , to perform his ablutions again in the waters of the Maritsa and praise Allah for delivering Constantinople from the heathen , one wonders what next ? Where will the Turk stop ? One hears of a projected holy war of Islam ; the Moslem peoples of the Orient will unite under the victorious Turks . The Britisher thinks of his Empire , and shivers . There are tales of the Red menace ; Moscow and Angora are in league against Western capitalism . That is not all . This man Franklin-Bouillon is said to have pocketed all the rich concessions of Anatolia for the French ; New York , London , and Manchester must look elsewhere for markets . Turkey has become a French colony . Lloyd George shook his Greek dice , and lost British hegemony in the Near East . It is all very complicated . That these Turks are apparently able to run an Islamic and a bolshevik crusade at the same time , and under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " than ever . . . . I am still seeking evidence that the Kemalists are Reds . I find it only in the foreign press . No Turk with whom I have tallied has had a good word for Moscow . Official representatives of the Nationalist Government express only grudging appreciation of Russia 's aid , and do not disguise their hatred for Communists. * The Soviet legation staff at Angora , which is reputed to play such an important and villainous role , really has no place in Nationalist counsels . The Russian Mission in Constantinople , though supposedly in close touch with Hamid Bey and Mustafa Kemal Pasha , gets most of its information from the newspapers . The Turks did not consult their " allies " during the Mudania Conference . Kemal was Russia 's friend while he needed her help . Now he is a conqueror . An unnatural alliance , one-sided ! It was never more . The defensive treaties between these two governments , so unlike in tradition and aim , grew out of an exceptional situation which has now completely changed . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Except as a threat in negotiations with Western Powers , a future Soviet alliance has few advantages and many disadvantages from the Kemalist point of view . The Allied secret treaties 9f 1915-1916 had given to Russia Turkey 's capital and northeastern provinces . The bolshevist Government renounced Czarist imperialism . Soviet Russia was an outlaw fighting the world ; Turkey lay dismembered . Both faced a common enemy . For a moment the interests of socialist Russia and medieval Turkey were the same . They postponed their dispute in the Caucasus , and in March , 1921 , signed defensive agreements . Besides canceling Turkey 's debt to Russia and accepting in full the claims of the Angora National Pact against Greece and the Western Powers , Lenin gave Kemal material aid ; munitions and supplies , including the stores captured from Denikin and Wrangel , and money-12 million gold rubles , probably more . In return Kemal recognized the Soviet Government ? the Angora Government itself was without recognition . ? Kemal gave only promises . He promised to negotiate with the Entente Powers only with the participation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international regulations governing the Black Sea and the Straits to a special conference of the adjacent states . " Nevertheless , he negotiated separately with France . Now , in the Mudania conversations and the pre-conference notes , Angora has forgotten that not the Powers but the adjacent states were to settle the Straits issue . Only after a sharp reminder from his " ally " did Kemal affirm that his Moscow agreements were binding ; which , he did not say . Though he then tardily " proposed " Russian participation at the Peace Conference , he did not make this a condition of the conference as the Powers had done in stating that Jugoslavia and Japan would be represented . If Soviet delegates participate , it will be due chiefly to Britain 's desire for that degree of permanence for her Straits ' settlement which only Russia 's signature can give . If the past alliance between Angora and Moscow has been one-sided , if the present alliance is illusory , a bugaboo used by Turkey in bargaining with the Powers , there is even less reason to expect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which leaves the British navy master of the Straits  --  as now seems inevitable  --  she will destroy the basis of Russo-Turk concord . What will then prevent a renewal of their conflict in the Caucasus ? The Turk conquerors think they can regain the Russian territory given to them at Brest-Litovsk , and wrested from them by the Red Army . They talk of the Slav menace . Similarly , the Moscow Government distrusts Turkey . It is precisely the large Mohammedan populations in South Russia and the associated Caucasian republics that are giving the Soviets most trouble . Georgia is not only a determining factor in Allied-Russian relations , it is the key to Russo-Turk peace . However much Russia may have retreated from communism , she is and is apt to remain for some time a socialist state , the seat of the Communist International . And even though Western states , under pressure of economic expediency and the influence of their large proletarian populations , come to " accept " Soviet Russia , it is highly improbable that Moslem , feudal Turkey will long associate herself with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political radicals . Neither are they religious fanatics . They are super-nationalists , militarists , pan-Turks . They are members of a possessing , governing caste ; and as such are not essentially different from the puppet Constantinople Government , which now has neither the power nor purpose to oppose them . They are the direct descendants or former associates of Enver and Talaat and the Party of Union and Progress which made of the promising Young Turk movement such a sinister thing . Of course the Kemalists are hardly such barbarians as certain premiers and parsons would have us believe ? indeed they are personally quite charming . But they do not merit the present exaggerated confidence of Western liberals , even though they have led a wronged people in a war of liberation against Greek and Entente imperialism . These militarists , bureaucrats , and proprietor ; , are Turkey . The people are not yet politically or economically conscious ; not even racially or sect-conscious in an aggressive sense , except when stirred by their demagogues . There is practically no industrial proletariat , and hence no socialist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Constantinople there are perhaps fivehundred syndicalists  --  who happen to be Greeks ) . The Caucasian propagandists have established a puny Communist Party in the northeastern vilayets , which is not indigenous . Until a month before the Angora-Moscow agreement the Kemalists were sentencing such social heretics to death . There is also in the National Assembly an agrarian party , or rather mood , for under the necessity of united front against the Greeks and Kemal 's absolute military dictatorship no separate parties were allowed . Thus one can not estimate exactly the strength of this party . But it is young and weak . It is not " agrarian-communist , " as sometimes named , but similar to the anti-social peasant movements of Eastern Europe  --  without their power . The Angora National Assembly is dominated by the pasha class . Their program is safe and sane . " We have no use for Western democracy and political institutions which have failed ; but we do want your science , your technology , your business efficiency . We intend to straighten out our finances , and unify our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of church and state . One group expects to " adjust , " the other to eliminate the political power of the Caliphate ( which shows how far is their plan from an Islamic league ) . But basic reform in Turkey means breaking the economic dominance of the church , which owns at least 65 per cent of the land ; means transferring political power from the pashas to the people ( direct representation to begin with ) . These reforms are not a part of the Kemalist program . Turkey for the Turks . The capitulations and foreign control are to be eliminated . They hope to drive out the Greek and Armenian merchants , who constitute almost the whole of Turkey 's commercial class , and grow Turk business men instead . But they are anxious to industrialize their country , and develop its agricultural and mineral resources . Therefore they seek foreign capital . Foreign concessions  --  foreign alliances ! The French are not very popular here , despite their support against the Greeks . The French , as the British , helped to write and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army in Cilicia not long ago . Though the French conversion was quicker than the British , it also was forced by a bayonet  --  and a bribe . Consequently the Turks do not feel bound by the letter or implication of the published and secret Franklin-Bouillon agreements if they can drive better bargains elsewhere . And England and the United States insist on no economic discrimination in favor of the French . American capital ( the Ottoman-American Development Company ? President , George W. Goethals ) has an option on the pick of Anatolia 's railway and mining concessions , the former " Chester Project . " But , as one of our trade commissioners explained to me , " church opinion in the States is against Turkey , and will prevent American capital from coming over and making a killing . Other than the Ottoman-American no new capital is in the field , only old companies ? American Tobacco , Standard Oil , and Foulkes ( licorice root ) . " France 's interest hitherto has been predominantly financial ( 70 per cent of the Ottoman debt ) rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , both as buyer and seller . Agents of the British Government here are better informed and agents of British capital more aggressive than those of any other country . Then there is Mosul . The possessions of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company are not safe until the Kemalist Government renounces that territory ; the British Government is the principal shareholder in Anglo-Persian Oil . These are some of the economic factors in the situation . Political factors also suggest the possibility of a Turco-British alliance . Given a change in England 's policy , memory of " Lloyd George 's War " will not stand in the way . I was surprised to find here so little popular anti-British feeling . Certain Kemalist leaders are courting British friendship . And with good reason . Whether nominal guardianship of the Straits is intrusted to the League or an international commission , in war time control will rest with the British navy . Turkey though now strong on land , will be at the mercy of that navy , which can take Constantinople , isolate Thrace , and blockade Anatolia ; and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or French alliance can protect her . This thought is ever present in the Turkish mind . But if England can be secured as an ally ? A Tory government would no doubt revive Disraeli 's policy ; the Liberals , though suspicious , are influenced by Manchester 's Smyrna trade ; the Labor Party thus far has been pro-Turk . The Turk sees possibilities in the English situation . There remains the obstacle of Britain 's Moslem Empire  --  if this is an obstacle and not an incentive to such an alliance . Because " heathen " sovereignty over Mohammedans is prohibited by Islamic law , and because the military victory of their co-religionists has stimulated revolt among Britain 's Moslem subjects , Europeans have jumped to the conclusion that the Kemalists plan to lead the East against the West . The significance of this Nationalist movement is that it is not pan-Moslem , but pan-Turk . Though the distinction between the two is not absolute , any Arab or Egyptian can tell you the difference . Mohammedan unity does not exist ; like Christian unity , it can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-Turkish Mohammedan nationalities hate the French and British , but they also revolted against their Turkish rulers . They are fond of the Turk as a neighbor , not as a master . The Turks likewise know the Ottoman Empire can not be reestablished . But , remembering the past , they fear a strong and independent ? Egypt , let us say . That the British should have the expense and trouble of " protecting " the other Moslems is therefore not disagreeable to the Turks , if it is a Britain friendly to Turkey . Similarly , the Mosul controversy may be adjusted provided Downing Street again forgets its Armenian pledge , or blesses a future Turkish conquest of the bolshevik Caucasus . So Angora is looking toward Britain rather than France . France , busy with Germany , is not unwilling to trade her Turkish advantage . Britain is the great Near East Power ; as in the past , she will play the decisive role . Something more than Tory " imperial destiny " determines this . So long as she has an empire beyond Gibraltar , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to watching the Suez and the Straits ; history shows that neutrality is impossible for such an empire . She will be in alliance with Turkey or against Turkey . I have tried to indicate tendencies , not finalities . A true picture of the Turkish situation must show it in flux . The Kemalist leaders are nationalist opportunists , in a new position , feeling their way . One can affirm only that they are hostile to bolshevism , and , as better Turks than Mohammedans , prefer to work with the British Empire . These are the straws ! There are winds in other directions ; there may come a sudden tornado of war ; but it looks now like a Turco-British alliance ahead . Meanwhile at the Peace Conference they will maneuver from opposite sides .                     