@@152267

The reverberating " Magruder incident " closed peacefully last week , or almost closed . Various congressmen rumbled around Washington about an investigation of the charges brought last fortnight by Rear Admiral Thomas Pickett Magruder , who wrote in the Saturday Evening Post that the Navy is over-officered , bound with expensive red tape and burdened with idle ships and shipyards TIME , Oct. 3 . But officialdom was quiet . Admiral Magruder was not haled up for discipline . <P> Secretary of the Navy Curtis Dwight Wilbur refuted specific Magruder statements now and then as his subordinates furnished him with research . President Coolidge announced that he thought lots of officers and some extra equipment essential to the Navy 's efficiency . Rear Admiral Magruder called on Secretary Wilbur , filed a belated copy of his published article and apologized for any embarrassment he might have caused the Navy . <P> Further sympathy for the Navy 's embarrassment was deduced by observers when they saw onetime ( 1913-21 ) Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels going in to call on Secretary Wilbur . Mr. Daniels might well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " during Mr. Daniels ' rgime-bristly Rear Admiral William Sowden Sims . <P> Rear Admiral Magruder retracted no jot or tittle of his article but did say that certain " Sic ' Em Boys " ( copy-starved newspaper correspondents ) had ridiculously misrepresented his attitude when they reported him scowling and gesturing at news of Secretary Wilbur 's alleged ire . Washington stirred in anticipation of another screed from him , soon to be published in the Saturday Evening Post . <P> Results . Some concrete results of Magruderism were incorporated in Secretary Wilbur 's announcement last week of Navy appropriation plans . The Navy , admitted Mr. Wilbur , might perhaps economize 1 ) by manufacturing at some of its idle yards certain supplies which hitherto have been purchased ; 2 ) by giving six-month furloughs to Navy yard men when there is no work for them to do .                     