@@219674

Stuyvesant Fish died in New York of heart disease . A directors ' meeting of the National Park Bank was assembling . As Mr. Fish stepped across the threshold of the board room , he fell dead . So terminated the career of one of the country 's great financial leaders and railroad presidents . A descendant of Petrus Stuyvesant , a grandson of Colonel Nicholas Fish of Revolutionary War fame , the youngest son of Hamilton Fish ( Secretary of State under President Grant ) - Stuyvesant Fish came from the stock of pioneers and joined the generation of great railroaders . Born in New York in 1851 , and graduated from Columbia 20 years later he became successively a clerk in the Illinois Central Railroad , secretary to its President , and a clerk in the banking house of Morton , Bliss &; Co . Subsequently he bought a seat on the New York Stock Exchange , and became a Director in the Illinois Central . After several years of railroad experience with that and other roads , he was elected its President in 1887 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harriman for the control of the Illinois Central proved to be one of the epochal conflicts in the history of Wall Street . Mr. Harriman , who sought the Central as an outlet to the Union Pacific , broke with Mr. Fish in 1906 , and after initially getting the worst of the bitter struggle which ensued , finally succeeded in securing enough shareholders ' proxies to eliminate him from the affairs of the road , as well as from the Mutual Life Insurance Company . Feeling ran high on both sides throughout this financial feud , and in one Directors ' meeting Mr. Fish struck and floored J. T. Harahan , who had succeeded him as President of the Illinois Central . A romantic and spirited , if not entirely accurate , narrative of the Harriman-Fish embroglio has recently been written by Garet Garett in his latest novel , The Driver . Mr. Fish was a railroad executive of the old order , rough and ready in speech , cautious in administration , scrupulously honorable in his engagements , and completely impatient of fallacious economics . Even in his youth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the risky and speculative methods of Wall Street railroad amalgamation , whose excesses were justified only by their aggregate brilliant results , he had an inherent mistrust . He was a stubborn fighter but invariably a good loser . His resentment of the prohibition amendment , and his efforts for its repeal , were characteristic of his sturdy individualism.                     