@@488290

THE appointment of Zechariah Chafee of the Harvard Law School and of Walter H. Pollak of the New York Bar to assist President Hoover 's Law Enforcement Commission by a study of official lawlessness is the most important and encouraging step yet taken by the commission . More than anything else it gives hope that something besides a voluminous statistical report will come out of its activities . This is not only because of the high character and unusual competence of Messrs . Chafee and Pollak ? it would be hard to pick others with superior experience , ability , and public vision  --  but because this phase of the inquiry leads directly to what in our opinion is the root of the whole evil . If America is the most lawless of the nations pretending to civilization and good order , it is in our judgment largely so ' because of official lawlessness ; because our officials deem themselves superior to our laws and authorized to suspend or ignore them as they see fit . The magnitude of this evil can be measured by the simple fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down ; that it applies not only to statutes but to the Constitution itself . President Wilson , President Harding , President Coolidge , and President Hoover , like their predecessors , took what each had declared to be the most solemn of oaths to preserve , protect , and defend the American Constitution , only to ignore the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments . Harding , Coolidge , and Hoover have all three deliberately defied the Congress and its Merchant Marine Act of 1920 by which the Executive was ordered to give notice of the termination of articles or provisions in commercial agreements with other nations . Mr. Harding signed the bill which made this the law and then refused to obey it . All down the line of officialdom , we find this same disorganizing and demoralizing notion that the executive official is vested with the power to decide which laws shall be enforced and which not ; against which violators proceedings shall be begun and whose offenses shall be shielded or ignored . At the very bottom we find the traffic policeman who grants immunity to a speeder because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or somebody with a pull . We are aware , of course , that official failure to enforce a law differs from actual official criminality . But in both cases the average American official assumes that his official position renders him superior to the law . It is his duty to enforce it by making others obey it ; but it is not , he thinks , binding upon him and , especially if he is a police officer , he deems himself justified in resorting to any methods whatever to achieve his purpose , as , for example , in the detection of crime . It never occurs to him that the best possible way for an official to encourage respect for law is to obey the law himself . Right here lies the difference between the American and the British official . The latter not only obeys the laws , he is careful not to transgress the rights of even the most dastardly of criminals . The mere suspicion that the London police were resorting to the " third-degree " torture or intimidation of prisoners was one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force . In New York nobody in official life rebuked Grover Whalen for his speech upholding , as police commissioner , the " third degree " daily practiced in the police stations of all American cities . Let us remind our readers of a few of the innumerable cases of official lawlessness . In Seattle there have been published the confessions of the chief of police for the years 1922-1926 . One of the torture devices he used was an electrically wired carpet covering the entire floor of a cell . When the current is turned on , he said , " sparks fly and the prisoner leaps , screaming in agony , into the air . . . . It is not fatal , its effects are not lasting , and it leaves no marks . " The rubber hose to beat prisoners he used , as does practically every other police chief in the country . In Wichita recently the lawlessness of the police became so serious that thirty-seven of the leading lawyers organized to " de-Russianize the police . " In every city there are entries into private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . The conviction in New Jersey of a lieutenant and a trooper in the State Police for the murder of a woman and the shooting of her brother when they were making an arrest should have a salutary effect . Lawless , too , are officials like the Mayor of Wilkes-Barre in ruling that no public meeting can be held in that city without the sanction of the American Legion ; the chiefs of police of Philadelphia , Newark , Boston , and innumerable other cities , who have set themselves above the Constitution of the United States in order to forbid meetings of those whom they do not like . They either have not read the Constitution or , as in many cases , they openly declare their defiance of it . A distinguished American , long a student of crime prevention , has just returned from a Western trip . In a large city , he states , the heads of the police " told me enough about their own activities to have hanged every one of them . " They had no trouble with gangs , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force . When they wished to get rid of dangerous characters  --  they got rid of them ! They had , of course , no idea that they were a far more dangerous menace to their city and their country than the gangsters they so often murder . This connection of the police with gang murders is in itself a subject well worth the study of President Hoover 's commission . Seven gangsters were deliberately murdered in one room in Chicago last February . A police car was seen near the scene . An official openly charged the crime to the police . He was discredited and given another post elsewhere . Not one of the murderers has ever been arrested . The simple fact is that not in France or Germany or England or Russia or the Scandinavian countries is any such official lawlessness to be found as in America , and nowhere but in America is there so much crime . In no other country are the masses so convinced that laws are made to favor the rich , the powerful , the official world , the politicians . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Venezuela , Rumania , Hungary is there such official use of torture to obtain confessions . We repeat , here is the root of our crime waves . If the Hoover commission brings this fact home to the American people it will have justified its existence . Lobbying Good and Bad D URING the very first week of its investigations , the Senate lobby committee dug up facts enough to damn the American tariff system beyond hope of salvation in the minds of honest and reflective men . It is not that lobbying is bad in itself . Despite the invidious significance that we attach to the word , lobbying honestly carried on for proper ends is an important and valuable part of government . Legislators do not learn the wants and needs of the people by direct revelation . One of the best ways of informing them is by the give and take of personal contact which is the basis of lobbying . What we need is not less lobbying , but better lobbying . Washington ought to be full of lobbies , only they ought to represent genuine public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they ought to do their work honestly and openly . As far as lobbies are of this character , whether or not we agree with their purposes , we hold them to be an essential part of the governmental process if government is not to be carried on in a vacuum . The National Association of Manufacturers , with whom we rarely agree , maintains an active and skilful lobby many of whose activities have been utterly reprehensible . In so far as their representative , however , presents forcibly the point of view of the conservative hard-boiled group for whom he speaks , and brings honest pressure to bear in getting that point of view embodied in legislation , the lobby is legitimate  --  provided it works in the open . But the manufacturers have done plenty of work in the dark ; we recall , among other instances , the famous Mulhall revelations of 1913 ; and we hold many of the ends sought to be socially injurious and even dangerous . By way of comparison , take the National Council for the Prevention of War , with whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its power , and with all the funds it can raise , this lobby seeks to make effective in Washington the large body of opinion that exists throughout the country in opposition to the settlement of international disputes by arms . As far as we know , its methods are unexceptionable , and we believe its activities to be of the greatest value . A lobby like this courts publicity ; for the better it is known , the more effective does its work become . We do not object to lobbying , then , but to lobbying for wrong  --  that is , private  --  ends , and by wrong  --  especially secret  --  methods . Here lies the gravamen of our charge against the protective system , as once more brought out in the current investigation . It has done more , we believe , than any other single influence to debauch American government . For it has taught American business men , during a period of more than a century , that government action is a legitimate means of private profit , and that in tariff-making secret and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain than arrangements openly arrived at in the light of day . The lobby committee has simply been giving us a glimpse at what is going on all the time . The sin of Senator Bingham , from this protectionist point of view , lay not in what he did but in the stupidity with which he did it , thus giving away the whole game . From that point of view , private gain is a legitimate end of lobbying , and secrecy , in consequence , is a legitimate means . What then is to be done about it ? What ought to come out of the lobby investigation ? First of all , the smashing defeat of this iniquitous tariff bill , and the teaching of a lesson in elementary public decency to the Smoots and the Reeds and the Binghams and all the army of secret lobbyists behind them , and the business men behind the lobbyists . We speak out of no hostility to business and business men , but out of intense hostility to the debauching of public opinion , to dishonesty , to secrecy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is out of such hostility that we demand the defeat of this bill , a defeat which is brought more nearly within the range of probability with every fresh revelation of the methods by which the bill was prepared . And following the defeat of the tariff bill , it may be reasonable to hope for a toning up of public opinion concerning other matters in which the secret lobbyists and their outside partners , the publicity men , got in their deadly work almost unchecked during the sodden Harding-Coolidge era  --  the work of the power companies , the shipbuilders with their Shearers , the army and navy crowd with their endless connections , the imperialists with their seductive gospel of greatness . The kind of lobbying that has lately been held up for us to view is not a disease , but a symptom . By all means let us bring lobbying under better control , if we can , especially by bringing it into the open , but let us not imagine that such control will be any substitute for a sound , alert , informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and resents every effort to use public power to fill the private purse . Only in such opinion is there any guaranty against the disease that breaks out into Shearer-Burgess-Bingham incidents . The Fires of Hell if ONGRESS shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion , or prohibiting the free exercise thereof , " says the First Amendment to our federal Constitution ; but the States were left free to set up such religious qualifications as they desired . The discovery that reveals that church and state are not yet divorced in America . New York State had a similar provision in its State constitution until 1846 ; Arkansas in 1929 still has a constitutional provision which bars an atheist from the witness-stand . Religious liberty is , and always has been , one of our most precious theoretical possessions , but we do not all mean the same thing by the term . When the American Union was formed , only Rhode Island and Virginia granted full and complete religious liberty by law . In several of the thirteen colonies , state churches still existed ; four colonies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two demanded a belief in Heaven and Hell ; two emphasized belief in one eternal God ; one required assent to the doctrine of the Trinity ; and six insisted upon Protestantism . New York still barred both Jews and Catholics from voting . Until 1828 no Jew could serve on a jury in Maryland . Of course there was more excuse for clinging to religion in the courtroom than elsewhere . The solemn oath upon the Bible may still force some to truth who , without the fear of eternal damnation , might be content to lie . Certainly there was a time when it did , despite the perennial argument of those who , like the Quakers , repeat Chrysostom 's argument : " For what end wilt thou force him to swear , whom thou believest not that he will speak the truth ? " In 1929 , even in North Carolina , more sinners probably tell the truth in fear of a suit for perjury than tremble for the fires of hell . And the judges of the State are themselves divided in their interpretation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , admitted testimony as to religious belief as " impeaching " the witness ; Judge Stack , in another Gastonia case , excluded it . As late as the last decade of the last century New York judges permitted opposing lawyers to discredit a witness by showing that he did not believe in a Supreme ( and , by implication , avenging ) Being , despite the explicit amendment made to the State constitution in 1846 providing that " no person shall be rendered incompetent to be a witness on account of his opinions in matters of religious belief . " The judges were so sure of the importance of religion that they ruled that while an atheist witness might be competent , his infidelism could be introduced as evidence that he was incredible ! A sane opinion in the Court of Appeals in 1903 ( Brink v. Stratton , 176 N. Y. , 156 ) ended that anomaly , we hope forever . In North Carolina , of course , the prosecution introduced the religious issue purely to arouse prejudice against a witness for the defense . It is difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought that her lack of belief in an avenging deity made her a less reliable witness ; but they knew that almost any North Carolina juryman was likely to disapprove of an atheist , and therefore be less likely to believe her . The religious test survives merely as an opportunity of introducing prejudice into a case ; it has ceased to act as a safeguard of justice . And this means that in any State where such evidence is still permissible , the atheist or agnostic is denied the equal protection of the law ; he stands one rung lower in the face of justice than the churchgoer or the professed believer . Indeed , if Judge Barnhill 's interpretation were to stand , a Unitarian like Chief Justice Taft , who has no belief in hellfire , could be impugned as unworthy of credence . That is a situation which few of us had realized , however easy it is to explain it historically , and still fewer will be willing to tolerate it . Whatever our opinion of the role of religion in modern life we demand first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the charter of Georgia in 1732 doubtless thought they were being liberal when they wrote that " there shall be a liberty of conscience allowed in the worship of God , to all persons inhabiting . . . and that all such persons , except papists , shall have a free exercise of religion . " In 1732 liberty as between Protestant sects must have seemed generous . By the end of the eighteenth century , when North Carolina 's present statute and New York 's old constitution were framed , persons " believing in the existence of a Supreme Being who will punish false swearing " were included within the pale . Today we have grown , or should have grown , to complete equality before the law for all men and women , without exception , whatever their doubts or beliefs . The Edinburgh Review ODERN readers are not willing to wait a quar- ter of a year for observations on life , letters , history , and society " ? thus is explained the demise of the once famous and extraordinarily influential Edinburgh Review after a life of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it never again rallied to it so brilliant a staff as marked its birth under the leadership of Sydney Smith , Francis Jeffrey , Francis Horner , and Henry Brougham . Seven hundred and fifty copies were printed of their first number . It would not be too much to say that the Edinburgh Review with this issue " fairly created critical book reviewing . " This it did by a sharpness of attack , a brilliancy of style and wit which by 1813 had driven its circulation up to 13,000 . It struck with a savagery which showed no mercy and little justice to Wordsworth , Southey , Byron , Moore , Shelley , and Keats . Sydney Smith having retired as editor after the first three issues , Francis Jeffrey carried on in that post for a period of twenty-six years , himself contributing some two hundred pungent and effective articles , a record all the more remarkable because Jeffrey during his entire life practiced as a lawyer in the civil and criminal courts where he was known for his eloquence  --  he was raised to the judicial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Review . Naturally , Jeffrey 's success with the Review was speedily imitated . It was followed by the Quarterly Review in 1809 and Blackwood 's in 1817 . Distinguished as both were , neither of these , however , exerted as great an influence as the Edinburgh . That review did not turn to politics until 1808 , but then , as we pointed out on the occasion of its widely noted centennial in 1902 , it at once raised political discussion from the level of libelous pamphleteering and vicious personal journalism to serious writing and debate , doing for England what the Federalist did for the new American nation and what the protagonists of the French Revolution achieved in that country . Throughout its long career it had a consistency of purpose hardly to be duplicated . Its demise today , it seems to us , is not wholly to be explained by the speed of our times and the desire for prompt reviewing and political comment . So tremendous a political revolution has come to pass since it first championed Whiggism in politics that it is obvious a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survive . The political times have changed as well as the pace of our civilization . Of its long list of distinguished contributors , three especially stand forth ? Sir Walter Scott , Thomas Carlyle , and Lord Macaulay . They and their less-noted associates assumed an intelligent and cultivated audience and wrote for none other . In a day of all too facile criticism this is to be remembered with gratitude . It is easy to look back and show in how many cases , especially in connection with the romantic school , time has failed to sustain the famous Review 's positions . Its editors from Jeffrey down were , however , men who wrote with absolute fearlessness , with an intense determination to develop an unrivaled intellectual life in England . For this they deserve to be and will be remembered as long as the history of literary and political journalism is recorded .                     