@@467107

LIKE many another college instructor , I had given up my academic work for industrial work when the war made production the chief concern of the nation . For more than two years the demands of this work had been such as to make any comparison between industrial and university life inopportune . With the cessation of hostilities , however , the consideration of personal concerns once more became appropriate . In my own case , this concern resolved itself into the question , Should I resume my teaching profession or remain in industry ? Recently I received a letter which Brought my reflection to a head . IL was . ' rom the university with which I had ) een connected until the outbreak of the var , and its contents were as follows : I DEAR DOCTOR ? , Now that the war is . ver you will probably he thinking of rein mlg your profession . At a meeting of the lenity held yesterday it was decided to finite you to lake up your former position as on as feasible . The Committee on Compensation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as part of your regular term of service , that you will resume your duties at the early salary of eighteen hundred dollars stead of sixteen hundred dollars . We hope to have an early reply as to your kision , in order that we may complete rangements for the coming semester . Very truly yours , Secretary of the Faculty . At the time this letter was written , was holding a position in a large instrial concern at a salary of thirty-e hundred dollars a year . The decision Lich the letter called for was , therefore , CXL. ? No. 636. - 32one of great importance , not only financially , but in many other ways . It represented a turning-point in my life . On the one hand , industry with its advant : ges and disadvantages ; on the other hand , academic life with its peculiar privileges and restrictions . In order to make clear the full significance of the situation , I shall have to give a bit of my personal history . I was graduated from a well-known Eastern college in 1910 with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my way through school , I had still managed to win the coveted Phi Beta Kappa key . In addition , I had been awarded a fellowship . My fellowship , amounting to about four hundred dollars a year , enabled me to enter the graduate school , where I spent three years specializing in the study of economics . At the end of that time I received my doctor 's degree , the intellectual passport to scholastic achieve-merit . Few men attain the high rank of full professorship without this degree . Simultaneously there came all offer from the same university of an instructorship in economics at an initial salary of twelve hundred dollars . Since it was my ambition to become a professor and since my entire preparation had been calculated with this aim in mind , I accepted the offer with alacrity . My financial progress as an instructor was much like that of instructors in other large universities . One thousand or twelve hundred dollars is the customary starting salary . Thereafter an increase of one hundred dollars is given for each year of service for six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the end of that time . After that an instructor who has been satisfactory is promoted to the rank of an assistant professor at a salary of two thousand dollars a year , with increases at intervals until the **27;555;TOOLONG mark is reached . I served as an instructor for four years and was receiving sixteen hundred dollars a year at the end of that time . Now the university authorities proposed to overlook my two years of absence and resume my salary at eighteen hundred instead of sixteen hundred dollars . During my two years of absence , however , several important changes had occurred . The industrial position which I had assumed required scientific investigations of standards of living to serve as a basis for adjusting wages for various classes of work and people . On assuming this position I had received a salary of eighteen hundred dollars . On the strength of this increase and the future which it seemed to promise , I had been married . My marriage came after an engagement of almost five years , for , on my instructor 's salary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , we had decided to venture , and my wife and I had leased a pretty little apartment in a pleasant but inexpensive part of town . At the end of one year my salary was increased to twenty-five hundred dollars , and before the expiration of another year , to thirty-five hundred dollars . This final raise was possibly hastened by the birth of our son . We were a happy and contented family . The letter offering me my former position with the university brought me to a parting of the ways . I had taken my present position solely as a war measure . My rejection by the enlistment authorities had left this the only field open to me . But my great ambition was to become a full-fledged professor . I had given eight years of my life to training with this in view . Moreover , my wife was the daughter of a university professor and had grown up in university circles . There is a distinct atmosphere about a university society , a certain in : telfeetual alertness and refinement , of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here was , on the one hand , the offer of an instructorship at eighteen hundred dollars a year , and , on the other , an industrial position at thirty-five hundred dollars . The situation was one which called for careful thought , not only from a financial point of view , but from many other viewpoints as well . Financially , the difference between the two salaries could be only regarded in the light of future possibilities . I had already reached my limit as an instructor . The next step would be that of an assistant professorship , and of this l could be fairly certain . However , afte that I might linger for five or six year or for an indefinite period , still with tin rank of an assistant professor and wit a salary at the end of that time not ii excess of twenty-eight hundred dollar if I happened to do work that was pal titularly brilliant or write a book whic commanded wide interest , my chance of being made a professor would be Dane improved . In that case , my salary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periodic increase until it ha reached four thousand dollars . In shor if everything went well , I might hope I be a full-fledged professor at the end six or eight years , and be earning fol thousand dollars at the end of eleven twelve . This seemed to me , at this tine a very comfortable annuity on which live . If I were unusually fortunate , might even obtain one of the endow professorships at a salary of five or thousand dollars . But these positio are generally filled by older men , m who are never released and who seidc resign . One of the most discouragi things about the chances of promotic as I looked forward , was the fact tl so much depended on the health of i professors who might precede me . I 1 in mind particularly a friend who I been an assistant professor for ten ye in a subject for which there was only professorial chair . During that time he had rejuvenated the department . He had built up its classes from about ten to one hundred and sixty pupils . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And yet , because of the tenacity of his venerable predecessor , he was unable to take the chair to which his work had entitled him . My industrial position was quite different in these respects . Within a year and a half I had been made chief of my particular bureau . Within three or four years I might , with reasonable success , hope to be the head of a department with an . annual salary of four or five thousand dollars . Even if promotion in : , his particular institution were blocked , ny constant dealings with other industries put me in the way of openings elsevhere . There was always the probabilty of a better position ahead . In this respect the university was a/-aost hopeless . I remember vividly an aterview with the professor at the head f my department shortly before I received my Ph.D . In this interview I xpressed the desire to write to certain niversities , asking them whether they ' ould consider me for an instructorship i economies . The professor elevated is eyebrows in surprise and exclaimed : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ling . You must wait until you receive i invitation ? " When I asked him how should receive an invitation , he exained vaguely that it might come ruugh the acquaintanceship of my ofessors with professors in other uni.rsities , or through the intermediacy of agency in which I might enroll my- I. When I replied that it was coniry to my nature to trust so largely to ante , he informed me that I should ly hurt my chances if I took matters -o my own hands . This provoked me ask why a prospective doctor of ilosophy should n't be just as direct 1 energetic as a business man . He : rely smiled and said , " It simply is n't ae . " Further inquiry served to emasize the truth of his statement and toshow me that for an instructor to seek a position is considered the height of bad form . This fact , forgotten for the time being , now thrust itself once more into the foreground of my memory and compelled me to weigh more carefully the relative advantages of an academic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business career were certainly far brighter than those of the teaching profession . And , having once tasted the wine of business prosperity , it was impossible not to think of the future in terms of greater material comfort than I had ever dared to dream of before . Many of my classmates , apparently no brighter , no more capable , no more ambitious than I , were already earning five thousand , and even ten thousand dollars a year , They owned comfortable houses , lived in pleasant suburbs of the city , rode in their own cars , belonged to country clubs , and had time for tennis and golf . I could not help desiring for myself and my family similar comforts . I had no hankering for luxuries , but these were not luxuries . They were common necessities . Moreover , they were the marks of a successful man , and I longed to be a man successful among men , dealing with men , directing men . As an instructor I had been a man among children , dictating year in and year out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To be sure , I was aware of the traditional contrast between business activity and university life . In industry the headlong rush for wealth and more wealth ; the subordination of thousands and thousands of workers to a. bare existence in order that a few might profit ; the continuous grind and anxiety ; the cold-blooded inhumanity of it all ; these facts had been impressed on me long before I myself became part of the industrial mechansim . On the other hand , the university was the reputed home of the humanities . Here were great opportunities for instilling in the mind of prospective young business men the ideals of service , of generosity , and high-mindedness in the subsequent conduct of their business affairs , of the value of human life , the right of every individual to the enjoyment of art , literature , music , and the higher values of life . This was a contrast calculated to appeal to the most heroic and romantic elements in a young man 's ideals . Two years in industry had almost entirely obliterated this notion . Through my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more active and wide-spread interest in human affairs than during my entire academic career . Rather than theoretical , this interest was immediate and practical . It centered about industrial insurance , sick benefits , piofit-sharing plans , better housing , better working conditions , accident prevention , medical care , Americanization , thorough investigations into living costs and consistent wage adjustments , and a hundred other points of immediate benefit to the worker ? to say nothing of the encouragement of the more esthetic activities , such as landscape gardening , community singing , literary and dramatic clubs , and musical organizations . Service , generosity , and humanity , instead of being ideals , were being regarded as everyday bread-and-butter facts . In contrast with this type of humanity , was the type characteristic of university circles . I had often wondered why professors were so frequently held in contempt by business men and scorned by the laboring classes . The reason is clear to me now . Many a teacher , instead of putting himself in the way of humanity , withdraws into the comparative quiet and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ masses is intellectual rather than active , and his sympathies are academic rather than practical . He would mingle with humanity , but without running the danger of soiling his academic robes . He would uplift humanity , but without stooping himself in the process . Another phase of this contrast which now appeared to me in a new light was the matter of equipment . Volumes have been written and spoken about the vast sums spent by industries on their mechanical equipment , and the consequent subordination of the individual to the machine . But , as I was considering my decision , this fact was paralleled in my mind by the tremendous material growth of the universities . Millions and millions of dollars have been bequeathed to them in the past two decades . These enormous sums , instead of being devoted in large part to the development and improvement of the teaching staff , have been spent almost entirely on new buildings and equipment . The result has been an imposing collection of palatial dormitories , ornate laboratories , elaborate gymnasiums , magnificent stadiums and arenas , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been the key-note in clic recent progress of universities . Only pittance of their bequests has been se aside for the betterment of the human equipment , the endowment of scholar ships and fellowships for promising but impecunious young students , th establishment of chairs for additions professors and instructors , and the in- , provement of methods of teaching an , handling large bodies of students . N marked progress has been made in th teaching methods of universities in tw decades , a fact which is not surprisin when it is remembered that during th same time very little change has bee made in the salaries which college teach crs arc paid . Indeed , the proportion money spent on material equipment an human equipment by most great un versifies offers a contrast in the light which industry appears as an institutic of charity . This contrast and mai others to which I had formerly be , oblivious now forced themselves vivid upon . me , and I found that my idealise or humanistic ideas had been undergoi. a radical displacement in favor of t industrial world . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavily than matters of grave importance . Witness the fact that I had become most slavishly attached to my stenographer . Now my stenographer was anything but a paragon of beauty , but the speed and finish with which she could turn out my work were a source of daily satisfaction . As an instructor my days had been full of the drudgery of correcting papers and painfully preparing lectures . I had very little time left for the original and creative work upon which the instructor 's future almost entirely depends . Now , however , my hack work was done by a stenographer or by subordinate clerks . I could devote almost my entire time to more important problems , to the really constructive work of my position . II a promising idea occurred to me , either during the day or in the quiet of my office after hours , I did not have to lose it through lack of time or inability to write it down before forgetting . I had simply to pick up the dictaphone mouthpiece at the left of my desk , and reel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next day they would be lying on my desk , neatly typewritten . If instructorships and ' assistant professorships were equipped with a dictaphone and a stenographer , what a difference there would be in the attractiveness of these positions ! So far , the advantages of an industrial career seemed to outweigh those of an academic career . There was one con ; ideration , though , which , because of its mportance , I left till last . I have in nind the matter of intellectual freedom . Me one privilege which I crave above others is freedom of speech and ac-ion . In this I am , if anything , a fanatic . So matter what the financial reward , I ould not bear to be stifled in an atmos'here of intellectual censorship . But ere again the traditional contrast Heed itself upon my attention . The usiness man is notoriously narrowiinded . He is often uneducated . His rental habits are frequently crude . The niversity , on the other hand , is just as notoriously the home of culture and breadth . It has long been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ideas . It is regarded as the fountain of truth and light . This is the picture as it has so often been painted . In weighing the relative merits of the academic and industrial world in these reports , one of my first thoughts was of a certain incident during the last year of my course . Among the students in economics who were up for a doctor 's degree was one considered by all of us as the most brilliant and promising man in the group . What was our surprise to find no mention of his name on the list of those who were announced as having received their degrees . All we could learn was that his thesis had been rejected . Not until I became an instructor in the department did I learn the truth . This particular candidate had submitted a thesis containing statistics concerning labor conditions in . Pennsylvania and from these he had drawn some conclusions which were considered by the economics faculty ? reputedly one of the most liberal and open-minded in the country ? as ultra-radical . The authenticity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of fact , the statistics and conclusions contained in the rejected thesis have since become common property through the work of a well-known economist in another university . The student whose thesis had been rejected was guilty only of being a few years ahead of his time and of his intellectual mentors . Another case was that of a friend of mine , a student in the department of philosophy . This student had one of the most uncompromising passions for truth I have ever witnessed in any one . It often led him into heated discussions and made him unpopular with less disinterested seekers after truth . Now , philosophy is traditionally considered the broadest of all studies , and therefore it was fortunate for this youth that he had chosen it as his field . Before he had finished his thesis he came to my room one night and , without any preliminary conversation , blurted out , " Well , I 'm going to do it ! " " Do what ? " I asked , in surprise . " Prostitute myself to the intellectual demagogues of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in several discussions with his professors regarding the preliminary draft of his thesis , he had found such fixed opposition that he was sure the thesis would never pass as it stood . This meant the loss of his doctor 's degree . But he had already accepted the offer of an instructorship in another university , an offer which was contingent on his receiving his degree . His entire future was at stake , and so he decided that , for the first and last time , he would temper the truth to suit the intellectual hardness of his professors . He rewrote his thesis accordingly and won his degree . The professor at the head of his department , shortly before Commencement , congratulated him upon his success with the remark , " Mr. ? , I am glad to tell you that your thesis showed greater breadth of intellect than most of us had given you credit for . " To which my friend replied , cynically , " Professor , anybody can be broad-minded when he ca n't afford to tell the truth . " Incidents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the question of freedom of speech and action in universities throughout the country , now crowded themselves into my mind . After all , was the university so much the home of culture and broad-mindedness as was commonly believed ? Or was this reputation merely an outworn relic of former days ? a tradition which , though empty of life , still clung to its ancient seat ? The industrial world makes no pretensions to culture and no profession of intellectual breadth . And yet , so far as my experience went , I found the majority of business men extremely broad and tolerant in their views . This seemed strange to me at first , but I now consider it a natural state of affairs . The inevitable tendency in teaching is to lay down the law to youths who either can not or do not dare to contradict . The professor is an authority , and the older he gets , the more authoritative he becomes . Theoretically , he is an authority in his special field alone , but his position and his profession of giving the truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority in many other fields as well . In the industrial world , quite contrariwise , men are always pitting their ideas against those of their equals , as well as those of their inferiors and superiors . An idea which has to be forced upon others is considered a failure from the outset . The big thing in industry is to " sell " one 's proposition . In other words , ideas , instead of being confined to text-books and class-room lectures , are in a constant state of flux and competition with one another . The result is a certain mental alertness , a readiness to credit the other man 's viewpoint , and an openness to new plans and ideas , no matter how unusual , which are unknown in academic life . One of the most interesting forms which the open-mindedness of business men has taken is the introduction of successful university professors and instructors into important technical positions in their commercial enterprises . Among the men who have been thus transferred from the academic to the commercial world is a goodly number of doctors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educa. tional departments in large corporations One man , formerly a professor in a larg. technical university , is now the manage of what is called the industrial research department of a corporation which ex tends all over the world . His task is t make a scientific survey of labor am employment problems . He has OW thirty specialists under him . AnothE doctor of philosophy is chief industrif psychologist in a large manufacturin concern employing over twenty - 01 thousand people . Several former ii structors in economics of whom I kno are engaged in special research work large banking institutions . These men are called upon for special service in special fields . NO one attempts to dictate to them what their views or ideas shall be . They are simply shown the problem and told to go ahead . Their own imagination and creative abilities are appealed to , and they are judged solely by the results which they produce . I once thought that the title of Ph.D . was an honor only in scholastic life . As a matter of fact , greater respect and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associates than by my university colleagues . A doctor of philosophy who can make good beyond academic walls and who can descend from his high horse to the level of the ordinary man , finds a gratifying reception . My friends and acquaintances call me " Doc , " a title which at first annoyed me extremely . Now it gives me keen pleasure , because I have come to learn that it contains much more genuine respect and affection than the formal " Doctor " by which I was once designated . The other day the manager of my department , who had been serving on a public committee composed largely of university professors , and who had just come from a committee meeting , exclaimed to me : " I say , Doe , professors are certainly a dogmatic crowd ! Whenever they talk , they talk as authorities , never as fallible human beings . " From the mariner in which he said it , I knew that he was not thinking of me , and I was delighted at the thought of having barely escaped the epithet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that calls for all my creative powers ; that brings me into continual contact with alert , generous , and broad-minded men ; that holds forth bright promises for the future ; that pays me a salary sufficient to support my family in comfort ; and , above all , to be called " Doc " and regarded as an equal among equals ? these are the conditions which finally decided me to give up my university career and remain in industry .                     