@@487233

I have no news from India . That blood-cemented edifice will one day cave in like a house of cards. ? RICHARD COBDEN . Nowhere in the world is a greater human drama unfolding than in , India . On its profound significance we have repeatedly commented , but it is difficult in America to get the information to enable one to understand either noncooperation or its great leader , M. K. Gandhi . We here present three papers from competent observers , American , English , and Hindu . Mahatma Gandhi 's India By VINCENT ANDERSON A LL India is at the feet of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi . Preaching a political creed that is new to the Hindu and renewing Vedic ideals of asceticism and sacrifice in his own life , this man has within a brief span of months united Hindu and Mohammedan in a common bond of fraternity that has not existed in India since the days of Gautama . A small , slim , dark , composed man with a tremendous personal magnetism , a man with the untiring energy of Roosevelt , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Gandhi has developed into a force so potent that the English dare not imprison him . And Gandhi has a new religion . It is not altogether new to the Occident . Anyone who steeps himself sympathetically in Bernard Shaw and Tolstoi , who tries long enough to recognize and to remedy the ills that industrialism has brought , may arrive at the conclusion that the defect of modern civilization is civilization itself . This is new , however , to the India that is adopting English and becoming commercial and learning what a factory and a labor problem is . An industrial and political , intellectual and economic civilization is on India like a hurricane ; and Gandhi is trying to forestall it . He declares : Formerly when people wanted to fight one another , they measured between them their bodily strength ; now it is possible to take away thousands of lives by one man working behind a hill from a gun . This is civilization . Formerly , men worked in the open air only so much as they liked . Now , thousands of workmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factories and mines . Their condition is worse than that of beasts . They are obliged to work , at the risk of their lives , at most dangerous occupations , for the sake of millionaires . . . . This civilization is such that one has only to be patient and it will be self-destroyed . To Westerners Gandhi 's primitive program will seem Quixotic . So it is . True , a gigantic Swadeshi movement  --  back to the spinning wheel and home manufacture  --  has arisen , but for a different reason than Gandhi 's . It is not because Indians are against civilization but against England , not because they are in favor of the old manner of living but because they are against the new . What is Gandhi 's solution ? We are suffering , he says . We have two alternatives , to fight actively or passively . If we fight actively we will be killed like flies  --  by the millions ; we lack bodily energy , ammunition , and guns . If we fight passively we at least have a chance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perish spiritually . Evil can not overcome evil . We will then become as the men we are fighting . Hate and civilization will have eaten us up . We will thenbe defeated . There can be no victory in such a material conquest . The Indians listen to this ; they like it immensely for they always have been hero-worshipers . And here is a saint and a revolutionary in one . If Gandhi 's dream of social love could come true , it would be the most stupendous event in the history of our world . But the foe is within the gates . Hate is in the heart of the Hindu . Gaunt cheeks , protruding ribs , bloated bellies of children , blear of hunger in women 's eyes  --  these are the outward evidences of an exploitation which makes it absurd to use the same word of the lesser sufferings of the West . Can you blame the Indians if they hate the English ? Resistance is coming . A bloody revolution is not only likely but , I believe , inevitable . Gandhi fears it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against such an expression of India 's desires . If his Tolstoian philosophy of pacifism is not practical or possible for a whole nation to follow , if his Shavian condemnation of an unnatural social order and a defective civilization can not halt that civilization , nevertheless the Hindus , at least , are getting great ideas in a modern form ; Gandhi will be an educator for the future if he can not be the savior of the present .                     