@@430851

RATHER more than a hundred and twenty years ago an English clergyman published an essay which enunciated a new doctrine and in subsequent years gave a new word to all civilized languages . The Reverend T. R. Malthus was professor of History and Political Economy in the East India College in Hertfordshire , and it was , as an economist and as an historian that he approached the problem of population . But he was also , as his Essay and the record of his life both clearly show , a thoroughly human individual with a kindly temperament and a well balanced mind . His main purpose , in his own words , was " the improvement of society , " and his Essay on Population was written to show that the permanent improvement of society is impassible without a conscious limitation of the rate at which children are born . His Essay immediately it appeared was attacked from two quarters , by theologians who argued that children were sent by God and that it was impious to interfere with God 's decree ; by semi-socialists like Godwin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limited was a device of the rich to stave off a revolt +of the poor . Both sets of opponents are heard to-day . With regard to the theological argument , it is sufficient to - say that the same line of reasoning would forbid any precautions against illness , or the employment of any remedies for disease . The attitude of some of the socialists is more plausible . Their movement depends very largely for its driving power upon the existence of an immense mass of human misery ; reduce that misery and their arguments grow weaker . That is indisputable , and it explains why some socialists oppose the birth control movement . But those among the socialists who adopt this attitude are condemning their own creed more scathingly than any opponent could condemn it . In effect they are saying that they wish to keep the world in misery in order to be able to impose their views upon people who otherwise would not accept them . All socialists are not so cynical . There are many who see clearly that under any kind of socialist  |p519  organization it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ otherwise the standard of comfort of the whole community would be lowered . They also see that if socialism is to have any chance of success its appeal must be directed , not to the envy of a squalid multitude of under-fed , under-sized , and under-brained beings , but to the enterprise of a body of self-respecting and publicspirited citizens . The question of birth control has in fact no necessary connection with the partisan interests either of socialists or of anti-socialists . Whatever form the future organization of industry and society make take the problem of population will remain . To the Reverend T. R. Malthus belongs the credit of having first given a considered enunciation of that problem . He begins by stating that there is a constant tendency in all animated life to increase beyond the nourishment prepared for it , and he effectively quotes Franklin , who says : " Were the face of the earth vacant of other plants , it might be gradually sowed and overspread with one kind only , as for instance with fennel , and were it empty of other inhabitants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation only , as for instance with Englishmen . " From this . starting-point he goes on to lay down three propositions , which he repeats more than once in his book : ( I ) population is necessarily limited by the means of subsistence ; ( 2 ) population invariably increases where the means of subsistence increase , unless prevented by powerful and obvious checks ; ( 3 ) these checks are all resolvable into moral restraint , vice , and misery . The greater part of his famous Essay is occupied with a detailed examination of the different countries of the world and the different checks to population therein existing . Everywhere he finds races warring against races , and he notes that in some parts of the world the conqueror completes a successful battle by making a good meal off the defeated enemy . He finds that in addition to perennial warfare the practices of infanticide and abortion are widely used to check the growth of population , and he shows that these practices are not confined to savage tribes . He quotes Plato and Aristotle , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the State and who advocated either abortion or infanticide as a means for securing the necessary limitation . This appeal to the teaching of Plato and Aristotle is specially  |p520  interesting because these great philosophers were compelled by the circumstances in which they lived to view the problem of population on a small scale . It was forced upon their attention , and upon the attention of their contemporaries , that the City State could not possibly permit its population to expand indefinitely because the available means of subsistence were so obviously limited . As City States grew to great nations , and as great nations organized world-wide commerce , the final limitation of the means of subsistence became less obvious . Especially was this the case in the decades immediately succeeding the publication of Malthus ' Essay . When Malthus wrote , England was , just beginning to emerge from the agricultural into the industrial stage . The wonderful machines which were to revolutionize manufacturing industry had only just been invented ; the overwhelming majority of the population was still agricultural ; and it was mainly the agricultural problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned . But during the succeeding decades the power of machinery rapidly extended and enabled Great Britain to utilize for industrial purposes her rich endowment of coal , with the result that her dependence for food upon her own agriculture ceased , and she was able to call upon the whole world to feed her . Thus what was a local problem became a world problem ; but the problem remains not for England only but for all countries . It still remains a truism that population can not increase beyond the means of subsistence . But instead of each country looking mainly to its own soil for its own food supply , all the commercial nations of the world compete for a share of the world 's common stock of food . The question as to the date at which the total means of subsistence throughout the world will only just suffice for the number of stomachs craving for food , is a matter of speculation . But all the available evidence shows that population everywhere tends to increase pari passu with an increase in the means of subsistence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has in the main been followed by an increase of population either in those areas or in other areas dependent upon them . The case of the United States is perhaps the most striking . Fifty years ago the United States was a large exporter of food . She still exports some foodstuffs , but she is now compelled to import others . The case of India , in a different stage of civilization , is equally  |p521  impressive . British engineers in the past fifty years have added enormously to the food-producing areas of India by constructing irrigation canals and by developing railways , but as fast as new food areas have been opened up , so fast has the population expanded to eat up the new food produced . Yet in India those positive checks to population from which Malthus strove to save the world are in cruel operation . A very large part of the population of India never knows what it is to have even one square meal a day . The mortality , especially the infantile mortality , is terrific . Exactly the same phenomena are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is perpetually struggling to obtain a bare living . The infantile mortality is said to be something like seven hundred per thousand births . In addition to natural causes of mortality , in many parts of China infanticide is a common practice . Recently a new famine has broken out in China and the newspapers are reporting the widespread sale of children to buy food . These facts with regard to India and China are horrible enough in themselves , but their horror to Western minds is , or ought to be , aggravated when we reflect that it is only because of the extreme poverty of these millions that the prosperous nations are able to enjoy a fairly substantial supply of food for their own requirements . If the three hundred million inhabitants of India and the five hundred million inhabitants of China consumed food at even half the scale that Englishmen and Americans think necessary , there would be little , or indeed none , left for the rest of the world . This consideration brings us to what may be regarded as the crucial point in the Malthusian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world are in the ultimate resort compelled to struggle with one another to get a maximum share of a limited food supply . That it is still possible in certain regions of the world to increase the existing food supply no one denies , but equally is it true that there is an ultimate limit to that increase . Moreover as the limit of possible food production in any area is approached , so the cost of each unit of food produced is increased . This is the well-known " law of diminishing returns " in agriculture . The operation of this law can be temporarily suspended by commercial or industrial developments , such as the importation of relatively cheap artificial manures or the use of efficient machinery in place of hand-labour . But these improvements do not abrogate , they  |p522  only postpone , the operation of the law . As we ask more of nature from each acre of land , so after a certain point has been reached , does she make us pay more dearly for what she yields . Meanwhile different nationalities are competing for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the capacity of the globe . The competition in its mildest form is represented by bidding against one another in the Chicago wheat market ; in its ultimate form it is represented by killing one another on the battle-field . As the world gets filled , so inevitably will different races or nations fight with one another for a share of the available means of subsistence , unless they otherwise keep down their respective population . Men will always prefer to kill one another , rather than to starve themselves . That a continuous high birth-rate must lead to the overfilling of the world is an arithmetical proposition which needs little demonstration . Take England . A good many people , observing that before the war the birth rate in England was declining , assumed that the English population was on the highroad to extinction . Apart from the fact that a decreased birth-rate is almost invariably accompanied by a decreased infantile death-rate so that a lower birth-rate may actually mean a higher rate of net increase , there remains the arithmetically even more important consideration that a low rate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume of increase than a high rate on a small basis . One per cent on ten thousand dollars gives a larger annual income than nine per cent on one thousand . The importance of this arithmetical fact is crucial . As a population grows larger the annual increase automatically grows greater unless the birth-rate is correspondingly reduced . In a small population a high birth-rate is often beneficial , as in the case of the early settlers in New England . In a large population a high birth-rate involves overcrowding , under-feeding , social unrest , and the danger of war . The English census shows that in spite of the decline in the birth-rate , the population of England and Wales increased by a larger volume in the ten years ending 1911 than in any previous decade of England 's long history . The increase in those first ten years of the twentieth century was greater than the increase during the whole of the eighteenth century . Further to press home the significance of these figures it is worth  |p523  while to add that the population of England and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate of increase were to continue for three hundred and sixty years the figure reached would be two billion , three hundred and four million , or five hundred millions more than the present population of the whole globe . Franklin was fully justified in saying that the world might in a few ages be filled with Englishmen only . It is equally true that any other race could in a few ages , if left to itself , replenish the earth . It is further and finally true that no race will be left to itself to seize for its own accommodation the whole surface of the globe and all its buried wealth . Either the different races must limit their own numbers or they must destroy one another by high explosive shells and poison gas . There are two ways by which a race can limit its numbers : the first is by encouraging deaths , the second is by discouraging births . The first method is mankind 's historic method , still maintained by the lower races and by the lower classes among the higher races . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the villages of India and China , unwanted babies are encouraged to die . Often no specific encouragement is needed . The poverty of the household and the weakness of the mother give the child no chance of life . Thousands of children are born every year only to die within a few days or a few weeks or a few months . The call for cradles only precedes by a brief interval the call for coffins . That is the tragedy of the married woman 's life in the poorer classes throughout the world . It is a cruel wrong imposed upon women by the decrees of Nature and by man 's lack of imagination . Had Nature decreed that men should share with women the anxieties of gestation and the pains of parturition , husbands and wives in all races would long ago have learnt how to avoid bringing into the world unwanted children . In the proverbial phrase ? if the husband had to bear the second child , there would never be a fourth . As matters stand a married woman 's life in the less prudent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by this protracted suffering . Therefore for the sake of the race , as well as for the sake of the mother , it is important that parents should learn how to regulate the size of their families . No intelligent gardener plants trees so close to one another that they have no room to grow , and for ex/ actly similar reasons intelligent and patriotic parents ought to leave adequate intervals of time between their successive infants , and ought to refrain from producing more than they can afford to bring up to healthy maturity . In England , as in many other countries , this is now being done by a very large proportion of the population . Not only have the middle and upper classes reduced the size of their families but the same practice is being followed by well-to-do artisans and by agricultural labourers . In English villages where thirty years ago families of ten or twelve were common , the rule to-day is two or three children at most , and often only one . Meanwhile the reckless production of children in the slum population still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead of discouraging this output of infants , few of whom will add any real strength to the race , is encouraging their multiplication by the payment of maternity benefits and by other devices for relieving slum parents of the cost of rearing their own children . But if the better educated and physically stronger classes reduce their numbers , while the more ignorant , more reckless , and more unhealthy classes continue to multiply , the average character of the race must decline . A similar problem faces the world as a whole . If the lower races continue to multiply , while the higher races restrict their numbers , the time will come when the mastery of the world will pass to the inferior but more prolific types of mankind , just as in a garden the weeds will choke the flowers if left unchecked . The danger can not be met by any appeal to the higher types to breed more children . They will not do it , and even if they did it they would only intensify the racial rivalry for the limited resources of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of world-wide wars lies in the reduction of the numbers of the more prolific races . To kill out these races is impossible , even if we could bring our minds to the deliberate contemplation of such a hideous massacre . But it is possible for them to learn what the upper classes among white men already have learnt , and consciously to limit their output of children . It is the duty of the higher races to impart this knowledge and if necessary to enforce the importance of it by combined measures against those races which by recklessly increasing their numbers threaten the peace of the world .  |p525                      