@@486494

WHEN is no bird , a woman  --  no human , " says a Rus-A sian proverb . In this drastic formulation stands written the history of centuries . Woman 's claim to " human " - news was at times accepted with reservations , at other times it was boldly challenged , and even today when woman 's legal , social , economic , and political disabilities - have been largely removed woman 's acceptance in society as man 's equal remains dependent on a definition of the " equal . " As in the case of the mental capacity of races , the question of woman 's intellectual status was never judged on its merits . Rather , it was accepted as a practical social postulate , then rationalized into the likeness of an inductive conclusion . The problem seems so replete with temptations for special pleading that a thoroughly impartial attitude becomes well-nigh impossible . However , let us attempt it ! Is woman psychologically identical with man ? or , If there is a difference , is it one of superiority and inferiority ? And of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways of approach are open : Subject men and women to psychological tests , or observe performance in life and , exercising due critical care , infer capacity . Both methods have been tried . The first enjoys today a certain vogue : it is the method of science , of experimental psychology . Unfortunately , the findings of science in this field have to date resulted in precisely nothing . It was feasible to assume that woman was man 's equal in elementary sensory capacity , in memory , types and varieties of associations , attention , sensitiveness to pain , heat , and cold , etc . Experimental psychology has confirmed these assumptions . But what of it ? What can we make of it ? Precisely nothing . What we are interested in is whether woman can think " as logically " as man , whether she is more intuitive , more emotional , less imaginative , more practical , less honest , more sensitive , a better judge of human nature . These , among many other interesting issues , can not even be broached by experimental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Remains the second method , to observe performance and infer capacity . To examine in this fashion all the issues involved would require a small library . I select only one , creativeness . Is woman man 's equal in creativeness ? The choice is justified by the highly controversial character of the issue as well as its practical bearings . Two periods in the history of civilization lend themselves well for our purpose , the primitive and the modern . The primitive world was not innocent of discrimination against woman . In social and political leadership , in the ownership and disposition of property , in religion and ceremonialism , woman was subjected to more or less drastic restrictions . It would , therefore , be obviously unfair to expect her creativeness in these fields to have equaled or even approximated that of man . Not so in industry and art , where division of labor prevailed , but no sex disability . As one surveys the technical and artistic pursuits of primitive tribes , woman 's participation is everywhere in evidence . The baskets of California , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Plains , the famous Chilkat blankets , the tapa cloth of Polynesia , all of these were woman 's handiwork . Almost everywhere she plans and cuts and sews and decorates the garments worn by women as well as men . Also , in all primitive communities she gathers the wild products of vegetation and transforms them into palatable foods . More than this , in societies that know not the plow woman is , with few exceptions , the agriculturist . It follows that the observations , skills , techniques , and inventions involved in these pursuits must also be credited to woman . It will be conceded that in primitive society woman 's record is impressive : wherever she is permitted to apply her creativeness she makes good , and the excellence of her achievement is equal to that of man , certainly not conspicuously inferior to his . In evaluating these findings , however , it is important to take cognizance of the submergence of individual initiative by the tribal pattern , a feature characteristic of primitive life . This applies to men and women , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditional norms , the individualism and subjectivism of modern art are here conspicuous by their absence . How does this record compare with a survey of the modern period ? Here again woman 's disabilities in the social , political , and religious realms were so marked that creative participation was impossible . The same is true of architecture . Then come philosophy , mathematics , science , and sculpture , painting , literature , music , and the drama . In philosophy and mathematics there is no woman in the ranks of supreme excellence . Even Sonya Kovalesky , though a talent , was not a great mathematician . In science also , where women have done fine things , none are found among the brightest luminaries . It must be added , moreover , that the few women who have made their mark in the scientific field , notably Mme Curie , have done so in the laboratory , not in the more abstract and imaginative domain of theoretical science . At this point some may protest that the period during which women have had a chance to test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too short , their number too small , and that here once more performance can not fairly be used as a measure of possible achievement . We must heed this protest . As to sculpture , painting , literature , music , and the drama , I claim that woman 's protracted disabilities can not in any way be held accountable for whatever her performance may be found to be . Women artists , musicians , writers , and , of course , actresses have been with us for a long time . Their number is large and on the increase . Whether married or single , they devote their energies to these pursuits quite unhampered by social taboos . There are in this field no taboos against women . In the United States , in fact , these occupations are held to be more suitable for women than for men . But what do we find ? In painting and sculpture no women among the best , although considerable numbers among the second best and below . There is no woman Rodin or Meunier or Klinger or Renoir or Picasso @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Here women have performed wonderfully , both in poetry and prose . If they have fallen short , it is only of supreme achievement . ' Finally we come to music and the stage . The case of music is admirably suited for our purpose , is really a perfect test case . What do we find ? As performers , where minor creativeness suffices , women have equaled the best among men . As composers , where creativeness of the highest order is essential , they have failed . We have a Carrefio or Novaes to match Hofmann or Levitzki , a Melba or Sembrich to match a Caruso or de Reszke , a Morini or Powell or Parlow to match a Heifetz or Elman or Kreisler ; but there is no woman to match a Beethoven or Wagner or Strauss or Mahler or Stravinsky or Rachmaninoff  --  a composer-performer . The situation in drama is almost equally illuminating . 1 We need not mention a Dante , Shakespeare , Cervantes , or Milton Perhaps these are too far back . Not so Tolstoi , Dostoevski , Turgenev , Goethe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Flaubert , Byron , Browning , Shelley , Emerson , Walt Whitman . Where are their equals among women ? And coming down to the modern period , when literature is flooded with feminine figures , is there one who can be placed beside Anatole France or d'Annunzio or Proust or Gorki or even Bernard Shaw ( not to mention Ibsen ) ? The feminine names that might be cited in comparison are obvious enough , but would any of them measure up to these  --  quite ' ? However , let me mention Katherine Mansfield , Edith Wharton . Edna St. Vincent Millay , And I may add Sheila Kaye-Smith , Willa Cather , Selma Lagerlof , and Marguirite Audou I realize , of course , that such comparisons , except in a moat sweeping statement , are invidious A better picture could be obtained by Juxtaposing , one to one , writer 's of similar type and literary form  --  but this is a task for a volume . Here women have reached the top , have done it so frequently and persistently , in fact , as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dramatic writers the few women who tried have never succeeded to rise above moderate excellence . A Rachel or Duse can hold her own against a Possart or Orlenyev , a Bernhardt looms as high as an Irving , Booth , or Salvini ; but there is no woman to compare with a Moliere or Ostrovski or Rostand or Hauptmann or Chekhov or Kapek . If now we glance once more at the primitive record the conclusion suggested by an analysis of music and the drama is greatly reinforced . In primitive society woman , whenever opportunity was given her , equaled man in creativeness ; in modern society she has uniformly failed in the highest ranges . The results are not incompatible . As indicated before , in early days cultural conditions precluded the exercise of creativeness on the part of the individual except on a minor scale , in modern society major creativeness is possible and has been realized . Woman 's creative achievement reaches the top when the top is relatively low ; when the top itself rises , she falls behind . To analyze this fact further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as some do , that the difference between major and minor creativeness lies in degrees of rationality . This is certainly erroneous . The true creator is what he is not because of his rationality but because of what he does with it . The differentia , as I see them , are two : boldness of imagination and tremendous concentration on self . The creator , when he creates , is spiritually alone ; he dominates his material by drawing it into the self and he permits his imagination , for once torn off the moorings of tradition and precedent , to indulge in flights of gigantic sweep . Imagination and personality exalted to the nth power  --  not rationality  --  are the marks of the highest creativeness . In the possession of these traits , then , as here understood , woman is somehow restricted . She has them , of course , and exercises them , but not on the very highest level . We might stop right here , but it is hard to suppress at least a tentative interpretation . If the personality-imagination complex is where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ priori probable that this difference between man and woman constitutes a remote sex characteristic . And if this is so , then it may prove worth our while to look for a corresponding difference on a level more directly connected with sex life . No sooner is this done than a difference does indeed appear , and it meets our expectations , for it lies in the direction of personality or self-concentration as well as of imagination . Woman is never so much " a part of " as when she loves , man never so " whole " ; her self dissolves , his crystallizes . Also , woman 's love is less imaginative than man 's : man is more like what woman 's love makes him out to be than woman is like what man 's love makes her out to be . Relatively speaking , his love is romantic , hers realistic . This difference in the diagnostic features of man 's love and woman 's love confirms our suspicion that the discrepancy in performance , where the personality-imagination complex is involved , constitutes a remote sex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's achievement in the different fields of cultural creativeness , for the variation in the degree of excellence reached by her provides a valuable clue as to where her strength lies . In an ascending series of woman 's achievements musical composition is at the bottom of the list , then come sculpture and painting , then literature ( with a strange drop in dramatic writing ) , then instrumental and vocal performance ; acting , finally , heads the list . This order is most illuminating . The relative excellence of woman 's achievement is seen to rise with the concreteness of the task and the prominence of the technical and human elements . Creativeness is more abstract in music than in the plastic and graphic arts , more abstract in these than in literature ; and in each case woman 's relative achievement increases as abstractness decreases . Even the peculiar drop in dramatic writing when compared with other forms of literature is explicable in terms of a more abstract sort of creativeness required by the formal elements of dramatic art . Again , the high position in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascribed to the importance of the technical element in these arts . The preeminence of the musical performers is probably entirely due to this factor , although the intrusion of the human element ( performing for an audience ) may also have a share in the result . In the case of acting the human element is the most important factor , for here there is not only an audience to act to but the human content of the acting itself . The human orientation also accounts for the relatively high position of literature in the list when compared to sculpture and painting and to musical composition . Finally , the creativeness of musical performance and acting  --  two fields in which woman excels  --  is concrete when compared to that of literature , the arts , and musical composition . Incidentally , a sidelight is thus thrown on the case of science , where woman 's relative preeminence is found in the concrete and technical domain of the laboratory . The preceding analysis leads to the conclusion that woman 's strength lies in the concrete as contrasted with the abstract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human as contrasted with the universal and detached . This conclusion , it may be of interest to note , harmonizes perfectly with the general consensus of mankind , as expressed in lay opinion and the judgments of literary men . To summarize : In all fields of cultural activity opened to her , woman has shown creative ability , but since cultural conditions have made major creativeness possible , she has failed , in comparison with man , in the highest ranges of abstract creativeness . On the other hand , woman has shown in her psychic disposition affinities for the concrete , the technical and the human . Before closing , these findings may be utilized for a prognostication of woman 's activities in the immediate and more remote future . The present tendency toward equalizing the cultural opportunities of man and woman will no doubt persist . Thus the range of woman 's cultural contributions will expand and the excellence of her creative achievement will rise , especially in the fields in which she has so far had but little chance to try her hand . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranges of abstract creativeness , in philosophy , science , art , music , and perhaps literature , she will fail as she has hitherto failed to equal man . Her concrete-mindedness will ever continue to provide a useful counterpoise to the more imaginative and abstract leanings of her male companion . Her technical talents will shinemore brilliantly in a world in which the crafts will again occupy the prominent place which was theirs once before . But her unique contributions will come in the range of the human element . In this respect , woman 's principal affinity is calculated to bear its choicest fruits in a world better than the one we live in . When formalism recedes from the field of education , as indeed it has already begun to do , and gives room for more individual and psychologically refined processes , woman 's share in education will grow in scope and creativeness . When the family has left behind the agonies of its present readjustments , the reconstruction of a freer and happier family life will largely rest on the shoulders of woman . When prisons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as patients , woman 's sensitiveness , insight , and tact will bring her leadership in this field . When a return of leisure and the reduction of economic pressure will permit a revival of the more intimate forms of social intercourse , woman 's social talents will find new fields to conquer . When the world of nations will sheathe its sword forever  --  an event toward the realization of which woman will probably contribute more than man  --  woman , to whom nothing human is foreign , will at last be free to show the world what she can accomplish as the mother of the family of man .                     