@@486137

SIR Referring to the enumeration , in Mr. Villard 's article of November 8 , of the several classes of advertising excluded from the Christian Science Monitor , I am inclined to believe that that excellent newspaper 's standard is not quite so severe as he paints it . The Monitor of November 10 contained the following display advertisement : SLIM-LIMB HOSIERY The " Bryn Mawr , " a new type of silk hosiery for women that fills a long-felt need for a stocking that is as slender through the leg as a misses ' stocking , but has the length of a woman 's stocking . Evidently , the Monitor 's scruples are not so inflexible as to block the relief of this particular " long-felt need " of the Boston ladies . Out our way , I gratefully beg to report , the architecture of the feminine extremities is less rectilinear . Berkeley , California , November 18 A. T. PUTNAM " Mr. Lloyd George 's New War " To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : In your recent editorial , Mr. Lloyd George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You say : " We discover that even the Allies have never proposed excluding the Turk from Europe . From the beginning they have recognized that Constantinople and Eastern Thrace are in fact Turkish . " Just before our Government declared war , a request went to the Allies to state their war aims . The reply , written by a Frenchman for the Allies , dated January 10 , 1917 , included the following : " The enfranchisement of populations subject to the bloody tyranny of the Turks and the expulsion from Europe of the Ottoman Empire , decidedly alien to Western civilization . " Even at the Peace Conference at Paris Constantinople was not recognized as Turkish and the agreement was to establish an international state of Constantinople . It was not until the Treaty of Sevres was signed in 1920 that the decision was reached to give Constantinople back to the Turks and that decision included not all of Eastern Thrace but only a very small portion of it 2 . It was not British military and naval pressure at Constantinople which forced the Turkish Government at Constantinople @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection with the signing of that treaty were spoken by a Frenchman , M. Millerand . He said : " It would neither be just nor would it conduce to lasting peace in the Near and Middle East that large masses of non-Turkish nationality should be forced to remain under Turkish rule . " 3 There is no evidence to my knowledge that the British Government subsidized the Greeks to fight the Nationalist Turks , and spokesmen for the British Government have definitely stated that no aid was given by that Government in any way to the Greeks 4 It seems to me that your readers should know that back in the days of the Peace Conference , when Orlando had furiously withdrawn and there was danger that the Italians would seize Smyrna in accordance with a treaty made during the war , Lloyd George , Clemenceau , and President Wilson joined in requesting Venizelos to rush troops into Smyrna , because it had already been agre ed that the Greeks were to have the Smyrna area . After the Italian menace passed , the French saw the Greek menace rising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " New Rome " might be reestablished at Constantinople , and French jealousy of British success in Constantinople led France to try to establish its influence in Angora 5 . The invitation to representatives of the Nationalist Turks to come to London for the conference in February , 1921 , was not from Great Britain alone but from all the Allies 6 . The proposals for modification of the Sevres treaty made last March were accepted by the Turks with such important modifications as to amount to a rejection . One of these modifications was that the Greeks were to evacuate Asia Minor at once . 7 In the British stand at Chanak no promise was broken . The purpose rather was to keep to the agreement made in March to see that a conference preceded the restoration of Thrace and Constantinople to the Turks , in order to safeguard the rights of minorities and to prevent the possible recurrence on a larger scale at Constantinople of the tragic events that had just transpired at Smyrna . 8 . A word should be said with regard to the Sevres treaty . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other nationalities which are now under Turkish rule should be assured their undoubted security of life and an absolutely unmolested opportunity of autonomous development " By the Sevres treaty the Arabs of Syria and Mesopotamia , who were already desirous of being separated from the Ottoman Empire , were given an opportunity for autonomous development . The Smyrna area had a Greek majority in population and was assigned to the Greeks . Provision was made for the establishment of a territory in the northeast corner to which the Armenian refugees could return and begin an autonomous development of their own . Constantinople was given back to the Turks , as was also Cilicia which had been definitely promised by the French to the Armenians . Provisions were made for a plebiscite in Kurdistan to determine whether the population there desired to be independent of Turkey or not . All the Turkish portions of Turkey and more were left absolutely intact . No indemnity was demanded and Turkey fared infinitely better than a defeated country had a right to expect . New York , October 17 GEORGE R. MONTGOMERY , Director , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in part right , but during the war Allied statesmen made a great many contradictory statements , as occasion demanded . Part of their difficulty in agreeing upon the terms of the Treaty of Sevres was due to the fact that British war-time agreements with French , Arabs , Jews , Greeks , and Italians did not jibe . There was talk at Paris of alienating Constantinople ; but the Allies never proposed terms to the Turks which excluded them from Europe . The Treaty of Sevres was not born in a day ; the decision to return Constantinople , there confirmed , was no hasty act but the product of long deliberation . ( 2 ) M. Millerand may have used harsh words , but the British troops and the British warships at Constantinople were the effective agents . ( 3 ) The British Government has denied that as a government it aided the Greeks . At one time it made similar statements about certain White Russian movements . But , like those Russians , the Greeks used British guns and ammunition , and had no money with which to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British Government was not a party to the transaction ; we do not believe that Mr. Montgomery believes Mr. Lloyd George to have had no part in it . ( 4 ) Mr. Montgomery 's remarks about the Italian claim to Smyrna , based upon a war-time treaty , and the FrancoBritish-American encouragement to M. Venizelos to rush troops into Smyrna in violation of the war-time agreement , confirm the point of our editorial ( 5 ) This is true , but the prime mover was Mr Lloyd George . ( 6 ) The Greek Parliament rejected the London proposals in toto even before they were formally presented ( New York Times , March 2 , 1921 ) ; the Turks accepted them subject only to modifications in date which do not seem to us to justify Mr. Montgomery 's opinion . ( 7 ) What may have been the real purpose of the British stand at Chanak is a matter of opinion , and might require a psychoanalyst for certainty . Our opinion is that fear of loss of the present British control of the all-important Straits was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposed upon Turkey foreign control of her finances , her customs , her railroads , and her army . It also established the Greeks in the province of Smyrna , which is not Greek  --  only the city of Smyrna is preponderantly Greek  --  and if ft the Straits in Allied hands . After its signature the Allies remained in Constantinople and in Eastern Thrace , and the British tolerated and probably encouraged the Greek advance into Anatolia . Such a policy invited Kemal 's revolt , and Mr. Lloyd George 's appeal to the world to aid him in a holy stand at Chanak seems to us to have been disingenuous , uncalled for , and a threat to the peace of the world . EDITOR THE NATION Can the Church Be Pacifist ? To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : Silt " How seriously are we to take the church agitation for peace ? " asks John Haynes Holmes in The Nation for October 25 . Then he quotes Bernard Shaw as wondering how the church has the face to exist after its attitude on the late war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , in the years from 1914 to 1918 , played one scene of a very old drama in which the church has always taken the same role ? What is a church ? It is the social institution which ministers to man 's beliefs  --  to the emotional or instinctive side of his nature that reaches out into the unknown and forward into the beyond . The church has never made its appeal to reason . That function has devolved upon the school and other institutions that have spoken for classified knowledge . Since the functioning of the church is confined to the realm of the emotions , it can hardly be expected to play a part in the handling of scientific problems . Modern war is science  --  a product of the reasoning faculties . Personal altercations are frequently the result of emotional upheavals , but modern wars are the product , not of the emotional reactions of individuals , but of the carefully laid plans of great industrial , commercial , diplomatic , and military institutions , all of which work out and blue-print wars in advance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrought . How then shall the church act on the question of war ? From an emotional standpoint of course  --  on a basis of love or of hate : of fear or of faith . That is , it will not make or unmake wars  --  it will react to wars , after they are made or unmade , as it reacts to any other body of fact . There are about 140,000 ministers and priests in the United States . Before and after the World War they were for peace . During the war they were for war . Why was this ? Because the people were for peace before and after the war and for war during the war , and the church , as the institution that reflects their emotional states , taught a corresponding doctrine . But why did the church gradually swing over to a war attitude , even before the United States went to war ? First because the American people were being gradually won over to the war position by the newspapers and the other propaganda forces ; second , because the church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a billion dollars , must go for financial assistance to the same group of financial interests that were using the newspapers to make a war . The ruling classes have had many reasons for making wars , whatever the reason they have always had a dependable ally in the emotional exaltation that was stirred up by the church . Historically it is quite fair to say that one of the functions of the church has been to arouse people in order that they might be more eager to fight . Certainly that is the experience of the past century . There have been Friends , Mennonites , and other small sects that have made an honorable record as opponents to war . Jesus and His immediate followers ( with the possible exception of Peter ) were pacifists , but since the institutionalizing of the Christian church , and its expropriation by Constantine , it has been consistently and invariably pro-war . Mr. Holmes wants to know whether the Christian church can be pacifist . As well ask whether it can be radical . Logic and experience alike make a negative reply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Convening of the New Congress To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Public attention has been called to the fact that the Congress selected at the last election will not in the ordinary course of events meet until December , 1923 , thus delaying the carrying into effect of the popular will as expressed by the election . In the general discussion it has been taken for granted that this unfair situation is inevitable , but a study of the law reveals the following : The Constitution provides ( Art . I , Sec. 4 , Par . 2 ) that " Congress shall assemble at least once in every year , and such meeting shall be on the first Monday in December , unless they shall by law appoint a different day . " Later ( in 1872 ) Congress enacted this law ( U. S. R S , Sec. 25 ) : " . . The Tuesday next after the first Monday in November , 1876 . . and every second year thereafter , is established as the day of election . . of Representatives and delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next thereafter " It will thus be seen that the present procedure is merely a result of custom , dictated originally as shown in the debates at the time of formulating the Constitution because meetings in " the summer would interfere too much with private business , that of almost all the probable members being more or less connected with agriculture . " It is clearly within the power of the present Congress before adjournment to fix March 4 as the date for the convening of the new Congress and thus avoid the spectacle of defeated and repudiated partisans trying to jam through legislation of prime importance in the last days of their term after being repudiated by the electorate . New York , November 23 JONAH J. GOLDSTEIN The difficulty is in persuading a lame-duck Congress to seal the doom of its own favored legislation . Mr. Goldstein 's suggestion does not meet this. ? EDITOR THE NATION . A Soldier to the President To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : I have been urged by a number of people who have read the inclosed letter to allow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ex-service man . This letter is one of a large number of similar import that have gone to Washington since the circulation of the Open Letter to President Harding sent recently by fifty-two war-time prisoners still in Leavenworth for expression of opinion . New York , November 1 ESTHER HARLAN To the President of the United States , Washington , D C Dear Mr President I respectfully request that you grant a general amnesty to the political prisoners confined on charges brought under the Espionage Act During the time that I was serving with the American Expeditionary Force in France I was greatly disturbed by new s of the extraordinary intolerance of opinion that was developing in the United States Now I am much more dl , . - turbed that , when there is no longer any excuse for it nor palliation for remaining symptoms of war hysteria , men should be kept in confinement whose only offense is that during strenuous times they stood up for the principle of freedom of speech I am ready at any time to give myself whole-heartedly to the defense of this country 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens as to life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness I have always supposed that it was one of the cardinal beliefs of the men who hale made this country that the safety of those institutions depended upon the freedom with which individuals were allowed to express themselves ; not on the severity with which they were repressed It will be a very sad day for great numbers of us who are loyal Americans when we are forced to believe that one may no longer in thiscountry safely express any opinions except those sanctioned by the majority I believe , Mr President , that to free these men will be quite consistent with the high standard of public duty that you have set for yourself , and that you will by such an act show yourself at the same time just , merciful , and a careful guardian of your country 's welfare That the wrong is none of your creating will detract nothing from the credit you may gain by righting it Every day of confinement is an added injustice With all respect to you and to your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respectfully , L BLANCHARD I am thirty-four years of age , born an American citizen of old American stock I am an A M of Brown University where I was at one time an instructor I enlisted at the beginning of the war , was later commissioned , served at St Mihiel and in the Argonne , and was honorably discharged with the grade of Captain C A C Recently I have been treasurer and director of a large industrial concern From the Strike Region To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : The public generally thinks the coal strike of 1922 is a thing of the past , but this is hardly the case . Several thousand miners are still on strike . Many of them are living in tents , stables , garages , and barracks furnished by the miners ' union . Western Pennsylvania is still an armed camp So far , however , no one is armed but the State cossacks and the mine guards , but if they continue to flourish arms in the faces of the miners , how long will it be until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West Virginia mine war in western Pennsylvania in the Connellsville region ? Many of the coke companies refuse to furnish coal at any price for local consumption . This rule forces consumers in this great coal-field to ship coal here from other fields and helps to demoralize freight traffic . Coal in this district is mined and sold largely by the bushel . Coal that costs three and a quarter cents per bushel to mine costs the consumer eighteen cents per bushel right by the mine The high freight rates , the inability of the railroads to deliver coal , and the refusal of the coke companies to sell to local consumers force the consumers in this great coal-field to use inferior grades of coal at extortionate prices . It has been charged that the same group of men own the coal and the railroads . If so , cross shipment may be a good thing for the owners , but the consumers get it in the neck . Hopwood , Pa , November 6 ISAAC MURPHY " How Can We Get Together ? " To THE EDITOR OF THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least , I have wished I knew someone to whom I could write letters of opinion on all sorts of subjects , someone who would enjoy reading them and replying in kind . To date I have not found even one such person . There must be , I imagine , hundreds of others in a similar situation  --  chiefly young people , like myself , who are intensely interested in books , but are not writers ; or in art , but are not artists ; or in radicalism , but are not agitators . We have no way of getting acquainted , even by letter , with one another ; and we all feel that not only would it be presumptuous of us to bother those names are famous , but that we have little to offer them in return for their attention . How can we get together ? Shall we add another to the ten thousand-odd periodicals now published ? Shall we add another to the hundred thousand-odd clubs in existence  --  a correspondence club of some sort ? Or is there an organization already flourishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants ? My duties as instructor in English and history are not too exacting to allow me to act , temporarily , as a distributing center for the ideas and views of those whom my suggestion may interest . K. M. 1 . , Lyndon , Ky. , November 8 JOHN M. PRICE                     