@@486386

T HE NEW YORK STATE WATER-POWER commission , with not so much as a month to live , is determined to hand over the incomparable power resources of the St. Lawrence River to the Aluminum Trust . The commission goes out of existence on December 31 . It is Republican , whereas Governor Smith , who is fighting to conserve the State 's water-power , ' belongs to the opposite party . The overwhelming victory of Governor Smith in the recent election gave clear indication that the people of New York were behind him in that fight . And so , before the door is shut on such schemes forever , the commission summons in one of the richest and greediest corporations in the world and bids it take 2,000,000 horse-power away , on terms that must shake the sides of all the devils in hell . It is as though the commission were seeking deliberate revenge on a people for beating its party at the polls ; or else had gone quite mad . No more wanton , cynical raid on the public domain has ever been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wealth that is locked up in the " white coal " of the St. Lawrence . G OVERNOR SMITH continues to fight . He has re- tained Samuel Untermyer to seek ways and means of enjoining the commission 's action . The federal government as well as the courts will have something to say before the deal is finally consummated . But the danger is acute , and all men and women with a spark of citizenship should range themselves  --  as vocally as possible  --  on the Governor 's side . The lease provides that the Aluminum Trust shall pay the State $2,000,000 a year in taxes . Where will it get the taxes ? Out of the hides of the citizens of New York in exorbitant power rates . The lease provides that at the end of fifty years the plant will revert to the State . On what terms ? At cost plus 15 per cent ? $20,000,000 velvet or thereabouts to be handed over to Mr. Mellon 's heirs . Furthermore , a loophole is left for watering values which , if past experience in public-utility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ push up the price to such a figure that the people of New York can never afford to buy their own property back . Or worse still , they may be forced to pay through the nose when the engineering of fifty years hence is getting cheaper power from other sources . The New York World states the case flatly : " This is not a matter of private development versus public development . This is a matter of decent development , whether public or private , versus a barefaced last-minute grab . " T HE GREAT FATHER IN THE WHITE HOUSE , that dauntless man , has just surrendered without discretion to the Senators from North Dakota , Nye and Frazier . The intrepid Mr. Coolidge , it seems , appointed to the position of United States Marshal in North Dakota one C. F. Mudgett , a protege of Mr. Hanna , the recently defeated regular candidate for the Senate . When this news reached Senator Nye he promptly went to the White House , demanded an interview with the President , and got it . Then and there he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treatment in the disposition of patronage in his State and the aforesaid intrepid President came down with the rapidity and benevolence of Davy Crockett 's ' coon . Poor Mr. Mudgett , who had left his home for his new post , is to return unrewarded . Senator Frazier , too , served notice upon the White House that the President must recognize no one but the elected Senators . Washington points to the closeness of the next Senate as the reason for Mr. Coolidge 's ignominious surrender , but we are inclined to think that Senator Nye 's own fighting spirit helped to carry the day . Indubitably , as Frank R. Kent points out in the Baltimore Sun , this rather shoddy struggle over patronage reflects little credit upon any one involved . But , if patronage must be , there is no reason why the President should be permitted to use that of North Dakota to punish insurgent Senators who refuse to kiss the royal robes on all occasions . HoW , in the face of incidents like this , can the myth of the big , strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MOSES when the light went on ? This will be the question in Washington when Senator Borah undertakes to investigate the activities of his colleague , Senator Moses of New Hampshire , in connection with the Alien Property Custodian 's office . Norman Hap-good has brought out in his Washington correspondence the fact that Emory R. Buckner , United States District Attorney in New York , has in his possession three checks aggregating $6,000 , drawn by John T. King to the order of Senator Moses . John T. King , it will be remembered , was the man who distributed the $441,000 which figured in the Daugherty-Miller conspiracy case , that being the money said to have been paid as a bribe by Richard Merton in order improperly to obtain release of certain alien property . Mr. Hapgood also declares that these three checks are not reported in the income tax of Senator Moses , and thinks from this it is " impossible to argue that this $6,000 was for legitimate services legitimately accounted for . " He also maintains that there are letters in Mr. Buckner 's possession which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moses and Mr. King . One of these letters relates to the attempt to get the " right kind of ambassador from Germany , " and another from Senator Moses tells Mr. King that he will give him a tip as to the right kind of pressure in order to bring this about . As far as we can make out the next Senate will be devoted chiefly to investigating its new and old members . Smith of Illinois , Gould of Maine , Watson of Indiana , Vare of Pennsylvania , Moses of New Hampshire  --  the list is getting longer and more interesting every day. - E NTIRELY GRATIFYING is Mr. S. Parker Gilbert 's report of the second year 's working of the Dawes Plan . The Agent General for Reparations speaks in warm praise of the " loyalty and fidelity " of the Germans in their cooperation with the Dawes authorities , the promptness of their payments , and their ability to settle two supplementary budget contributions by the lump-sum payments of 300,000,000 marks ; the latter Mr. Gilbert declares " significant of the spirit of - friendly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mutual understanding that lie at the basis of the plan . " Distribution of reparation payments has gone on smoothly , without trade or currency disturbances . France alone received 611,877,000 marks in cash , 225,000,000 marks in coal , coke , and lignite , 40,000,000 marks in fertilizers , and 37,000,000 in timber and agricultural products . Next year Germany must pay , all told , 1,500,000,000 marks and there is every prospect that it will be able to do so despite the heavy burden of unemployment doles . Mr. Gilbert criticizes the usual danger of too great governmental expenditure and censures the failure to work out a definite financial relationship between the Reich and the separate states and communes . But he records the stability of the currency for more than two years , the adequacy of the gold reserve , and the brave manner in which the Reich has borne the pains of reorganization after inflation . He , too , takes a slap at the preposterous European tariffs , declaring that " trade barriers are still responsible for great dislocation " and hamper the prompt movement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation far better than had been hoped for , one that reflects infinite credit on all concerned and upon none more than on Mr. Gilbert and his American staff . T HERE IS CERTAINLY no better  --  and perhaps no other  --  peaceful solution of the fifty-year-old wrangle between Chile and Peru over the Tacna-Arica territory than that formally proposed by our Secretary of State in suggesting that the area be awarded to Bolivia , the latter paying a price for it to be fixed by negotiation . The sug- ' gestion , commended by The Nation in its issue of March 31 , last , did not originate with Mr. Kellogg , but his accept-. ance of it may heal a long-festering wound and restore to our diplomacy the prestige which we lost when our badlyconceived attempt to supervise a plebiscite ended last spring in a fiasco . Bolivia , quite naturally , has already accepted the proposal , and it is reported that Chile is favorably disposed toward it . Such a settlement has much to commend it to all the countries concerned . The area is an arid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either , but it would be of decided importance to Bolivia , giving it access to the sea , a railway thereto , and the ready-made port of Arica in place of Antofagasta , which it lost to Chile in the war of half a century ago . For South America and the world at large an acceptance of the proposal would end a long-standing cause of national jealousy and potential war . XCITED BY A THREAT of a general strike on the part of their servants , the foreigners at Hankow , in the heart of China , telegraphed ardently for gunboats to protect them , and an international flotilla is now anchored off the concessions . But the general strike which excited such apprehension has not occurred , and the 407 American marines now at Hankow must find life dull . To the Chinese , however , the incident must have seemed just one more proof of the unity of the foreign nations . The ordinary Chinese does not know that the American Government , by announcing that it would not use its marines to maintain foreign control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a real service ; he knows only that whenever foreign warships threaten China the Stars and Stripes fly alongside the rest . Meanwhile , the Nationalists continue to gain ground ; they have moved their capital from Canton in the South to Wuchang , opposite Hankow ; their armies have captured Fuchow , the last important center of resistance south of Shanghai ' . A coalition of Northern war lords , meeting in Tientsin , has issued noisy proclamations of determination to down them , but while the dispatches report an intention to send 150,000 soldiers against the Southerners it remains to be seen where the coalition will find the soldiers willing to fight , the money to pay for them , or the generals capable of leadership . " T T WOULD BE UNCONSTITUTIONAL in our coun- t try " ? this oft-repeated assertion in the opinion given by William D. Guthrie , president of the New York City Bar Association , to Cardinal Hayes , sums up that jurist 's argument against Mexico 's anticlerical legislation . True , but what of it ? Certainly legislation analogous to that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be enacted in the United States . We have , fortunately , never had an established church which dominated our entire nation politically , economically , and spiritually . Mr. Guthrie is an eminent lawyer , but he should fortify himself in Mexican history . " If , " he writes , " during the last century in Mexico , fair play and religious liberty as we Americans now conceive fair play to all creeds and to all churches ' had been granted to the Roman Catholic church " ? things would have been different . Does he not know that the Mexican Catholic episcopate unanimously decried tolerance of other creeds as " impious , " " disastrous , " and " anti-Catholic " three-quarters of a century after religious liberty had been written into our own national ' charter ? O NTARIO , TOO , HAS GONE WET ? all Canada , with the exception of the Maritime Provinces , has now deserted the prohibition adopted in war time . Ontario , however , has not gone back to the saloon  --  she has , by reseating the Conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of permitting Dry communities to be Dry and of establishing package sale in communities which choose to be Wet . Prohibition was established in Ontario in 1916 ; 68 per cent of the voters indorsed it at a referendum in 1919 , only 54 per cent in 1924 ; this year Premier Ferguson , after putting through a redistribution act which gave the cities the larger representation to which their increasing population entitled them , went to the people on the direct issue of abandoning prohibition altogether , and won . Prohibition , he declared , was a failure ; and apparently most of Ontario 's voters agree with him . It will be interesting to observe the new system in operation . Ontario apparently did not like the saloon system when she had it ; she does not like prohibition ; will the system of giving to any person over 21 a revocable card entitling him to buy liquor in packages at government monopoly stores please the people better ? T HE CONSOLIDATION OF NEWSPAPERS goes on apace , the Scripps-Howard group having just purchased four more dailies , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Memphis News-Scimitar . The Denver Times was immediately consolidated with the Express of that city , already owned by the Scripps-Howard chain ; the News-Scimitar with the Scripps-Howard Press of Memphis , while the Knoxville Sentinel is similarly joined to the Knoxville News . Every week sees new combinations , while the air is full of rumors that there will soon be a Scripps-Howard daily in New York and that other sales and combinations are under way in the metropolis and elsewhere . But this remarkable trend is not confined to the large cities  --  it goes on in the small towns , sometimes extending to the concentration of all the dailies of a ' city under one ownership , as in Springfield , Massachusetts , and Auburn , New York . Since chain stores and combinations , in order to achieve economies of management , are the rule in almost all other lines of business , and since the making of newspapers is now purely a business affair , this drift is not to be wondered at . The effect it will have on the editorial side of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a warning from a veteran old-school editor , Milie Bunnell , founder of the Duluth Herald , who sees in the consolidations a " disintegration " and declares that the " salvation of American thought must come from editors whose courage and brilliance will be sufficient to combat the money interests seeking to monopolize the nation 's news and opinions . " Fortunately , the Scripps-Howard chain rank among the most liberal daily newspapers existing in the United States today . T HE EDITOR of the St. Petersburg , Florida , Independ- ent is grieved at an article entitled Real Estate versus Human Lives in Florida which appeared in The Nation for October 13 last over the signature of Stella Crossley . He objects to the statement in that article that " the policy of Florida newspapers , which in recent years have become mere real-estate house organs , has been to play down local storms and play up Northern ones to the advantage of the realtor . " The editor assures us that the Independent never has been controlled in either its news or editorial policy by the realtors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owners and managers , none of whom are financially interested in any real-estate development . " We are glad to accept hisassurances on this point and to exempt the Independent from the general application of Miss Crossley 's statement . The Independent also objects to Miss Crossley 's assertion , based on an Associated Press dispatch , that " concrete benches were picked up and whirled aboirt by the wind and frame houses were leveled , " this being attributed to one J. A. Kelly , who subsequently , the Independent informs us , withdrew those statements . As for the Independent 's handling of the news of the storm , however , we can not agree that its headlines on the day of the storm were justified by the facts or the news printed under them . We have . no desire to do the editors or owners of the St. Petersburg Independent the slightest injury or injustice ; we are concerned only with the truth . T WO DISTINGUISHED REPRESENTATIVES of Bos- ton Unitarianism have died within the past month . Edward Cummings , successor of Edward Everett Hale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Church , " was killed at a railroad crossing in New Hampshire ; Paul Revere Frothingham , pastor of the congregation before which William Ellery Channing preached a century ago , died at his Boston home . Mr. Frothingham was author of an excellent life of Edward Everett , that other Bostonian of many brilliancies and scant permanent achievement ; Mr. Cummings , was a leader in the pro-League efforts of the World Peace Foundation . Both were men of broad vision and of singular personal charm , whose qualities early promised brilliant careers ; yet neither really weathered the war . Both were stricken with that strange hesitancy which leaves Boston Unitarianism today a faint shadow of the pulsing movement which once moulded American thinking . The liberal Orthodox churches have caught up with what was once religious radicalism ; and the social gospel which inspired Channing to denounce war when it was still unquestioned has , like other Boston radicalisms , been smothered in the smug ancestor-worship of the present generation . Nonetheless , Mr. Cummings and Mr. Frothingham will be missed and Unitarianism confronts the question whether adequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ STERLING closed an attractive career of the sort that can be pursued today only , perhaps , on the Pacific Coast . To Californians ; Sterling was not merely a good poet ; he was in a more than figurative sense their poet laureate , and by virtue of his many admirable qualities as a person he was a civic institution as well . His rank as an American poet , whatever that may be , is worth determining ; but we should also remember him as a companionable man , generous to younger poets , and the leading spirit of the Bohemian Club , whence he sent his contributions to magazines all over the United ' States . The last poem he contributed to The Nation , The Seventh Veil , was so energetic an expression of disillusion that Fremont Older , upon reading it , sat down and wrote this letter : I got a great kick out of your Seventh Veil , published - in The Nation . You have expressed very beautifully what I have thought ever since I found out about the human race , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my conclusions . I am grateful to you . Sterling forwarded the letter to the editors of The Nation , but before they had time to thank him he was dead by his own hand . The disillusion he had expressed was , it would seem , his own 