@@468191

THE practice of law has for generations had the curious , paradoxical reputation of being the most learned , the most dignified , and the most distrusted of professions . In every age the bar has enjoyed the cynically contemptuous admiration of its contemporaries and has been the faithful recipient of the secrets and confidences of a people that did not trust it . This popular lack of faith in the honesty and the integrity of the legal profession exists to-day . There has never been a time when the lawyer has been so active a participant in the business affairs of his community ; there has , perhaps , never been a time when his advice , his trained judgment , and his technical knowledge have been so essential an element in every business enterprise . The lawyer is an indispensable adjunct to almost every branch of human activity . Yet the very individuals who employ him and rely so heavily upon him form that large collective body called The Public , and it is this Public that holds the legal profession in such low esteem . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other fields of endeavor the prevailing ' standards of conduct are conditioned by a frank and cheerfully cynical utilitarianism . The merchant does not assume a moral superiority that he does not possess , nor does he wear his virtue on his sleeve . The popular aphorism " business is business " indicates the current commercial attitude toward ethics . But the bar imposes upon itself a higher standard of behavior . The practice of law , it has repeatedly been said , is not a trade orbusiness but a profession of great antiquity and dignity . It involves social obligations and duties that are of vital importance to the preservation of our institutions . At the same time there are the specific obligations of loyalty and service which the lawyer owes to his client . The ambition of every lawyer is to be a successful lawyer . There are , however , varying definitions of success ; there is the definition contained in the lofty idealistic utterances found in the year-book obituaries of bar associations and in the philosophic literature of the profession ; there is also the more widely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the profession , the so-called leaders of the bar , the models according to which the young practitioner seeks to shape his career . Stripped of all euphemistic verbiage , the successful lawyer , according to the popular conception , is one who has the most respectable and most remunerative clients , and who best serves the interest of those clients . We have , therefore , a large , intelligent , and influential body devoting its energies and its genius almost exclusively to the selfish interests of individuals . If these interests conflict with the welfare of society , so much the worse for society . We hear much talk , for instance , about justice . Lawyers frequently describe themselves as ministers of justice . In the abstract it is a beautiful and desirable concept . But justice per se plays a small part in the daily activities of the busy practitioner . A few illustrations will suffice : A client brings a contract to his attorney and asks to have it broken . Will the lawyer consider the possible unfairness to the other contracting party who entered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examine the document for flaws and technical defects and endeavor to find some legal means to invalidate it ? A lawyer in the trial of a case realizes that , although the law is on his side , his client is in the wrong , and that if he wins a grave injustice will be done . What does he do about it ? There is no doubt as to the answers to these questions , nor is there any question as to the clear , unmistakable professional duty of the lawyer . These cases are not cited in a spirit of criticism . They are mentioned to illustrate the fundamental fact that a difference exists between the profession of law and the practice . The evil , if there be an evil , lies in the refusal of the bar to face the fact squarely . The faculty of rationalization and self-deception , which is an almost universal trait of mankind , is found conspicuously in members of the legal profession . Until the bar is prepared to assume a more realistic attitude toward its functions and its activities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exist . And so long as it exists , the popular distrust of anything that savors of sham and hypocrisy will exist with it . The practice of the law needs to be debunked . II This debunking process will not be easy . The bar , apart from its function as the coadjutor of private interests , is the inheritor of an ancient tradition of gentility . For centuries the practice of law was one of the few professions open to a gentleman . A ceremonial dignity , a medieval ritualism invested it and marked it as something apart from the baser pursuits of trade and labor . It thus acquired certain aristocratic attributes that survive in a vestigial form to-day . Among these survivals is the traditionof a higher standard of conduct . than that which is customarily expected from those who engage in less exalted pursuits . This tradition is embodied in what are called codes of ethics adopted by various bar associations , but what , actually , are refined codes of professional etiquette . The Canons of Professional Ethics Adopted by the American Bar Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behavior for lawyers . They deal with such matters as the respectful attitude a lawyer should adopt toward the judge , the duty of a lawyer not to overcharge a client , not to browbeat a witness , and not to insult his adversary . It is not claimed that these canons embody the whole duty of a lawyer ; there are others which are less ritualistic in their purpose . Nevertheless , the emphasis is on manners rather than morals . The questions and answers of the Committee on Professional Ethics of the New York County Lawyers Association illustrate the same tendency . For fourteen years this committee , composed of eminent members of the New York bar , has answered questions on professional ethics propounded to it by practicing lawyers . More than half the questions deal with matters of professional good form and have nothing to do with ethics . Forty-three questions , for example , out of two hundred and twenty-nine deal with the propriety of advertising by lawyers . A great many others have to do with solicitation of business . These matters arc not unimportant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dignity surround the administration of law . A respect for institutions is gained by the preservation of ceremonial trappings and incidents , and a certain amount of stagecraft is useful even in a democracy . The ministers of justice should be trained in the ritual of their profession . It is equally desirable , however , that those trained in the ritual of their profession should be ministers of justice . The important questionwhieh a lawyer has to decide at the outset of every professional undertaking is how far he may properly go in representing his client . Canon 5 of the Canons of Ethics of the American Bar Association attempts to define his duty in criminal cases : It is the right of the lawyer to undertake the defense of a person accused of crime , regardless of his personal opinion as to the guilt of the accused ; otherwise innocent persons , victims only of suspicious circumstances , might be denied proper defense . Having undertaken such defense , the lawyer is bound by all fair and honorable means to present every defense that the law of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be deprived of life or liberty , but by due process of law . The primary duty of a lawyer engaged in public prosecution is not to convict , but to see that justice is done . The suppression of facts or the secreting of witnesses capable of establishing the innocence of the accused is highly reprehensible . Canon 15 defines his duty generally : Nothing operates more certainly to create or to foster popular prejudice against lawyers as a class , and to deprive the profession of that full measure of public esteem and confidence which belongs to the proper discharge of its duties , than does the false claim , often set up by the unscrupulous in defense of questionable transactions , that it is the duty of the lawyer to do whatever may enable him to succeed in winning his client 's cause . It is improper for a lawyer to assert in argument his personal belief in his client 's innocence or in the justice of his cause . The lawyer owes " entire devotion to the interest of the client , warm zeal in the maintenance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utmost learning and ability , " to the end that nothing be taken or be withheld from him , save by the rules of law , legally applied . No fear of judicial disfavor or public unpopularity should restrain him from the full discharge of his duty . In the judicial forum the client is entitled to the benefit of any and every remedy and defense that is authorized by the law of the land , and he may expect his lawyer to assert every such remedy or defense . But it is steadfastly to be borne in mind that the great trust of the lawyer is to be performed within and notwithout the bounds of the law , The office of attorney does not permit , much less does it demand of him for any client , violation of law or any manner of fraud or chicane . He must obey his own conscience and not that of his client . It will be seen that while the prosecutor in a criminal case is charged with the duty of seeing that justice is done , no such obligation is placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty to present " every defense that the law of the land permits . " even at the sacrifice , inferentially , of justice and the public good . In civil , as well as criminal cases , he owes " entire devotion to the interests of his client . " Short of " violation of the law or any manner of fraud or chicane , " he may go the limit . The subtle ingenuity of the legal mind is capable of finding justifications and excuses even for fraud and chicane . An interesting illustration of this is found in the matter of Palmieri ( 176 App . Div. 58 , reversed in VI N. Y. 611 ) . This was a disbarment proceeding brought against an attorney on the ground of professional misconduct . This lawyer was defending a man charged with a rather serious crime . One of the state 's principal witnesses , a young woman , had disappeared shortly before the trial , and it was believed that she had been induced by the defendant to leave the jurisdiction . On the afternoon of the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , carrying a suit case . She was called to the stand by the defendant 's lawyer . It was quite important for him to show that she had appeared in court voluntarily , and had not been in touch with the defendant . Otherwise her interest in the case would have been apparent , and her testimony would have been discredited . " Where do you come from , Miss A --  ? " the lawyer asked . " Why , I just Caine from Mayfield , New York . " " Where is Mayfield , New York ? " " It is up the state ; just how far I could n't tell you . " " How did you get from Mayfield to New York ? " " Why I came down on the train last night ; 1 came down here because I read in the paper that Mr. D ' s case ? The witness produced a newspaper clipping from which , she said , she had learned that the case was about to be tried . The suit case she carried was offered in evidence to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ train . The defendant 's lawyer , summing up for the jury , referred to her testimony thus : " We have got her here , and , thank God , gentlemen of the jury , that Divine Providence has brought that woman here . If it was the Evening Journal , I thank the Evening Journal . If it was anybody else ? she said it was the Evening Journal that she read it in , and by the way she produced a clipping to the judge ? thank God , I say to the press . " The disbarment proceedings against the lawyer disclosed these facts : that the woman came to New York from Mayfield because the defendant had called her up on the long-distance telephone and had asked her to come , not because she had read about the case in a newspaper ; that the witness had gone to the lawyer 's house on the day on which the trial was to commence , and had had an interview with him there ; that she again visited the lawyer 's house at seven-thirty 3'clock in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , consequently , when she ippeared in court that afternoon with ler suit case in her hand the lawyer : new that she had been in New York pearly two days , and that her testimony as false . And , despite his eloquent emarks to the jury , he knew that neiher Divine Providence nor the Evening ournal had anything to do with her rrival . Nevertheless , the highest court in the tate of New York , by a vote of five to , ' o , found that the evidence did not warrant the conclusion that there was intentional misconduct " on the part of the lawyer , and the disbarment proceedings were dismissed . This case is now a precedent ? at least in the State of New York ? and any young attorney who may have any doubts as to the proper course to pursue in a similar case need only read the record and govern his conduct accordingly . Illustrations might be multiplied . There was the cause eMbre of a year or so ago , a sensational matrimonial action , in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the stand as a witness for her daughter . This woman , who had lived an irreproachable life for a generation or more , had been guilty in her youth of an unfortunate lapse from virtue . The distinguished counsel for the defendant subjected her to what is called in contemporary journalism " a grilling cross-examination " in which he went into the details of her ancient departure from rectitude . The entire performance was cruel and unnecessary . The examination , which had nothing to do with the issues involved , was permitted presumably as tending to impeach her as a witness , on the theory that a witness who has once slipped is somewhat less credible than one who has lived a life of unmitigated impeccability . The actual purpose , of course , was to besmirch , indirectly , the plaintiff , and to create atmosphere . The chief significance of this case lies in the fact that the attorney happened to be one of the most eminent members of the bar ; a man whose professional career entitled him to the respect and emulation of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York County Lawyers Association , in reply to a question in a similar case , had this to say on the subject : The Committee considers that wanton , unnecessary or unreasonable inquiry or comment respecting the discreditable past history of a witness or party , is unethical and improper professional conduct ; it can not , however , assume to say that such inquiry or comment , whether admissible or not under the law of evidence , was , in the case suggested , wanton. , unnecessary or unreasonable . This practice is , nevertheless , a frequent occurrence in our country . Usually the lawyer is some obscure practitioner whose transgression is relatively unimportant . When , however , the offender is a man of prominence and conceded virtue and respectability his conduct assumes the importance of a precedent of professional behavior . Another pillar of the bar recently , in the trial of an important case , denounced a witness as " a scoundrel and unfit to practice law " although according to the New York World " there was not one jot of evidence to support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial , wrote a letter of apology concerning which the World commented editorially as follows : In his letter , Mr. ? begins by saying , " My attention has been called by Judge to the fact that comments concerning you which I made . . . were unwarranted by the record . " This is a tacit admission that the apology did not come on his own motion but was crowbarred out of him by the court . He then goes on to explain that he had " never read a word of the testimony given at the trial and relied entirely on my recollection thereof " and that " I was led by my false impression of the testimony to make statements concerning you which , of course , I would not have made but for my false belief . " This , if it were true . would be one of the most amazing confessions ever made by a lawyer ; it would indicate a degree of irresponsibility incompatible with the trust he discharged ; it would prove Mr. ? , if not exactly a " scoundrel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character assassination just in order to win his case . Here again we have an example of professional impropriety in which the offending lawyer happens to he an outstanding embodiment of professional success . The belated apology and somewhat specious explanation can not obscure the fact that litigation is a form of warfare in which loyalty to the client is the lawyer 's primary duty , and that a successful result usually is a justification for lapses from strict ethical conduct . The famous utterance of Lord Brougham in the defense of Queen Caroline has long been accepted in practice if not in theory by a large part of the profession as the classic statement of a lawyer 's duty to his client : I once before took leave to remind your Lordships ? which was unnecessary , but there are many whom it may be needful to remind ? that an advocate , by the sacred duty which he owes his client , knows , in the discharge of that office , but one person in the world , that client and none other . To save that client by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hazards and costs to others , and among others to himself ? is the highest and most unquestioned of his duties ; and he must not regard the alarm , the suffering , the torment , the destruction which he may bring upon any other . Nay , separating even the duties of a patriot from those of an advocate , arid casting them , if need be , to the wind , he must go on reckless of the consequences , if his fate it should unhappily be , to involve his country in confusion for his client 's protection . This unswerving devotion to the client 's interests is the rock upon which the practice of law is builded . It has resulted , by the operation of a sort of ethical Gresham 's law , in the supplanting of the idealistic lawyer morality by the more utilitarian client morality . This might be quite all right were the legal profession to recognize it and admit it . But the bar continues to adhere to the tradition of an obsolescent gentility and an ethical fundamentalism in the face of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the old order ha ! passed ? if , indeed , it ever existed The great democratic experiment witl its unrestricted opportunities for educa tion and the selection of a career ha completely demolished the professions caste system . With it has gone , ur fortunately , the accompanying aristc cratie concept of ethical obligation . To-day almost any one can become a lawyer ; in fact , almost any one does . The bar is making a praiseworthy effort to raise the tone of the profession by demanding higher educational qualifications from candidates for admission . This commendable attempt loses sight of the regrettable fact that morals and education do not necesarily go hand in hand . The most flagrantly anti-social practitioners are not exclusively among the semi-educated hangers-on of the police courts ; they are quite as frequently found among those paragons of professional propriety who adorn the bar associations and who prepare codes of ethics for their less affluent brothers . There is little difference in the essential morality of the police-court lawyer who seeks to delay the machinery of law on behalf of his poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same thing for his oil magnate or excabinet official client . In the one instance the dilatory tactics may delay the case for six months or a year , and the fee is fifty dollars ; in the other , the delay will be for years , if not forever , and the fee amounts to hundreds of thousands . In the one case the profession proceeds solemnly to view with alarm and passes virtuous and patronizing resolutions to purge the bar of shysters ; in the other : lase it bestows its unqualified admira ? ion upon the resourcefulness and skill 4:4 the lawyer who can succeed indefiiitely in keeping a wealthy malefactor away from a jury . The guardians of the aristocratic tralitions of the profession are the teachers f law who are sheltered from the con-Lids and temptations of active prac4ce , the members of the judiciary who ave emerged from them , and those disinguished , high-priced , successful practioners generally referred to as the , aders of the bar . Ultimate responsiility for the standards of conduct of the gal profession rests upon this last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behavior should afford criteria by which the young lawyer might , properly gauge his professional conduct . No lawyer ever finds difficulty in giving whole-hearted endorsement to those excellent platitudes and moral precepts that constitute the window-dressing of his profession . He believes courageously in Honesty , Purity , and the other collateral virtues and he is not afraid to say so . It is only when the fundamental moralities collide with some specific problem of his practice and threaten to hamper his activities that he brings into play all the ingenuity of the professional sophist , and attempts , according to the custom of the bar , to reconcile or distinguish . In such a case a large retainer is usually an excellent solvent for ethical embarrassments . Thus we have the not infrequent spectacle of a distinguished attorney pleading for special tax legislation or special tariff legislation on behalf of some powerful corporation regardless of the economic consequences to society at large . Thus we see another eminent lawyer , who has been a strong conservationist all his life , arguing in Washington that there is no present need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil . Thus , too , we see , occasionally , prominent ex-judges appearing before their former associates selling their prestige and their friendship and putting their names to briefs they have scarcely read . IV The bar has the popular esteem that it deserves . It can not nourish its prestige upon an antiquated mysticism , it can not achieve virtue by talking about it . With perhaps one exception , there is no other profession that is so loud in voicing its own respectability . There is no other profession quite so smug and self-satisfied , and at the same time quite so lacking in a sense of social obligation . An occasional rare soul , a Clarance Darrow , may dedicate his energies to the defense of unpopular causes and earn the supercilious disapproval of his more orthodox brethren . Here and there in the lower courts may be found some obscure lawyer battling for the poor , the needy , and the oppressed without regard for the pecuniary rewards that spell professional success . But these are the freaks of the profession ; they are , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyers prefer to seek die more comfortable and reputable rewards of pecuniary success . One of the incidental consequences of this commercialization of the practice of law is the low repute in which the practice of criminal law is held . Compared with the emoluments of a high-class civil practice . as it is called , the practice of criminal law is notoriously unremunerative . There are certain breaches of the penal statutes which , because of the vast sums of money involved and the social eminence of the offenders , are surrounded by an aura of respectability . But on the whole the criminal lawyer is professionally di:classt 1 . The average successful lawyer will say , " I never take criminal cases " in pretty much the same tone of voice as he would say , " I never pick pockets . " The young lawyer , just admitted , is cautioned by his more experienced elders not to take criminal cases . Professor Roscoe Pound once wrote : Three stages may be perceived in the development of the American bar . The first stage is marked by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bar were in the forum , and the most conspicuous success was success before juries in the trial of criminal cases . . . In the second stage leadership passed to the railroad lawyer . The proof of professional success was to represent a railroad company . . . . Criminal law became the almost exclusive field of the lower stratum of the bar . . . Want of education , want of organization , want of discipline of those who are habitually most active in defending accused persons in our large cities , are conspicuous and significant facts . Just at present the subject of crime and reform of criminal law is very much in the air . Learned discussions are being held , and ingenious suggestions are being made , principally by lawyers who have never seen the inside of a criminal court . Eminent barristers , skilled in the intricacies of corporation law , but who would not know an indictment from a blackjack , discuss with great solemnity whether or not there is justification for Mr. Justice Taft 's much quoted dictum that " the administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to civilization . " The criminal court is a laboratory in 0 which problems of the most vital social significance are daily being solved . Eminent members of the medical profession habitually give their services in free clinics , and feel that they are adequately , rewarded by the opportunities presented for service and experimentation . The standards of pecuniary success that prevail in the legal profession make similar clinical activities in the criminal courts impossible for the attorney who would retain the respect of his clients and his brother attorneys . The result is that a branch of professional activity of the utmost sociological importance is left in the hands of those who belong to what Professor Pound calls " the lower stra ? tum of the bar . " It may be that the time has come for revaluation of values , for a new state meat of professional aims and purposes It may be that the standards of con temporary materialism need to be ac cepted and recognized as existing an ' essential facts in the practice of law But it is more hopeful to believe that th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher morality an an enduring sense of public obligation The abstract ethical beliefs of a con community may approach the splendi ideals imposed by the churches and tl schools ; its ethical conduct can nevo rise above that of its lawyers .                     