@@493279

The Week IN framing its program the progressive confer- s. , ' nee in Washington postponed for future con-ILIeration the economic planks but canoe out imme. d* latelY with a demand for the abolition of the electoral college and a uniform system of presidential Primaries . At the same time they repudiated the idea of a third party . This combination indicates pretty clearly the nature of their political ' tactics during the next two years . They propose . Put tlp a fight for the Republican nomination R ob e r t La Follette as their probable candi-'Q'ate . The senior Senator from Wisconsin was careful not to intrude his own personality on the t ' /shington conference . He discreetly and sensibly efilsed to turn himself into the hero of the , oc- Q ( 14ain . But his record as a progressive before , qian g and since the war , the extent to ' which the reactionaries have heaped unfair abuse upon him , ailid his own overwhelming majority in Wisconsin tini.ve him an exceptional prestige at the present ti prestige which Senator Borah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful reasons to be urged in favor of advertising the progressive cause by adopting him as the progressive candidate and running him in the primaries , but - there are also grave objections to the employment of such tactics . They might tend to consolidate the new progressive movement too rapidly , and consequently to sacrifice its permanent welfare to the exigencies of a most contentious political campaign . THE account of the record of Mr. Pierce Butler , President Harding 's recent appointee to the Supreme Court , which we present on another page of this issue , expresses the attitude towards Mr. Butler which is unanimous among the progressives of the Northwest . They object to him in part because his professional practice was largely occupied with assisting corporations which operated public franchises to increase the legal Valuation of their property as a foundation for higher rates . They object to him even more because during the reign of terror which was established in that part of the country during and after the war , he was , so they allege , the leader and the brains of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ability , but they object to him as a lawyer because he is committed in advance to a one sided attitude with respect to an extremely important class of cases and as a man because he has shown himself to possess a narrow and intolerant mind with a strong tendency to vindicate the truth as he sees it by compulsion rather than by persuasion . WE should attach less importance to the first of these objections if it were not for the validity and the extreme importance of the second . In estimating a lawyer 's qualifications for a justiceship of the Supreme Court it is not fair to disqualify him solely on the ground that he was identified publicly with a certain class of clients and cases . . Objections of this kind were urged against Mr. Brandeis when President Wilson appointed him in 1916 ; and the New Republic asserted at that time and still asserts that such objections are not conclusive . They should be considered in relation to what is known about the appointee 's general intellectual and moral qualities . Mr. Brandeis was known to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fair-minded and essentially wise man . He would to the best of his ability consider specific cases on their own merits and not as opportunities to apply a preconceived general rule . His record on the Bench has vindicated this judgment . But , unless the impressions of his neighbors are wholly incorrect , Mr. Pierce Butler is not a reasonable and fair-minded man . He is a bigoted partisan , the nature of whose opinions on all issues which involve the value of corporate property and freedom of speech could be predicted in advance . So clearly and so flagrantly is this the case that one is tempted to attribute the appointment to maleficent design on the part of the Attorney General . The latter may find it useful to have on the Supreme Bench an analogue of District Judge Wilkerson . I N this issue we publish an article by Professor Freund on the proposed constitution of Illinois now before the voters of that state . Professor Freund is an expert in constitutional law whose authority carries great weight with us . There are , however , certain points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our opinion , dispelled by Professor Freund 's discussion . ' They have aroused intense opposition among Illinois liberals and progressives , an opposition with which we are in complete sympathy . And since the constitution must be accepted or rejected in its entirety , in spite of the fact that it contains many commendable features we think that it ought to be rejected . THE fate of the Dyer Anti-Lynching bill was not unexpected . Everybody knows that under the existing Senate rules even a one-thirdiminority may veto any piece of legislation , if it chooses to exercise its privileges . Accordingly the . Southern Senators would have been held directly responsible if the measure had come to a vote . It would have meant political extinction for practically every one of them and for their supporters at home . imperatively Selfpreservation mperatively dictated a filibuster . The supporters of the bill inside of Congress and outside of it were perfectly cognizant of this situation . Why then did they waste time in pushing the measure ? For two reasons . The better reason was the desire of good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stains our American civilization and to force a public recognition of the fact that something can be done about it and must be done . The worse reason was the desire of certain politicians to strengthen the bonds attaching the Negro voters of the doubtful states to the Republican party . The politicians got what they aimed at . Whether the good citizens got anything or not depends entirely on the spirit in which they take their defeat . If they continue their fight against lynching by whatever means a. , t their command the Dyer bill effort will not have been wholly vain . OF the House amendments to the Shipping Sub . sidy bill there is one that would absolutely destroy its efficacy as a stimulus to merchant marine de . velopment . That is the provision making the , actual payment of subsidy depend on annual appropriations by Congress . In the ' good old days of an overflowing treasury it might have been pos ? sible to count on a succession of Congresses that would vote money for the payment of subsidies . Such days will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ racked between the necessity of finding money for the inevitable expendi tures and the restiveness of the people under heavy taxation . Therefore the subsidy appropriation will be bitterly opposed in every Congress , and more than occasionally omitted . No business man in his senses will buy or build ships on such a gamble . Those who can make the operation of ships paY without a subsidy will no doubt accept with a good grace such appropriations as may come from the Treasury . In the circumstances we marvel at the machine-mindedness of a President who insists on pushing the shipping subsidy measure through by aid of the lame duck vote . Grant that he is sincere in his belief that a permanent policy of subsidies would give us a flourishing merchant marine . Can he possibly blink the fact that any such permanent policy is for the present a political impossibility ? THE Turk is the Turk , and it is a waste of breath to denounce him for exhibiting his known characteristics in the project of expelling the Christian minorities from his domain . It is not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the carnage but the stupid or vicious shepherds who let him have his will . Of these shepherds the French , who have claimed for centuries the title of protectors of the Christians in Turkey bear the largest share of the immediate guilt . The resur ' Bence of the Turk suited their plans of applying pressure to England . They abetted and encolir ' aged and aided him . But the ultimate response ' bility rests upon the Allied powers as a whole . they had adopted the mandate principle in good faith , assigning each mandated territory to the nation least interested in its perpetual retention , America might conceivably have accepted the obli gation to assume a mandate for Asia Minor . It would have been costly and laborious , but it December 13 , 1922 THE NEW have saved millions of lives . The diplomats at Paris , however , perverted the mandate principle to a scramble of interests . And we had no " interests " in Asia Minor , we who had made such loud professions of purely humanitarian interest in our anti-German propaganda . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our " disinterestedness " in the affairs of the Near East . EXTERMINATION , or expulsion of minorities , is no new invention of the Turk . After the Balkan Wars extermination was practised by the Greeks , Serbians and Rumanians against the Bulgars and Turks caught within the extended boundaries of the conquering states . It has been practised against Germans and Magyars in Jugoslavia and Rumania , and the French in Alsace Lorraine have not been over nice in expelling unpleasantly German inhabitants of the redeemed provinces . The Christian peoples have indeed observed certain legalistic forms , such as compensation , at pre-war prices , in depreciated paper , for the property of the unfortunates expelled . But substantial justice to racial minorities has been the exception , not the rule , in Central and Southeastern Europe . The Turk has carried the outrage to its logical conclusion . And to give the Devil his due , the Turk has far better reason for expelling the Christian minorities than the Christian nations have had for expelling national minorities . Turkey has been gravely weakened by peoples within her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destruction . It is not astonishing that she grasps at the opportunity to excise this weakness , once for all . tY the execution of Gounaris and his fellow statesInen and generals modern Greece exhibits her title to descent from the Greeks of the Peloponnesian War . After the naval battle of Arginusae the Athenians condemned and executed the six generals Who turned victory into disaster by leaving the disahled to their fate . Then as now what led to the executions was the despair and rage of a beaten PnPulace cunningly played upon by the demagogues hnf the opposing faction . The Gounaris cabinet 411 grave crimes upon their heads . They sought t ? strengthen a weak domestic position by confirming a policy of adventure inaugurated by their ePPonents . Thereby they plunged the Greek peo- Plt into irremediable disaster . If they had been destroyed by a spontaneous rising of the people they deluded and ruined , we could only say that e lesson to designing politicians ought to be Salutary . But that , we think , would be to misread the event . This was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a program in the interest of other politicians equally guilty of crimes of ambition committed against the Greek people . LEN SMALL of Illinois does not fulfill our ideal of the chief magistrate of a great state , but for his action in commuting the sentences of members of the Communist Labor party , tried and convicted under the criminal syndicalist law in 1919 , we have only praise . Governor Small in expressing his view that the law was unconstitutional took his stand on the opinion of Justice Carter , printed in the New Republic for November 29th . That opinion deserves to take its place among the courageous and sensible utterances from the bench which mark the operation of the better mind in respect to justice and civil rights after the submergence.of reason in war . GARET GARRETT , writing in the Saturday Evening Post , offers the most effective defence we have seen of America 's moral right to demand payment of the Allied debts . He refutes quite conclusively the view that these debts as a whole represent our contribution to the common enterprise of the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Treasury was used to pay off loans raised by England and France before we were in the war . A much larger part was used after the armistice for civil as well as military purposes . Mr. Garrett 's figures seem to indicate that about a third of the Allied debts may be accounted for in these ways . As for the rest of the debt , there is no way of distinguishing between what was applied to war effort and what part was applied to keeping Allied industry and trade going . But there is no doubt that a very large part was applied to the latter purpose . Further , at the time when the Allies were borrowing money from us to pay our producers for munitions and supplies , they were selling munitions and supplies to us for our army in Europe , taking , not our IOU 's for them , but cast ) . We charged them good round prices for what they took from us , but they served us the same way . Plainly , the purely sentimental argument for forgiving the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see it , only one condition under which the cancellation of the debts would be worth considering . This is that the Allies cut off the excesses of the indemnities , sink their enmities , disband their armies and get down to the business of reconstruction . But the Allies show no disposition to accept such a condition .                     