@@430830

WE Americans are too much given to comparing our musical art with that of older countries , usually to the disparagement of our own attainments and to the unqualified credit of those other countries . Musical expression is beyond nationality . It is my sincere belief that America is the most musicloving of all nations . With our quick adaptability , our nationality appears in interpretive rather than creative powers . Music is always the last art to be developed by a people , and because of our youth we stand at the threshold of our expression , while the older nations ? France , Italy , and Germany ? are in their twilight hour . The struggle for existence drowns abstract thought ; consequently , during the seventeenth , eighteenth , and nineteenth centuries , when we were fighting against great odds , when our ancestors were building in the wilderness , and later , as they fought for personal and national liberties and actual physical existence , music lay dormant within us . It was only as we grew into a coherent people , and acquired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that America could give expression to the music that was hers by tradition and inheritance . We had writers and painters in those early days , because they could retire to an attic or step aside momentarily from the strife and perplexities of life , and produce their work in solitude . Music is more spontaneous than all other arts . It exists only when it is played , and in our youth there was neither the time nor the proper atmosphere for actual performance . Even in Italy , secular music did not come into being until the Renaissance , and it followed the trend of that period north into France , Germany , and England . The nineteenth century in America was rich in the development of writers and painters , but not until the last years of that century can we say that America made arty important contributions to the music of the world . Viewing our past and present , and looking forward , I am convinced that Americans should become the greatest interpretive artists of the music world . But to reach a more perfect development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of many preconceived ideas regarding the individual playing of the instrument . With their growth in mental equipment and the attainment of a competence , parents have been prone to force music on their children rather than to develop within them first a deep appreciation of the art and its true relation to the individual .  | I should like to impress on parents generally the knowledge that a country does not become musical through the actual participation in this art by all its people . To make a nation of music-loving citizens , the foundation must be laid by increasing the knowledge and appreciation of music in the abstract and by making executives of only those who display real talent . Forced teaching conduces to a hatred , not only of the instrument employed , but of music itself . The incompetent amateur , forced into a disliked task , is necessarily limited by his or her own technical ability or disability , and so grows up hating instinctively the very thing that might otherwise afford the greatest pleasure . It is impossible to overemphasize this point . The love @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ induced in many children by discreet and careful cultivation , by surrounding them with its atmosphere , rather than by having its active practise thrust upon them . The child 's musical mind is like a blank negative ; we can make on it such impressions as we will . Practically every child can be trained or led to enjoy good music under proper tutelage and inspiration , whereas perhaps only one out of several hundred children will achieve any success as a performer . I feel deeply that where there is no atmosphere of music , the mental stimulation is nil , and without this stimulation there can be no real musical appreciation or development . In an arid surrounding the child quickly acquires a hatred of technique , for technique is a product of hard work . Children as well as adults hate to work hard to acquire something they dis-like ! In this connection our ever-growing interest in the playing of the violin marks a further development in our musical appreciation . I am frequently asked at what age the child should begin to study the violin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the child reaches adolescence . Firmness of tone and elegance of bowing are dependent upon proper muscular formation . The student , therefore , should begin his education at the age of seven or eight , so that his muscles will be formed by the age of fourteen , and his primary technical education will be fully acquired by the age of seventeen or eighteen . The higher mathematics of technique will come after his musical background is limned in , perhaps not until he faces the concert stage . There is no cut and dried way to ascertain whether or not a child has a latent musical ability . Talent may show even in the kindergarten , and when it does , or when it is suspected , then is the time to encourage it . While parents are not always competent to decide this question , a conscientious teacher will be an able judge . The child who has natural musical ability will frequently display unhappiness when deprived of the power of expression , whereas the child lacking in ability or even in a tendency will be unhappy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practise . Of course , there are streaks of laziness in all of us ; even those students who show marked talent sometimes object to the long hours of practise necessary to develop the artist ; but such periods of dissatisfaction always yield to the influence of the master or to the overpowering impetus lying within the soul of the true musician . Such streaks of laziness must not be confounded in any way with the absolute negativeness of the unmusical child . All things carefully considered , there are several problems confronting the parent who feels honestly sure that his child is musically inclined . There is primarily the question of the individual teacher against the class group . When expense need not be considered , I am in favor of individual lessons . Certainly such lessons have greater technical value than those given even in small classes . It is possible for a great artist to be made in a class , but technique is so largely a matter of individual attention that , generally speaking , individual teaching , in my opinion , excels that given collectively . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor of group training . The student who works with several other students benefits from the stimulation that comes from competitive effort . He receives the benefit of the general instruction given the class and learns to avoid the mistakes in taste and phrasing made by his associates . All things being equal , it is my opinion that one-man training is highly important until a sound technique is acquired . Then the general musical atmosphere of the group may prove to be of great stimulation . Again , when expense does not enter the subject , the parent finds himself considering the value of home training against that given in foreign countries , particularly France , Germany and Italy . Excellence of teaching is a matter of individuality , not of nationality . We have in America some of the very finest teachers in the world . We also have in America , among some of our people , a deep-seated feeling or belief that foreign-born masters are better than those of native birth . I can not too strongly decry this attitude of mind . Given a foreign and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the preference to the American , because the latter better understands the temperament and national environment of his own people . In matters of technique our American teachers rank with the accepted masters in foreign lands . We not only have excellent individual teachers , but we also have several splendid conservatories of music where a student can acquire a technical mastery of the violin comparable to the best given in European conservatories . Unquestionably , this country today provides some of the very best musical centers , and we are just beginning to feel t heir power . When his ground work is laid and his technical mastery of the instrument is assured , I should like every American artist to have the gracious benefits that are to be derived from European travel and living . The influence of Europe on the student 's temperament and as a matter of general culture is highly desirable . Musically , France , Germany , and Italy have a great advantage over America in their general mode of life . In these countries there is always more time for the proper development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amid the distractions of American life . We lack the tranquillity of atmosphere , the sense of seclusion from outside influences , and the spiritual relations developed by conditions such as life in Europe can afford . All this , however , is not essential for the acquirement of technique and can come later in the student 's education . Above and beyond all , there is the individual effort of the student . A man becomes a true musician only through the greatest application on his own part There is no royal road to the attainment of a musical education . The teacher can suggest , inspire , and invigorate , but unless the student has within himself the divine spark and intensifies it by the grim determination to excel and so to satisfy his own individual conscience , the teacher can not accomplish miracles . There have been so-called self-taught artists , but they are usually retarded by a sense of mental deficiency that leads to much discouragement of spirit . I know of no art where the stimulation induced by encouragement is of greater importance . To be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lowest social depths , but in practically all such cases its highest expression has come only when placed under cultivation . In every age there have been men who recognized genius and gladly made its cultivation possible . The French school is unquestionably the b e s t for violin mastery . Descenn ' - ine from the Italian school its traditions are of the finest . Joachim , the great Hungarian master , conceded after yearss of study that phrases were more properly breathed and more harmoniously presented in the French school than in any other . It is noted for the elegance of its bowing and for the development of great dexibility , as well as control and tone . We have many excellent teachers of this school in America . To become a student of the French school , therefore , it is not necessary to turn one 's eyes to Europe . As the student  | grows toward maturity of life his art ripens and develops the breadth and intensity that come only through experience . It is at this point in his career that he runs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peculiarities of some teacher or artist who has inspired him . It is an excellent thing for a novice to study the intonations and interpretations of the great artist , but it is wrong for him to follow his example too slavishly . Clearness of expression and frankness of interpretation should be the goal striven for by the young violinist . Obscurity is never charming to the trained musical ear , just as it is never satisfactory to the student of English . There have been writers ? and always will he , alas ! who hide their thought behind a calculated obscurity of words and phraseology , but these men are not masters of English . Beautiful English is clear and understandable and beautiful music must have the same qualities . The importance of hearing fine music , finely played , can not be overestimated . Many excellent teachers have lost their brilliancy as performers in their zeal as instructors , so that other opportunities must be provided whenever possible . By means of the phonograph , the very best music can be placed before the student . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a musical center . In selecting records , two things must he borne in mind ; first , that the selection should be one of the truly great compositions , preferably written originally for the violin ; second , that it should be finely and expressively given by a master . The student not only learns expression and technique from such performances , but what is even more important , he becomes thoroughly familiar with the very best that music has to offer . Then an added advantage lies in the selection of such pieces as the student is practising . If , for example , he is studying the Mendelssohn Violin Concerto , he will be greatly assisted by hearing this record played by some one of undoubted ability . In creative work , this country does undoubtedly fall far behind other countries , but Americans make a wonderfully inspiring audience . In fact , they are almost the best listeners in the world , and as we have seen , not because of the highest technical understanding of the art . In the American musical development , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the abstract . We too often let emotional intensity take the place of intellectual understanding . The true musiclover must not only be able to feel music emotionally , but to enjoy it through his intellect . To enjoy music intellectually does not mean that one is cold , but that one has a knowledge and an understanding of the art that adds immeasurably to one 's pleasure . But I do not decry the emotion ! No art is perfect that fails to be emotionally stimulating . The finest appreciation and truest perception come from a happy equation between emotional intensity and intellectuality , without one or the other dominating .  |                     