@@487280

p RESIDENT GREEN of the A. F. of L. and President Lewis of the United Mine Workers of America , with their respective committees , have called on President Coolidge . One quarter of a million miners are on strike , they said ; miners ' wives and children are cold and hungry and homeless ; thugs patrol the mines and beat up the strikers ; coal mining at best is a wet , filthy , dangerous occupation ; at worst , when a living wage is not paid , it is not to be borne ; and when , as now , the price of coal is being artificially depressed an investigation into the industry as a whole is pressing . President Coolidge heard them courteously ; at the close of an hour 's talk he turned to Mr. Lewis . " What town , " he asked , " is the center of the mine strike ? " Mr. Lewis named a town in Pennsylvania . The President touched a button at his desk ; a secretary entered . " Bring my hat and coat and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and come back in ten minutes prepared to go with me to X , Pennsylvania . " In fifteen minutes by the clock Mr. Coolidge stood up . " Will you accompany me , gentlemen ? " He turned to the telephone . " Tell my wife I sha n't be home for dinner . " They followed him meekly into a waiting motor ; they were mute as they boarded a train , as it sped through autumn fields . The President said nothing , apparently deep in thought ; no one interrupted him . At their destination he turned to Mr. Lewis . " Come with a representative of the miners in this district to a conference at eight o'clock tonight . " He dismissed the motor and asked to be directed to the mines . Nor would he permit any one to accompany him . He spent the afternoon talking to strikers and their families , to police , to mine guards , and finally to the president of the mining company , breathlessly summoned by telegraph to meet the President of the United States . He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dozen miner 's houses . During the half day he spent thus he said little and listened much . A T EIGHT O'CLOCK he was ready for his conference . " Gentlemen , " he said , turning first to the leader of the operators , then to the spokesman for the miners , " gentlemen , this strike must be settled and settled quickly . If you " ? to the operator ? " can not run your mines and pay a living wage , the government will . You can doubtless confer more freely by yourselves although I am at your service if you want me . In seven days if you and your associates " ? with a sweep of his arm he included miners and operators alike ? " have not reached a decision , the government will interfere . " He stood up and made as if to leave the room and then  --  and then we woke up ! We shook the sleep from our eyes . There was no conference , there was no Presidential ultimatum , there was no personal investigation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Labor and the president of the United Mine Workers of America had called on the President of the United States . But President Coolidge was not galvanized into action by the tale of the miners ' troubles . He opined that perhaps the matter might be referred to the Interstate Commerce Commission or maybe to the Secretary of Labor . He passed the buck . And he will continue to do so . What is a Presideiat for , anyway ? He shakes hands , he attends banquets , he makes speeches . He obeys the orders of big business . And for some reason which we are unable to ascertain , everybody  --  except the miners  --  seems reasonably satisfied . C ONGRESS OPENS with a multitude of pressing questions demanding attention . It is to be a short session because of the inevitable desire of the members to go to the Presidential conventions and to enter early the Presidential campaign . So the tendency will be to dodge important votes as much-as possible . Some matters can not , however , be sidestepped  --  the Mississippi flood relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmers , Muscle Shoals and Boulder Dam , and probably the merchant marine and the return of the sequestered enemy property . Here are issues enough to keep Congress at work for a long time , in addition to the usual appropriation bills , and the seating or unseating of Senators-elect Vare and Smith . What Congress lacks , of course , is clarifying principles . Should there be government ownership of the fleet and not of the great power plants ? Ought Congress not to declare itself as to this whole question of super-power and water-powers ? Then there is evidence that the Interstate Commerce Commission will turn back to the national legislature the question of railroad consolidation . For seven years the commission and the railroad presidents have wrangled with this question without being able to reach any solution  --  the presidents can not agree among themselves though warned that their failure to do so will give great impetus to the movement for government ownership of all railroads . Irrigation and immigration , the size of the navy  --  these are still other problems with which Congress must deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first and foremost of the elections and their personal destinies . For the Progressive group the session brings a magnificent opportunity . We look forward with confidence to their embracing it . A S TO TAXES , the determined efforts to relieve business of more of its tax " burdens " ? how light they would seem to a British or German business man probably result in a decrease of from $225,000,000 to $250,000,000 in government income . That prospect has not satisfied that pestiferous organization of big business , the . United States Chamber of Commerce , which has for some time past been working itself up to the point of believing that to it belong the functions both of the Executive and of Congress . Its demand that the reduction be $400,000,000 has had the extraordinary effect of drawing fire from the usually impassive Mr. Coolidge  --  we do not recall a similar outburst against Big Business since that gentleman entered the White House . The Democrats will demand more than the Republicans will be willing to grant , not because of principle , of course , but merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendly to the dear taxpayer . As for the inheritance taxes , the House Committee on Ways and Means has for the moment scotched the movement to remove them , but the lobby will be heard from yet . It is reported to have fat-salaried agents at work arguing that the federal inheritance tax should go because it encroaches on what ought to be the special taxing ground of the States . This is a specious and dishonest plea and we are sorry , indeed , to see that Governor Smith has been beguiled into a reserved approval of the move . Of course , the intention is , first to persuade the federal Government to abolish the tax , and then to induce the individual States to follow Florida in abandoning it as an inducement to multimillionaires to live within their boundaries . The Nation wishes to go on record again as opposing any tinkering with the inheritance tax and any reduction of revenue at present . It believes the policy of reducing the national debt as fast as possible to be the sound and desirable one . " P @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicates how easily we forget . For Poland and Lithuania have been technically at war since 1920 ; they have never made peace . Their war is one of the scandals of the League of Nations closet , and it is natural that the Great Powers should resent Russia 's action in calling attention to the danger there . Under the auspices of the League Poland and Lithuania signed an armistice on October 7 , 1920 , settling their frontier . Vilna , her capital , was naturally left to Lithuania . On October 9 an independent Polish general , Zeligovski , seized the city . The Powers protested ; the League summoned Poland and Lithuania to Geneva and announced that , under its own auspices , it would hold a plebiscite in Vilna district . It instructed Zeligovski to get out . But he did not , and Poland refused to oust him , though the League took steps to assemble an international army to put him out . The Poles calmly thumbed their noses at the League , and in the end the League pusillanimously backed down . Poland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its act of violence . Year after year little Lithuania has gone to Geneva with fresh hopes , but each time her complaints have been referred to a committee for quiet burial . Recently there have been rumblings indicating that Poland was preparing to pocket the rest of Lithuania . Pilsudski made a martial tour of Vilna ; Lithuanian revolutionists admitted receiving help from Poland ; the Polish arsenals worked on night shifts . Naturally and properly , since Poland 's other neighbors were neglecting their duty , Soviet Russia voiced a protest . And France and England dare to call it a provocative act . I NDEED , THE ATTITUDE of the Powers toward Russia 's participation in the Disarmament Conference is impudently amusing . Russia , the dispatches from London and Paris declare day after day , is going to Geneva to make trouble . She is allying with Germany , and horrible visions of a Russo-German bloc at the conference fill the newspaper columns . But what will this Russo-German bloc do ? Apparently it plans to point out that Germany is disarmed , that France has the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more on armaments than before the war . It plans to denounce the French metaphysical plea that nations must have security before they can disarm , and to assert that disarmament makes security . In short , they plan to disturb the Disarmament Conference by boldly proposing disarmament ! D OWN IN THE BALKANS there are more martial rumblings . France and Italy are playing for the balance of power  --  and the result is a series of treaties of friendship which belie their names . France has long acted as the protector of Jugoslavia . Two years ago she proposed a tripartite Italo-Franco-Jugoslav peace pact . Italy refused it , apparently resenting France 's assumption of a role in the Balkans . Instead Mussolini put through in December , 1926 , the Treaty of Tirana which made Albania , theretofore a sort of no man 's land between Italy and Jugoslavia , almost an Italian province . France waited ; finally , on Armistice Day , 1927 , she signed a mild-looking " treaty of friendship and arbitration " with Jugoslavia . The French insisted that the treaty had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as her pacts with Czecho-Slovakia , Belgium , Poland , and Rumania . But the official communique added that the two governments were " in perfect agreement in all questions touching the two countries , " and the Jugoslav press frankly shouted that the treaty would put Mussolini in his place . Mussolini is a man of action . Eleven days later he signed a new treaty with Albania binding it for twenty years to an " unalterable defensive alliance " with Italy  --  further asserting his de facto control of the mountain principality . And so it goes . Mussolini is now seeking to strengthen his alliance with Jugoslavia 's northern neighbor , Hungary ; and to defeat the French effort to bring Serbia and Bulgaria together . Meanwhile , both France and Italy are arm-deep in the Rumanian muddle . Yet doubtless , when the League meets at Geneva , the representatives of both countries will loudly proclaim their passionate devotion to the cause of peace . S TRAWS IN THE WIND have been pointing to the weakening of the Bratianu power in Rumania . After the acquittal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so bold that the old , rigid censorship was reestablished ; but not before all sorts of rumors had been carried across half a continent to Carol in Paris : Bratianu was ill and helpless ; the people had cheered Manoilescu 's acquittal ; Bratianu had offered Carol any sum he would name to renounce the throne again , publicly and in writing , before his father 's death ; Bratianu had refused the dying Ferdinand 's request to see his son once more  --  so the rumors ran . And on top of them , with censorship clamped down over press and tongue , with a dramatic suddenness that any political lion might envy , the lion , Bratianu , the strong man of Rumania , died . When dynasties crash , their falling timbers may crush a nation . So Rumania lies for the moment dazed and helpless . Smaller men scurry around to form a ministry , a regency . Carol in Paris must be filled with hope  --  if not immediately of the throne , then for a place on the Regency Council and a voice in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ministry in his place , but little is expected of him . So desperate is the political situation that a council meeting was held on the funeral train which bore Bratianu 's body to its rest . The future of Rumania , and with it the future of the Balkans , is in the air . So must the future always be at the end of a dictatorship . Which is one of the merits of that much-abused form of government  --  democracy . A GAIN THE STANDARD OIL of New York offends capitalistic decency by entering into another agreement with the Soviet Government for the purchase of Russian oil . This contract , making the fourth between the two parties , calls for 60,000 tons per year for a period of six years . With it the Standard 's total purchases will amount to approximately 1,700,000 tons . Distributed annually the contracts call for about 400,000 tons of oil per year . These successive contracts and steadily increasing figures may be hailed as the signs of a coming rapprochement between the Soviet Union and the United States as , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the strengthening of the credit position of the Soviet Government , making it more likely that it will be able to obtain capital in the United States . Sir Henri Deterding of the Royal Dutch-Shell , who has been bitterly opposed to any trade relations ( in oil ) with Russia , has of course opposed these contracts of the Standard Oil . In fact , he has retaliated with a price-cutting war against the New York Standard in India , and threatens to extend it to other important markets . With this fourth contract , therefore , the Standard Oil simply widens the rift in the " solid " capitalistic front against Russia . And to make matters worse for the Royal Dutch-Shell , Spain has now joined the ranks of defection , ordering one-half of her oil supply from Russia . For a while after the break with England things looked bad for Russia  --  as though Sir Henri might have his way  --  but now Mr. Stalin has some reason to smile . " GO SOUTH TO TENNESSEE " ? this is the slogan of the Tennessee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ November 12 it gives some interesting " facts and figures about labor in Tennessee " to encourage the southward migration of capital . We quote : Supply ? Native Anglo-Saxon workers  --  the type that seeks to profit to the fullest extent through gainful occupation rather than attempts to reduce the number of working hours per week . . . . Hours ? Day and night operations are permitted in nessee mills for both male and female labor . Women be employed a total of fifty-seven hours per week . shift work reduces overhead costs . Wages ? Latest data give average weekly textile operatives , male and female , as $13.63. report showed $16.44 as the average weekly employees in 4,589 industries . - Furthermore , one learns that Southern industries , besides paying a weekly wage nearly three dollars below the average of the country , " operate almost without exception on an open-shop basis . " ? R AYNA PROHME was one of those flaming personalities who leave a blaze of light behind them . Yet she groped , as most young Americans do in this erratic age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American cities , meant little to her . She drifted to China with her second husband , William Prohme  --  and there she suddenly ceased drifting . She became a part of the rising tide of Chinese Nationalism . Beginning as subeditor of Eugene Chen 's People 's Tribune in Peking , she rose to responsibility . A slight wisp of a red-haired girl , she had the courage of her big convictions . One Chinese editor was shot ; the others did not dare visit the office ; Rayne Prohme produced the daily paper almost single-handed . When Chang Tso-lin 's men threatened to suppress it , she moved the paper to her own home , and edited it under the extraterritorial protection of the American flag  --  extraterritoriality never served a better purpose . Later , she went with her husband to Canton , and after the victorious northern expedition of the Nationalists , to Hankow . There again she edited the only English-language Nationalist paper in China . Her last act as editor was to publish Madame Sun Yat-sen 's despairing Appeal to the Chinese People ( published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orders of the militarist who was bloodily suppressing the labor and peasant unions . Then , with Mrs. Sun , she left for Moscow , where she died . Though ostracized by colonial-minded Americans of the Chinese cities , and distrusted by her own Government 's officials , Rayna Prohme 's passionate devotion will be remembered in China when consuls and ministers are forgotten . C HARLES F. DOLE IS A SAINT , " John Haynes Holmes wrote in the review of " My Eighty Years " which appears in this issue of The Nation . " He will feel at home and enjoy congenial company when he gets to heaven . " The words were prophetic ; prophet in Jamaica Plain leaves little to be added . He lived an exciting life ; unlike the novelists he found virtue interesting and made it infectious . Some thousands of us must be decenter human beings for our contacts with and memories of Dr. Dole .                     