@@486042

T HE conference of liberals and progressives called to meet in Washington on December 2 by the People 's Legislative Service was an impressive meeting . Not only did it mark the first coming together of labor leaders , the newly elected progressive members of House and Senate , and men who have been fighting the reform battles for years in numerous States , to renew their faith and develop their policies ; it displayed a unanimity of purpose and a fighting edge which was heartening in the extreme . No one could attend it and not be convinced that there was a great liberal victory in the West last month , just as no one could fail to realize the threadbare state of both old parties . For here were men elected on Republican , Democratic , and Farmer-Labor tickets in various States , who voiced the same sentiments , talked the same language , and pledged mutual support , who reported that their election was due to the same kind of popular uprising in each State and , in part , to the same economic distress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , notably Senators Brookhart , Wheeler , and Shipstead , who had fought their way up with no money and little organization to back them , with almost the entire press and the big business influences of their States against them . That they and the others who were there will be a tremendous reinforcement to the progressive bloc now in Congress isbeyond dispute , and we believe that they will often force the fighting , despite the obstacles of party machinery and of the party organization of Congress . W ITH admirable strategy the conference put over until March the formulation of a detailed program , contenting itself with a reaffirmation of its faith in progressive policies , thus at once depriving its opponents of the possibility of raising a smoke screen by attacking any one proposal , and effectively checking the White House efforts to steal such further thunder as it can . Meanwhile , there is enough to be done in all conscience in defeating the ship-subsidy and other indefensible legislation . The call for the meeting was meanly attributed by the hostile press to personal ambitions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ background , sharing credit with the People 's Legislative Service , an admirable bureau of information for public and for legislators on whose behalf an appeal was made for additional funds which should be generously heeded by liberals the country over . It is an interesting tribute to the success of the meeting that the reactionary press first attacked it because it proposed to start a third-party movement , and then , upon discovering that the purpose was nothing of the kind , declared it to be a failure and unworthy of popular notice because it had not started a third party ! The truth is that nothing could have been more heartening to liberals everywhere than this gathering , that it is rich in promise of Congressional solidarity , and was marked by a grim determination not seen in ten years to wrest government from the big-business interests and politicians of the Harding-Daugherty type . THIS business of executing ministers , generals , and ad- mirals has got to stop . What is going to become of the trade of governing nations and plunging them into war if , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kill the fellows who so safely , patriotically , and highmindedly put them into battle ? Greece is bad enough . They 've not only executed three prime ministers , the commanding general of their defeated army , an admiral , and a professional cabinet minister ; they have tried and exiled a prince of the royal blood and they hold the king a prisoner in his castle . But that is as nothing to what has happened in Bulgaria . There the people in a solemn referendum on November 10 voted to have every man who has been a cabinet official since January , 1912 , tried for his life by a jury of war-widows and war-mutilated ! The charge against the members of three cabinets is that they had " made insufficient diplomatic preparations for the war " of 1912 . In Turkey , too , there are trembling ex-ministers who are under charges of treason for having taken the Allies ' orders . Against barbarism of this sort we urgently protest . We demand a close season for ministers everywhere . We submit that if they choose to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is nobody 's business but theirs . Besides , the example is too contagious . Somebody might want to put ex-Secretary Lansing on trial for failing to make                     