@@493433

A French Question and an American Answer T is true , as M. Andre Tardieu says , that M. I Clemenceau has captured the attention of a larger American audience than any Frenchman who has ever spoken in this country , but M. Tardieu should not allow this American interest to betray him into great expectations . M. Clemenceau , by virtue of the popularity of his speeches , is not promoting future political cooperation between France and the United States . On the contrary , he has confirmed American public opinion in its present refusal to assume any political responsibilities in Europe which involve complicity in the national animosities of that distracted continent . He has done nothing to diminish the disesteem with which the ordinary American regards France 's behavior since the armistice . He has presented to the American public an attractive and even impressive , but at the same time a somewhat pathetic figure . With his narrow outlook , his inaccurate mind , his obviously failing intellectual powers , his flagrant special pleading and his utter inability to understand how and why the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very success in capturing American attention , actually injured the cause of Franco-American political cooperation . Frenchmen , , when they watch with dismay and resentment the rising tide of anti-French feeling in this country , attribute it to the machinations of their enemies or to the perfidy , the ignobleness and the selfishness of the American people . They would do better to attribute it to the indefensibility of their own cause . The France which is represented by M. Clemenceau refuses to consider those modifications in French policy and outlook which are necessary to the adjustment of French interests to the interest of the whole of Europe . It refuses to share with other countries the security and the franchise which it claims for itself . The Amer. ican friends of M. Clemenceau , for instance , be sought him when he demanded as a moral right the guarantee by America of the future security of France to come out in favor of making the guarantee reciprocal . But even though he conceded in private the advantage of reciprocity , he found it difficult to commit himself to it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was sincere ' and consistent in shying away from a public pledge of this kind . He stands by the Treaty of Versailles as the inexorable major premise of the French continental policy ; and the Treaty is incompatible with reciprocal guarantees . From , the official French point of view its peculiar merit consists in the franchise which it confers on the French government to occupy additional German territory on any one of many legal pretexts . Its essential vice is that it bestows on France the license to wage war on Germany while still preserving the forms of peace . Reciprocal guarantees , in so far as they were effective , would necessarily put an end to the present reign of terror . But even if this comment be true , is it sufficient ? M. Clernenceau came to this country to ask American public opinion what under the circumstances the United States proposed to do for the appeasement and amelioration of Europe . The New York World repeats the question . " This country , " it says , " helped to create the conditions in Europe with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervened at a critical time in European affairs . It made the victory over Germany complete . Does it insist that it has no responsibility for what it did and that Europe alone must work out the consequences of American interference ? " This is a pertinent question and it deserves a considerate as well as a frank answer . The United States did by intervening in the European war with decisive military strength incur a responsibility which it can not evade . It incurred the responsibility of continuing to promote the object of public policy which had prompted its intervention . But it did not incur any obligation to promote its declared object by the continued adoption of the same means . At present the way in which it can most effectivelY fulfill its responsibility is by ? means of political noncooperation . A policy of non-cooperation does not evade an answer to M. Clemenceau 's question . It merely returns an answer which M. Clemenceau does not like . When the United States entered the Great War , it intervened for the declared purpose of contributing by the use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe . Its intervention and the resulting victory , did not accomplish this result . There is more suspicion , recrimination , insecurity and hatred in the world todaY than there was in 1913 . The United States could undoubtedly do something to bring temporary peace to Europe by intervening again , but if it proposed to throw its military power once again into the balance , it would in the interest of immediate pacification act differently from the way in which it acted in 1917 . It would use its force to protect Germany against dismemberment . For the present the peace of Europe is threatened , not by what disarmed Germany can and will do to France , but by what France , armed to the teeth , can and will do to Germany . Granted that the American nation has incurred an obligation for the pacification of Europe which it can redeem only by constant terference in European affairs , then the foregoing conclusion seems to us inevitable . It would meal , ' for the United States a prolonged series of inter ' ventions in European politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for the purpose of imposing peace on a group of nations , who themselves were acting in ways that tended to provoke war . Inevitable as the foregoing conclusion may be , it is also impossible . The American people is done with the suicidal policy of protecting by military force or the threat of military force one European people against other European peoples . That method of contributing to the appeasement of Europe is clearly a failure , and it is the beginning of wisdom in American foreign policy to recognize its failure . It is a method which makes the United States the accomplice of its temporary European associates rather than the guardian and promoter of European peace . It is a method which by erecting American intervention into a substitute for European self-pacification delays the process of conciliation and makes it appear superfluous . The European peoples can not fairly ask the United States to protect them . against one another until they abandon the practices of terrorizing one another and inflicting just grievances on one another . As long as they continue these practices , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political intervention in Europe . It can best redeem any responsibility it has incurred for the peace of Europe by informing Europe in effect that European peace must rest , not on the protection and armed force of America , but on the sincere willingneess and the ability of the European nations to attach as much importance to the security of their neighbors as they do to their own security .                     