@@493330

GROWTH of population in the United States during the last century and a half , although greater than in any other part of the world , has been accompanied by an extra ? ordinary rise in standards of living , which has led to a belief that this country has the Malthusian specter effectually laid . Our food production , except in the early years of the present century , has in ? creased more rapidly than our population . This happy state , doubtless the source of our widely famed optimism , continues . In the five-year period 1922 to 1926 , according to the United States De ? partment of Agriculture , agricultural production in the United States was 14 percent greater than from 1917 to 1921 , whereas our population increased less than 9 percent between the mid-years of these two half-decades . The gain in farm production was SO percent greater than the increase in the nation 's food requirements . It might seem from these facts that this country need never fear any serious pres ? sure of population upon subsistence . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of population growth drops considerably , rapid tech ? nical progress will be needed to avert a decline in standards of living , or heavy dependence on food imports . It can not be short , that our unpleasant alternative of accepting a lower stand ? ard of living or going on the warpath to maintain their economic position . If we ask what chance the United States has of escaping this dilemma , we seem driven to conclude that it has none , except in some as yet undiscovered basis of international cooperation . Analysis of the food-and-population problem re ? veals the sources of imperialism . Recent economic interpretations of imperialism give this phenomenon primarily an industrial or financial , rather than an agricultural , raison d ' ? tre . It would be absurd to deny that certain influences making for imperialism , such as the struggle for oil or for industrial raw materials , can be powerful apart from immediate or urgent connection with food necessities . Yet imperialism resulting from food requirements seems to have a specially implacable character . Imperial ? istic impulses that come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the hope of in ? creased investment returns , may conceivably be frustrated without working serious damage . It is otherwise with the urge to expansion felt by nations whose - numbers make agricultural self-sufficiency impossible . For such peoples imperialism may be an affair of life and death , a mandatory business whose driving force is the Malthusian law . But the connection between food requirements and war is not the simple one that is usually traced . Growth of population does not lead to imperialism always and everywhere , merely by the need of expanding bodies for more space , as will be shown in a moment . Before proceeding to develop the complex ex ? planation that seems appropriate , it will be well first to observe that the Malthusian doctrine , in its essentials , has not been shaken by a century of battering . Its original mathematical expression may have been discarded , but the best modern authorities agree that production capacity in excess of reproduction capacity is not yet in sight . Dr. 0 . E. Baker , of the United States Department of Agriculture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the statistical material used here , allows the United States only a century of grace in which to apply rational checks to the growth ofr popula ? tion , so that the population may be kept in a tol ? erable relationship to our domestic food resources . Efficiency in production can not free mankind from the danger of an overproduction of people and an underproduction of food . It merely pushes back the danger point , and creates standards of living that hold procreation down . It gives us only a conditional right to life and happiness , since growth of population may eventually swallow up its bene ? fits . A sharp reminder that Malthus was right ap ? pears in a recent bulletin issued by the Department of Agriculture , in which the prediction is made that a cheaper diet may some day be imposed on this country by the necessity of conserving land . That life in all its forms obeys the Malthusian law has been brilliantly demonstrated by Dr. Raymond Pearl , of Johns Hopkins University , in recent experiments with insect , animal , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Unlimited subsistence and freedom from disease or other calamity would permit organisms to multiply indefinitely , at a rate limited merely by the time necessary for gestation and rearing . Under such conditions , the curve of expansion would always rise . Since all creatures have to be fed , however , their multiplication at a constantly increasing rate is possible only while food supplies are practically unlimited . Food limitations must necessarily change the rising curve into a falling curve , and eventually flatten it out . That is the abstract logic of the Malthusian law . Dr. Pearl shows that life observes it . In all forms of growth , both individual and collective , in human as well as in animal and plant populations , he finds a stretched-out S-curve with flattened ends , the first or rising half representing the principle of reproduction and the second or fall ? ing half illustrating the check put on that principle by the . limitations of subsistence . As an inductive proof of what was originally a deductive hypothesis , Dr. Pearl 's mathematical demonstration of the Malthusian law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which his own results were deductively anticipated , that he should avow a rather thorough-going distrust of abstract logic . What is important here , however , is the fact that Dr. Pearl finds the same general curve of expansion , until multiplication is checked , among populations of fruit flies , yeast cells , rats , and tad ? poles . When he turns to human populations , he finds the same thing . Practically identical S-curves , or segments of such curves , express what is known about the growth of population in Austria , Belgium , Denmark , England , Wales , Hungary , Italy , Nor ? way , Japan , Java , the Philippine Islands , and the world as a whole . The curve of growth invariably rises and then falls , as the advantage lies first with reproductive power and then with the opposing environmental limitation . Systole and diastole alternate here as throughout creation . Already a lessening rate of increase , following a sharp curve of expansion , is manifest not only in the popula ? tions of North America and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Malthus , corning after a century of unexampled progress in the arts of pro ? duction , is of fundamental importance in the con ? consideration of the modern problem of imperialism . Malthus published the first edition of his famous assay on population in 1789 . At that time , mineralfertilizers were unknown , farm machinery and methods were primitive , and neither steamships nor railroads were in operation . Had anyone told Malthus that technical progress would permit a trebling of the world 's population within a century , he would probably not have been believed . Yet today , on a standard of living much improved in many countries , the world supports 2,000,000,000 people , compared with about 700,000,000 in Mal ? thus ' time . This might be deemed rather a dis ? proof than a proof of the Malthusian doctrine , were it not for some stubborn facts , prominent among which is the prevalence of war among na ? tions apparently very successful in dealing with the food problem . Still more conclusive in support of Malthus , however , is the statistical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? where , even under strong prudential restraint , to exceed the rate of increase in food production . Technical progress does not suffice for the happi ? ness and safety of growing populations , or dispense with the necessity for checks on reproduction . It is not even an effective substitute for war as a means of increasing food resources , since increased skill in production and an increased application of capital and labor to land do not , beyond a certain point , bring an increased return . All this , although generally acknowledged by students of the problem , does not prevent lively dis ? cussion as to the logic of raising food necessities as an excuse for war . Two considerations ap ? parently lend force to the idea that war is an illogi ? cal expedient for nations suffering from pressure of population on subsistence . First it is pointed out that war nowadays diminishes food supplies faster than it diminishes populations . It is cer ? tainly true that war increases the immediate diffi ? culty of winning subsistence . In Russia during the World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , wheat production decreased about 80 per ? cent , coal production 75 percent , and iron ore pro ? duction 97 percent , whereas the country 's popula ? tion decreased less than 13 percent . In Europe as a whole , wheat production decreased one-third between the pre-war and the post-war periods , yet the population , except in Russia and France , In ? creased . But it is necessary to consider the ultimate as well as the immediate economic results of war , particularly , of course , from the standpoint of the victors . Victory may increase both the extent and the security of a nation 's food resources , as it un ? questionably did many times for the British Empire in the nineteenth century . Indeed , lvar sometimes enlarges the food supply of the conquered as well as of the conquering peoples . Under British rule , India gained 60,000,000 people from 1871 to 1911 , largely as a result of British guidance in the improvement of agriculture . Algeria likewise has increased its native population under foreign do mination . Under certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by releasing new territories for development ; indeed , that result may eventually be realized even from the late World War . It is , therefore , necessary to concede , at least from a selfish national standpoint and perhaps in some degree from a broader standpoint , that war is not always a futile weapon in the struggle for bread . The second principal objection to the idea that war can have a conditional justification as a means of ensuring food supplies is based on the belief that the natural tendency of populations to become stabilized must , sooner or later , establish a com ? fortable equilibrium among the nations . Nature is supposed , in short , to be ready with a solution for the war problem if only we will trust her . Analysis of this argument will bring us to the heart of the difficulty . As already mentioned , biologists and statisticians recognize a tendency toward stabilization in all forms of growth . Sometimes this tendency actually does counteract imperialistic impulses , even where the pressure of population on subsistence is acute . Population pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not an explosive force always and every ? where , and to regard them as such is to leave half the Malthusian equation out of the reckoning . Stabilized populations sometimes show little desire for territorial expansion , even where as in China stabilization has taken place on a very low standard of living . Under certain conditions , however , pop ? ulations grow beyond the carrying power of their own soil . In that situation an acute need of ter ? ritorial expansion may be felt , though the imme ? diate food supply may seem assured . A satisfac ? tory theory of imperialism must explain why popu ? lations sometimes become stabilized instead of seek ? ing additional territory , and sometimes develop an aggressive imperialism even before food limitations check multiplication . These opposite conditions are illustrated by China and by Japan . China 's population , according to the best authorities , ceased growing half a century ago , as a result of pressure upon subsist ? ence . Standards of living in China are , of course , extremely low , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proportion of potentially arable land used for crops in China is smaller than in the United States , less than a third of the acreage physically available for crops be ? ing in cultivation . This curious condition is mainly the result of a lack of up-to-date farm equipment . China has much low-yielding soil that could be worked profitably with modern plows , drills , and harvesters , but can not be used by the man-power on which Chinese agriculture chiefly depends . The area required for the support of a family is more than a family can cultivate with the means avail ? able . A population stabilized by failure to use itsavailable agricultural resources has obviously an alternative to imperialism as a solution of its food problem . It has merely to improve its agricultural technique . That course is open to China , and may explain why the country has not in recent times been imperialistic . The same expedient is not open to Japan , where an acute and growing food problem presents very different characteristics . In the last century , Japan has doubled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capita , by a remarkable adaptation of occidental technique to her agricultural and manu ? facturing industries . She is still rapidly increasing in population , although in recent years her birth rate has declined somewhat . She consequently needs an increasing food supply . In the early stages of her present cycle of population growth , Japan ob ? tained increased food partly by a more intensive cultivation of her soil . That avenue of relief is now closed . Japanese agriculture is near the phys ? ical limit in production , the country 's agricultural technique is highly developed , and an exceptionally large proportion of its arable land is in crops . Recently , indeed , Japan has lost more crop acreage by the encroachment of cities and by the diversion of land to other than agricultural uses than she has gained by clearing and irrigation . Growth of pop ? ulation has carried her-beyond the point of possible self-sufficiency in food supplies , and she has become dependent on imports for an important share of her subsistence . A precarious food situation has already arisen , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestic policy . In China , there is at least little danger that straitened food cir ? cumstances will take a sudden turn for the worse , but Japan , although enjoying a considerably higher standard of living , nurses , like Britain , a constant fear that her external food sources may be cut off . This contrast indicates that growth of popula ? tion , although not leading to imperialism always and everywhere , may do so when is is the result of expanding economic power resting on insufficient agricultural resources and , therefore , tending to develop an excessive industrial specialization . Such specialization necessitates large food imports ; an impulse to control foreign sources of supply and to control trade communications thus arises inevi ? tably . This incentive to imperialism may exist with ? out any urgent immediate pressure of population on subsistence , and even without any extreme pres ? sure of population upon the supply of land . Food necessities are less acute in imperialistic Europe than in non-imperialistic Asia . As for the pressure of population upon the land supply , that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most imperialistic nations have done wonders in increasing their domestic food resources . Their inveterate hankering for territorial expansion is the outcome of a potential threat to their food supply , rather than of an acute immediate shortage . It is the political expression of the necessity they feel to correct a discrepancy that has developed between their food wants and their secure command of food supplies . Modern imperialism , in short , is funda ? mentally a means of permitting the growth of popu ? lation beyond the point at which it would be stabil ? ized by an exclusive reliance on domestic agricul ? ture . In the nineteenth century this principle found its classic illustration in the imperial policy of the United Kingdom . Germany finally tried to apply it and failed ; Japan is attempting the same thing with more success . Our turn may come next . Here ? tofore , the United States has been a food-exporting nation , and has not felt any impulse to imperialism arising from food necessities . In recent years , how ? ever , our agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dairy products , beef , and spring wheat , we are close to the margin between the import and the export basis , and the producers of these commodities may soon regularly have to contend with foreign competition in the United States market . Already we import 55 percent of our wool , 20 percent of our sugar , 50 percent of our flax seed , 12 percent of our cheese , and large amounts of nuts , fruits , and vegetable oil materials . In the calendar year 1924 , not less than 45 percent of our imports of dutiable articles consisted of competitive agricultural products . Our progress toward dependence on food imports is portentously rapid , and will unquestionably have a profound in ? fluence on our foreign policy . Such dependence has made other nations imperialistic . As our human nature is presumably of the same stuff as theirs , we are likely to behave similarly . When the century of grace that Dr. Baker gives us expires , this country will have at its disposal a prodigious economic power , needing for its profit ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food deficits by exporting industrial goods . It will have a population exceeding the carrying power of its own agriculture . That outcome can be predicted from familiar economic and biologic laws , without resorting to statistical forecasts . It is well known that , for nations as well as for in ? dividuals , the law of diminishing returns sets a limit to the profitable employment of capital and labor in agriculture , and finally makes impossible any further increase in food production in a given area . This law , in the absence of facilities for ex ? changing non-agricultural goods for foodstuffs , would lead to a stabilization of the population . But surplus economic power can be devoted to in ? industry long after the point of diminishing returns has been passed in agriculture . Hence , industrial production and foreign trade , when the safety of the latter can be assured , permit growth of popula ? tion indefinitely , until it becomes impossible either to regain self-sufficiency in food supplies , or to resist the temptation to win external food resources by arms . Increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States , but can ? not prevent our reaching it eventually . The peculiar fatality of modern population growth is that nations do not feel the need of restriction soon enough . As long as food can be readily imported , they multiply their populations without giving a thought to the precarious nature of their food-supply system . This is finally realized only when international rivalry , or a threat to trade routes , necessitates a resort to force in self-preser ? vation . Imperialism is then invoked , not primarily to furnish an outlet for surplus population , but to enable people to live and multiply at home . It is a mistake to suppose that the strongest impulse making for war is an impulse to migration in con ? gested populations . Migration is only one of the minor advantages got by territorial expansion . Colonizing peoples certainly export population as well as goods , but the density of their home popu lation is not thereby sensibly diminished . In the nineteenth century the population of the United Kingdom increased from less than 18,000,000 to more than 40,000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Control of outside food resources lessens a country 's population dif ? ficulties mainly by enlarging the home food supply . Top-heavy industrialism , with its resulting growth of population , develops inevitably , before its im ? perialistic implications are realized , to a point at which compensating agricultural expansion must he obtained abroad , and when a domestic food deficit can no longer be met by further intensive cultivation of home soils , imperialism is the natural recourse . It should be evident from the foregoing that neither technical progress nor the voluntary restric ? tion of population can be depended on to free man ? kind from imperialism resulting from the pressure of population on subsistence . Technical progress tends rather to heighten the pressure , since it leads eventually to disproportionate industrial develop ? ment , by which population is increased without local provision for its support . Prudential restraints must remain ineffective , since the need for such re ? straints is ordinarily not felt until swollen industrial systems and swollen populations are already in ? securely poised on small agricultural bases . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for essentially the problem is how to coordinate industry with agriculture , not on a na ? tional basis , because that is no longer possible , but on a world basis . Something like the relationship that existed between Europe and North America in the nineteenth century , when the two hemispheres complemented each other with a mutually advan ? tageous exchange of foodstuffs for industrial goods , is necessary with world-wide ramifications .. A one-sided industrialism is not possible in all countries simultaneously . If too many countries simultane ? ously demand the privilege of developing in that way , force becomes the arbiter of their quarrel . A substitute should be sought for war and im ? perialism as a means of establishing the required world adjustment between farms and factories , if only as a matter of pride in our science and culture . The resort to force is an admission of defeat by the Malthusian law . It is tantamount to conceding that industrial communities built up in an unsound relation to their agricultural resources must finally accept drastic depopulation or a decline in their standards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off temporarily , only to be finally precipitated by war , it must be confessed that our technique for assuring a food supply fails to do a thorough job . The first necessity is to recognize that equal and simultaneous industrial expansion in all civilized countries is a natural impossibility . Then interna ? tional cooperation to establish a world balance be ? tween the production of food and the production of wealth in other forms will seem less utopian . Lest these considerations appear merely academic from the standpoint of the United States , where much land still awaits cultivation , it may be well to recall that our urban and village population is already 75 percent of our total population . It is true that we still export much meat and grain . But it is equally true , and more important , that the trade tends constantly to diminish . As we have seen , nations with a combination of population pressure and surplus economic power , plus an actual or potential shortage of agricultural resources , take easily to imperialism . This nation , should present tendencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It will have an overdeveloped industrial structure threatening to fall unless buttressed on a wider agricultural system , the basis for which must necessarily be sought beyond our borders . Our imperialistic urge , in its early stages , may seem , to be an expression of financial or industrial ambi ? tion , but its roots in biological necessity will not be difficult to discover . Unless in the meantime the world achieves economic cooperation , our only alternative to imperialism will be industrial stagna ? tion , with the population stabilized at some point below that which would be permitted by continued industrial development sustained by a secure food import trade . THE YOUNG woman reporter set out for her first assignment in the dawn , rolled into the subway , tried sleepily to separate those who were returning from a late evening from those who were starting on an early day . At Rector Street she walked under the murky Elevated that shut out the half-light of morning and closed in the glow of street lamps , and the wicked brilliance of all-night joints . No one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with cameras and movie machines and a talkie outfit were waiting for the tug " Whistle " to take them to the " Vestris " survivors on the " American Shipper . " The men chatted confidently , chafing at the cold , not at all concerned with the approaching interviews . All of them acted as though they had . been reporters most of their lives . The " Whistle " pulled out with her decks filled and a dozen people crowded in the captain 's tiny cabin . " Your paper is getting passionate , " said a red-haired reporter to the man next him . " This radio interview begins , ' Some of the tales told by " Ves ? tris " survivors are very moving . ' " " This Red Terhune thing was in the bag . Sure , I know a guy knows a fellow knows his brother . It was all a put-up job . " " You 're crazy . " " The captain 's ordered breakfast served in his cabin for the lady . Hey , come on in and eat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was very pleasant , until she came to the rope ladder , slung over the side of the " American Shipper , " not even a decent one with rungs , but a Jacob 's ladder . She decided that the idea of " ladies first " was being overworked , and had never been sound , but nothing could be done about it at the moment , nothing could be done about anything , except that from one terrible toe-hold the next had to be reached and somehow during the frantic process the ship had to be kept from slipping out from under her . Finally hands reached down and hauled her up to safety . Then the real excitement began . There was news on the ship . People told their tales , outlining the maddest dime-novel plots . People wrapped in blankets , their arms in slings , their feet bare or bound in rags or covered with water-soaked shoes , told these stories , trying hard to suppress their excitement . " I was swimming with a colored woman , for seven hours I had been holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the crew in it picked her up . " " And they would n't pick him up , " his friend interposed . " She had to beg and weep to make them pick him up . " " Then later I saw my wife swimming out there , calling to me , and I urged them to rescue her . When they would n't , I tried to jump in after her , but somebody hit me over the head , and the next thing I knew it was night and I was lying on the bottom of the lifeboat . " He was grateful to talk . " Get this straight , " he said . " It 's true just as I                     