@@487285

EMS FROM THE PRESIDENT 'S SPEECH before the Union League Club of Philadelphia on November 17 : is littered with nations destroyed by their It is true that we have accumulated a small , but a blatant , fringe of extravagance and waste , nourished in idleness , and another undesirable class who seek to live without work . A successful people are always a mark for the vicious and the criminal but these - are conspicuous mainly by contrast . The great mass of our people , whatever their possessions . . . know that the doctrine of ease is the doctrine of surrender and decay . The Natwn hereby offers a reward of one hundred dollars to any reader who can convince its editors that a more " blatant fringe " of buncombe and senseless hokum exists in any speech of any other President in our history , the preeminent Warren G. Harding alone being barred . T HE CUT IN THE BRITISH naval building program from three 10,000-ton cruisers to one of 8,000 tons comes in the nick of time . Undoubtedly the credit for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admirable fight against his former colleagues in the British Government gives promise of offsetting some of the compromises and errors in the career of this erratic but engaging statesman . Beyond question there will be a most serious drive for big navy appropriations in Washington just as soon as Congress assembles . All our timid patriots and all the demagogues of the Mayor Thompson school will unite in urging that we outdo in armaments the very ally to whom we swore eternal fealty only ten years ago . That we are building against her is now perfectly obvious ; our fleet has outstripped Japan 's and there is no one else to arm against . Our jingoes will , of Course , see in the cutting of the British Admiralty 's building program a victory for us . We prefer to believe that a sober second thought is responsible for the change . Liberal and Laborite in Great Britain alike insist that the delegates to the Geneva naval conference gravely misrepresented British public opinion . Press dispatches refer to the " wave of pacificism now sweeping over England " ; that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the war . - - - - I NDIANA IS HOUSECLEANING . Clyde Walb , Republi- can State chairman , under fire from the Indianapolis Times , announces his retirement from politics . The Times , continuing its good work , has revealed Mr. Walb 's activity in behalf of T. Guy Perfect , a wealthy resident of Huntingdon , Indiana , who had been convicted of seducing a 14-yearold girl . Mr. Walb 's work coincided with the investment of $2,500 by Mr. Perfect 's family in Mr. I , Valb 's construction company . Meanwhile , four of the nine councilmen of the " majority faction " in Indianapolis have been indicted by the Marion County grand jury , on charges of accepting bribes to break down zoning provisions in the city . The grand jury has extended its investigation into the , State House , and is now following up charges of corruption in connection with the Insull public-utility interests . When Indianapolis 's mayor went to jail the distraught city council , several of its members themselves under indictment , settled a tangled question temporarily by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place after thirty-eight ballots . Although Mr. Slack has been conspicuous as attorney for the ' Klan and for the " majority faction , " he has pledged himself to a clean-up and his first acts seem to confirm his pledge . Much credit for the thorough job of setting Indiana 's house in order is due to William H. Remy , Marion County prosecuting attorney , and to the present Marion County grand jury and its foreman , William J. Mooney . - - " B AWLING AT THE VOTERS " is what Professor William B. Munro of Harvard University calls the efforts of various civic organizations to get people to go to the polls regardless of whether they know or care anything about the candidates or questions involved . Speaking re-cently before the National Municipal League , Mr. Munro described the practice of encouraging citizens to " certify their lack of knowledge " at the polls as ridiculous and more dangerous to the community than complete indifference toward the " slacker vote . " A day or so later John Hays Hammond of the National Civic Federation expressed almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clogs the election machinery and is a liability instead of an asset , " he said . " The various slogans , such as ' Vote as you please , but vote , ' and the buttons inscribed ' I have voted ; have you ? ' mean little in themselves in terms of enlightened citizenship . " We are glad to see these indications of agreement with the position The Nation has taken in regard to all these recent campaigns to " get out the vote . " But ? neither Professor Munro nor Mr. Hammond gets to the bottom of the trouble , which is that the two major parties purposely sidestep all the real political issues of the day so that there is no essential choice between their candidates and platforms . " Get out the issues " is the slogan of The Nation . Once that is done , the vote will take care of itself . T HE EXPULSION from the Communist Party of Leon Trotzky , Karl Radek , L. Kamenev , Gregory Zinoviev , and eighty-odd of their companions-in-opposition forms a striking sequel to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the guests gone home from Soviet Russia 's birthday celebration than the press announced this apparently final rupture in the ranks of the ruling party . Barring compromise amounting to surrender on the part of the Opposition , these erstwhile leaders appear to be cast , not only into outer darkness , but into idleness , penury , and possible starvation . Their jobs and their homes , no less than their opinions and political activities , are in the hands of the dominant majority . No good Communist  --  and , in the party or out , not one of the Opposition members would admit he was anything else  --  can earn a living by ordinary means . He can not buy and sell ; he can not write articles for the foreign " bourgeois " press ( and no Communist paper the world over would print his views ) ; he is untrained , usually , for factory or farm work . His dissidence condemns him to an idleness which must look little better than prison . It is difficult at this distance to understand why a Government like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strong logic of economic forces , should not be able to make use of the very unusual abilities of these political heretics  --  who are , at the same time , honest revolutionaries . P ERHAPS , AS REVOLUTIONARIES , they are too honest , too stubborn . They see the revolution being swept into strange bypaths that may or may not rejoin the highroad toward communism . They can not sit back and say nothing while concessions to the peasants create what they believe will be a vast and stolid bourgeoisie of small landed proprietors . They can not contentedly watch Russia plunge into an era of industrial activity based on close economic relations with a capitalistic world . The Revolution , they say , is revolution only if looked on as a phase of a world movement . The Government must pursue a policy of " permanent revolution , " using every means that is necessary to dominate the peasant masses and to propagate communism in other countries . But the energy of Russia is pushing in other directions  --  toward production , reconstruction , industrial development , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are playing the ungrateful role of obstructionists , and as such they seem doomed . A strongand ruthless majority , which has on its side the temper of the people and the logic of events , wipes them out of political existence . R EORGANIZATION OF THE COAL INDUSTRY has been urged by every investigating committee which ever honestly peered into this industrial morass . But nothing has been done . Now President Green of the American Federation of Labor is to call on President Coolidge and place before him charges of brutality and lawlessness on the part of State troopers , deputy sheriffs , and coal company police in Pennsylvania , Ohio , and West Virginia . The appeal , drawn up by the Council of the Federation , says : We call upon the churches , the educational institutions , and all liberal-minded and free institutions and organizations to come into Pittsburgh , to see what we have seen , to learn for themselves , to behold this degradation and oppression and brutality , to witness this economic and social tragedy , to learn of the perversion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State of Pennsylvania . These may seem strong words ; but a dreadful and by no means recent situation amply justifies them . It is not enough to say that the children of miners are hungry and without shelter ; or that miners ' wives are enduring daily hardship because of the refusal of their husbands to work . Possibly , whatever the merits of the situation , those who feel the need to strike must be prepared to bear the consequences of their decision . But no strike , no injustice whether to employer or worker can ever justify the strong-arm methods now in force in the striking counties . Mounted policemen who ride down women and children are not to be endured ; armed thugs who beat up defenseless strikers are not to be endured ; agents provocateurs who try to stir up trouble and , failing that , testify that trouble is brewing , are not to be endured . President Coolidge would do well to cease talking about prosperity until these things are stopped . Ai R. HEARST has been publishing in his papers a mag- nificent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico for all time . Apparently they are facsimiles of original orders by which President Calles directed that various large sums of money be paid to his friends in all parts of the world . If the documents had been more modest it might have been easier to believe them . But , after beginning with payments to the Nicaraguan Liberals who were finally defeated by the United States Marines , they continued to show payments for revolutionary propaganda in Russia and China . The thought of little Mexico financing Russian and Chinese revolution is a real triumph of the human imagination ; but we have reason to believe that the original set of documents included others which seemed too preposterous for even Mr. Hearst to publish . The New York Telegram comments upon another evidence that Mr. Hearst 's editors did not entirely trust the accuracy of their own revelations : Between editions they altered the date appearing in one of these " photostat copies ! " Indeed there are several instances in which the artist of the documents seems to have got his dates mixed . T HE GERMAN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plot  --  a plan to ruin Soviet Russia by flooding the international market with ' forged chervonetz notes . The original conspirators were Caucasian revolutionaries , and according to the press reports  --  this part of the story has not yet been confirmed  --  they had the interested support of Sir Henry Deterding , head of the Royal Dutch Shell Oil Company , who is supposed in Russia to have been responsible for the break in Russo-British diplomatic relations . The Berlin correspondent of the New York Times makes the natural guess that favorable oil concessions had been promised him in the event of success . At any rate , millions of forged chervonetz notes were manufactured in Frankfurt-am-Main and shipments for various European capitals had been prepared when the German police got on the trail of the forgers . With the cooperation of the French police they have arrested the apparent leaders , but the ramifications of the plot touch so many highly placed European personalities that the police have been instructed to keep further details secret . C AMBRIDGE WITHOUT DR . CROTHERS must lose something of its charm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he struck such deep roots that the younger generation came to regard him as one of the founding fathers . Brought up in the pioneer West , a graduate of Princeton , ordained in the most un-Bostonian Presbyterianism , he was for more than thirty years pastor of the Unitarian First Parish of Cambridge , which in a large sense of the word is the Harvard Church . And he did maintain the elder Harvard tradition . He preached a bland liberalism which concealed , as di ' his Atlantic essays , its heretic implications beneath a polished surface . The hysterias of the Boston community never found expression through this adopted son from the West ; often enough that community never realized how he was chuckling at it . But several generations of college men have left Cambridge a little more civilized because of his spirit . N THE DEATH of Frances Gardner Davenport the I United States loses a historian of distinction . She was educated at Radcliffe , the London School of Economics , Cambridge , and took her Ph.D . at the University of Chicago . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. Ashley , who one autumn handed her some manor rolls that he had purchased in England for Harvard . She spent many years on these and allied documents , visiting the manor itself , and in 1906 published the " Economic History of a Norfolk Manor . " After teaching a year at Vassar College , in 1905 , she went to the newly created Historical Department of the Carnegie Institution where , under Dr. J. Franklin Jameson , her most important work was accomplished . As the compiler and expositor of " European Treaties Bearing on the Economic History of the United States " Frances Davenport will be known as long as United States history is studied . Her first volume was published in 1917 . Two others were complete at her death save for some last checking up of authorities , bringing the work down to 1713 . Each treaty is preceded by a careful exposition of the political and economic history bearing upon the document  --  terse writing , impregnable as to fact . No journey was too great for this historian to take to study original @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if new material was to be found . Her patience was extraordinary and her lively interest in her work never flagged . " I knew I took a subject that needed a lifetime , " she said a few weeks ago . " I see now that it needed more than one . " 589 A T THE UNIVERSITY OF WEST VIRGINIA President Frank Butler Trotter banned a peace lecture by Kirby Page , which had been arranged by the student Y. W. C. A. The R. 0 . T. C. , the American Legion , and the D. A. R. had protested ; furthermore , " too much turmoil had been caused by the invitation . " In the face of such circumstances what could be done by a fearless college president but obligingly to cancel the meeting ? Much the same academic pusillanimity exists at the College of the City of New York where President Robinson has just suspended two students because they criticized compulsory military drill . This action , Dean Mapper explained , was to bring about " as complete a cessation of propaganda as possible by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the compulsory R. 0 . T. C. went against it by a vote of 2,092 to 345 . To placate the students the faculty instituted the hypocritical alternative of civilian drill  --  but scheduled it at the most inconvenient hours and prescribed a $7 uniform for it  --  military uniforms were free . R UTH ELDER , who failed to fly across the broad Atlantic , succeeded in breaking down the taciturnity of President Coolidge . Her place was side by side with his at the recent White House luncheon for aviators . According to the press reports he " engaged in animated conversation with the woman flier . " Also we are told that " his face was wreathed in smiles . " But New England character is staunch and not every Vermont trait fell before the young lady of the Loew circuit . The headline of the little story , President Gives a Token , suggested a departure from the program of national economy which has so distinguished the present Administration , but the body of . the news was reassuring : " When the guests were preparing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and picked up his place card which he offered to his companion . That is the favor she is treasuring . " Mr. Ibsen 's spendthrift in " The Wild Duck " gave away the menu . Still there is just the possibility that on the back of his place card Mr. Coolidge may have written his telephone number . - - THOSETHOSE " WHO ADMIRE MUSSOLINI have said that he " brought about a restoration of the glory that once was Italy . And yet it is not fantastic to assume that a recent comment of the Premier may well have caused Raphael to revolve rapidly within his grave . Howard Chandler Christy who does covers , painted-Mussolini after three brief sittings . " Many artists . have placed my face on canvas , " remarked the Duce , " but you are the first to have placed me there . " Later he told the wife of the American illustrator : " It is a better portrait than was ever painted of me. " - Somewhat irrelevantly the Associated Press correspondent who described the meeting of the creator of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added that Mussolini had brought his country " from the confusion of five years ago to its present position . " Accordingly , if digressions are to be permitted , one may be allowed to recall a poem by another American , Franklin P. Adams , during a Christmas era in which it was announced that Mr. Christy would illustrate the poems of Walter Scott : The stag at eve had drunk his fill . " I fear , " he said , " I shall be illUstrated " ? here his eyes grew misty " By artist Howard Chandler Christy. "                     