@@487229

Berlin , Dec. 11 . ? American soldiers in the occupied area have contributed 1,000,000 marks toward a fund for providing Christmas cheer to poor German children , says a special dispatch from Coblenz . The money is to be used in purchasing and distributing presents for the children . There is the real Christmas and , we add , the real American spirit . It not only makes us proud ; we are sure that it will do more to convert Germans to a right view of international duties and obligations than all the heavy guns in Coblenz . Moreover , this generous deed is after the manner of Him whose birthday the world is now to celebrate . Strange world that it is ! The key to the solution of its ills lies right at hand ; it has had that key for 1900 years , yet scarcely touches it and does not know that salvation lies in practicing what we preach when we declare that we are disciples of Him who died that humanity might rise . CORK in flames , her city hall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more of her citizens killed by reckless shooting  --  this is the product of Lloyd George 's scandalous policy of enforcing martial law in Ireland while offering the olive branch of talks with members of the Irish Parliament . Again it appears the work of the Black and Tans in reprisal for a fresh shooting of some of their men . Encouraged to lawlessness by Sir Hamar Greenwood , the Black and Tans have revenged them-selves for the attack upon them by destroying the center of the city . What is this but anarchy ? Business is at a standstill ; transportation is at an end ; the city is like a Belgian town under the Germans . This is what Lloyd George calls having " murder by the throat " and upholding law and order for Ireland 's good . The only question is how much longer the conscience of England will tolerate it . Were Parliament what it once was , something besides a body of sycophants and place-holders , Lloyd George would not hold office a day longer . How can anyone urge the Irish to accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cork ? Yet The Nation at least urges that every violent deed by Irishmen reacts upon Ireland , and that from the standpoint of what is possible , any attempt to win her freedom by arms remains utterly hopeless . At that game England can win hands down ; she can starve Ireland out in a few months ' time . It is by spiritual weapons alone that Ireland can hope to succeed , by the steady , quiet devotion of all her people to the cause of self-determination , and the converting of Englishmen as well . Meanwhile , all England ought to see that the sole immediate way out is by the withdrawal of the garrisons from Ireland as the British Labor Party demands . NINETY Irish , American , and English correspondents have jointly protested at their treatment by the military authorities in Ireland . Every newspaper man knows that the conditions of newsgathering must be very bad , indeed , before any group of newspaper men will feel inclined to take joint action . It is the habit of the profession to shrug its shoulders and calmly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nationalities announce that things have become so unendurable that they propose to send a round robin to the governments of all the world , to the several press associations of Europe and America , and to the press generally , because they are not allowed to see things that they should see or to report adequately what comes under their eyes . This can not be whistled away as Sinn Fein propaganda ; it is a startling affirmation of what the witnesses in Washington have been saying as to the misrepresentation of the facts to the detriment of the Irish cause . It is , moreover , in amazing contrast to the statement of Sir Auckland Geddes in his letter of October 23 to the Commission on Ireland that " the British Government has more to gain than any one in insuring that the truth is made known to the whole world . " No wonder that the British Government will not allow members of the Commission on Ireland to visit that unhappy island . THAT an American general should calmly declare that as long as nations are armed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nations for the maintenance of peace , " and should add that there can be no successful international court of arbitration " as long as the present military system exists , " is enough to make one rub one 's eyes . But General Tasker H. Bliss is an unusual general , for he is not a militarist and he is devoted to the old-fashioned American ideals . When his opinion was asked by Foch as to what the armistice terms should be , his answer was the historic American one , so well illustrated at Appomattox , that the enemy should ground his arms and go home . As a Peace Commissioner , General Bliss was outside the Wilson pale because his views were so contrary to the President 's . Time has completely justified him . Again , there was a curious story going around Paris that General Bliss felt that if the Germans had not started the war the habit of " so many fellows running around Europe with guns in their hands " would inevitably have produced a conflagration sooner or later . General Bliss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part elsewhere in this issue is quite the most remarkable contribution to the subject yet penned , considering its source and the General 's unusual experience . We wish it might be placed in the hands of every member of Congress . WHAT renders General Bliss 's plea for disarmament especially noteworthy is the fact that the United States stands squarely as the great obstacle in the path of world disarmament . It is Secretary Daniels 's reckless program for naval expansion which acts as scarecrow for the British Admiralty , in its attempt to frighten the British Cabinet out of common sense into a new era of naval rivalry . It is this same Daniels program which brought Viscount Ishii to his feet at Geneva declaring that Japan can not agree to check her armament program so long " as there are nations outside the League of Nations not bound by the obligations imposed upon its members . " That was his diplomatic phraseology ; what he meant in plain words was , " so long as the United States , whether she be in or outside of the League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , centered in the Pacific , and aimed at Japan . " And now Josephus Daniels drives Ishii 's argument home , by urging a three-year program for the construction of 88 naval vessels , development of Pacific Coast naval bases , and creation of a naval base at Hawaii capable of accommodating 1,000 vessels . Secretary Daniels argumentatively prefaces this demand with a suggestion that it is made because the United States is not entering the League . The fact is that the League has nothing to do with it ; our absence from the League does not affect any supposed menace to the United States , but Secretary Daniels 's wild , reckless , extravagant proposals do threaten the world and give the world 's hope for disarmament the dirtiest possible blow . ONE of the most significant passages in the President 's message was contained in his generous proposal of a loan to Armenia . " I would also suggest , " said Mr. Wilson , " that it would be desirable to provide . . . that the expenditure of the money thus loaned should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a commissioner , from the United States , in order that revolutionary tendencies within Armenia itself might not be afforded by the loan a further tempting opportunity . " Thus in one breath the President sought to snatch from Armenia its right of self-determination , to throw his influence and the power of the American dollar on the side of the late government in Armenia , and to offer starvation to the people as the fruit of revolution . Of course , since his teeth have all been drawn , Mr. Wilson 's bark is far worse than his bite . Congress is so unlikely to agree to a loan to Armenia on any terms that the value of American money as a political instrument is considerably minimized . In any case , Armenia has now proceeded to make a revolution in spite of the President and by imitating the Russian style of government has apparently indicated that her hope lies with her soviet neighbor to the north and not with any western Power . HAITIAN newspapers of the days when the Admirals ' Court was sitting at Port-au-Prince make distressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and " fair play " are terms which still have something in common , and would like to believe that better days were dawning for the distressed island republics . For these papers are full of the bitterest circumstantial complaints against the course of the Naval Court of Inquiry which , so they tell us , did not invite Haitians to appear before it but left it for them to volunteer to testify , and then turned them over to the hated gendarmerie before permitting them to appear . Even the most respected Haitians , it appears , such as M. Constant Vieux , were denounced as cacos and bandits once they presumed to criticize the American invasion and its manners . Many witnesses were refused a hearing , and if the stories printed in these papers are but one-tenth true ? and they were printed during the American Occupation , with the threat of repetition of past reprisals staring their publishers in the face  --  then American colonialism stands condemned forever . Stories of vengeful terrorism , of an American prison guard putting out the eyes of a prisoner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American officers , even of prisoners ' bodies eaten by dogs , fill these papers . We hope they are not true ; at least they impose upon the United States the burning duty of a fearless , searching , unbiased inquiry such as has yet to come . REPUBLICAN leaders are already making plans to increase the customs duties on foreign imports . It is understood that the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives will begin hearings in January , in order to be ready to frame a new tariff law early in the special session which Mr. Harding is expected to call soon after his inauguration in March . Increases in the tariff are suggested looking to raise the present revenue of 360 million dollars a year to 500 millions . The proposal is especially foolish at a moment when American industry is suffering from a lack of buyers and business men are trying to develop markets abroad . In order to sell goods abroad we must make it possible for other countries to purchase them . The only way they can do this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariff will hinder , not help , this trade , and the European will be less tempted than ever to buy American merchandise , a proceeding that is already exceedingly difficult owing to the unfavorable position of his money in international exchange . Thus England and Germany will step back into the markets which we sustained during the war , and the hope we then cherished of a permanently-expanded commerce will deflate like a punctured tire . Meanwhile the profiteer , secure in his possession of the consumer , will lick his chops and grow fatter than ever . THE most comforting aspect of Secretary Houston 's taxation recommendations is that , coming from a Democrat , they are unlikely to be adopted by a Republican administration . With his tax increases on various forms of tobacco , on candy , chewing gum , theater tickets , jewelry , and other petty luxuries , we are in accord . But these are trifling matters compared with his proposal to increase from four to six per cent the tax on incomes of less than $5,000 and from eight to twelve per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposal to repeal the excess profits tax it makes his plea for " a better distribution of the tax burden " a grim jest indeed . He would increase the already onerous burdens of the moderate wage earner , of the salaried and professional man , of the great middle-class America , beyond endurance , and merely aggravate the existing crisis . Secretary Houston 's new tax schedule reveals the serious plight to which the reckless extravagance of every governmental branch has ' brought us . Two years after the war we are told that the staggering taxes of the past are already deemed inadequate for future needs . Graft , waste , folly are everywhere rampant . Ninety-two per cent of government expenditures  --  think of it 1 ? are being applied to the cost of past or future wars . Meanwhile President-elect Harding is cheerfully indorsing a greater navy , doubtless the largest in the world . Useless and criminal expenditures on armaments play no small part in the present situation . The high cost of living is in considerable measure the high cost of government . Only when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public secure relief . " I S N'T it true that the great steel fabricators of the country are in an arrangement with the Iron League Association of New York which prevents absolutely your doing steel construction unless you do it with non-union labor ? " asked Samuel Untermyer of the president of the largest construction company in New York . " Yes , " replied Mr. Horowitz , " they have advised us that they will not sell steel to any concern except if it agrees to erect it under non-union conditions . " And when Mr. Untermyer asked whether , in normal times , there was such a thing as an open shop , whether a shop was not either union or nonunion , Mr. Horowitz replied " I agree with your view " ; and to Untermyer 's insistence , " That is just a blind , " said , honestly , " I think the open shop term is used to defeat union labor . " Yet there are still those who deny that there is a nation-wide effort to smash organized labor and destroy the unions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The latest development has been the arrest of five men accused of being implicated in the murder of Deputy Sheriff Hatfield on July 14 . But it is not necessary to go as far back as July for killings . Two deputy sheriffs , after investigating the shooting in the back of John B. Marcum on December 5 , reported that he had been slain by a member of the State police . Deputy Sheriff Whitt was shot and severely wounded by a miner for whom he was lying in wait , the miner himself being shot later by another sheriff . Meanwhile the strikers and their families , living in their miserable tent colonies , are not only cold and probably always hungry , but are occasionally fired at by persons whose identity remains unknown . Besides establishing military control in the striking district , and protecting strike-breakers at the mines with Federal troops , the authorities now propose a health inspection of the tent colonies , not , apparently , out of any sympathy for the inhabitants , but to give an excuse for getting these Valley Forgers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , representative of the United Mine Workers , has suggested rather pertinently that " a safe and sane " way to help striking miners in the tent colonies would be to compel the operators " to sit at a conference table " to settle the strike . But nothing of the sort appears imminent . The operators declare they have no intention of recognizing the union and that they will get coal from the mines in spite of the strike . Yet the spirit of the miners , in the face of appalling privations , apparently remains unbroken and this disgrace to our civilization continues . ACK of every display of diamonds and pearls is sheer vulgarity , " wrote Dr. Frank Crane in the New York Globe , and to make his offense worse he added that " the possession of jewelry is an invitation to crime . " This was apropos of a lady who had been robbed of $767,000 worth of jewelry , much of which she was wearing . Whereupon the Morse International Agency , which handles the advertising of the Gorham Company , protested to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not censor its writers . This brought from the Agency the reply that " the Gorham advertising is withdrawn from the columns of the Globe because of the apparent irresponsibility of the Globe 's departments , and Dr. Crane 's in particular . " The Globe printed the letter . As a sample of a naive and frank attempt to control editorial policy by advertisers it is a gem ; such control is usually subtler . I T might have been expected that when the National Civic Federation got round to its investigation of the Episcopal Church it would first of all fall upon some such divine as Dr. Bernard Iddings Bell , president of St. Stephen 's College , an admirable scholar and an enlightened man , whom the Federation accuses of such fearful offenses as thinking that man 's activities are determined by sex and hunger urge , that those who shut their eyes to the coming social readjustments are stupid , and that the sociology of St. Paul was largely bosh . The Federation , of course , accuses him of other " offenses " which he never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " these  --  and , of course , the Federation refrained from consulting Dr. Bell before making its report to his bishop . True to form , the Federation preferred to work in the dark . The militant inanity of this behavior can be compared to nothing else in the recent news except the warfare that Horatio Bottomley , M. P. , is just now waging upon the Poet Laureate for keeping silent on the occasion of the burial of the nameless soldier in Westminster Cathedral . T rains Nobel prizes this year . To Knut Hamsun and Carl Spitteler is now added the name of a third recipient , the Spanish dramatist , Jacinto Benavente . Two of his plays , " The Bonds of Interest " and " The Passion Flower , " were presented in New York last season and two series of his plays have appeared in English under the editorship of John Garrett Underhill . Thus even readers and theatergoers unacquainted with Spanish need by no means be ignorant of Benavente 's work . That work displays a cold , keen fancy and an acidity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warmth , depth , largeness of vision or spiritual force are notably absent . The choice of Benavente following that of Spitteler inclines one to believe that the givers of the Nobel prize , in perfect good faith and not perhaps quite consciously , avoided the possibility of friction by picking neutrals . The distinction that was given to Bjornson and to Hauptmann is a little tarnished . For a moment 's reflection will show that of the living dramatists who have not received the prize four , two realists , one satirist , and one poet , hold an undisputed international preeminence ? Galsworthy and Schnitzler , Shaw and Hofmannsthal . Happily there will be other years and other prizes .                     