@@468663

ASTRONOMERS , like other men , spend most of their lives in hard and often tedious routine work . They are , however , sometimes fortunate enough to take part in a great adventure , and it is of such an adventure that I am now writing . The pupil of the human eye ? about a fifth of an inch in diameter ? receives only a minute fraction of the light falling from a star upon the earth 's surface . Imagine this pupil enlarged to a diameter of nine feet , and endowed both with magnifying power and with the cumulative capacity of the photographic plate , which forms a visible image by adding up during long exposures the invisible rays of feeble celestial objects . Like our largest existing telescope , it could then penetrate millions of light-years into space and reveal more than a thousand million stars in our own galactic system and hundreds of thousands of " island universes " beyond the Milky Way . A year ago I described briefly in this magazine some of the possibilities of still larger instruments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Education Board , funds were given to the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena for the construction of an Astrophysical Observatory and Laboratory , to be conducted in close co-operation with the Mount Wilson Observatory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington . This Observatory , which will be designed so as to supplement , not to duplicate , the Mount Wilson Observatory , is to be equipped with a 200-inch reflecting telescope and powerful auxiliary apparatus . It is our hope that the new telescope will he fully ten times as powerful as the 100-inch Mount Wilson reflector , penetrate more than three times as far into space , and thus open for investigation an unexplored sphere of about thirty times the volume of that which has been hitherto sounded . Perhaps , however , the most important use of the new instrument and its accessories will he in the more intensive investigation of objects already known but inadequately studied because of our present optical limitations . Astronomical observatories are not all alike . On the contrary , they show a greater diversity of design than the laboratories used in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objects is so great that a lifetime can be spent in measuring the " absolute " positions , the relative positions , or the speeds of small fractions of their number . Consequently , observatories are often erected for such special purposes , so that their sole equipment may consist of a meridian circle and astronomical clocks , or a photographic refracting telescope and machines for measuring the relative positions of stellar images , or a telescope and spectrograph for determining stellar motions . The results thus obtained are indispensable to astronomy , which through the ages has been fortunate enough to possess men of the skill and devotion required to accomplish these endless tasks of routine observation and measurement . The true value of their results often does not appear until long after their death , as in the discovery of the precession of the equinoxes by Hipparchus two thousand years ago , when he compared his observations with those made by Timoeharis nearly two centuries earlier . In the same way the importance of Tycho Brahe 's observations , which were bequeathed to Kepler , was brought out by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bear his Hanle . In recent years , however , the rapidly expanding scope of astrophysical research has revolutionized the observatory and multiplied its possibilities to the astronomer , the physicist , and the chemist . As the key to cosmic laboratories , which afford temperatures , pressures , densities , and masses greatly exceeding those attainable on earth , the telescope with its many auxiliaries has become as indispensable to the physicist and chemist as to the student of stellar evolution and the structure of the universe . For this reason a co-operative investigation of the physical , chemical , and astronomical aspects of the nature and properties of matter under the widest range of conditions was undertaken several years ago by the California Institute and the neighboring Mount Wilson Observatory . The resulting series of fundamental discoveries , both celestial and terrestrial , has now led to the provision for the 200-inch telescope and its accessories as a new and powerful means of extending them . The method of organizing the new Astrophysical Observatory and its indispensable Laboratory is thus plainly indicated . The optical and mechanical parts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be mounted equatorially so as to command the heavens from the north pole to a region far south of the equator . It should be established at a site out of the path of frequent storms , where a great preponderance of clear weather is associated with the sharpest and steadiest telescopic images . It should be quickly adaptable for a wide variety of researches and provided with the best attainable means of recording and measuring celestial objects . It should have the immense advantage of the best laboratory facilities for interpreting its observational results . Its equipment should not be fixed once for all , but should constantly he extended and improved in pace with advances in physics , chemistry , and engineering . Finally , and most important of all , the new telescope should be used in close conjunction with all the present facilities of the Mount Wilson Observatory and those of the Norman Bridge Laboratory of Physics , the Gates Laboratory of Chemistry , and other branches of the California Institute , by the most competent group of investigators that can be recruited from these and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the telescope includes both optical and engineering problems , the first and most vital of which is that of obtaining a suitable mirror disc . Readers of this article are probably aware that the images of stars or other celestial objects are produced in reflecting telescopes not with the customary transparent lens of the more familiar refracting telescope , field-glass , or camera , but with a concave mirror , which lies at the bottom of the telescope tube , and converges back to a focus the parallel rays of starlight that fall on its polished upper face . This face , which must be highly reflecting , is ground and figured to a paraboloidal form , the curvature required to concentrate parallel rays in a point . The focus , therefore , is in the center of the tube near the upper end , where the photographic plate or other recording device may be placed . By means of supplementary mirrors , plane or concave , the image may instead be formed at the side of the tube near its upper end , or at the bottom ( where it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , or in a laboratory below the hollow polar axis , where instruments such as long-focus spectrographs , requiring great stability , may be rigidly fixed in a constant-temperature laboratory . In the days of Herschel and Lord Rosse the mirrors of reflecting telescopes were made of speculum metal , a silver-like alloy of tin and copper , which takes a beautiful polish and retains it for many years . Subsequently , mirrors of glass , silvered on their front surface , were introduced and universally used . Glass is lighter than speculum metal , and silver reflects a greater proportion of blue light , though speculum metal is much more efficient as a reflector of the ultraviolet stellar rays . Moreover , as glass is a poor conductor of heat , the outer parts of large , thick , mirror discs change in temperature more rapidly than the interior as the air in the open dome grows warmer or colder from night to night . Thus their curvature is more or less affected , and this means that the stellar image , instead of being nearly a point , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The most promising means of overcoming this difficulty is to make the mirror of fused silica or quartz , which is not appreciably affected by change of temperature . Dr. Elihu Thomson and his associate , Mr. A. L. Ellis , had already solved at West Lynn , Massachusetts , many of the technical problems involved in the use of fused quartz , and our first step was , therefore , to secure their co-operation and that of the General Electric Company . President Gerard Swope immediately agreed to have the work done in the Thomson Research Laboratory at actual cost , with no charge for commercial or administrative expenses . The special methods required for producing large discs have since been developed , with every promise of success . The procedure adopted is to begin with the manufacture of mirrors of moderate size , then to undertake the 60-inch and larger mirrors needed for auxiliaries , and finally to make the 200-inch disc itself . A 22-inch disc has already been made , and the 60-inch stage will soon he entered . Some conception of the magnitude and difficulty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated that the fundamental problem is to construct a rigid concave mirror nearly 17 feet in diameter ( 200 inches ) , many tons in weight , whose surface is parabolically curved with an error less than two millionths of an inch . The process consists of fusing a mass of nearly pure silica sand in a circular electric furnace which constitutes the mold . The disc thus obtained , which contains innumerable small bubbles , is ground to the approximate curvature of the mirror desired and then coated to a sufficient thickness with perfectly transparent quartz , free from bubbles . This crystalline quartz , in finely ground form , is sprayed on to the hot disc by means of an oxy-hydrogen flame ; and the development of multiple burners needed for coating large surfaces without flaws has been one of the principal difficulties overcome . On this transparent face of water-clear quartz the final grinding , polishing , and figuring will be done . Finally , a thin coating of pure silver will be chemically deposited on the finished surface , just as is done periodically in the ca-se @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telescope on Mount Wilson , To give an idea of the scale of the new instrument , it may be compared with the 100-inch Hooker telescope , now the most powerful in use , The Hooker mirror is about 13 inches thick , and weighs about tons . The 200-inch mirror will be approximately twice as thick and will weigh about 30 tons , unless we decide to lighten it by using a ribbed structure for the underlying casting of crude quartz . Everything depends upon the success of the mirror , and we are , therefore , considering as possible alternatives several entirely different methods of construe tion , some of which are very promising . Ritchey 's cellular mirror has been considered , but none of our advisers favor its adoption because of the difficulty of figuring with optical perfection the thin glass faces and the edges of the intervening honeycomb , not to mention doubts as to the optical permanence of a heavy cemented structure subjected to wide ranges of temperature . Sir Charles Parsons has taken a great personal interest in our problem ; and the success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three feet in diameter , all the contiguous surfaces of which are fused together in the oven , without the optical complications just mentioned , is an encouraging advance . Our National Bureau of Standards , which recently produced a very fine mirror disc of solid glass 72 inches in diameter , is successfully experimenting along similar lines . Ribbed metallic discs of speculum metal , or an even better alloy , are also worthy of consideration . A Dutch method of coating a metallic disc with glass of precisely the same coefficient of expansion , securely fused to its surface , is another process that has reached an interesting stage . Finally , such authorities as Dr. Arthur L. Day and Dr. Frederick E. Wright of the Geophysical Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington , who have contributed so much to the production of new glasses , affirm that a 200-inch disc of special glass even less subject to distortion by temperature changes than the well-known " Pyrex " can undoubtedly be made . In this view they are supported by the firm of Carl Zeiss , whose remarkable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Einstein Tower at Potsdam . Thus there are numerous possible alternatives , but at present Doctor Thomson and Mr. Ellis are perfectly confident of complete success with fused silica , the ideal material for large mirrors . After careful consideration by members of our Pasadena group , checked by the computations of our Research Associate Dr. Frank E. Ross of the Yerkes Observatory , we have decided to make the focal length of the 200-inch mirror 55 feet , only 3.3 times its aperture . This is relatively shorter than that of the Hooker telescope , which has a focal length five times its aperture . The advantage of a focal ratio F:3.3 , as users of " movie " cameras know , is to give an immense concentration of light with consequent reduction of exposure time . With this change of ratio , and a light-collecting area four times as great , the 200-inch mirror should prove fully ten times as powerful as that of the Hooker telescope under similar atmospheric conditions . A defect of short-focus mirrors is the small area of sharp definition in their focal plane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of being minute discs , resemble arrowheads pointing toward the center of the field . Even a small area recording extremely faint stars is for many purposes far preferable to a larger field of sharp definition in which these feeble objects fail to appear . A notable illustration is afforded by the spiral nebula ? , where the problem of the nature , distance , and evolution of these extraordinary " island-universes " depends upon the detection of their constituent stars , now beyond our range except in the case of two or three of the nearest of the spirals . Three methods of enlarging the area of sharp definition have been found : the Schwarzschild and the Ritchey-Chretien mirror systems , neither of which is applicable in our case ; and the Ross correcting /ens , which is placed in the cone of rays in front of the photographic plate . This lens , which has recently been developed by Doctor Ross as a part of our policy of improving all desirable devices for recording , measuring , or interpreting telescopic images , is about to be tested on Mount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ross has also computed a correcting lens which we hope will enable us to use the 200-inch mirror with an equivalent focal ratio of F:2 . In both of the above cases , as already stated , the photographic plate is supported directly in front of the 200-inch mirror , and centered on its optical axis . Another arrangement calls for the use of a convex mirror 60 inches in diameter , supported axially near the upper end of the telescope tube . This will change the ratio to F:10 , and form a field of stars sharply defined over a photographic plate 17 inches in diameter , at a focus just below the 200-inch mirror , through the center of which a circular hole will be cut . I need not pause to describe other mirror combinations required for different classes of photographic , spectrographic , and radiometric observations . Turning now to the mechanical problem of mounting and moving these mirror systems with the extreme precision demanded , we fortunately find its solution well within the range of modern engineering practice . When Lord Rosse built his six-foot reflector @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to work on his country estate in Ireland without the aid of skilled opticians and machinists , or the methods and machine tools of modern engineering . In the present ease we begin with twenty-five years of experience with large telescopes at Mount Wilson , and combine the knowledge of our local group of men of science and instrument builders with that of such skilled designers as Mr. Russell W. Porter of the Jones and Lamson Company of Springfield , Vermont ; Messrs . Ambrose Swasey and E. P. Burrell of the Warner and Swasey Company of Cleveland , and Messrs . Gano Dunn and S. R. Jones of the J. G. White Engineering Corporation of New York . We are also fortunate in having the benefit of the advice and criticism of such eminent authorities in Europe as Sir Herbert Jackson , Director of the British Scientific Instrument Research Association ; Sir Charles Parsons , grandson of Lord Rosse , distinguished not only for his work as an engineer , but also for his success in developing the most progressive optical glass and telescope building establishments in England ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telescope mountings we are , therefore , pursuing the same co-operative policy as in all the other phases of the present undertaking . Our decision in favor of an equatorial mounting , of which four types have been considered , is determined by our desire to command a wide range of the heavens and the possibility it affords of producing celestial images by a single reflection from the 200-inch concave mirror . This is to be mounted at the base of a very stiff octagonal skeleton tube , about 24 feet in diameter and nearly 60 feet long , hung on bearings between the arms of a massive fork , which forms the upper end of a large polar axis , fixed parallel to the axis of the earth . The tube can be pointed electrically as far north as the pole ( or beyond it ) and far south of the equator . After being set at the angle determined by the declination of the celestial object , it is rotated east or west about the polar axis until the desired object is at the center of the field . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and tube are then turned slowly from east to west to counteract the effect of the earth 's rotation and hold the celestial object in the field . Final corrections for the effect of the varying refraction of the earth 's atmosphere are made by the observer , who watches stars at the edge of the plate through high-power eyepieces , and moves the plate by delicate mechanism so as to keep the guiding-stars at the intersection of cross-hairs in the eyepiece throughout the exposure , which may last for hours , or even be continued on several successive nights . This fork type of equatorial mounting , which dates back more than a century , was built on a large scale ( with a four-foot mirror ) by Lassen in 1861 , and subsequently , with accurate driving-clocks and in somewhat different forms , by the fourth Earl of Rosse , by Common with 86-inch and 60-inch mirrors ( the former afterwards used by Keeler and others at Mount Hamilton ) , and by Ritchey at Mount Wilson with a 60-inch mirror . A design closely resembling Lassell 's , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to relieve friction , made by Doctor Pease in 1928 , and a modified fork or " split-ring " design made by Mr. Porter , were carefully considered by our committee on the 200-inch telescope mounting last winter . This committee included Mr. E. P. Burrell , Chief Engineer of theWarner and Swasey Company , who has made a provisional scale drawing and model of the fork type , similar to that of Doctor Pease . When subjected to careful study and computations for flexure by Professors Epstein and Martel of the California Institute , and to further examination and criticism by Messrs . Gano Dunn and Samuel R. Jones of the J. G. White Engineering Corporation , this design was found to provide a very satisfactory solution of the general problem . It is thus perfectly safe to proceed with our other plans , though much further criticism and study will be given both to the general design and its many details before the final working drawings are prepared . Our first necessity was merely to make sure of the possibility of one satisfactory general solution , which can of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions as suitable electric clamps , slow motions , etc. , have been admirably solved before for such large instruments as the 72-inch Victoria telescope and the 100-inch Hooker telescope , and it simply remains to adapt the best of these , in the light of recent progress , to the needs of the 200-inch telescope . We now know beyond question that a tube and mirrors having a combined weight of 150 tons , involving a total weight for the moving parts of 500 tons , can be mounted equatorially and without troublesome flexure so as to afford access to the entire available sky , and manipulated with the ease and precision demanded by the delicate work in view . As compared with the microscopist , the astronomer is in some respects at a marked disadvantage . A small microscope can be brought to the limit of optical perfection at little expense and can be used almost anywhere under nearly perfect conditions . To improve our telescopes we must increase their size and their precision of construction , which means not only heavy expense in manufacture and operation but also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looking through homogeneous optical media , selected for the purpose in view , we must observe the stars from the depths of a turbulent atmosphere , which not only scatters and absorbs much of the light that reaches its upper levels , but so irregularly refracts the portion transmitted that the rays falling on the various parts of a large lens or mirror are rarely or never combined into a sharply defined and perfectly steady image . By selecting a site of high altitude , above the denser and more disturbed portion of the atmosphere , in a region but little affected by clouds and storms , we may greatly reduce these difficulties . In fact , as 1 stated in my first article , the conditions on Mount Wilson are so favorable that on a very large proportion of the nights in a year the 100-inch Hooker telescope gives us a gain in light-collecting power over the 60-inch telescope fully in proportion to its greater aperture . The use of the larger instrument has thus resulted in many fundamental discoveries beyond the range of the smaller one , and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have direct observational evidence that on Mount Wilson a 200-inch telescope could be depended upon to show a further gain , in keeping with its increased size . The probabilities now are that we can find a still better site within a short distance of Pasadena . To understand the conditions required for the best results we must think of the appearance of the telescopic image of a star . Obviously , no clouds should be in the way , and our site should , therefore , be one where storms are few . But a clear sky is not enough . Under a magnifying power of , say , five hundred diameters , the star image , instead of being a very minute and perfectly steady point , is usually enlarged and in a state of motion . The enlarged image oscillates very rapidly in all directions and also undergoes slower oscillations of about a second of arc in a period of approximately a minute of time , as Schlesinger has shown . As already stated , the observer is constantly correcting the position of the photographic plate during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tremors . But there is a limit to his quickness and skill , and the more rapid oscillations that escape him are consequently registered upon the plate . As these take place in all directions , the resultant image is nearly circular in form . Such a recorded image , which of course differs from the instantaneous moving image seen by the observer , has been well named by Newall a " tremor disc . " Its diameter varies from several seconds of arc to about five or six tenths of a second , the smallest , I think , yet photographed . These minute images were obtained by Hubble under good atmospheric conditions with the 100-inch telescope on Mount Wilson . If the telescope were optically and mechanically perfect , in correct adjustment , and provided with a perfectly controlled driving-clock , the star images would of course remain fixed on the plate if there were no atmosphere to interfere . There would be no tremor discs , and the fainter stars would be registered as extremely minute points . Brighter stars on the same plate would be larger , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gradual spreading of the light in the sensitive film about the central point , producing a disc which increases in diameter with the length of the exposure and the brightness of the star . The importance of securing the smallest possible star images will be recognized when it is remembered that perfect concentration of all the light in a point would permit the registration of stars too faint to affect the plate if their feeble rays were scattered over the much larger area of the tremor disc . Another advantage of perfect concentration would he the possibility of distinguishing and measuring two closely adjacent stars of a pair , or the minute details of planetary or nebular structure which would overlap and be confused if enlarged by atmospheric disturbance . It rarely happens that an observatory site can be selected without regard to geographical limitations . When the Carnegie Institution of Washington was established , however , it was decided to locate its various departments of research in places where their work could be done to the best advantage . Accordingly , the Observatory Committee . of which I was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a large number of promising sites , armed with a telescope sufficiently powerful to enable him to make reliable comparative tests . We selected the late Professor Hussey , then of the Lick Observatory , where the splendid results obtained on Mount Hamilton had opened the eyes of astronomers to the excellent atmospheric conditions available in California . As the results of his observations in 1903 at many points in California , Arizona , and Australia , confirmed by our own longer series of tests in the following year , we selected Mount Wilson , in the Sierra Madre range a few miles north of Pasadena , as the most promising site for our purpose . It is easy to understand the astronomical advantages of this region of the southwest , where we photograph the sun on 300 days of each year . In choosing the most suitable site for a large telescope we are limited by three principal restrictions : latitude , altitude , and weather . If we go too far from the equator we lose the broad zone of stars beyond it ; while if we approach it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pole at a sufficient height above the horizon to afford good images . A latitude of from 30 ? to 35 ? , from which about three-fourths of the entire celestial sphere can be effectively observed , is most suitable . As for the altitude of the site , it should be great enough to escape the absorption and irregular refraction of the denser part of the atmosphere , but not so great as to involve excessive snowfall and extreme winter temperatures . An elevation of from 6,000 to 8,000 feet seems to be most favorable in Southern California . The weather enters in several ways . A great range of temperature , daily or annual , affects the form of exposed optical surfaces and the efficiency of the observer , who can not nimbly and precisely operate micrometers , **26;891;TOOLONG and other devices when his fingers are stiff with cold or hampered by heavy gloves . I can testify to this , after experience in an open dome in Wisconsin at temperatures down to 20 ? below zero ( Fahrenheit ) . But the most serious effects of the weather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt far beyond the central cloudy area of storms , and winds that shake the telescope and thus displace star images . There are several types of widespread storms in the United States , two of which are most common . These are the large cyclones ( not tornadoes ) whose centers move eastward from the Pacific Ocean across the country near the Canadian border , and northward near the Atlantic coast from the Caribbean Sea . Taking these and all other factors into account . our choice is narrowed to the lofty plateaus and mountain ranges in the southwestern part of the country . Indeed , the astronomer and physicist may well regard this favored region as a vast high-level laboratory , admirably designed to meet their varied needs . During the protracted dry season in Southern California we are able to carry on the many types of astronomical work that call for daily observations in long unbroken sequences . Once , for example , in a spectroscopic study of the general magnetic field of the sun , photographs were taken at Mount Wilson on more than ninety successive days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a comparison of the total number of hours of observation with those of eastern observatories shows a great preponderance . Measured in other terms , such as average size of tremor disc , low wind velocities , or favorable temperatures , the advantages are equally apparent . Thus our experience of twenty-five years , with telescopes of all sizes and types , will serve as a sound basis for comparative studies of other possible sites . Physicists as well as astronomers have profited by the mountain laboratories , extending up to 12,000 feet , within easy reach of Pasadena . Michelson has repeatedly used Mount Wilson for his measures of the velocity of light , sending intermittent flashes to a large mirror about 22 miles distant on Mount San Antonio , which returned them to his point of observation . Here , too , with the aid of Pease and Anderson , he developed his interferometer from a small laboratory instrument into a 20-foot auxiliary of the 100-inch telescope , the first successful device for measuring the diameter of a star . Here he and others have repeated the famous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determine beyond doubt whether ? his original negative result might be affected by the altitude of the apparatus . Milliken has made no less use of neighboring high-level stations . Within four hours ' motor ride of his Pasadena Laboratory is a mountain lake , containing radium-free water , in which he and Cameron measure the penetrating power of the cosmic rays with delicate electrometers sunk to depths as great as 150 feet . When they wish to check their results at still higher levels , they easily find suitable Takes among the lofty Sierra peaks farther north . One of these lakes lies within a narrow gorge , whose towering walls serve to exclude from the electrometer all cosmic rays except those coming from a narrow strip of sky overhead . Aided by this natural telescope , they have found that the Milky Way is no richer in cosmic rays than all other regions of the heavens far from the galactic plane . These illustrations , which are drawn from our recent co-operative work , help to emphasize the most important factor entering into the selection of a site for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course be placed where the atmospheric conditions are excellent . But its efficiency and output can be multiplied several fold by establishing it within convenient reach of Pasadena , where the activities of the California Institute and the Mount Wilson Observatory are centered . Only in this way can the great advantages resulting from the intimate co-operation of the research staffs and the utilization of existing equipment be realized . A preliminary comparative study of many promising sites in Southern California and Arizona is now being made under the direction of Dr. J. A. Anderson , Executive Officer of the Observatory Council of the California Institute . The customary plan of merely estimating the quality of the star image , on a scale in which 0 stands for very bad , .5 for good , and 10 for ideal perfection has been replaced by a method of measuring the diameter of the tremor disc , devised by Dr. Anderson , and thoroughly tested with small telescopes on Mount Wilson in co-operation with observers working simultaneously with the 60-inch and 100-inch reflectors . Ten portable telescopes equipped with this device are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After our choice has been narrowed down to a few most favorable regions , it may he necessary to continue the comparative tests for two or three years before making a final selection . IV Our experience at Mount Wilson has clearly shown that the ? 200-inch telescope should not be confined to a single class of work , but should be quickly adaptable for a wide variety of observations . Its efficiency will depend quite as much upon the perfection of the photographic plates , spectrographs , thermocouples , photo-electric cells , laboratory apparatus , and many other devices used to record , measure , and interpret the images of celestial objects as upon the size and quality of the telescope that produces them . Moreover , I have learned : rom forty years of astrophysical research that many forms of auxiliary apparatus and laboratory equipment , not of standard type , should not only be designed and constructed under the personal supervision of those who use them , but constantly improved in the light of new discoveries . Thus adequate laboratories and instrument shops may be as necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they are to such corporations as the American Telephone &; Telegraph Company and the General Electric Company , whose rapid advancement is the direct result of their development of new devices through research . There is nothing novel in this method to the physicist or the physical chemist , who are constantly building , adapting , and improving their instrumental means . It naturally found little recognition , however , in observatories equipped with standard apparatus , easily obtainable from commercial instrument-makers , and necessarily used without change for long periods of time . But with the rise of astrophysics the point of view and the methods of the physicist and chemist have been gradually added to those of the astronomer , to the great advantage of all concerned . This policy applies equally to small and large observatories , as I found when a boy , working with a little lathe , a small spectroscope and induction coil , and a 4-inch telescope ; later at the Kenwood Observatory , where I had some good machine tools ; and subsequently at the Yerkes Observatory , where these machine tools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ built a large part of our instrumental equipment , with the aid of small gifts from the Rumford and Draper Funds and from several friends . I could give scores of illustrations from our experience at Pasadena and Mount Wilson where our shops and laboratories , supplying the very lifeblood of the Observatory , have been run to full capacity since their beginning in 1904 . Electric arcs , sparks , vacuum tubes , furnaces , and other light-sources , frequently improved in the light of astronomical demands or physical discoveries , have been used constantly from the first , with results of vital importance . When equipping the original laboratory I ventured to include a large electromagnet and polarizing apparatus , recognizing that they would at least be useful in classifying spectral lines . Three years later they proved to be the indispensable means of identifying and studying magnetic phenomena in the sun . The temperature classification of spectral lines , the development of a new method of measuring stellar distances , the analysis of solar and stellar atmospheres at various levels , the precise measurement of standard lines and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the sun , the discovery of new elements and new isotopes in celestial sources , the first use of the Koch microphotometer in astronomical work , Michelson 's application of the interferometer for measuring star diameters , the development of large reflecting telescopes , the tower telescope in various forms , vacuum thermocouples and radiometers for measuring stellar and planetary radiation , spectroscopes , spectroheliographs , and spectrohelioscopes of many types , apparatus for the ultraviolet measurement of fluctuations in solar radiation , means for the study of stellar spectra under high dispersion ? these are some conspicuous instances of the advantages at Mount Wilson of utilizing shops , laboratories , telescopes , and their accessories in the most intimate union . The recognition of these advantages by the International Education Board has enabled us to plan the Astrophysical Observatory of the California Institute so as to supplement and extend our present combined facilities . Designs for its Astrophysical Laboratory and Instrument Shop , soon to be erected on the grounds of the California Institute , have recently been completed . The Laboratory will serve for the Pasadena headquarters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reduction of photographs taken with the 200-inch telescope at its mountain site , the performance of experiments for the interpretation of these observations with the aid of instruments and methods available neither in the Bridge and Gates Laboratories of the Institute nor in the laboratories of the Mount Wilson Observatory , and for the work of the Graduate School of Astrophysics . Ikre , too , will be devised the new instruments and methods which the neighboring Instrument and Optical Shops will enable us to build and modify as experience suggests . The scale of these shops will necessarily be determined by the work to be done in them , and this depends , in turn , upon the scale of the 200-inch telescope . The largest parts of the telescope mounting , which demand the use of huge boring mills , planers , and other machine tools of great capacity , will not be constructed here . These can be built once for all in commercial machine shops , as they do not require the frequent modifications often necessary , for example , in large auxiliary instruments during their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be purchased , whenever possible , from commercial makers ; large machine work will be entrusted to commercial shops competent to produce it with the necessary precision ; and the capacity of our own shops will he determined in the light of our Mount Wilson experience . As the optical work on the 200-inch and other mirror discs should be done by our own opticians , the Optical Shop must be built on a large scale . This is evident when the diameter and weight of the 200-inch disc and its auxiliary mirrors , and the consequent size of the grinding and polishing machinery are borne in mind . We at first considered the advisability of erecting this Optical Shop at the mountain site of the telescope ; but it must be close to the instrument shop , and this in turn must be near the Astrophysical Laboratory . Moreover , the advantage of using the heating and power plants of the California Institute , and several other important arguments , leave no doubt as to the desirability of building the Optical Shop in Pasadena . It is now assumed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Research Laboratory , or some other point where adequate facilities for the work are available , and then shipped to Pasadena in its rough state . V When I began photographic work with microscope and telescope in the early eighties all commercial plates were insensitive to yellow and red light . To sensitize them for the yellow , a. few years later we bathed them in a solution of erythrosin . It was not until early in the present century that plates sufficiently sensitive in the red to serve for the photography of the hydrogen atmosphere of the sun became available . Since then the advance has continued far into the invisible infra-red , recently enabling Babcock in our Pasadena Laboratory to discover lines of fundamental importance to our knowledge of the sun . We owe these infra-red plates , invaluable for the study of a host of astrophysical , physical , and chemical phenomena , to the activities of the Eastman Research Laboratory under the direction of Dr. C. E. K. Mees . Here , with the cordial approval of both Mr. George Eastman and Doctor Mees , many other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find their solution . Foremost of these is the production of plates of the highest sensitiveness combined with very fine grain . A star image on the most sensitive plates now available commercially looks under high magnification like a heap of coarse sand . For this reason we are compelled to employ slower plates , of finer grain , for many kinds of work , thus greatly increasing the necessary exposure time and virtually diminishing the size and output of the telescope . These illustrations will suffice to indicate the importance of improving the many photographic processes required for astrophysical research . The fable that Archimedes set fire to the Roman ships at Syracuse by focusing upon them the sun 's rays has found more substantial applications in modern times . Large burning lenses and concave mirrors were long ago used to perform chemical experiments and to vaporize metals , and recently Straubel of the Carl Zeiss Company has found it possible to obtain a temperature of nearly 5,000 ? Centigrade ( 9,000 ? Fahrenheit ) at the focus of a searchlight mirror . As this will instantly vaporize tungsten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the sun , a properly designed " solar furnace " should be of great service in extending the range of our electric furnaces , so successfully used by King and others for the spectroscopic interpretation of astrophysical phenomena . We are accordingly considering the construction of such a furnace for our new Astrophysical Laboratory . If space were available , I might go on to describe other instrumental improvements already under investigation , as well as our plans for theoretical researches , and the development of a graduate school of astrophysics . The success of the whole undertaking obviously depends upon the initiation and development of a wise policy of design , eonstruction , and operation , and the provision of the necessary financial support . As for the latter , an adequate income has just been promised for the early operation of the Astrophysical Laboratory and Graduate School of Astrophysics , and a much larger sum is assured for the work of the Observatory when completed . The Observatory Council , in charge of the entire project , includes Henry M. Robinson , best known internationally as one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative of the United States at Versailles and Geneva ; Robert A. Millikan , whose studies of the cosmic rays and the structure and radiation of the atom are organically related to the astrophysical researches in view ; and Arthur A. Noyes , whose physicochemical investigations also enter directly into our general attack on the constitution of matter and the interpretation of cosmic phenomena . Dr. John A. Anderson , Executive Officer of the Observatory Council , is as widely recognized for his skill in devising optical instruments as for his investigations made with their aid . The Advisory Committee , headed by Dr. Walter S. Adams , which works in the closest relations with the Observatory Council , and the list of our other advisers in this country and abroad , include many authorities in various fields of science and engineering . Certain minds of the " practical " type , regardless of the attitude of our greatest statesmen and industrial leaders and unconscious of the history of constructive thought , sometimes raise the old question , cui bond ? What is the good of astronomy or , indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted to answer the general question in a paper published in this Magazine entitled " Science and the Wealth of Nations , " but a more specific reference to astronomy and especially to the value of large telescopes may appropriately close the present article . Look back over sixty centuries and see the Egyptian priests nightly observing the heavens from the summits of their temples . Like a vast clock , the celestial sphere , turning from east to west , marked by the meridian passage of familiar stars the hours for their devotions and the months of their simple but essential calendar . From these crude beginnings arose the precise measurement of time and the regulation of the calendar , our accurate methods of surveying and mapping the face of the earth , and our safe means of navigating both sea and air . To realize our larger debt to astronomy read Henri Poineares book , The Value of Science . The basis of science is the knowledge of natural law , and we owe the conquest of law to astronomy . Where would our modern civilization be , asks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always been enveloped in clouds ? Our remote ancestors were creatures of superstition , surrounded by mysteries , startled at every display of incomprehensible forces , accustomed to attribute all natural phenomena to the caprice of good and evil spirits . To-day we no longer implore the aid of genii , but utilize natural laws , of which we are constantly learning more . Recognizing , as we do , the unchangeable basis of these laws , we do not foolishly demand that they be changed , but submit ourselves to them , and use them for the advantage of mankind . Astronomy taught us the existence of the laws of nature . The Chaldeans , observing the heavens even more attentively than the Egyptians , perceived harmony of motion and sequence of phenomena . Day and night , the round of the seasons , the phases of the moon , the periodic wanderings of the planets held their attention and encouraged their study . Their work was continued by the Greek astronomers , who discovered law after law with the simple instruments at their command . Copernicus , Kepler , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system , shattered the mediaeval mode of thought , and prepared the way for Newton . who finally announced the most general of all natural laws . Encouraged by these never-ending successes , students turned their attention to the phenomena of the earth 's surface , and found in their apparent disorder the same harmony and the same reign of law . But the infinite variety of nature , the conflict of forces , and the extreme complexity of terrestrial phenomena would have greatly delayed progress if the simple and easily-discovered laws , emblazoned on the heavens , had not pointed the way . Faced with discouragement , the physicist or the zoologist could fall back upon the assurance , which astronomy had repeatedly afforded , that nature does obey laws . Their task , therefore , was to discover these laws , and to persist in their endeavors until the difficulties had been overcome . To the astronomical and physical researches of Galileo we are chiefly indebted for our escape from the magic and superstition of the past . But we owe him a larger debt . His telescope , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hampering boundaries of the universe and advanced step by step into larger and larger spheres , where the same laws are found to reign , unbroken by distance or by time . Thus arose a new and vast conception of an ordered cosmos , stretching away to the countless " island universes " beyond our own galactic island , in which the solar system is as a grain of sand . In this conception we may glimpse the imprint of a creator , infinitely above the tribal deities of early man , whose immutable laws it is our first duty and greatest advantage to discover and to obey . During our own time spectrum analysis , initiated by Kirchhoff 's study of the sun , has revealed the unity of terrestrial and celestial substance and provided the means of tracing the evolution of stars and nebula ' and the systems in which they are grouped . Moreover , it has served as our guide to the true nature of matter and the advancement of the fundamental sciences of physics and chemistry . The first harmonic series of spectrum lines and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , vital clues to the modern theory of matter , were found in the sun and stars . Quickly , with the aid of powerful telescopes , the vast experiments performed for us in these celestial laboratories have added to basic knowledge . The three most vital tests of the Einstein theory can be made only with the telescope . Matter two thousand times as dense as platinum has been found in the companion of Sirius . Oxygen and nitrogen in " forbidden " forms have been detected in the excessively rare gases of the Great Nebula of Orion . The transformation of matter into radiation , predicted by physical theory , is attested by stellar observations . And now we may hope that the complex problem of the curvature of space will be settled by celestial measures . Can one doubt that a telescope powerful enough to carry all these studies far beyond our present possibilities will prove profitable , not merely to the astronomer but to the physicist , the chemist , and to all who utilize the results of science in the many-sided problems of modern life ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           