@@486241

BRITISH WHITE PAPER issued by the MacDonald Government has deeply stirred the waters of international policy by declaring that " as between members of the League there can be no neutral rights because there can be no neutrals . " This occurs in defense of the situation created by the World Court , the Kellogg Pact , the League of Nations , and the English signature of the optional clause of the World Court statute under which a British action at sea can be brought before the World Court by another member of the League . Since then this has been stretched in the press to cover all nations . To us the assertion that there will be no neutrals in the next war seems the dangerous product of shallow reasoning , assuming , of course , the possibility of war under the Kellogg Pact . In the first place the United States , Russia , and other nations are not members of the League . In the second there must be unanimous agreement within the League Council as to which of two belligerent nations is the aggressor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place if there are to be no neutrals then every nation will be at war . In 1924 Mr. MacDonald himself insisted , in discussing the draft of the Geneva Protocol containing a clause similar to the optional one , that British belligerent rights should be reserved from that jurisdiction . It is , of course , allowable for any statesman to have a change of heart , but it should surely be based on something better than the conception of no neutrals in thenext war . Senator Borah also declines to accept this new British viewpoint , declaring that " if the Kellogg Pact means that henceforth there shall be no neutrals , it necessarily follows that we and all the other signatories become belligerents . Under these circumstances the pact is misnamed . It is not a peace pact ; it is a war pact . " S O JOSEPH GRUNDY , glorying in his dubious fame as a super-lobbyist , has really been appointed to the Senate and admitted to his seat . Other distinguished lobbyists and influencers of legislators , such as Chauncey M. Depew and Mark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but no other lobbyist has stepped so directly from his lobbying activities into the Senate or has so boldly defied both the Senators who examined into his activities and decent public opinion . For the present he has " got away with it , " although what the future will bring forth may be something different . Certainly the Grundy appointment has widened the gap between the several party factions in Pennsylvania and has opened up the prospect of a sharp fight for , the permanent seat in the Senate which may give an opportunity to the Democrats if they can induce ex-Secretary William B. Wilson to run again . However , if the State of Pennsylvania , imitating Utah and other American commonwealths , is determined to be represented in the Senate by one who is personally and pecuniarily interested in high tariffs , there is , of course , no possibility of successful objection . As for the Senate , it was perfectly correct in seating Mr. Grundy . But it has our sympathy none the less , especially for the appointment of Patrick J. Sullivan of Wyoming for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the significance of a two-page advertisement in the New York Times of December 16 ought not to be overlooked . Signed by the Minneapolis Tribune , " consistently a Republican newspaper since 1867 , " and more than seventy-five farm organizations claiming a membership of more than two millions , it urges that " parity for agriculture means billions for industry . " The economics of this appeal , while no worse than most protectionist argument , is unspeakably bad ; but we reserve that for future comment . We wish here simply to point out the strength and the weakness of the agricultural revolt in the Republican household . The embattled farmers realize well enough that they have been fleeced by the tariff , so they insist upon " parity " ; but they do not realize that farm prices , except in special instances , can not be juggled upward , and that therefore their only hope lies in getting industrial prices down . So they continue trying to get their share by raising duties  --  for the most part wholly ineffective  --  on farm products . Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everybody go home happy ? As politics rather than economics is the prime consideration in tariff making , we commend this suggestion to Congress . .                     