@@430843

 | DURING the months of discussion in the Senate regarding the Covenant of the League of Nations , there has been a steady growth of the conviction that no form of supergovernment should be accepted by the United States . This conclusion has rested upon two grounds : first , that a subordination of the powers of Congress to any form of international control is forbidden by the nature of the Constitution ; and , secondly , that , even if such subordination were allowed by the Constitution , it would be inexpedient to enter into any international partnership that would involve the surrender of our national independence . Even the most earnest advocates and defenders of the Covenant of the League of Nations have been finally compelled to assent to the soundness of these propositions ; and they have , therefore , devoted their energies chiefly to the task of trying to make it appear that the Covenant does not set up a super-government , and that the sovereignty of the members of the League is in no respect diminished by the proposed compact . If we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League 's powers and prerogatives , we should be entitled to celebrate the virtual triumph of the idea of an " Entente of Free Nations , " advocated in this REVIEW one year ago , as well as the definite defeat of the  | original intention of the Paris Conference to create a super-government . Instead of the corporate entity to be established by the " Constitution of a League of Nations , " controlled by an oligarchy composed of five Great Powers claiming a right of supervision over the smaller States , and having for its purpose the enforcement of peace by the exercise of preponderant military and economic force , the League is now represented by its proponents to be merely a voluntary association of entirely independent States , incapable of taking any action except by the unanimous agreement of all the members of the Council , whose united recommendations are held to be of a merely " advisory " character . There would be no unanswerable objection to such an Entente as the Covenant thus represented would imply , if it were only a real one ; for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an international association than a clear and definite community of purpose when freely determined . In truth , by whatever name it may be called , whether " League " or " Alliance , " such an association has no value except as it is in fact an Entente and continues to be one ; but , for any association to have that character , there must be a common aim in which all the participants have the same if not an equal interest in uniting . The League proposed in the Treaty of Versailles does not possess this quality . Its aims are divergent and even conflicting . On the one hand , it claims to be a general association for insuring future peace and international friendship ; on the other , a union of victorious Powers for the execution of penalties upon conquered nations and the preservation by the victors of the fruits of conquest , which they have already divided among themselves and desire to possess henceforth for their separate benefit and aggrandizement . It is difficult to understand why any nation that has remained neutral during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thereby incur the hostility of those with whom they have continued friendly , in order to aid in executing the terms of a victory which they did not help to win but whose penalties they are now asked to aid in making effective . Such an association as this League in its double character is declared to be is , in truth , at the same time something less and something more than an Entente of Free  | Nations . It is something less , because it not only lacks the unity of purpose which an Entente must have , but it does not provide any clear statement of the principles on which it is founded . It speaks of justice , but it does not make justice the end of its existence . It proposes peace , but it is a peace which is not based on any defined national right but is to be imposed by superior force . It refers to law , but it does not provide for any specific code or agree upon its enforcement . It does not admit that sovereign States are jurally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classification on power and magnitude , thereby eliminating that which is most vital in a true Entente of Free Nations , ? their equal rights and their equal freedom . Being a combination for the mutual protection of all territorial possessions , regardless of the origin and nature of the title by which such possessions are held , in effect it repudiates the doctrine of national self-determination , and reaffirms the principle of imperial authority , thus reconsecrating the right of forcible conquest . Notwithstanding the efforts to deny the charge that the Covenant of the League establishes a super-government , it is clearly demonstrable that it does so . It is true that an attempt was made in the process of revision at Paris to diminish the appearance of super-governmental authority in the League . The word " Constitution , " which implied that a new authority was constituted , was dropped and the word " Covenant " made to take its place . The " Executive Council " became merely the " Council , " thus obscuring its executive character . " The Body of Delegates , " which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was changed to the more vague and indefinite designation the " Assembly , " which is represented to be a mere hall of echoes where complaints and proposals may be voiced , without any power of action . These changes were in effect admissions that a supergovernment had been intended and had been found objectionable ; but while they serve to obscure the fact that the League remains a super-national authority , they do not divest it of this quality , for what appeared to be eliminated from the powers of the Council was already embodied in the obligations of the Covenant . It has been thought in some quarters that , to disprove the super-governmental character of the League it was suf-  | ficient to show that at most the Council can only " recommend " action , and especially as , even for this purely advisory act , a unanimous vote is required . This position seems plausible until it is remembered that there are obligations in the Covenant which the Council neither creates nor is able to modify . They are absolute , because they are obligations to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances comes into being . In brief , they are entirely automatic in their operation . This automatic character of the League has been dwelt upon by some of its defenders as constituting the pre-eminent excellence of the Covenant . President Lowell says in the Covenanter : There are two possible forms in which a Ieague to maintain peace may be organized . These may be termed the delegated and the automatic forms . The first of these is like a federation of States , where certain powers are delegated to a central authority , whose action , within those limits , is binding on the several States . In a league constructed in such a manner a central organ would have power , to issue directions which the members of the League agree to obey . The automatic form is more simple , more primitive , but not ill-adapted to sovereign States whose duties to the League are so few that they can be specifically enumerated in the Covenant . It consists in prescribing definitely the obligation which the members assume , or will assume on the happening of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organ to exercise its discretion in giving orders binding upon them . It would be difficult to state more clearly in a few words the precise difference between the two types of association , the federative and the automatic . The former would leave decisions to a central body of delegates . The latter would create definite obligations to be fulfilled regardless of particular decisions in such a manner that each member of the League would be already pledged to act in a prescribed sense whenever the contingency occurred . The distinction between the two forms of league is clear ; but it is equally clear that a super-government may exist in the automatic form as well as in the delegated form , for the question whether or not a super-government exists turns , not upon the nature of the depository in which super-national power rests , but upon the degree of discretion and freedom of action retained by the national governments under the Covenant of the League . An Entente of Free Nations would retain them entirely , but with the pledge to pursue certain ends in common and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mutual helpfulness and co-operation in accordance with definitely defined principles of action . If , however , discretion and freedom have been previously surrendered , there is created a power which controls the action of the governments that have surrendered them and a super-government has been thus established , no matter where that controlling power is lodged so long as it continues to exist . That super-government may reside in the decisions of certain persons authorized to determine the action to be taken ; or it may be allowed to reside in a mechanism acting automatically as various conditions come into being . In either case , discretion and freedom are no longer retained by the national government which has thus surrendered the power of free decision . Future action has then passed from the realm of freedom into the realm of necessity . A pledge having been given to act in a certain way in certain circumstances , a government thus pledged must act in the manner agreed upon whenever those circumstances occur . It may be said in reply to this statement of the case , that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engage to be bound by the obligation of the Covenant , even though its mechanism be automatic and individual freedom be thereby suppressed , such a Covenant does not establish a super-government . Having been voluntarily created , it is not a super-government . This observation fails to take into account the fact that the voluntary establishment of a super-government does not render it any the less authoritative , or any the less a surrender of independence , after the renunciation has once been made . The States of the American Union voluntarily created the existing Federal Government ; but its superior control is in no way diminished or in any manner affected by the fact that it was freely established , except to render obedience to the superior authority more obviously a binding obligation than it would be if the compact had not been freely entered into . The fundamental issue in the controversy over the Treaty of Versailles , and especially over the Covenant constituting its first Part , is : Should the United States entrust to an automatic mechanism , such as the League of Nations is described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon Congress , or should those powers  | be retained and freely exercised by the representatives of the people , as provided in the fundamental law which created the Republic ? President Lowell says : Vigorous objection has been made in the United States , to a supersovereign league that would have authority to order this country what to do in case of an attack against another member of the League . The objection is not without cogency , but it does not apply to the Covenant of Paris , either in its original or its amended form , for that covenant has adopted as its basic principle the automatic type of league , fixing the obligations of the members and the sanctions for violation in the pact itself , instead of leaving them to be determined by a representative body . A representative body would at least be free , but a league of the automatic type binds all its members to action by the fact that their obligations and the sanctions for the violation of them are fixed in the pact itself . By whom are these obligations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holds that this may be done by himself alone , and that his partner in the treaty-making process has nothing to say about them . But , even , though the whole Senate should assent , by what authority could the President fix such controlling obligations in the pact itself ? I take no exception to the statement that the League proposed by the Covenant , both in its original and its revised form , is in the main of the automatic type , and that its obligations are largely predetermined ; but it is precisely this predetermination of obligatory action dependent upon an unknown sequence of events that renders the League a super-government , under which every representative body , including the Congress of the United States , is deprived of powers conferred by the Constitution . In Article X of the Covenant , for example , all the members of the League are solemnly pledged " to respect and preserve as against external aggression the territorial integrity and existing political independence of all members of the League . " When such aggression occurs , automatically it brings into operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Covenant . Even a unanimous decision of the Council can not set aside the obligation or avoid the necessity of action . The pledge applies to all future as well as to all present members of the League , and it is not affected by the merits of the case . If the United States unconditionally accepts this obligation , its Government is no longer free to determine its decision , for the  | pledge is absolute , and whether it desires to act or not , wholly regardless of the provocation that may cause the aggression which it is pledged to repel , the obligation must be fulfilled . It would be futile to assume that the fulfillment of this obligation will never involve war . Such a contention would leave the pledge without any value . Its whole force and significance lie in the assumption that every signatory of the Covenant will be obliged to engage in war whenever the conditions of the agreement demand it . This involves surrendering to the operation of a mere mechanism of control the most important power any government possesses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in war . Such a surrender involves the creation of a super-government in the form of a blind , unconscious mechanism which , though animated by no human feelings and endowed with no intelligent foresight , may involve millions of men in sanguinary strife over questions remote from their interests ; for this Article X of the League of Nations , according to the President of the United States , as we shall presently see , is not a provision , intended specifically to avoid war , but to preserve boundaries that have never yet been settled on any definite principles of right . In the Conference at the White House with the Foreign Relations Committee of the Senate , on August 19th , 1919 , the President made the extraordinary statement that the " invasion " of the territory of a member of the League is not forbidden by Article X. He said : " I understand that Article to mean that no nation is at liberty to invade the territorial integrity of another . That does not mean to invade for the purposes of warfare , but to impair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not destroyed by armed intervention . It is destroyed by retention , by taking territory away from it , that impairs its territorial integrity . " When Senator Brandegee suggested that the words are not " territorial aggression , " but " external aggression , " the President , to support his interpretation , insisted , " But it says the preservation of its territorial integrity against external aggression . " Under this Article of the Covenant , according to the President 's interpretation , invasion " for purposes of warfare " is not forbidden . An enemy might invade any coun- try , so far as this provision for its protection is concerned , take possession of its resources , carry away its portable property , desolate its fields , destroy its mines , and even exterminate its population ; but the President declares the obligation of Article X would not be brought into operation until it came to a diplomatic settlement ! Then , and only then , would the obligation to " preserve territorial integrity and political independence " come into operation ! It is difficult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which no government could resort in practice without losing the respect of mankind , including that of its own people . If this were the true meaning of Article X , it would be a mockery to call it " the heart of the Covenant . " If such an interpretation were inserted in the act of ratification , it would undoubtedly be rejected . The purpose of the President in trying to limit the application of Article X to the ultimate settlement of boundary disputes is obvious . It was to diminish the extent of the obligation assumed under it . The wide extent of that obligation is , however , distinctly revealed in the second sentence of that Article , which reads : " In case of any such aggression or in case of any threat or danger of such aggression the Council shall advise upon the means by which this obligation shall be fulfilled . " And if we turn to Article XI , which immediately follows , we read : " Any war or threat of war whether immediately affecting any of the members of the League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the whole League , and the League shall take any action that may be deemed wise and effectual to safeguard the peace of nations ; " and yet the President insists that the obligation under Article X would not become operative until an invading nation had completed its conquest and decided to annex territory and impose its own rule ! Article X undoubtedly means what it says , and so does Article XI . The preservation of territorial integrity and political independence against external aggression is an explicit obligation , and that obligation is nowhere limited in the manner maintained in the President 's interpretation . " Any war or threat of war " is " a matter of concern to the whole League , " and " the League is to take any action that may be deemed wise and effectual to safeguard the peace of nations . " " In case any such emergency should arise , the  | Secretary-General shall , on the request of any member of the League , forthwith summon a meeting of the Council . " The Council once called , the duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and enforce the obligations of the Covenant . " The League is to take action . " That is a part of the contract . What action must it take ? " Any action that may be deemed wise and effectual . " It can not abrogate or modify any Covenant obligation of the League . That is where the super-government becomes automatically absolute . The " whole League " ? for it is a corporate unit and not a mere aggregation of separate States ? and every member of the League must act in a manner to fulfil its obligations . If war is necessary , then war must follow , or the Covenant is broken and the defaulters are not only delinquent in performance , they are also subject to discipline . They may not then freely withdraw from the League ( Article I ) , or they may be expelled from it ( Article XVI ) . The function of the Council is clearly defined in the second sentence of Article X : " The Council shall advise upon the means by which the obligation shall be fulfilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Council shall advise or take counsel together ; not that , as a body , they shall merely give advice to the separate governments regarding the " means " they must employ in fulfilling the obligation . Under Article XI it is explicitly prescribed that " the League shall take action . " It is clearly the function of the Council to decide what action will be " wise and effectual , " and then the League is to take that particular action . It may be any action , including war by the entire League ; but from the nature of the case it must be a specific action and it is action by the League . It seems a perversion of language to say , that , because the expression " advise upon " is employed , the Council acts only in an " advisory " manner . The League as such is authorized to " take action , " not merely to advise its members to take action . No referendum is provided for ; nor is it necessary , since unanimity is required in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vetoing the action proposed under the instruction of his Government , before any decision is reached . No revision or confirmation of the decision is anywhere prescribed or even referred to . The implication is plain that the Covenant is  | automatic here also , to the extent that the obligation to act upon a decision thus unanimously arrived at is fixed by the terms of the Covenant . In saying this , I do not overlook the fact that the President has declared that all the obligations of the Covenant are only " moral " and not legal , " and that a moral obligation involves a personal " judgment " when it comes to execution , and that such a separate judgment may justify a refusal to fulfil the obligation ! But I shall not attempt to enter into the casuistry in which this singular distinction takes refuge . I assume that , whatever the distinction between a " moral " and a " legal " obligation may be , it can not be invoked in international agreements , in which all obligations are fundamentally moral , because they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more concerned about is , who has the right to pledge the national honor , and who under our Constitution must fulfil the pledge ; and I assume that no one has the right ? either moral or legal ? to pledge the honor of the nation in a manner that may conflict with the fundamental law , or that may render disputable the obligation to fulfil the pledge after it has been made . I draw attention , therefore , to the fact that , while the Covenant of the League of Nations , if respected , would predetermine the occasion for the United States going to war or refusing to go to war , and is to that extent a supergovernment controlling the constitutional right of Congress freely to decide these questions , it virtually places the entire control of foreign policy , so far as any independent national control is left , in the hands of the Chief Executive , who is at the same time the Commander-in:Chief of the military and naval forces of the United States . The moment war is automatically called for by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might claim the right to act by the authority of a treaty , and a decision regarding his right to act under the treaty could be reached only by a long and difficult process , if at all . It is probable that other nations would consider him bound to act , since his own decision that he should do so had already been expressed in the Council when action was " advised upon . " It has , I am aware , been intimated , that any proposed action by the League of a character objectionable to the Government of the United States could be prevented by  | instructing the representative of this country in the Council to vote against it . Since unanimity is necessary to any decision of the Council , such action could be prevented by that single vote . This is true , and it is also true that any other action , and all action , could be prevented by any one of the members of the Council , except that rendered necessary by the obligations of the Covenant , which all the members together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the President , having previously instructed the American representative in the Council how to vote on a particular issue , would be already bound by its decision , and would be honorably bound also to carry it into execution . If it be held that the Council does not determine action but merely gives advice , such advice would of necessity be in effect the President 's advice , since no recommendation could be made without it . In order that the full force of this statement may be appreciated , it is necessary to note that it is the Council of the League that " advises upon " the action to be taken whenever the machinery of the League calls for action . There is no other provision for it . To reverse it , to propose other action , or to refuse to participate in the action determined upon by the Council would be equivalent to declining to perform the obligation automatically brought into being . To any such course the reply of other nations would be , " You are repudiating the agreement of your own Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . You are already bound by it . " We come here to the most fundamental of all the questions relating not only to this Covenant but to the whole future policy of the United States in its relation to other countries and the issues of war and peace , namely : " Who is authorized to bind the United States in an international agreement ? " We know the answer of President Wilson . In his letter addressed to Senator Hitchcock on November 19 , 1919 , he declared that changes in the Treaty of Versailles which had been proposed in the Senate would be in effect a " nullification of the treaty ; " and he had previously intimated that , if the treaty were in any essential respect modified , he would himself suppress the act of ratification . In hi address in Denver , on September 25 he said :  | The negotiation of treaties rests with the Executive of the United States . When the Senate has acted , it will be for me to determine whether its action constitutes an adoption or a rejection . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " in his own name and by his own proper authority , " may bind the United States in a treaty which fixes in the obligations of the contract the occasions when war must , and when it may not be engaged in by this Government . If the Treaty of Versailles and the Covenant of the League of Nations skillfully interwoven with it as the only means of binding it upon the country can be thus forced upon the Senate , what may be expected when the League of Nations ? the heir and virtual successor of the Conference at Paris ? comes into operation ? Will there be in the conduct of its business any greater publicity than in that of the Conference ? Does it not promise to afford a secret centre for the adjustment and extension of " regional understandings , " the validity of which is expressly secured by Article XXI of the Covenant ? What contact will there be , unless it is established in some manner not foreshadowed in the organization of the Council , between that body and the public , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the Executive , and may not the Executive be expected to continue to act upon the same principle as permitted the disposition of Shantung ? After the experience of the Conference , who even of the regularly confirmed and responsible officers of the Department of State can be expected to know what is really going on in the Council ? As the method of procedure is presented in the Covenant , all the decisions of the Council will be prepared , confirmed , and partly executed before the public or the Senate will know of their existence . The " honor " of the Nation being thus engaged , a refusal to act or even tardy action by Congress , which is constitutionally charged with furnishing the material means for the execution of international engagements , would place the Congress where the Senate is now placed in the minds of those who condemn its legitimate exercise of its prerogative as obstructive and partisan . Do the American people ? even those who are most anxious about peace and most desirous of promoting the comity of nations ? wish either an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible com-  | bination of them , such as the Covenant of the League of Nations if not modified will create ? I can not believe it . On the contrary I think the time will soon come when the whole country , and especially those who are interested in international peace , will realize what an immense service has been rendered to the Nation , and even to the whole world , by the effort made in the Senate to preserve the constitutional safeguards regarding the obligations to be undertaken by the United States with foreign Powers . The two conspicuous features of the Treaty of Versailles which I have dwelt upon in this article , ? the creation of a super-government by automatic action and the excessive power of the Executive through the exclusive control of our representative in the Council ,  - -  have seemed to a majority of the Senate to be in conflict with the spirit , and in part with the letter , of our fundamental law , which bases the national security on the division of power . The Senate Committee on Foreign Relations , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conditions of peace with Germany , recommended such a modification of the Covenant , so far as the United States is concerned , as would remove this conflict . There were three ways in which such a modification could be made . The first was by " amendment . " This is clearly within the constitutional power of the Senate with regard to any treaty , and it has often been beneficially exercised . In the case of the Treaty of Versailles , the large number of signatories was naturally urged as a reason for not pressing the process of amendment , but there was a more important reason . The treaty had already been accepted by several Powers , including Germany . A change in the text of the treaty would involve all the signatories , some of whom were , no doubt , content with its present form , whereas changes were demanded only as they might affect the United States . It was decided , therefore , to seek some more generous and expeditious course of procedure , and the thought of amendment was abandoned . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To this two objections were opposed . The chief criticism of the Covenant was , not that the text was equivocal , but that its clear meaning was not acceptable . If the treaty were ratified as it stood in its completeness , it  | would be futile to try to make it mean what it evidently did not mean ; and besides , an interpretation would be only an expression of opinion which might not be accepted by any other signatory and would have no value before an international tribunal . Even the President had no objection to " interpretations , " he had made too many of them himself ; but he opposed inserting any of them in the act of ratification ! There remained a third method , well established in diplomatic usage , with numerous precedents in the practice of this and other nations , the validity of which in an international engagement had never been questioned by any competent authority . This was the method of " reservation . " The theory of it is very simple . It accepts the treaty with the exception of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that those obligations shall be omitted or changed in the text of the treaty . It does not attempt to interpret them . It admits their existence and their authority for all who choose to accept them . It does not ask that the United States may have the benefit of them . It simply declares that they are not accepted by the United States as a part of the treaty to which this country becomes a signatory . In brief , it implies acceptance of the treaty with certain definitely specified exceptions or limitations . The engagement being essentially limited in its character , it is of limited reciprocity as well as of limited obligation . It does not in any way alter the contract for those who make no reservations , except as related to the reserving Power . The acceptance of such membership may be refused by other signatories , if they choose to refuse ; but their formal acceptance is not essential to the validity of the reservations if named in the act of ratification . Ratification of the Treaty of Versailles , including the Covenant of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopted by the majority of the Senate and opposed by the minority , virtually by a party division ; the Republicans standing for that principle , the Democrats , with few exceptions , opposing it under the direction of the President , who declared in his letter of November 19 , 1919 , to Senator Hitchcock , that a " resolution in that form does not provide for ratification but rather for nullification of the treaty . " This last statement is , perhaps , the most illuminating  | admission of what the treaty was really designed to be that has come from any source . If the reservations ' that were adopted by the Senate on November 20th would in reality nullify the treaty , it is because they would defeat its purposes . We may , therefore , conclude that the treaty was intended to accomplish what the reservations aim to prevent . The President 's objection to the reservations reveals the fact that he opposes what they require and requires what they oppose . In substance the reservations are as follows : 1 . The United States shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Article I , as to whether its obligations under the Covenant have been fulfilled . Was the Council to determine this ? 1 2 . The United States assumes no obligations under Article X , unless in any particular case the Congress shall provide for the employment of the military and naval forces of the United States . Were these forces intended to be employed without reference to Congress ? Or was Congress bound to act as the Council might direct ? 3 . No mandate shall be accepted by the United States except by action of Congress . Was it expected that mandates would be accepted without reference to Congress ? 4 . The United States reserves the right to decide what questions are of a domestic character . Was it intended that the Council or the Assembly should decide this question ? 5 . The United States will not submit to arbitration or inquiry questions depending upon or relating to the Monroe Doctrine . Was it intended that it should submit such questions ? 6 . The United States withholds its assent to the provisions of the treaty regarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reserve assent ? 7 . The Congress of the United States will provide by law for the appointment of the representatives of the United States in the Council and Assembly of the League of Nations and members of commissions . Was it intended that they should be appointed solely by the Executive ? 8 . The United States understands that the Reparation Commission will regulate or interfere with the trade of the United States with Germany only when the Congress approves . Was it designed that the Commission might override the will of Congress in this matter ? 9 . There is to be no obligation for the expenses of the  | League of Nations without an appropriation of funds by Congress . Was the League to determine and collect expenses regardless of Congress ? 10 . The United States reserves the right to increase its armament without the consent of the Council whenever the United States is threatened with invasion or engaged in war . Was the Council intended to possess authority to prohibit this ? 11 . The United States reserves the right at its discretion to permit nationals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their personal business relations with citizens of the United States . Did the Covenant intend to prevent all individual business relations while the State of which they are nationals is engaged in a law-suit with a possible rival in trade ? 12 . Nothing in Articles 296 , 297 , relating to debts and property rights , shall be taken to sanction any illegal act or any act in contravention of the rights of citizens of the United States . Does the unmodified treaty have a contrary effect ? 13 . The United States withholds its assent to Part XIII , relating to labor , unless Congress shall hereafter make provision for representation in the organization to be established , and in such event participation shall be governed by provisions of Congress . Was it intended to appoint representatives or accept decisions in this matter without the control of Congress ? 14 . The United States assumes no obligation to be bound by any election , decision , report , or finding of the Council or Assembly in which any member of the League and its self-governing dominions , colonies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than one vote . Did the treaty intend that it should be under such an obliga-tion ? If these reservations do really nullify the treaty , they do so only in matters concerning which the Congress of the United States might find its constitutional prerogatives transferred to a super-government or to exclusive control by the Executive . They do not in any respect prevent the United States from doing every just or generous act which is contemplated by the treaty . Their effect is simply to preserve its independence in conformity with the Constitution of the United States .                     