@@493275

The Farmer and the Unseen Thing N a weird little tale byAmbroseBierce the lead-ing character is attacked by an unseen thing with which he grapples desperately for his life . This describes the present plight of the American farmer . From a world of apparent security mys-terious forces have hurled themselves upon him . He now lies gasping , with the Unseen Thing grip-Ping his throat . To test in part this figurative summary one need only recall the evidence brought to light by the last census : that between 1910 and 1920 the number of farms free from mortgage , of 9wned farms , decreased 20 percent ; that the in-crease in the number of mortgaged farms was over II Percent ; that the amount of mortgage debt in-creased 132 percent , that the average debt per i arm , of those reporting debts , increased 96 per-tent ; that there was another definite shift in the tenure of farms away from ownership and toward tenancy . Only 61 percent of the farms are now ? Perated by owners . It should be remembered that the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic comedy , called prosperity . The facts which the census then revealed are al-ready antiquated , for as great a change has taken place in the agricultural situation during the past three years as during the preceding ten years . Cases come to mind of farmers then on the road to moderate success who are now either insolvent or on the verge of it . And the census fails to tell the tale of the crop mortgage , an instrument that practically destroys the farmer 's freedom of mar- ? keting . The Unseen Thing made its real attack after the census was taken , though it was nursed to maturity in the period preceding . One glances at a recent copy of the Broomhall Corn Trade News , the leading English grain paper , and reads the following : " Sellers in North America , among whom are hundreds of thousands more or less needy , are bound to market a portion of their harvest to meet their current expenses , and the lower prices fall the greater will be the quantity which they will have to market in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observation is galling . One can be persuaded of a trace of , European gloating over the necessities of the American farmer . But it is the bitter truth . The oracles have failed the farmer . Instead of returning prosperity he is facing a period of increasing hopelessness . To add insult to injury , he is forced to witness the ironic spectacle of reviving festivities for others ; but for him ? the crumbs and rags of failure . With the exception of cotton , which is enjoying a period of prosperity due , to a world shortage , the opening of the new marketing season presents the same disastrous prospects that faced the farmers a year ago . In the case of some crops conditions are worse . Using the year 1913 as a basis , the volume of production this year of the twelve leading farm crops is 18 percent larger ; the total value of the crops on the basis of July 1st prices , was 36 percent higher than the total value of the 1913 crops . The total purchasing power however , was only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1913 crops . And since July 1st prices have generally declined , and estimates of yields in the main reduced , so that at present the purchasing power of the twelve leading farm crops would be approximately two-thirds as great as the smaller 1913 crops . In other words the farmers have to pay approximately 5o percent more in agricultural commodities in order to secure the same quantity of manufactured goods and general services as in 1913 . With such markets , rare indeed is the farmer who can liquidate his indebtedness . Under such circumstances , is it rash to suggest that the great , free American farmer is facing a condition closely resembling peonage ? Economic law , that haven of safety for the individualistic mariner , seems to be temporarily suspended . What is more simple and obvious than the statement that when the relative price of a commodity falls the supply decreases ? The farmer has listened to that repeatedly , and perhaps hopefully , since the big decline of 1920 . But the acreage harvested for the twelve leading crops actually increased in 1921 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the country on sowing of winter crops intimate a still further increase for 1923 . In actual production 1922 can boast the largest volume for the past ten years , with the two exceptions of 1915 and 1920 . Canada seems to be even more iconoclastic of economic law . Since 1913 the leaking field crop acreage has nearly doubled , influenced , as in this country , by the war . The important point however is that , in spite of the 1920 price collapse , acreages have continued to increase . Had it not been for unfavorable seeding conditions last spring Canada would have had a record acreage . There are no figures available as to the number of people engaged in producing the crops referred to , but it would be no surprise to learn that the depression in the cities has forced the marginal workers back to the country . The fundamental reasons , however , for this apparent setting at naught of economic law are the pressure of indebtedness and the eternal hope that springs in the breasts of farmers in common with other humans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smaller efforts on the part of the farmer . It will decrease through failure to replace machinery and other equipment , through decreased use of fertilizer , through insufficient cultivation and consequent deterioration of seed , spread of plant diseases and weeds . Ultimately economic law will be vindicate ed ? but ultimately Gabriel will appear with his brass band . And incidentally this vindication will be at the expense of masses of people now living at the margin , whose food supplies will be shut off . With economic law proving so treacherous , whither should the farmer turn for comfort ? Bee fore considering an avenue of escape it is pertinent to seek the causes of the affliction . And here the baffling mystery , the Unseen Thing ? horrible bee cause unseen and mysterious ? comes into the story . What is the cause of the farmer 's distress ? Is it the European collape ? So far as the farmer is concerned the need for his products is more in ' tense than ever . Why , then , should commodities of less need increase in price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 3 statement on British imports and exports published in Commerce Reports of December 5 , 1921 . DO ' ing the first nine months of 1921 the imports of foodstuffs into Great Britain were valued at 113 percent more than 1913 values , on a volume about ten percent less ; the exports of manufactured goods were 53 percent less in volume than in 1913 ' but values were 200 percent greater . The clis ' crepancy in relative values since then has been it ' " creasing , for during the first six months of 1921 Europe still paid high prices for foodstuffs . 15 this not a plain case of Europe profiting at the expense of the American farmer ? More to the point is the relative cheapness of American wheat compared to the European wheat . All last Year curious reports come in from Spain , Italy , Sweden , England and even from China describing the re ; sentment of native wheat growers at the influx of cheap American wheat , forcing in some cases Inv port duties to increase the price of native wheat ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plight , but how ? And what 's the remedy ? And what of deflation ? It is clear that a ger ' eral reduction of prices is possible , but what eau ' omic purpose is served by overybody making 3 uniform and simultaneous cut in prices ? Deflation , is unthinkable except as a reduction of values , and a general reduction of values is impossible . Therefore deflation means a reduction in the values of certain groups of commodities . Groups of nonagricultural commodities have been reduced in price , but only agricultural products have suffered a substantial loss in values , in buying power . It is therefore proper to say that deflation has been almost entirely at the expense of agriculture . Some day the farmers will want to know where and why the power to deflate commodities resides . Like the European collapse , deflation , as an explanation of the farmer 's difficulties , seems to be so obvious as to arouse suspicion that a still more fundamental cause must be sought . To what extent is the emergency tariff responsible for present conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5th issue of the Modern Miller , a Chicago trade publication : " Trading in Australian flour is pleasing to the nation as a whole , as this prosperous dominion takes In return for its shipments of wheat and flour and other raw materials an equivalent , if not a surplus , Proportion of goods manufactured in this country . Naturally this all works out in favor of the Australian mills as against the American mills . America has a tariff wall against products of this country to such an extent that there is practically no market for them in the United States , whereas her products of not only raw materials but manufactured articles are allowed free entry on these markets . " Is there need to say more ? Is the tariff at last the Unseen Thing ? Probably not . The tariff is probably only one of the claws or one of the tentacles of the Unseen Thing . The speculator in farm products looms large as one of the dragons to be slain . The long hunger of the speculator during the war when his vocation was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removed . Every opportunity and power of superior organization , knowledge of markets , control of capital were used to smash farm prices . This was not limited merely to American speculators , or to speculators on the boards of trade . Our speculative system is too ramified to be delineated . The sources of power are hard to trace . The subtle , automatic interrelations of industry involve the entire structure in all major price movements . The farmer is con- winced that the speculative marketing of farm Products with its chaos , trickery and swindle must he destroyed . Cooperative marketing of wheat throughout the west is being energetically driven to success against tremendous obstacles by Mr. George C. Jewett , on the basis of the binding pool , s developed by Mr. Aaron Sapiro . The pool idea 14 spreading rapidly to other commodities , and to practically every section of the country . The farmers , as never before , or rather for the first time , are crossing swords with the speculators of farm products . It is only a matter of time now before this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individualism . But will the battle then be won ? Can cooperative marketing force a satisfactory European settlement ? Can it enforce rational policies of international trade ? Can it Compel all factors of industry to exert themselves to the same full measure in the production of commodities as does the farmer ? Can it dethrone the wielders of autocratic economic power and enforce a wider distribution of economic successes and failures ? Perhaps it can do these things and more . Time alone will tell . In the meantime the masses of agricultural producers are reeling under the succession of blows . A few are grasping vigorously at the Unseen Thing in an endeavor to shake it off . The many are dazed and uncertain of their defence because they can not see from whence the blows are falling .                     