@@486390

E VEN A POLITICIAN ought to be willing to take his own medicine . So , although we can view the discomfiture of Representative Britten without poignant regret , we have still less sympathy for the dilemma of Secretary Kellogg . Fired with the idea of direct action , Mr. Britten , who is chairman of the Committee on Naval Affairs of the House of Representatives , suggested to Premier Baldwin a powwow between committees of the Britiph House of Commons and our House to do something about disarmament . Heaven knows somebody ought to do something about it , but Mr. Britten was more than a little rash to go over the head of the State Department , leave out our own Senate , and neglect even to get the consent of the House before going ahead with his project . What Premier Baldwin thought , we do n't know . We do n't even know what he said . He sent a polite acknowledgment to Mr. Britten , but when the official reply was presented to Mr. Kellogg by the British Ambassador our august Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we wonder , that it was a dose of his own drug ? Kellogg 's Matchless Compound for International Relations ? Did our Secretary of State reflect that he had set an example in the usurpation of authority by waging a war in Nicaragua without the consent of Congress ? TN SPITE OF A VIGOROUS and intelligent campaign , I. Norman Thomas apparently polled only 300,000 votes in the Presidential election . Returns made to the National Headquarters of the Socialist Party up to December 4 indicated a vote of 179,800 in nineteen States . In these same States in 1920 Debs polled 554,200 votes , about three times the Thomas vote . If the same proportion holds good in States not yet heard from , Mr. Thomas will fall just short of a 300,000 total . The Socialist Party made its best showing in New York where , in spite of the popularity of Governor Smith , Mr. Thomas polled over 100,000 votes . In Wisconsin the great majority of the Socialist voters flocked to Governor Smith on the Wet issue , giving Mr. Thomas only 18,000 in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Congress from Milwaukee seven times , increased his vote by 16,000 but was beaten by a margin of 300 . After twenty-eight years of struggle the Sobialist Party can not extract much cheer from these results . Its vote was the smallest Socialist vote cast in any election since 1900 and less than one-third of the record Socialist vote of 920,000 for Debs in 1920 . Many extenuating circumstances help to explain the disappointing showing . The Socialist Party partially surrendered its own organization to support La Follette in 1924 and the work of building anew from the bottom presented great difficulties . Governor Smith 's clear margin of progressiveness over Herbert Hoover lured the great majority of the La Follette vote . But when all is said and done we see no reason for the poor showing of the ablest candidate whom the Socialist Party has ever presented except the stupidity and conservatism of the voters . G OVERNOR ALVAN T. FULLER made an address the other day in Boston to the heads of the State departments . It was his valedictory , for Governor Fuller retires on January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be due largely to a certain event which occurred at Charlestown prison on the night of August ' 23 , 1927 . He said in part : The greatest danger that confronts us in Massachusetts , in my humble opinion , is the result of avarice on the part of our " best people " who want something more than they are really entitled to . I think in the last analysis , provided the matter was discussed without the heat of controversy , as public officials we must not expect those who would have special privileges to realize that they are doing that very thing which will be used as material by their opponents . . . . I have been discouraged to find that those people who throw out their chest the furthest as our leading citizens , somehow or other in private are not quite as uniformly patriotic and disinterested as one might expect when listening to their Fourth of July speeches . This is a mild attack but none the less an attack upon the " best people . " It was the " best people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on  --  years of private life away from the controversy and pride that official life generates  --  is it possible that " consciousness of guilt " will make a liberal out of Governor Fuller ? MHE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION filed its case against the Electric Bond and Share Company on De-cember 1 , asking the United States District Court for the Southern ' District of New York to order the company to . open its operating-expenses ledger to the commission 's examiners and to require its officials to answer questions concerning expenditures for propaganda against government ownership and its financial arrangements with subsidiary and affiliated companies . The case tests the commission 's power to inquire into the activities of individual companies as distinct from their associated activities . The connection between rates and the expenditures for political and propaganda purposes is clearly set forth in the Federal Trade Commission 's petition . Pointing out that rates are established to insure a net profit above operating expenses , the petition says : The profits of the Electric Bond and Share Company depend in part upon whether it uses its fees or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if any , " to influence or control public opinion on account of municipal or public ownership of the means by which power is developed and electrical energy is generated and distributed , or since 1923 to influence or control elections " of President , Vice-President , and members of the United States Senate . The existence of such expenditures would necessarily increase the charges made by the company for its services in order to make the same profit . Such charges to its clients , the holding and operating companies , are logically reflected in the rates collected by the operating companies in order to earn a profit . The electrical industry is construing the election of Herbert Hoover as a " vindication " of its practices . But is the electrical industry willing to have the " glass pockets " which Mr. Hoover said big business should have ? Not unless the court so orders , it appears . T HE GERMAN GOVERNMENT won a temporary victory of great importance when the five-weeks ' lockout of 250,000 metal workers in the Ruhr ended on December 3 . Nominally the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the real conflict was between the Government and certain great capitalists who had defied it . Since 1923 German industry has operated under a species of compulsory arbitration , with a tripartite arbitration board in each district including two representatives of the employers and workers involved and a chairman representing the Government . The decisions of these arbitration boards have not been legally binding but they could be made binding by ukase of the Reich Minister of Labor . In the particular dispute between metal workers and employers in the Ruhr the district arbitration board decreed an increase in wages and the Reich Minister of Labor made it legally binding . Whereupon the great capitalists refused to obey the Government , locked out their workers , and carried their case against the arbitration award to the courts . A grave crisis ensued , almost as grave as that of the British general strike . The employers finally compromised and opened their shops with the understanding that both sides would accept as binding a decision of the wage question to be made after fresh investigation by Dr. Severing , Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was partially due to the unquestioned public sympathy for the locked-out men and the vote of a 5,000,000 relief fund for the workers by the Reichstag . Meanwhile the employers have set an ugly precedent in defying the Government without being adequately punished . The workers may turn the precedent back upon the employers when another struggle arises between them . Viv rITHIN RECENT WEEKS portentous events have taken place in South Africa , where five-and-one-halfmillion natives , who have no vote except in Cape Colony and are barred from Parliament because of their color , are dependent for their rights on one-and-one-half-million white Europeans . In the first days of November Mr. Madeley , Minister of Posts and Telegraphs in the Cabinet headed by General Hertzog , Nationalist , received a deputation from the Industrial and Commercial Workers ' Union , a native organization , to discuss working conditions and wages in his department . General Hertzog requested that Mr. Madeley resign because his action in receiving the native deputation was contrary to the pure-white policy of the government . Mr. Madeley , who belongs to the left wing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resigned and re-formed his Cabinet , neatly dropping Mr. Madeley and appointing in his place Mr. Sampson , who adheres , along with Mr. Creswell and Mr. Boydell , the other Labor members of the Cabinet , to the white policy of the party . General Hertzog tried to befog the issue by saying the I. C. W. U. was not a trade union but a " political organization with members recruited from every walk of life . " Mr. Tielman Roos , Nationalist and Minister of Justice , was more frank . " We can not possibly have any truck or sympathy , " said he , " for the I. C. W. U. movement , " adding that in all parties " there is a feeling that a more powerful weapon should be created to save South Africa from the native menace . " The incident is the culmination of a conflict in the Cabinet which has been going on for several months . This conflict is the reflection in the Cabinet of the split in the Labor Party , with Mr. Creswell and Mr. Boyden on one side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in South Africa has not been a Labor Party in the real sense of the word . Its founder , Mr. Creswell , then a mine manager , first attracted attention when he proposed to work his mines with white labor . T HE LABOR PARTY is more white than labor , except for the inroads which such men as Mr. Madeley and their followers have made into it . It is significant that the deputation which Mr. Madeley received was headed by representatives of the South African Trades Union Congress . Two years ago this body refused to have anything to do with the native union . Sometime later , through the efforts in Europe of Mr. Kadalie , its leader , the Workers ' Union was recognized by several international labor bodies and by the British Trades Union Congress . A year ago the Workers ' Union applied for affiliation with the South African Trades Union Congress and was refused for the given reason that as the native union claimed 100,000 members , it could outvote all the other unions put together , which number only 20,000 ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but toward cooperation between the two bodies . Since then , largely through the efforts of W. H. Andrews of the South African Trades Union Congress , this policy of coordination has been developed by means of meetings for consultation on matters of common interest . The latest of these took place on August 30 , this year , when at a joint meeting of the National Executive Council of the Trades Union Congress and the executive of the Workers ' Union discussions were held on several subjects important to both organizations  --  including " ways and means whereby the I. C. W. U. can be assisted in its trade-union activities by the S. A. T. U. C. and vice versa " ; and methods for obtaining " the S. A. T. U. C. 's active assistance in formulating demands for better wages and conditions " The deputation to Mr. Madeley , including as it did members of both black and white organizations , may mark a step toward a- real Labor party in South Africa , regardless of color . T HE SNOWS OF YESTERYEAR did not fall faster than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New York World . So far other newspapers do not seem to have taken cognizance of the disaster and the editorial writers of the World seem equally oblivious , which encourages one to think that these gentlemen are like the proprietor of the restaurant who had just stepped out for dinner . A couple of weeks ago the World headlines ran " Soviet Totters , Europe Hears ; Peasants Rise " ; subheads announced " Government Set Up 11 Years Ago by Lenin and Trotzky Facing Revolution . " A few days later the World added for good measure : " 16 ' Districts Join Ukraine Revolt ? AntiCommunist Uprising Centers Around Charkoff . " Both of these reports emanated from Paris ; there was no confirmation of them either in the World or in any other paper . Reliable observers just back from the Soviet Republic  --  even from the Ukraine  --  report that the Soviet Government is as strongly intrenched as it ever was . There are many grave problems in Russia that must be solved by men inexperienced in government  --  problems of population , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the peasant versus the proletarian . But these problems are not nearer solution as a result of misguided and misleading reports in ordinarily sensible newspapers . Nor is it to the credit of the American workingman  --  or such workingmen as are represented by the American Federation of Labor  --  that a reference to the great services to education of the eminent philosopher and educator John Dewey was struck from the records of the A. F. of L. because Mr. Dewey has expressed himself as not in favor of the immediate destruction of the Bolshevik government but is , on the contrary , interested in and an admirer of phases of the experiment . NTEVERTHELESS WE FORGIVE the World its Russian . N news because of an item which appeared the day after Thanksgiving in that newspaper which we  --  in defiance of the law of libel  --  believe to be completely false . It ca n't be true  --  yet it ought to be . For solemnly and with all the earmarks of an authoritative statement comes the news that a baby has just been born in Knoxville , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Scopes trial ! Was it or was it not in Tennessee that learned lawyers in a court of law proved to the satisfaction of a judge , a jury , and the majority of their neighbors that the theory of evolution was a base libel on man , that to teach it in the State of Tennessee was unlawful , that teachers who did so would be deprived of their jobs ? We are familiar enough with stories of disaster that followed hard upon the heels of blasphemy ; the God of Hosts has not scrupled to pursue with fire , pestilence , and sudden death those who dared to defy the lightning . But this is the first time that Darwin 's ghost has been sufficiently interested to attach a tail to a human infant . We are told that Dr. Adolph P. Schultz , associate professor of anthropology at Johns Hopkins University , is eagerly awaiting a sight of the tail , which a thoughtful surgeon immediately removed from the too generously endowed infant and sent to him . It would take the combined testimony of Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to convince us that the tail , if any , was really attached to the baby . Nevertheless , if there was no tail , there is certainly the finger of fate  --  and the anti-evolutionists had better watch out for the direction of its pointing ! T HE SPORTING WRITERS are choosing the all-American football team of 1928 , but nineteen men who trod the gridiron this year are not eligible , for they were killed this season while playing the game . We could pass over the death of these men as an incidental misfortune if it were not for the fact that scores of other young men have been killed in the same way in recent years . ( Seventeen players were killed last year and twenty in 1925 . ) An analysis of the circumstances under which the nineteen players were killed this season shows that most of the deaths resulted from injuries due to tackling and collision , the commonest cause of death being a broken neck . Most of the victims of the game died on the altar of senseless tradition , the tradition that-mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In basketball and soccer the ball is the object of attack and defense ; in American football the human body must bear the brunt . We believe that football as played in the United States is not only unnecessarily dangerous but is a third-rate game to watch . In soccer the spectator can see and appreciate every play because the ball is in the open ; in American football half of the plays present the spectacle of a mass of tangled bodies . Perhaps fifty years from now , when the beauty and skill of open football are duly appreciated , our present game will seem as crude and brutal as a Roman gladitorial combat seems today . C HARLES FLETCHER LUMMIS , a valued contributor to The Nation , reached the end of a varied and useful career on November 25 at Los Angeles , California . Born at Lynn , Massachusetts , on March 1 , 1859 , he attended Harvard for a brief period , and then went into journalism in Ohio . He set out from Cincinnati for the Pacific coast in 1884 , walking the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was his " A Tramp Across the Continent " ( 1892 ) . Here he resumed newspaper work , being city editor of the Times in 1885-1887 . But the appeal of the primitive was so strong to him that he returned to New Mexico , which had attracted him while on his long tramp , and lived at the Tigua Indian pueblo of Isleta on the Rio Grande for five years . From this center he made extended excursions through the Southwest with his camera , and pictured and recorded everything that met his fancy , especially subjects of an ethnological and archaeological nature . His books on the subject have been widely read . Ever acknowledging the influence of the ripe scholarship and delightful companionship of the late Adolphe F. Bandelier , whom he first met in New Mexico , Mr. Lummis wrote his excellent " Spanish Pioneers , " which passed through many editions nand was translated and published in Spanish ( Madrid , 1915 ) ; and later , as a product of his association with Mr. Bandelier on the Henry Villard expedition in Peru and Bolivia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Mr. ' Lummis founded the Landmarks Club , which has preserved three of California 's early Spanish missions ; the Sequoya League " to make better Indians " ; and the Southwest Museum at Los Angeles . In his later years he recorded phonographically hundreds of Spanish songs of the Southwest , two collections of which have been published ( 1923 , 1926 ) .                     