@@487235

T HE documents printed in The Nation for November 9 under the title The Rape of Haiti carried the story of Haiti 's subjection to American control up to September 8 , 1915 , when Admiral Caperton , in command of the American forces in Haitian waters , stated that by the use of " military pressure at propitious moments " he had almost succeeded in forcing the acceptance of the treaty terms demanded by the United States . The following documents , also taken from the United States Navy 's dispatch book and submitted to the Senate Committee , reveal the methods used by the Occupation and the Navy and State Departments to gain control of Haiti 's revenues , to force the ratification of the treaty , and to dissolve the Haitian Assembly . HANDLING HAITI 'S MONEY The control of Haitian funds by the American Occupation is brought out in the following dispatches printed here in the form in which they appeared in the Navy dispatch book , except for the italics which are ours : ADMIRAL CAPERTON TO SECRETARY OF THE NAVY , SEPTEMBER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enter into any joint agreement with bank regarding issue five hundred thousand gourdes no such plan can be accepted . At the same time the Government claims to be seriously embarrassed , having counted definitely on using the bills now withheld by me . Need for immediate funds seems to be real . If the State Department does not intend to release bills without condition nor provide loan prior to ratification of treaty , am I authorized to furnish Haitian Government such funds as can be spared from customs receipts ? 22229 . Caperton . SECRETARY , DANIELS TO ADMIRAL CAPERTON , OCTOBER 2. 22229 . State Department wishes fully set forth in dispatch today to Charge d'Affaires , Mr. Davis . You will be guided accordingly and will not advance money in any way at variance with State Department wishes or policies . 14002 . Daniels . ADMIRAL CAPERTON TO SECRETARY DANIELS , OCTOBER 3 . Charge consulted with me before sending his telegram of today , and in view of all the facts as they appear here I approve request and consider Haitian Government should have immediate financial assistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of receipts and expenditures. 21303 . Caperton . CHARGE D'AFFAIRES DAVIS TO STATE DEPARTMENT , OCTOBER 3 . Confidential , urgent , October 3 , 5 p. m . This morning at 10 and before receipt yours October 2 , 5 p. m. , I had an interview personally with the President at his request . He stated that he had asked for this interview in order to ascertain what steps he could take under existing conditions ; that the Haitian Government , following its plan to pay back salaries and thereby strengthen its position before the people and relieve suffering , now finds itself entirely without funds , and inquired as to the disposition of the United States Government to assist them in this financial crisis . I told him that I expected instructions as to that matter and that I would advise on receipt thereof . After receiving yours , October 2 , 5 p. m . I told the President that as before stated funds would be immediately available upon ratification of the treaty . The President seemed utterly discouraged and pointed out once more that the delay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or his Cabinet , that withholding of funds only gave another weapon to the opposition and that if the United States Government persist in withholding all funds ratification becomes so difficult that he and his Cabinet will resign rather than attempt this fight in the Senate under this handicap . I fear that I failed in my previous reports to make perfectly understood the existing situation which is as follows . The ratification procedure is here explained . Therefore ratification can not be expected before the latter part of next week . The President and Cabinet are using every possible effort to secure ratification and seem confident of securing same if not embarrassed financially . The Haitian Government realizes that such ratification is absolutely necessary for the welfare of Haiti . Opposition in the Senate is strong due to the fact that many Senators are unscrupulous politicians or fanatics and wish either to embarrass the United States by non-ratification or to overthrow the present administration hoping to secure personal gain thereby . Pressure is also being brought to bear by outside interests which desire'a continuance of past conditions for reasons of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present administration which is already reorganized and supported by the United States forced to resign . It is important that the present administration remain in power as it is believed that one more favorable to the United States could not be obtained and in view of all the facts as they appear here that a military government would probably have to be established should this government fall . Inasmuch as it is necessary to secure a treaty ratified before any definite financial plan can be formulated or permanent peace and prosperity assured in Haiti it would seem advisable to support and maintain the present administration . . . . Although funds collected from customs have been expended for the first two purposes named in the Department 's instructions as to use of money collected , not one cent has been turned over to the Haitian Government for living expenses , which expenses have been met by use of gourdes then on hand and not expended . In view of the importance and extreme urgency of the case it is recommended that Admiral Caperton be instructed to turn over needed sums out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constabulary , and public works . Request earliest possible decision and reply . Davis . NAVY DEPARTMENT TO ADMIRAL CAPERTON , OCTOBER 3 . State Department informed National Bank of Haiti can not purchase coffee draft on Paris now discounted at 12 per cent because you have made no remittance of custom receipts from duty pledged to service of foreign loans of 1825 , 1896 , and 1910 . State Department desires to furnish bank with funds to purchase draft on Paris to give confidence to bondholders of foreign debt and to facilitate coffee export thereby increasing customs receipts . In this connection you are informed active organizing constabulary will be commenced immediately modus vivendi is entered into . Plan under consideration contemplates annual appropriation about $500,000 ; provision should be made for appropriation to meet initial expenditure for organization . In view of above is it possible to pay to bank any part of duty now collected by you , pledged to service of foreign loans above mentioned , without substantially affecting expenditure constabulary , public works , etc. , or curtail weekly advance to Haitian Government . 16030 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE NAVY , NOVEMBER 1 . 16030 Plan recommended in my 23027 is designed to correct high exchange rate and facilitate movement of coffee . It is possibly advisable to pay bank part of duty collected but impossible to guarantee sufficient funds in excess of all needs to meet service of foreign loans ; if excess funds are transferred to New York by purchase of drafts as I suggested they will be later available for such service . This plan suits bank . Very few transactions in Paris exchange possible , everything financed through New York . Consider this matter urgent . 20101 . Caperton . On November 2 , the Secretary of the Navy advised Admiral Caperton that the State Department was endeavoring to arrive at satisfactory arrangements with a New York representative of the National Bank of Haiti to meet the financial situation in Haiti . MAKING A MAJORITY On November 8 Admiral Caperton communicated to a subordinate officer the following message revealing the part the Navy played in securing a majority for ratification in the vote on the treaty . Expect Senate will vote on treaty Thursday . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haitian Government urgently requests Antoine Francois , Cape Haitien , who will be elected to fill vacancy be sent Port-au-Prince . Direct Hector proceed November 9th to Port-au-Prince with Antoine Francois as soon as he comes aboard . Acknowledge . 221508 . Caperton . The following day , two days before the vote on the treaty , Admiral Caperton dispatched a message to the Secretary of the Navy in which , after discussing the chances of ratification by the legislative chambers , he continued : Dartiguenave Government stands ready in case treaty fails ratification to issue decree dissolving chambers . Will immediately order elections for constituent assembly which will ratify treaty , also make needed changes in constitution . Election occur in month . Dartiguenave Government requests information if this proposed action meets approval of United States . I recommend approval and instructions to support Dartiguenave Government which is only hope for peace and prosperity in Haiti . This in accordance State Department 's telegram September 27 to Legation , and in accord with real interests all Haitians . . . . Instructions requested , please rtsg. 23109 . Caperton . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The following astonishing message from Secretary Daniels to Admiral Caperton was sent on November 10. 23109 . Arrange with President Dartiguenave that he call a Cabinet meeting before the session of Senate which will pass upon ratification of treaty and request that you be permitted to appear before that meeting to make a statement to President and to members of Cabinet . On your own authority state the following before these officers : " I have the honor to inform the President of Haiti and the members of his Cabinet that I am personally gratified that public sentiment continues favorable to the treaty , that there is a strong demand from all classes for immediate ratification , and that the treaty will be ratified Thursday . I am sure that you gentlemen will understand my sentiment in this matter and I am confident that if the treaty fails of ratification ray Government has the intention to retain control in Haiti until the desired end is accomplished and that it will forthwith proceed to the complete pacification of Haiti so as to insure internal tranquillity necessary to such development of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ populace now unemployed . Meanwhile the present Government will be supported in the effort to secure stable conditions and lasting peace in Haiti whereas those offering opposition can only expect such treatment as their conduct merits . " The United States Government is particularly anxious for immediate ratification by the present Senate of this treaty , which was drawn up with the full intention of employing as many Haitians as possible to aid in giving effect to its provisions , so that suffering may be relieved at the earliest possible date . " Rumors of bribery to defeat the treaty are rife but are not a believed . However , should they prove true those who accept or give bribes will be vigorously prosecuted . " Confidential . It is expected that you will be able to make this sufficiently clear to remove all opposition and to secure immediate ratification . Acknowledge . 22010 . Daniels . The reply , sent on November 11 , follows . The rejoicing noted in the message seems hardly to coincide with the state of mind of the Haitian public previously reported . Carried out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Senate by vote 26 to 7 at 6 p. m. today . General rejoicing among populace . 22111 . Caperton . Some of the euphemisms of modern imperialism appear in the following message from Admiral Caperton to the Secretary of the Navy , sent on December 6 , nearly two months after the ratification of the treaty . Commission has now sailed for U. S. Urgently recommend loan of $1,500,000 be made immediately as previously recommended in my 231229 . Haitian Government has inherited months of unpaid debt and has incurred expenses in educating - country to realize necessity of ratifying treaty . Salaries , debts , and obligations amounting to $500,000 must be paid before December 20 , otherwise Government prestige will be lost among Haitians and serious conditions will result . Expect part of Cabinet will resign unless Government can meet its obligations by this date . Settlement of existing problem will be delayed and purpose of United States impeded under present conditions . Believe immediate favorable action on this recommendation vital and imperative . 22206 . Caperton . It will be obvious from the next message , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Daniels , that the Government of Haiti had lost - every semblance of authority , even its most elementary functions having been frankly usurped by the Government of the United States . The first part of the message is omitted . . . . Upon receipt of the Department 's radiogram No. 15031 the President of Haiti and members of his Cabinet were informed of the instructions contained therein , that no further funds would be turned over to the Government directly but that necessary payments would be made to the individuals concerned under the supervision of Rear Admiral Caperton or his representative . This information caused great dissatisfaction among the Haitian officials and their first reply was to- the effect that such a method could not be accepted in view of the implied insult contained in the proposal . Various plans were suggested by the American authorities intended to soften or mitigate the implied insult , but in view of the fact that they all included the cardinal principle that the money should be placed in the hands of those td whom it was due , under the supervision above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the representatives of the Haitian Government agreed to turn over the entire administration of the payment of salaries to Rear Admiral Caperton and to lend their assistance in furnishing a list of employees to whom payments were due . No " FOREIGNERS " ALLOWED An extract from a memorandum of the Navy Department throws light on the nature of American control . On February 4 , 1916 Rear Admiral Caperton informed the Secretary of the Navy that a large number of claims against the Haitian Government would undoubtedly be presented by the foreign citizens in Haiti , but that the Haitian Government had no money to pay said claims and that no doubt for that reason they would be presented to the United States . On the same date Rear Admiral Caperton informed the Department that a certain foreign company " Pierson " was in a fair way to secure exclusive mining and petroleum rights in Haiti and asked to be advised concerning what action the Haitian Government should take in the premises . In reply to this the Secretary informed Admiral Caperton on February 7 , 1916 , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best interest of Haiti and against the interests of the United States , and that it would also be contrary to the spirit of the recent treaty , and to that end requested that the Haitian Government be strongly advised against granting any such concession ( 19007 , Daniels ) . In reply to this the Secretary was informed that the Haitian Government had refused to grant the monopolistic concession requested by the Pierson Company . THROWING OUT THE LEGISLATURE The final act of official , authorized violence against the Haitian Government  --  following the landing of troops , the seizure of custom houses , and the constant menace of other military action  --  was the forcible dissolution of the Haitian - legislature in April and May , 1916 . The threat of dissolution had already been made , but since both chambers had actually ratified the treaty with all its supplementary provisions , the legislature was until April 5 still nominally the organ of government . On that date , however , President Dartiguenave issued a decree dissolving the legislative chambers . This raised a storm of opposition in the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissolved , claiming that the decree was unconstitutional . President Dartiguenave locked the doors and the members were compelled to meet elsewhere . At the same time the President appointed a council of state of 21 members to work with the Government in preparing changes in laws for submission to the constituent assembly . He further decreed that the chamber would be convoked as a constituent assembly to revise the constitution in accordance with the treaty . Admiral Caperton kept the Navy Department fully advised of developments by frequent messages and himself took a considerable hand in endeavoring to reconcile the Government and the opposition . But apparently his efforts were without success . He said in one message , of April 26 , 1916 , that the President justified his actions by the necessity of obtaining a prompt and complete revision of the constitution in order that it might agree with the treaty of September , 1915 , and for other reasons , and that the opposition , although agreeing that the constitution should be changed so as to meet the conditions named by the Government , maintained that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all these changes could be made at the next Congress which would be elected in January , 1917 , and convene in April . In a subsequent message of May 4 Admiral Caperton said to the Navy Department , " . . . I consider it necessary and recommend that decree be given prompt support in order to support Dartiguenave and insure early completion necessary constitutional reforms . . . . " On May 6 Admiral Caperton met the bureau of both chambers and informed them that the decree of April 5 was in full force and that their meetings disturbed the peace and should be stopped . In reply to this the chambers stated that they would hold no more meetings . ( 23006 Caperton . ) In this connection it should be noted that in none of the Admiral 's messages of this period as reproduced in the Navy Department 's exhaustive memorandum nor in the paraphrasing of many of these messages , also contained in this memorandum , is there any hint of actual disturbance of the peace on the part of Haitians . Brigade Commander Butler reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Assembly , which had been in session over the proposed changes in the constitution , had rejected by a vote of 28 to 8 the proposed article granting to foreigners the right to acquire and to hold land . The Secretary of the Navy informed Admiral Pond on June 15 that every endeavor must be exerted by the Brigade Commander to prevent the passage of the constitution containing provisions discriminating against foreigners , although such discrimination applied equally to all aliens . On June 16 the Brigade Commander reported that he had received a message from the President the day before re-questing information whether or not he should refuse to accept the new constitution , and , if not , as to the advisability of referring it to a general election , together with the draft prepared by the Secretary of State , amended in accordance with " our suggestion . " On the same day the Brigade Commander informed the Navy Department that nothing short of dissolving the National Assembly would prevent the passage of the constitution along the general lines previously reported , which was due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to foreigners owning land . On June 19 the Brigade Commander informed the Department that he would prevent the passage of the new constitution if necessary by dissolving the National Assembly , unless he received instructions to the contrary . This would be done , if possible , through the President , otherwise by himself . ( 15418 . ) In reply to this the Secretary of the Navy informed the Brigade Commander that the Haitian Government would receive a message from the State Department regarding this matter and advising him that he was vested with full discretionary powers by the Department , but requesting that he endeavor to avoid the use of the military force . On June 20 the President informed the National Assembly that it was necessary to adopt a constitution in accordance with the recommendations of the - United States . By omitting some articles the National Assembly attempted to pass the proposed constitution , " which made it necessary for the Brigade Commander to seize the records of the proceedings , and orders were given to prevent further proceedings . The Assembly was dissolved by decree of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under guard and the hall cleared ( 16319 ) . " This was accomplished by the actual invasion of the hall by armed Marines who ordered the representatives out at the point of the gun . Later in June the President submitted to the Brigade Commander his proposal that a new constitution be submitted to the Haitian people for a " yes " or " no " vote and with it a memorandum outlining the proposed new constitution . ( 17325 . ) On June 22 the United States Administrator of Customs , Charles Conard , sent a letter to the " Expeditionary Commander " in which he pointed out the practice then prevailing on the part of the Haitian Government of making payments from funds derived from sources other than the customs on salary claims previously presented to the Adminis-trator of Customs and rejected by him . Such claims were known as " discounted feuilles . " He pointed out that " the system of only partial control of the Haitian finances is unsatisfactory . The margin of funds not controlled by the Occupation seems to be nearly sufficient for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advisable which the Occupation refuses to make , and the purpose of the control is almost entirely defeated . " This letter was forwarded by Colonel Waller to Admiral Caperton on June 23 with the comment that " Articles 2 and 4 of the treaty could and should be interpreted to mean entire control of the revenue of Haiti , " This was in turn forwarded over the signature of Secretary Daniels to the Secretary of State under date of August 10 , 1916 , with the comment that it might be of interest to the Financial Adviser and Receiver-General of Customs . To this the office of the Secretary of State replied on August 21 that this correspondence had been forwarded to the Charge d'Affaires at Port au Prince for transmission to the Financial Adviser and the Receiver-General of Customs . -                     