@@468311

IN THE Metropolitan Museum in New York is a series of reconstructed rooms which record the waves of taste ? usually bad taste ? that marked the nineteenth century . It is easy to laugh at them ? the horsehair sofa , the rococo mirror , the elaborate wall paper , the air of righteous ugliness ? but I am not at all sure that we to-day are not providing materials for a dozen such comic exhibitions . The entertainment that American taste is now concocting can not perhaps be fully appreciated when one views a single , disconnected apartment in a modern home ; but take a dozen such rooms , " Spanish , " " Early American , " " Georgian , " and place them side by side in a yet unbuilt wing of the Metropolitan and the joke will become a little more evident . The modern American house can be tritely described as a house that is neither modern nor American . A gallery that to-day exhibited American taste would be a miscellany of antiquities . The pictures we put on our walls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ china , our silverware , our furniture , are all copies or close adaptations of things we have found on their historic sites in Europe and America . or , at one remove , in the museums . Meanwhile the art and workmanship of our own day remain unappreciated because they have not yet aged sufficiently to be embraced by the museum . What is it that has made American taste sickly and derivative , a mere echo of old notes which reverberate in the halls of museums or tremble dimly in ancient houses and forgotten attics ? Why is there no comparison for freshness and aesthetic strength between the living room of a seventeenth-century farmhouse ( which one may also see in another wing of the Metropolitan ) and all the tortured , stuffy , badly designed interiors that characterized the nineteenth century ? What caused the collapse of taste during the last hundred years , and what is responsible for its present anremia ? a pathetic state in which beauty lives for us only through repeated " transfusions " from other cultures ? Before we discuss the failings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to taste during the last century ; for there has been a general debacle of taste , and our disgrace is not that we suffered in the collapse , but that we have not sufficiently shared in the contemporary recovery . Everyone is more or less conscious of the great change that took place sometime during the Renaissance in our physical conception of the universe , in our knowledge of the world , and , at a later period , in the processes of manufacture . The inner harmony of medieval culture broke up ; a new outlook on life arose ; new conditions challenged men , and new ideas and habits of adaptation came into existence . It would have been remarkable if these transformations could have taken place in our political and industrial institutions without affecting the practice of the arts and the formation of taste ; and the fact is , taste was mightily affected . Architecture disintegrated ; instead of building with style , the architect sought to design in a style ; sculpture and painting ceased to be integral parts of building : the artist was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bust ; all the various crafts which had once worked with a single spirit lost that unity of ideas which had made cooperation possible , and the engineer and the artist split apart into separate personalities , the utilitarian and the aesthete . By the beginning of the nineteenth century the disintegration was fairly complete . Instead of recognizing that beauty entered into every gesture or object , as the final mark of its expression of the human spirit , the Philistine relegated beauty to the museum . What remained outside might be " useful " or " comfortable " or " serviceable " or " profitable , " but it must not at any cost be subject to the canons of good taste . Divorced from all the vital activities of the modern age , taste grew childish and capricious : the love of beauty at best developed into a sort of spiritual jamboree which saved one from the perpetual dullness of celebrating merely useful things . Mr. Claude Bragdon , writing in the light of a more positive philosophy of aesthetics , has referred to the Beautiful Necessity ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a. limited and sordid fashion the beautiful was essentially an escape from necessity . Now , when the arts lack a common philosophy and a common approach to life , they lose their power ; for the single artist must then manufacture out of his own limited taste and experience what under more favorable circumstances is provided by a tradition . In order to overcome this lack the artists of the later Renaissance turned to the past , not as Brunellesehi and Michelangelo had done , for stimulus , but for fixed models which could arbitrarily set the limits of tradition and take the place of a coherent system of ideas . The seventeenth-century American farmhouse , with its usable kettles and pans , its neatly panelled walls with a simple checkered molding , its furniture designed primarily for compactness ? writing-desk chairs and tablesettles ? was the last consistent example in America of a healthy tradition , untainted by foreign modes and meaningless precedents and strange fashions . In the eighteenth century the signs of the breakup began definitely to appear . Here is a Chinese lacquered cabinet , standing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Chinese wall paper ; there is a Turkish rug ; yonder in the garden is a little Greek temple or a pagoda ; the niche in the wall by the landing holds a classic bust or a vase . Once the habit of borrowing pretty objects took hold , it could not be restricted to classic sources : the Middle Ages themselves , which had lingered in the seventeenth century in such weak forms as the Tom Tower in Oxford , or St. Dunstan 's in London , were now dead enough to serve as models , too ; the Brothers Adam in Edinburgh and Latrobe in America sought to create a picture-book architecture of pointed arches and inane turrets . Instead of a common tradition and a common art , all that remained was a common respect for the past , and a desire to pick and choose among its rubbish heaps . The nearest thing to a common taste like that which prevailed in the Middle Ages existed for an historic moment in the eighteenth century when the architecture of Chambers and Adam , the china of Wedgwood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Turner reflected both the interests and the necessities of the leisured classes in England . But classical taste was a feeble foundation . None of the historic conventions ? Roman , Renaissance , Gothic , Greek ? was capable of dominating any single country , to say nothing of providing an aesthetic basis for the whole range of new arts which machine production and the extensive use of iron were opening up . The reason for this failure is fairly plain . Taste , regarded in the large , is not something that can be cultivated in an old curiosity shop or a museum : it is a much more robust and fundamental matter than this , and it has its roots not in historic treatises and guidebooks , but in the myths of religion , the needs of social life , the technic of industry , and the daily habits of a people . All the fine historic models of the past , just because they were historic , had no base in contemporary civilization : so far from springing out of modern necessities , they shrank from them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or less abreast , followed different lines of development : the painter , if he were a Turner or a Corot , could not be sure that his picture would not hang in a pseudoGothic house , designed by a follower of Pugin ; if he were a sculptor , taken with the contemporary interest in natural science , he might create magnificent animal figures , as Barye did , but for all he knew , they would become only paperweights on a Victorian ormolu desk ; if he were an architect , he discovered that his client shrank in horror from any direct and honest form of building and insisted upon the addition of historic bric-a-brac ? as an evidence of true art . The symbol of nineteenth-century esthetics was the whatnot ; and the only question the artist could legitimately ask was : What next ? This period did not lack great painters ; it had its Corots , its Delacroixs , its Manets and Redons ; it had a few remarkable sculptors like Alfred Stevens the Englishman and Rodin ; it even now and again , although this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bentley , the designer of the Westminster Cathedral . What it did lack , and what it could not produce , was taste , which was the spirit which would have brought together and utilized these talents , and infused their esthetic sense throughout engineering and the industrial arts , in furniture , silverware , crockery , as well as in isolated pictures and statues . Art was dismembered ; taste was dead . The aesthetes were slow to recognize that the Brooklyn Bridge , Albert Hall , the Eiffel Tower , the work of engineers , were interesting pieces of art ; the utilitarians would not admit that most of the products of industrialism were so far painfully insignificant . III The inner necessity for synthesis is so great that perhaps no period has entirely lacked it ; and I should do the Victorian period an injustice if I insisted merely upon the chaos and dispersion . The fact , is that it achieved an aesthetic synthesis ; but the common spirit it embodied was on a low plane , and its achievement was not beauty and excellence but a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common level in America during the seventies . Its mark is the brownstone town house or the jig-saw villa , the black-marble fireplace that did n't work , the enormously flowered carpet , the gilt clock under a glass case , the walnut whatnot , the mixture of French and Japanese vases , the eloquent oil painting in the manner of Landseer , the stuffed and marvellously carved chair ? a combination of objects of art which had its equivalent in the furnishing of river steamboats and pullman cars , in the architectural characteristics of elevated railroad stations and ' United States post offices , and in the surface decoration of the earlier typewriters and cash-registers . The dominant color of this period was a murky brown ; it was an appropriate reflection of the smudged and muddled civilization now known to history as the Gilded Age ; and the total effect on the eye was so thickly depressing that one wonders how even the Victorian love of comfort could have made it tolerable . There was a time when we were proud of these lower depths in esthetics ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not believe ourpresent generation is entitled to laugh very heartily at their mere absurdity . In the uncompromising ugliness of the seventies there was a positive quality which is less antagonistic to contemporary art than the cultivated neutrality of our present tastes . The creators of these Gilded Age atrocities had the courage to live in their own time ; their age was a wretched one , perhaps , but they were not afraid of it . That courage not merely produced bad buildings like our post offices but magnificent ones , like the Monadnock Building in Chicago , one of our few masterly skyscrapers ; it not only produced ugly furniture , but it manufactured , as " sports " and fresh patterns , some remarkably honest and handsome stuff . Roebling 's Brooklyn Bridge , Richardson 's railroad stations and his Marshall Field Warehouse , John Root 's Monadnock Building , Louis Sullivan 's Auditorium Building , the paintings of Thomas Eakins and Albert Pinkham Ryder ? these works shared the Cimmerian colors of the period ; they faced the actual conditions of American life , and expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act of expression , grew out of them and developed beyond them into things that were independently fine . I am not sure but that we should look upon these various a-sthetic achievements as the beginnings of a new synthesis in American art and taste . Unfortunately , these achievements were only sporadic , and before they could be consolidated , before the synthesis could be established , the more vigorous artists and architects were overwhelmed by alien forces , in particular by the financial exhibitionism which developed in the nineties . Do I exaggerate the significance of the eighties ? I think not , for I have taken account of all the ugly houses and the jerry-built designs that made the greater part of the environment ; and I am calling attention only to the one or two young shoots that thrust their positive green against the ashen fields and the leaden sky . Before the Chicago World 's Fair American art had begun to escape from its romantic leading strings . The proof of its power is the great stimulus given to the architects of Europe by the actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their towns the memories of a grand White City of aderivative Classic and Renaissance art , the Europeans brought home the stimulating originality of Root 's office buildings and Louis Sullivan 's ornament ; and out of these contacts came , a little later , the Dutch and German appreciation of Mr. Frank Lloyd Wright 's innovations in ornament and design . By this contact with the new experimental aesthetic of the modern age the Europeans were led to their discovery of a basis for contemporary taste in all the arts ; so that to-day , for example , in France there is a recognizable kinship between the paintings of Picasso and Matisse , the glass of Lalique , and the furniture , the ironwork , and the ensemble of modern architecture . In Europe , the architect can rely upon the craftsman for intelligent co-operation and harmonious design ; the painter can in turn rely upon the architect for an environment favorable to his pictures . Meanwhile in America we dropped out of the procession , lost the courage of our convictions , and went completely astray . The Europeans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , imitators , and we lost the power to appreciate and elaborate further our own honest creations . IN ' My point is that during the nineties American taste was faced with a critical alternative . It could either have accepted the forces of its own age , and sought to humanize them and turn them to aesthetic ends , as Richardson , Sullivan , and Frank Lloyd Wright were doing in architecture ; or it could shirk the problem of contemporary taste altogether , neglecting the lessons to be drawn from engineering and the sciences , neglecting all the vital impulses of the American scene itself ? and take refuge in the taste and products of other periods and other cultures , no matter how remote or dissimilar they were . The first path was the path of adventure . Its foundations were sunk in the powerful ugliness of contemporary design ; those who followed it recognized and did not flinch from the turbid industrial environment of the railroad age ; and sought to take from this environment the materials and forms that were capable of sustaining the growth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the past , so that the raw and formidable forces of modern existence might be transformed into a new cultural form . Enough artists set forth on this path to assure us , by their achievements , that it was not a blind alley . Perhaps the most successful expression of this effort was the shingled cottages first designed by Richardson . With their full windows , their broad roofs , their rich harmonies in russet , green , and black , they were as native to the seaboard as sumach , wild aster , and goldenrod ; they were American in a much deeper sense than our eighteenthcentury Georgian mixtures ever were . In the Middle West , a little later , there was a similar efflorescence of fresh , indigenous designs . The low-lying , many-windowed , wide-roofed , horizontally spacious country houses designed by Mr. Wright were as much a part of the prairies as the cornfields themselves ; moreover , the design was carried through in every detail , in the furniture , in the lighting fixtures , in the delicate tracery and iridescence of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Richardson and Wright and the more adept of their followers it was impossible to think of reviving periods or imitating certified brands of European or early American culture ; these buildings were too thoroughly a part of their own day to be disguised in borrowed clothes and threadbare costumes . Had American taste been sufficiently adventurous , as it was originally in Chicago ? or sufficiently sure of itself ? to follow the trail marked out by these artists and designers we might have created a milieu in which all the arts could have flourished on a parity ; incidentally , we might have developedsomething positive enough to be called American taste ? a flavor as robust and definite as French taste or German taste . At the very least , we should have been spared the whited sepulchres that began to parade as the seal and hallmark of sound esthetics , the dull porticoes , the feeble massive pillars that support nothing and express nothing , the half-timbered work that is backed by steel , the French chateau in New England and the Spanish palace in the midst of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What is more , we should have wasted no time in gutting European palaces or in imitating , by machinery , the great productions of a vanished handicraft . Unfortunately , we lacked both the spirit of adventure and confidence ; and in the nineties the scaffold of taste collapsed again . We took the easier way . Horrified by the ugliness around us , and unable to command the forces that were producing it , American taste retreated from the contemporary stage , and sought to build up little ivory towers of " good taste " by putting together the fragments of the past . The architects led this retreat , particularly the successful Eastern architects ; but they were anticipated by the great patrons of art , like Mrs. Jack Gardner ; and presently our homes and our buildings ceased to have any fundamental relation to the American scene : they became fragments of the museum . This retreat into the past did not , however , preserve even the temporary and artificial unity that was fostered by the seventeenth-century interest in classical culture ; here it lifted a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a merchant captain ; there it took over bodily a Florentine palace or a chateau from the Loire region ; in another place it copied a church by Wren . Art was reduced to tit-bits ; plagiarism became an emblem of reputability . Needless to say , in touching on these large ventures in adaptation and reproduction I am discussing only the works of the very well-to-do ; but the middle classes followed at a distance , possessed by the same mood , if unable to translate their desires so grandly into actual houses , furnishings , paintings . A walk through almost any suburban street , or a tour of the furniture section of a department store will give one a more concrete notion of the weird medley of designs produced by this attempt to stamp the present with the counterfeit image of the past . There have been much uglier periods of design than the last twenty years ; for the habit of stylicizing our decorations swept out automatically large quantities of maleficent bric-a-brac and junk ; in the negative sense there is now much less to offend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been , perhaps , at any time since 1830 . But 1 doubt if any period has ever exhibited so much spurious taste as the present one ; that is , so much taste derived from hearsay , from imitation , and from the desire to make it appear that mechanical industry has no part in our lives and that we are all blessed with heirlooms testifying to a long and prosperous ancestry in the Old World . Our taste , to put it brutally , is the taste of parvenus . The last touch of absurdity to this hunt for antiques was given in a government bulletin which suggested that every American house should have at least one " early American " room . Splendid advice for a population a hundred times as numerous as that of the Thirteen Colonies ! V The effect of this retreat has been not alone to produce an architecture of absurdity and affectation ; it has had a debilitating effect upon the other arts ; and the wonder is that the damage is not more serious than it has actually been . Obviously , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the interior fixtures and decorations must be more or less faked into a resemblance of the dominant style . Perhaps the most remarkable example of this effort is the French fifteenth-century manor house in which the architect designed the sort of bathroom which would have been placed in such a house if French landowners in the fifteenth century had ever taken baths . But one does not have to look so far afield ; in the meanest Bronx apartment ? it is a result of the same general process ? one is sure to find an arrangement of electric lights suspended from the ceiling in which the bulbs are mounted upon candlesticks ; an arrangement that looks ridiculous and provides an irritating glare of light , since a single electric bulb has many times the candle power of the actual candle to which such an exposed chandelier was perhaps well adapted . But the mischief does not end here . In houses that are decorated in a historic style , or that contain an assemblage of historic styles , as is the more frequent and subtle practice of the modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day simply do not fit ; the contrast is too sharp and uncomfortable . What is the outcome ? The outcome is that the owner of such a house either spends lavishly to acquire historic pictures , which were produced for a similar environment , or , at a lower economic level , buys colored reproductions of these great pictures ; or , finally , since anything is art if only it be old enough , according to our prevailing canons of taste , the decorator uses copperplate maps or crude broadsides and lithographs , which apart from fashion would have no interest to anyone except the historical student . The lengths to which this last effort at style can be carried when the purse tightens and the desire to remain in the swim remains are remarkable : I myself have beheld in a furniture showroom a painted " Venetian " screen , decorated with Rand , McNally maps , dating from the dim days of antiquity known as the Harding administration , and duly covered with heavy layers of brown varnish , to disguise the fact that electrotype printing is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our commercial mapmakers the adepts in beautiful draughtsmanship that the ancient cartographer was . This delicate scramble to get hold of the paintings and decorations of the past makes it difficult for the modern artist in America to occupy anything like the assured economic place that he held elsewhere up to the nineteenth century . While the best modern art , as Mr. Walter Pach has convincingly shown , has always been part of the main tradition of European art , it is neither retrospective nor servile ; on the contrary , our most distinguished artists have embodied all the positive forces of their own day , from the love of Nature which moved Turner and Corot in the same generation that produced the great geologists and biologists , down to the celebration of the more austere forms of science and mechanics , which was perhaps the major intellectual impulse in back of Cubism . One can not put a piece of vital modern painting or sculpture in a studiously retrospective room without making such a room seem doubly shabby and uninteresting ; if the picture does not , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is likely to spoil the picture . The Phillips Memorial Gallery in Washington ? perhaps the finest large collection of modern pictures to which the public has access ? is an excellent place in which to test this truth . The upper floors of this gallery have been adapted to the presentation of pictures ; and there Marin 's rich water colors and Bonnard 's juicy landscapes appear at full value , ennobling the room itself ; the main gallery on the lower floor , on the contrary , remains part of an older scheme of heavy , stylistic furniture and decoration , which becomes infinitely antique as soon as the eye takes in a single picture . The fact is that a good part of modern art demands clean surfaces and large unbroken masses ; it can not be housed in rooms or galleries which echo and re-echo with ancient harmonies ; and if we value these echoes more than we value themusic our own day can produce , it follows that we shall turn our backs upon the best modern artists , quite as fiercely as we do upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anaemic taste excludes the contemporary imaginative artist on one hand , it is equally inhospitable to the industrial arts on the other : the greatest achievement of the modern American building is to exclude or stick in a corner any suggestion of the subtle machinery and the delicate apparatus upon which a great part of our life now depends . I do not refer to such manifest idiocies as dolls ' dresses to cover telephones ? fortunately one does not see many of these ; but radio sets made to look like Florentine or Georgian cabinets are examples of this habit of mind ; while the rest of our furniture , instead of being adapted to machine construction and simplified in line and detail to the last degree , is frequently cheapened in the things that make for true quality ? the excellence of the wood , the seasoning of the stock , the close setting of joints ? while the exterior design is elaborated in machine-carved curlycues , in imported marquetry , in feebly painted flowers , or in imitations of age and use , in a fashion that annuls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This contempt for the quality of machine work and for the necessary lines fostered by machine-production would be bad enough in itself ; it becomes even more contemptible when we consider that none of our arty decorations and adaptations can approach for sheer beauty of line and color a modern automobile or a simple tiled bathroom or the fixtures of a modern kitchen . In motors and in porcelain bathroom fixtures we have , by designing steadily for beauty through the imaginative modification of useful instruments , produced objects of art which stand on the same plane as the handicraft productions of earlier ages . If our taste were well-formed our chief effort would be to make all our interior fittings ? our furniture , our walls , our carpets , our lamps ? with the same spirit as we design our automobiles and bathtubs . We would use the machine not to counterfeit handicraft , but to produce its equivalent by another method . This does not necessarily mean complete standardization ; for machine-tools now turn out a bewildering variety of " styles , " and if the design of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to our modern feeling for line and color , there is no inherent reason why it should produce but a single pattern . Here and there , in the design of textiles for instance , we are moving haltingly away from our subservience to ancient styles ; but there is a perpetual danger , in the present infirmity of our taste , of a retrogression : every year I tremble lest a distinguished collector of antiques in Detroit should attempt to turn out an " early American " motor car ; and at a recent exhibition of the Architectural League in New York I must record with regret the appearance of a stylicized bathroom , with various arty and retrospective notes in its fittings . An occasional exhibition of expensive furniture in le style moderne is not very reassuring , either ; for honest machine work is not hopelessly expensive ; and our American designers , instead of designing directly for our needs and tastes , are now prepared to copy French modernism , if it becomes fashionable , just as they habitually copy antiques . In short , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without accepting it we can not achieve new beauties , nor can we incorporate human purpose into the fabric of our present civilization . On this point , European taste is now relatively cultivated ; while American taste , by a paradox , has become antipathetic to machinery and tearfully sentimental about ages which did not boast our technical resources . Since the nineties our taste and art have been the product of a divided mind . On one hand we wanted labor-saving devices , we wanted machine production , we wanted the telephone , the auto , the radio ; in particular , we wanted the profits and dividends that could be derived from exploiting these technological ingenuities . Once we achieved these financial rewards , however , we turned an ostrich head to the process and all its contrivances ; we use the means we have acquired to counterfeit , by hook or crook , the environment of the candle , the link-boy , the town-crier , and the log fire . Our present habits of design are not so much dishonest , perhaps , as weakminded . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we design windows that require curtains and hangings to shut it out ; we know a little about the stimulus of color , and we throw brown varnish and dust over a good part of our furniture ; we have machines that will produce clean surfaces and slick finishes , and wherever we have the opportunity we attempt to hack away this finish or to bespatter the surface with antique textures or with plasterer 's smears . The architect who attempts to create an honest beauty in this environment is confronted by the necessity for designing afresh almost every fixture and article of furniture he needs ; and although he may face the task boldly , as Mr. Wright has done in his country houses , as Mr. Barry Byrne has done in his churches , as Mr. Irving Pond did in the Michigan Union , as the late Bertram G. Goodhue did in his great public buildings ? the odds are against him . Such a task is too big for any single individual ; it needs a common esthetic philosophy , a common tradition . A modern building requires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unless there is some general foundation of taste , the building will not , esthetically , hold together . Is it an accident that we so often have twentieth-century kitchens , eighteenthcentury dining rooms , and sixteenthcentury studies ? American taste has a long journey ahead of it before it catches up with its own leaders . Until we are ready to accept our limitations as living men and women , until we are willing to make our own mistakes , instead of clutching , for safety first , at our ancestors ' achievements , we shall not go very far toward creating a coherent aesthetics and a significant art . Living primarily in its own time , an active taste must despise connoisseurship ; it must show its respect for the past by leaving it where it belongs . Instead of sampling and gormandizing among the ancient banquets of art , taste must rather appreciate the healthy fare of its own day , touch all the products of its own day , and create for its own day . No object is too mean to receive the stamp of imaginative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of modern design will spread outward from our bathrooms and our kitchens into other departments ! When American taste recognizes that there is more ( esthetic promise in a McAn shoe store front , or in a Blue Kitchen sandwich palace than there is in the most sumptuous showroom of antiques , when it recognizes that such humble efforts are akin to good modern designs like Goodhue 's Los Angeles Public Library or like Mr. Harmon 's Shelton , we shall , perhaps , have the opportunity to create form throughout our civilization . Clean , devoid of archaic ornament , polished , efficient , carefully adapted to every human need , humane , friendly , a new sort of architecture ? the architecture of the State Capitol at Lincoln , Nebraska , or the Hill Auditorium interior in Ann Arbor ? has already begun to raise its head again in America , throwing off the tedious compromises and the pseudo-culture of the museum . With a little candor and a little sincerity such buildings and such art will perhaps flourish more widely , except where the canons of finance and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims .                     