@@493327

The Outlook for Progressivism in Politics I DURING the last few weeks , the British and American peoples have at their national elections deliberately confided to their most conservative parties long and comparatively unhampered leases of power . The Liberals and Labor in Great Britain and the Democrats and Progressives in the United States are naturally much chagrined at this set-back . They have reason to he . The recent victories of the Republican and Tory parties present an unusual appearance of substantiality . In winning these victories the conservative parties called to their assistance electoral resources the potency of which neither they themselves nor their opponents have hitherto realized . They seem to have acquired , and in my opinion they really have acquired , a permanent advantage over their adversaries . They control , directly or indirectly , the immediate economic well-being of a large majority of the British and American peoples . Whenever their privileges are threatened , they insist on associating popular prosperity and the safety of the whole economic structure with the perpetuation of their own power ; and they can scare millions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . So far as I can see they can not be dislodged , except temporarily and after some particularly conspicuous betrayal of national to private interests , so long as public opinion remains as credulous , suggestible , fearful and inconsiderate as it now is . Unless progressives in both countries understand the reason for their voting inferiority and subordinate their agitation for temporary political victory to an energetic and artful leavening of the processes and motives whereby public opinion is formed , they will remain permanently at a disadvantage . The leaders of the British Labor party and of the American Progressives do not , I think , sufficiently understand the profound alterations in the conditions of party warfare which the increasing radicalism of their own program as compared to the program of a so-called liberal party has brought into being . Political contests in both countries during the last few generations have been waged between two parties , both of which were commanded by middle-class business and professional men , and neither of which has allowed questions of ultimate political and economic power to become the subject of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government by popular consent which left the initiation of policy and consequently the real control of public and private business in the hands of people of their ownclass . Recently , however , with the growth of the Labor party in Great Britain and with the attempts in this country to form a farmer-labor party , political conflicts have begun to assume the form of the struggle of economic groups which are now excluded from initiative in the exercise of power to obtain a more positive function in the direction of public and private business . Democracy has for them come to mean the affirmative participation , as contrasted with negative consent , of the working class in the conduct of government . As a consequence of this change in the nature of partizan conflicts and in the composition of the opposing social forces , the radical progressive parties of today suffer from handicaps which did not hamper their " liberal " predecessors . Organized society is almost unanimously arrayed against them . Opposed to them and impervious to ordinary assault is the dense , huge mass of conscious and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosperous and complacent ruling class . Their opponents include the great majority of administrators who are most capable of operating the existing political and business mechanism . In struggling to realize a progressive program they can not count , as could the progressives of fifty years ago , on the assistance of the business man , the success of whose private enterprises was substituting a middle class of traders for the gentry or the farmers as the dominant class in the community . Neither can they count , as their predecessors could , on the aid of-an increasingly powerful body of engineers and technical experts . The only economic interest to which they can appeal is that of the workers , but this interest has to be made conscious of itself by arousing in the workers an understanding of what they lose by the present class organization of society and what they might gain by an enhancement of the opportunities and the power of labor . The atmosphere in which the ordinary activities of industry or politics are conducted obscures rather than utilizes and defines the interest of the workers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to be achieved by conscious effort . The workers are at present more aware of their own dependence for immediate well-being upon their economic superiors than they are of the promised land which they may enter by the road of political and economic self . assertion . These are grave disabilities to impose on any party which is engaged in a rough and tunable struggle to defeat an enemy , and political psychology being what it is , they will not he accepted by the Labor party in Great Britain or a farmer-labor party here without the utmost reluctance and repeated backslidings . Those progressives who propose to improve in minor ways the present exercise of political and economic power without challenging its distribution will seek to persuade the radicals that the latter are by their stiff-necked attitude betraying a common cause . They will advertise the glorious victories which together they might win if the radicals will only put aside their vision of industrial and social democracy and join with them in keeping the conservatives out of office and in accomplishing by legislation immediately possible reforms which do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progressives themselves will naturally wonder whether , if they are to be excluded from office for apparently such a large part of the time , they would not do well either to become more accommodating in their strategy or to abandon politics altogether and to accomplish their purpose exclusively by improved economic organization ? that is , by the direct action of powerful economic groups . In my opinion they will betray their cause either if they become too accommodating or if they abandon political agitation . Their most important task will undoubtedly be to arouse their own comrades and public opinion to a livelier vision of possibilities of conscious human fulfillment and the dependance of such fulfillment upon the observant participation by the working classes in responsible public and private activities . But for this very reason they can not abandon political agitation . Discouraging as it may be in itself , it is necessarily a part of public education in a democracy . Clear-sighted progressives should continue political agitation and the promotion of labor or farmer-labor parties . but they should do so without illusions as to the immediacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dog their efforts . Their success will not he measured by the amount of operative progressive legislation which they pass during their occasional periods of office . It will be measured by their ability to precipitate issues and start ferments in British and American public opinion which will broaden and intensify the present limited demand for intellectual honesty , moral integrity and humane ideals in politics . The increasing energy of such ferments will accomplish a more radical and a more permanent transformation of social behavior than a victorious progressive party could accomplish by even a prolonged occupation of the seats of government . For an increasingly strenuous and enlightened public opinion will gradually force the conservatives themselves to move towards the redistribution of power and the regeneration of social values which , if carried on in spite of their opposition , they would successfully oppose and denounce as disastrous to the public safety and welfare . II If the agitation in favor of a more progressive Democratic social economy in this country is itself to progress , it is time for radicals to take stock of their resources and difficulties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the task of overcoming or outwitting the active or passive opposition of almost everybody who occupies positions of responsibility , power and profit in the society of today . I was staggered and chastened by watching during the recent campaign the inexorable action of conformist motives upon well-to-do people of sincerely progressive convictions . To have declared for La Follette would have meant for most of them either the abandonment of their existing work or its future carrying on under suspicion and grave handicaps . For one reason or another they found it impossible to desert their own class , and they rationalized their decision more or less candidly , speciously or elaborately according to the habit of their minds . People in this position will continue to conform . Progressives may attract unusually independent or visionary recruits from their ranks , but on the whole this formidable opposition will persist . The conservatives for a long time will be able to dispose of the whole prestige and influence of society in order to prevent progressives from dispossessing them by orderly means . There seems to be only one practicable alternative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a workers ' society is ever to be bridged without violence and by consent , progressives must reconcile themselves to watching the conservatives build at least its foundations . The latter most not only consent to the building of this bridge , but they must actively participate in its construction . It will be the first impulse of the majority of progressives to denounce this alternative as either a fantastic illusion or as an obnoxious backsliding from the progressive faith . They are accustomed to envisage a conservative party as essentially a maleficent political agency which it is their chief business to defeat and conservatism as the irreconcilable enemy of progressivism . In holding and acting on these opinions they are taking their own party propaganda too seriously . The peculiar interests of progressivism , unlike the peculiar interests of conservatism , do not demand the exclusion of their opponents from political office . Intelligent conservatives have reason to fear what a radical progressive party may try to accomplish should it win an election , but a progressive party has far less reason to fear what victorious conservatism may do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immobility , is already a lost cause . It has been tried too often and found wanting . The only course which conservatives can pursue , if confronted by an alert and radical opposition , is to " dish " their opponents . Their very fears and responsibilities prepare and oblige them to make concessions to progressivism rather than surrender power . Even though they concede very little , the devising of adequate concessions will tend to relieve their congested minds . As a consequence of their own acts , they will gradually adjust their feelings- to a world in which progressive projects are salutary . Moral exhortatiom or partizan propaganda would be impotent to convert them . They must be converted , if at all , by a leaven which originates and ferments inside their own heads ; and the leaven can be secreted only by virtue of social and political activities which imply on the part of their authors a more considerate and watchful attitude towards the consequences of their class interests . It is an essential part of the business of radical progressivism to convince conservatives out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system that more or less radical changes are needed in its organization and conduct . If the progressive analysis of the defects of modern industrialism is correct , the task is easier than it looks . Modem civilization , so the radicals believe , is passing through a period of instability and disintegration . The governments of the industrial nations are confronted by an array of domestic and international problems which can not be quieted by the old cheap and superficial expedients . The failure of certain parts of the mechanism of national and international manufacture and trade to work as well as they once did gives birth to those problems ; and this failure has a tendency to impair the productivity of the system and to intensify competition among the several classes for an undiminished or increased share of the proceeds . The class conflict , implicit in an unregenerate industrialism , will steadily become more fierce and determined than it has been . It is the inevitable result of the indifference of existing industrial processes to the vital needs of the human beings whose co-operation is necessary to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general situation , a radical progressive need not for the present be disconcerted by his comparative political impotence . He may even smile with grim satisfaction at the prospective difficulties and dangers which his conservative opponents will encounter in piloting capitalism through the troubled waters of the next thirty years . The system is not bankrupt , as the socialists declare . It is still a going concern , enormously serviceable and with many valuable unexhausted reserves . Yet its liabilities threaten to exceed its assets , and a receivership may in the end be necessary . The only people who can reorganize it without throwing it into temporary bankruptcy are its privileged owners . They , rather than its creditors , should consequently continue to operate it , but they should operate it under pressure from its creditors to cure those defects in its organization and policy which are responsible for its precarious condition . The business of labor and farmer-labor parties is to apply that pressure . Progressives should realize that provided the American nation remains on the whole a democracy , a radical farmer-labor party has much more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the opposition into a conservative party which represents all the vested interests of the community . Such a party can not maintain , as the Republicans now do , the absurd doctrine that industrial society depends for its survival upon disparaging and prohibiting the prowess of conscious collective readjustment . At the moment the conservatives are alarmed ( and not unjustifiably alarmed ) at the discrepancy between the scope of the proposed readjustments and the rudimentary technique which a worker 's party is able to bring to the task ; but their alarm will subside with an in ? creasing sense of their political prowess and the security which it confers on what they Own and value . Although it is possible that their political preponderance will go to their heads and tempt them into excesses , it is snore probable that , combined with the continued threat of a really radical alternative to their domination , they will become more open-minded about the defects of their government , and feel more responsible for bringing about obviously necessary readjustments . Some such result has already taken place in Great Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of much the same economic ingredients as the Liberal party of the last century ? that is , of successful business and professional men , their descendants and dependents . The present Prime Minister recently characterized his party as that of orderly progress . Its program of legislation includes several items which , if proposed in this country , would seem to the ordinary Republican politician or business man as abominations of radicalism . This is the perfectly natural result of the increased responsibility which under vigorous democratic political pressure , a thoroughly and consciously conservative party would come to feel and actively to assume . If , as a consequence of these altered motives , the conservative party assumed , as it should , in the interest of conservatism responsibility for immediately necessary readjustments , a " liberal " party would cease to have any function . The policy of the conservative party would not differ essentially from that of the right wing of the former liberals . A majority of those people who called themselves liberals in politics would associate themselves with the conservatives , and the conservative party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquired a touch more semitive and exacting conscience which would safeguard it against the pigheadedness and arrogance which successful conservatism has a tendency to produce . In fact the addition of this liberal yeast to the conservative dough would be equivalent to the setting up in this party of a cost accounting system which would record and measure the collective conduct of the party . Liberalism is fundamentally an inquisitive state of mind which watches activities in the hope of learning enough by its watchfulness to improve the way in which the processes are carried on . It is compatible with a strong conservative bias in favor of the existing distribution of social power . A somewhat liberalized conservative party might devise and put into effect much useful progressive legislation . It would be the appropriate agency to create for the purpose a department of social engineering . Should these expectations be justified , the substitution of a radical workers ' party for a " liberal " party as the official opposition to the conservatives will enormously strengthen the political machinery of social readjustment . When they are opposed by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accept any responsibility for progressive legislation . Their battle is won in advance . The only two possible political alternatives presented to public opinion by the major parties are doing nothing at all and doing nothing much . But as soon as a safe " liberal " alternative is extinguished , and a steady threat exists of the passing of government to a radical opposition , the Conservatives themselves would have to shoulder the responsibility for ordinary social and political reform . Conservatism in the sense of obstructionism will cease to have any organized representation in politics , and in no far as this reformist conservatism broke down , the official alternative would be an experimental lurch in the direction of radical progressivism . A conservative party of this kind instead of being the antithesis of a progressive party would serve as its complement without ceasing to be its rival . Conservatism and progressivism would not be two mutually exclusive political creeds one of which is right and true , the other wrong and false . They would be two competitive but interdependent approaches to the business of operating government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics and the other , the more remote . A conscious democracy would judge them by their fruits . It would try out both , each in an appropriate time , to find out what kind of fruit they bear . Its development and even its safety as a democracy would depend on committing itself to neither but on cultivating a considerate , alert and indefatigably discontented public opinion which would enable it to pass judgment on the records of both . Conservatives and radicals each like to believe that their party represents an enlightened public interest while the party of their adversaries represents a selfish or disorderly private interest . The fact is , of course , that they both represent the interests of different social classes , one of which includes most of those people who benefit or think that they benefit from the existing institutions of society , and the other representing most of the people who would benefit or think they would benefit from a society in which welfare was not supposed to depend so much on wealth . This conservative interest is most efficiently protected by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friction in the operation of the social mechanism , which will bestow on all or many more human beings the opportunities , the capabilities and in part the responsibilities which are now reserved for a:few . The objects of conservative statesmanship are capable of early and inexpensive realization . On the other hand , a radical party represents more remote and questionable objects which can not be realized without a belief in a new vision of the possibilities of human nature , a more trustworthy knowledge of how it behaves , and the invention of an improved technique of individual and social education . Obviously conservatives of this kind must have an advantage over radicals of this kind in carrying on government . They may and frequently do throw away this advantage by bourbonism , but conservatism is not necessarily bourbon . In so far as it becomes conscious and wide-awake , it tends to give up its rigidity and irresponsibility . The radicals , on the contrary , do not at present know enough to carry on the government of an industrial state without recognizing and confirming the impoverished vision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to take over government as it must now he , but by their increasing strength to force on the attention of conservatives human value which society disparages and neglects ? and which must be vindicated by the conscious self assertion of the people whose welfare depends on work . Parties which are responsible for carrying government are coerced by the conditions under which their power is exercised into taking short views and into seeking and demanding results in cash . The London agreement whereby Ramsay MacDonald and Herriot started the Dawes plan in operation affords a clear example of the dubious concessions which a labor party feels obliged to accept when it undertakes to govern a distracted and opportunist industrial society . The Dawes plan was presented to the public as a piece of scientific economic machinery which would successfully extract the largest possible amount of reparations from Germany without causing revolution or ruin in that country . It was really a temporary political expedient designed by the British to induce the French government to relax its economic control of the Ruhr . It succeeded , in this respect , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their probable future receipts under the arrangement , upon the certainty of a powerful and effective legal and moral protest on their part as soon as facts undeceive them , and on the indefinite perpetuation of an extremely low standard of living for the German worker . As a responsible politician , Mr. MacDonald may well have flinched from the consequences of wrecking the agreement by communicating the truth to the French people and by insisting on scruples about the welfare of the German worker . Government usually consists in choices of this kind between two evils , and it is better from the progressive point of view to let conservative rather than Labor parties assume responsibility for them . A Labor party will lose its moral integrity in so far as Labor governments are obliged to undertake acts of statesmanship which are essentially desperate devices to dodge a problem for a few years in the hope that when it comes up again the condition of public opinion will make it easier to handle . It may have to consent to such expedients , but it can not itself frame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social vision and diminishing its ability to translate that vision into an operative political and economic mechanism . Yet under existing conditions a policeman 's government is more or less necessary , and if a labor or farmer-labor party is to provide a living alternative to conscious and completely organized conservatism , it must , of course , be willing in emergencies to assume its equivocal and demoralizing responsibilities . I am not arguing that a labor or farmer-labor party should abandon competition with a conservative party for the control of government . I am only arguing that they can not really control government but will find themselves controlled by its exigencies unless they can give energy and clarity to the atmosphere of human values in which government is carried on . Their most formidable enemy is not organized and conscious conservatism . Such conservatism is only the natural defense mechanism of society which is more conscious of its deficiencies than it is of the satisfactory remedies . Their most formidable adversaries are first the stubborn limitations of the existing economic and social system which are created by and confirm the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a sufficiently alert , conscious and educated body of workers . The main object of a radical party is to bring into existence a body of workers who do not consent to their existing inferiority of status and have equipped themselves to take their appropriate share in a regenerate political and economic government . A worker 's party usually can not safely participate in government as it is , without seeking at the some time to transform it ; and workers can not transform it without depending on their conservative opponents to devise an improved technique of social engineering and without educating themselves to transcend the handicaps of their economic status . Their kingdom , if they are ever to possess a kingdom , most be established in the mind before it can begin to subdue the unmanageable engine of political government to its purposes . As yet they have made little headway in emancipating popular opinion from its delusions , its fears and its cheap values ; and until they do they must expect to be for the most part excluded from power . It should be added that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conservative and progressive parties is derived more from the facts of British politics than it is from the facts of American politics . Our own Republicans are still far from being conscientious conservatives . They are likely under their present leadership to remain obstructionist and self-satisfied and unnecessarily to imperil their popularity and prestige by refusing or fumbling immediately necessary reforms . In that case , the Democrats will try to come back as a " liberal " party whose business it is to unite all good progressives in the task of capturing the government from the Republicans . The issues of the next presidential election may , shape themselves in this way ; and an effective Republican coalition may or may not be formed and may or may not be victorious . Yet although the Democratic party in this country is far from being as devitalized as the Liberal party in Great Britain , it will , if the two party system survives , suffer from an analogous process of emasculation . A party of radical progressivism , which serves to transform the human values implicit in existing capitalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power , is as clearly called for by the democratic impulse in America as it is in Great Britain . In so far as it comes , the Democratic party will be superfluous . The radicals can never be satisfied with a " liberal " program which aims merely at reforming a few of the glaring abuses of capitalism without challenging either its human values or its distribution of power . On the other hand , there is no reason why " liberal " Democrats should not affiliate themselves with a Republican party whose conservatism had become , as it surely will , somewhat more conscious and intelligent . In the end , they will probably vote Republican , just as they did in such large numbers last November . In both English speaking countries industrialism is spreading at a rate and under conditions which are destined to create the same radical protestantism on the part of its non-beneficiaries and the same formidable fortifications on the part of its beneficiaries .                     