@@493373

New R.EPUBLIC A Journal of Opinion VOL . XLIX NEW YORI : , WEDNESDAY , DECEMBER 8 , 1926 NUMBER 627 The Week THE new crisis between the United States and Mexico is not the result of any recent happening ? No developments have taken place for many The in the dispute between the two countries . he belligerent notes which the United States has recently ' despatched are the result only of an increasing determination on the part of our State . epartment to insist on having its own way . There is the best of reasons to suppose that they were inspired by Ambassador James R. Sheffield , as was r . Kellogg 's absurd and deplorable Statement acme months ago in which he solemnly told Mexico that she is " on trial . " This policy of trying to bully ? ur sister republic and to carry things with a high hand , whether it originates with Mr. Sheffield or another is , we think , unwise and unfair . It is based 0.11 that inability to think through any course of con- duct to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . esslonal diplomacy the world over . MILE there is no doubt that the quarrel between the Mexican government and the Catholic Church as much to do with present relations between the to ? countries , the ostensible reason for the dispute - w , to be the Mexican oil and land laws , which la 'd go into effect on January 1 . In summary , these ws Provide that no foreigner may in future acquire land within 100 kilometres of the border . Any land now so held may be kept until the death of the present owner , but his heirs must dispose of it to Mexican citizens . Foreign companies owning a majority of the stock in Mexican companies must reduce it to a minority within ten years . Owners of oil lands are required to exchange their titles for what are in effect fifty-year leases . The United States does not dispute the right of Mexico to enforce these laws in the future . The whole point at issue is whether they shall be retroactive or not , applying to property acquired by Americans prior to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice , the laws will not be executed so as to work a hardship on Americans or other foreigners . The Calles government offers , in effect , a gentleman 's agreement on this point , like that which Roosevelt made with Japan in regard to immigration . Undoubtedly , internal politics plays a part in determining the attitude of Mexico . Hostility to the Yankee is a predominant motive among the people and an administration which yielded abjectly to our demands would imperil itself . This idea , however , is far over the heads of Messrs . Sheffield and Kellogg . They are not content to get the substance : they want the letter too . WHAT will happen if both sides remain firm ? Our recognition of the Calles regime will be withdrawn , and the embargo on arms shipments- canceled . This will constitute a plain invitation for a revolution , aided if not inspired by a combination of supporters of the Catholic Church and American oil and land interests . Such a revolution might be successful or it might not ; but at beSt it could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Mexico would again for a period of years be plunged into internal strife and bathed in blood . We can not believe that the sober second judgment of the United States government will condone such a proceeding . The experience of a decade and a half shows that we can not force Mexico to do our bidding by any measures short of a war ending in annexation , a war which would be long and terribly wasteful of money and lives . The only alternative is an attitude of genuine friendliness . If Secretary Kellogg can not see that this is true , we believe President Coolidge will . He has refused before this to be crowded into jingoism . There is good ground for the hope that he will continue in the same frame of mind . THE Commission on Extra-territdriality in China has brought in the report which was expected . It says China is not yet fit to administer its own courts and that the foreign powers must therefore retain jurisdiction over their own nationals . The Commission , it will be remembered , grew out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extra-territoriality be abolished . The powers did not want at that time to refuse outright , and the Commission to investigate was proposed as a compromise . Since then , affairs have grown steadily worse . The only real government in China today is that of Canton . The various war lords make their own law in the territory they control . Judges and police officials are badly paid , there is no uniformity of procedure and new codes are badly needed . On the other hand , the Commission points out some weaknesses of extra-territoriality as it is practiced . There are too many courts , great confusion arises in cases involving citizens of two or more countries , appeals are taken to higher courts outside of China . The Commission advises that the foreign courts should base their decisions on Chinese law as far as possible , that foreigners should pay taxes and should obey the Chinese regulations . It solemnly advises China to reorganize its law , write a new Constitution , and establish uniformity of procedure . is no questioning the general purport of these figures , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they mean , might have been in better taste from the Department of Commerce than so much boasting . Manufacturing Production , based on 100 in 1919 , went from 118 in 1925 to 126 in 1926 . Mineral Production , though not as high as in 1923 , is still high . Forest Products production stands at 124 . But each of these general indexes is an average of specific ones , and examination of the latter is illuminating . Manufacturing Production is boosted mainly by such industries as automobiles , steel , and building materials of all kinds . Mineral Production means chiefly a growth in oil for gasoline , in copper and iron . Forest Products of course reflects materials for building and auto body work . All these products respond to the building boom or the motor boom , both of which rest on credit ? the first on building loans , the second on instalment loans . When it comes to industries making goods sold for cash to retail consumers , such as textiles , clothing , shoes , food , no such expansion is visible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cotton prices , " although the downward trend is not explainable in terms of any single crop . . . . It is , Perhaps , roughly accurate to say that the season has been favorable to livestock producers as a whole , - but it has brought discouragement to growers of Such important cash crops as cotton , fruit and spring wheat . . . . Cheap cotton has its reactions in other fields . Cheap cottonseed means a lowered Price scale on concentrated feeds ; such feeds for a typical dairy ration now show the lowest price in. dex in four years . It means competition for lard , so much so that lard now sells down near the same Price per pound as the live hog . It may have some meaning for wool growers . Cotton and wool prices usually move in close relationship . " So much for the prosperity of the farmer . Will the city dweller at least reap some advantage in lower living costs ? That remains to be seen . WE are glad to report one case in which a victim of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Henry Flury is 4 teacher in a high school in Washington , D. C. , and he amused himself some time ago by writing a definition of Socialism which he submitted to the Forum magazine , in one of a series of definition contests which that excellent periodical is conducting . Mr. Flury 's definition was published , and caught the sleepless eye of Brigadier-General Amos A. Fries , of the U. S. Chemical Warfare Service . ( eneral Fries forthwith demanded the young man 's head on a platter . What ! Were the youth of the nation 's capital to be instructed by a man capable of writing a definition of Socialism ? Mr. Flury should be called before the Board of Education at once and required to pledge himself never to misbehave so outrageously again , or banished to outer darkness . To this Mr. Flury replied with spirit that he was quite willing to appear before the Board Of Education to discuss his professional work , but not his private activities ; that if he chose to write 4 definition of SOcialism in a magazine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was to see that he performed his duties in the classroom well ? and honestly . We are glad to report that public opinion in Washington supported him in this view . The school authorities stood by him ; and even a local post of the American Legion , whose letterhead General Fries had used , protested that the general was making the order ridiculous . The Whole attack on Flury blew up with a feeble pop ; . Which encourages us to embrace the extraordinary , the revolutionary doctrine that perhaps the world do move , after all . CALIFORNIA 'S governor-elect , Mr. Young , is confronted by an opportunity to perform an imPortant public service . For ten years Thomas J. ' 1/400ney and Warren K. Billings have been in prison , serving life sentences for complicity in a bomb explosion on July 22 , 1916 , in San Francisco . We do not need to recite again to our readers the facts which show that their trial was unfair . They were convicted on perjured testimony ; the presiding judge asked the Attorney General to seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the judge , the district attorney , his three assistants , and eight of the nine living jurors united in an appeal to Governor Richardson to pardon these two victims of class warfare and mob hysteria . Ten years in prison would be a heavy punishment even if Mooney and Billings were guilty . The recent election in California was one of several indications that that state is coming to its senses . We hope Governor Young will further the process and put an end to one of the most disgraceful miscarriages of justice in our history . ELECTRIC utility companies justify their practice of charging enormously higher rates to domestic consumers than to factories by saying that in the case of the latter they have to meet the potential competition of generation by industry itself . But are they entirely free from competition on the part of the general public ? To think so is to take an extremely short-sighted view of the situation . There are home electric plants , rapidly improving in efficiency and widely used throughout the countryside . There are cheap and reliable gasoline motors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooking and lighting . Now a correspondent writing to the Electrical World , a trade journal , cites as an illustration the city of Elmhurst , outside of Chicago , which for its 5,000 population installed an oil engine plant which could produce at 1 cent per k.w.h. as against 2 cents asked by the company . The latter finally climbed down and met the local price .. And E. E. Brackett , an agricultural professor in the University of Nebraska , announces that highly satisfactory results have been obtained in making sufficient electricity for all farm purposes by hitching up an ordinary windmill to a generator and a storage battery . The top-heavy electric utility combinations will have to wake up or they may find the public is not so utterly dependent on them as they have thought . /E publish in this issue an article ' dealing with the present situation in Italy , and signed by a pseudonym , " Peter Brooklyn . " We regret that we can not give our correspondent 's name , or identify him for our readers . To do so would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despite the fact . that his article is a moderate and discriminating statement . Anyone who writes about Italy in any other terms than fervid eulogy incurs the enmity , not only of the government , but of the Fascist organization , and repeated experiences have demonstrated that this enmity is likely to be expressed in terms of destruction of property and physical violence . The necessity for anonymity except in communications which contain nothing but praise is The scheme has one obvious weakness . The Republican majority in Congress should , if it takes the warning seriously , be able to accelerate the legislative machine and adjourn at the end of March 3 , 1927 , with its indispensable work fully accomplished . The aspect of the plan to which we wish to draw attention is not , however , the probability of its success or failure . No matter whether it succeeds or fails , a try-out of it will be a confession of the breakdown of party government . The party in power , which is responsible for legislation , is in this instance trying to escape the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power are trying to force their opponents to legislate . From the point of view of responsible government it is absurd for the minority party which can not legislate upon contentious issues to insist upon legislation and the majority party which can legislate to insist on avoiding legislation . Such is the standard of partisan warfare which government in the United States , divided between the Democrats and the Republicans , has now reached . In Great Britain or Canada a party which wins a general election is pledged to achieve a certain legislative program . After it assumes power , it may or may not redeem its pledges , but if it should fail to legislate upon a subject which called for action , the opposing parties would , of course , merely try to capitalize the official negligence . It is their business , if possible , to prevent the government from legislating on the theory that all or nearly all of its works must proceed from erroneous ideas of public policy . It is no part of their business to compel the government to pass bills which from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even in this land of political irresponsibility , the party out of power has rarely , if ever , worried Party Government Upside about the failure of the party in power to legislate . The opposition has frequently filibustered to pre-Down vent the passage of what it considered inexcusably bad legislation , but it has never before proposed to                     