@@467834

IF men should ever come to appreciate how much of their peace and self-respect is dependent upon their freedom to engage in creative enterprise , to travel over new ways that enrich their daily experience , they would at once begin to inquire what attitude toward this spirit of pioneering is to be maintained by such a powerful organization as the church . It should be said at the outset that the current tendency to heap special criticism upon every organization concerned with religion has no justification in fact . The church , one can not help believing , has momentarily lost its way . But so have political institutions , so has industry , so have the non-religious reformers . The church has experienced no greater uncertainty than have other institutions . And throughout its uncertainty it has maintained a benevolent activity quite beyond the comprehension of the breast-heating sinners who stand afar off and bewail its impotence . Nevertheless , the church stands in need of appraisal . Quite in keeping with the tendency of institutions generally , it has been so zealous in perpetuating its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which gave it origin . True , church communicants have increased steadily ; church property has mounted into hundreds of millions of dollars ; new encyclopedias of religion , new dictionaries of the Bible , and new histories of the church have filled scores of shelves in university libraries . Yet the evils which the church professes to ameliorate ? hatred and murders and dishonesties and infidelities mount in the percentage columns to unheard-of figures , and men give their best brains daily to the contrivance of more and more ghastly weapons with which to destroy one another and lay waste the face of the earth . Historically , the church has preserved the ideals of Jesus of Nazareth ; but no one , not even the most ardent , most reverent supporter of the church can say that it has been successful in establishing those ideals in present-day life . It is not too much to say that the church has entered into competition with Christianity . The church has drawn so far away from its origin , it has been so zealous in fortifying its own traditions , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would not be a welcome place for Jesus were he to arrive unannounced . Few congregations would permit him to occupy the pulpit . We must not lose sight of the kind of person he was : a man first of all about whose birth the gossips wagged their tongues ; a man of whom many said , " Why , he is n't so much , this carpenter 's son ; we know about him " ; a. man who permitted women to waste precious ointment upon him ; a man without official standing who did not even have a place of residence ; a man who in his indignation called certain of his contemporaries a generation of vipers ; a young man ? just turned thirty ? who preached unorthodox economic doctrines to the populace . Is there anyone who believes that such a man would find much encouragement to preach his doctrines in the church to-day if he were to come to us divested of the prestige which has accumulated round him in the course of two thousand years ? And he would scarcely fare better in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyone know of an accredited college where this preacher of doctrines designed to convert the world into a kingdom of heaven could secure a position as a teacher of morals without academic degrees , professional " standing , " and other similar sanctions ? In some colleges he would be permitted to address such as might assemble on the campus to hear him ; in many he would not . College officials would look askance at this man who had " drifted in " from nowhere in particular , and who came without proofs of his right to instruct the young . If he were not arbitrarily ruled out for being a disturbing element ? which he always was to the static ? it is not unlikely that the trustees of the college would find " with deep regret " that the conditions of the gift of the college chapel made it impossible for him to use it as a forum in which to discuss topics of the day . The students would hear him gladly ; for his clear vision , his idealism would be authentic to their unspoiled spirits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receive a welcome officially . But men with families to support would scarcely care to take his chances of " fitting in " in denominational education . Just how individuals are influenced by the drawing away of the church from the spiritual simplicity of its origin may be seen , I believe , in the life of most reflective persons who live where churches are numerous . When these instances are examined they will probably not be wholly unlike my own . I grew up in the church , I am a member of one of the most enterprising denominations , and I attend some church with reasonable regularity . If it is permissible to make the avowal I believe I may say , moreover , that I enjoy something akin to a religious experience . At any rate , I find an abiding satisfaction in reflecting upon the youthful simplicity , the sorrow , the beauty , the courage , and the power to be oneself which Jesus revealed . On very rare occasions I am disposed to say something ? not much , certainly ? to other men about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parish priest , a Methodist bishop , a canon in the Anglican church , and one or two ministers with whom I have become intimate in extra-official ways , I can not think of myself as going to a clergyman to exchange confidences about the beauty and the mystery of life , or to receive a spiritual quickening that would send me away heartened for the rigors of new adventure . I tried it once when I was a student , and so unspiritual was the attitude of the clergyman , so full of the suggestion that he was rendering expert professional service , that I did not need to make any conscious resolve never to try again . This feeling toward the ministry , and consequently toward the church , may not he universal ; but it represents honestly the feeling of my church-going friends . We are sympathetic toward the traditions of the church because these have been held in reverence before us since our infancy ; we know that , despite everything said about the social coldness of the church , we find there a certain respectable good-fellowship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a means of distributing charity , sending to the uttermost parts of the earth the traditions of the church , and consummating campaigns for denominational education , for social decency , and ? when men are sufficiently intoxicated with the desire to kill forthe promotion of warfare . But we do not think of the church as carrying to the hearts of individual men the assurance of Jesus that every life is immeasurably precious because in every life the kingdom of heaven ? the glory of high fulfilhnent ? may come if one only seeks with enough earnestness . When we are able to see without bias how the church has become so great a thing in itself that it has neglected or subordinated this " salvation " of the individual , which was preached unceasingly by its founder , we can know just how the church stands in relation to the creative spirit . For Christ 's " personal salvation , " his " kingdom of heaven , " was a high spiritual experience to be enjoyed only when a man should risk all in new explorations . No one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quest . In all his associations with fishermen and brokers and politicians and high churchmen and lawyers and courtesans , and even with the spirit of evil itself on the mountain , he was never tempted away from this central doctrine that the abundance and the quality of life depend upon one 's willingness to break away from the hollow shells of tradition and go on journeyings which nourish one . He wanted to set men free for such journeyings . He wanted them to see how they had obscured the kingdom of heaven with endless flummery , He begged them to observe how blessed were the inquiring little children whose lives have not yet been blunted and made expedient by the devices of men . He wanted them to know that unless they became eager and adventurous in their own behalf , unless they were unafraid and ready to take a chance , even as the birds of the air , they would certainly miss the very peace which they professed to cherish . If they hesitated , if they tried to save themselves , they were sure to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to proclaim , worked very well in the simple days of the Galilean , but it does not admit of application to-day " in our complex life " when economic and social practices are " so different . " And if one counters with the observation that economic and social practices have not been changed so much as might be supposed admittedly a reflection on the efficacy of the church ? one is sure to be met with the lament that everybody seems to have become destructively critical without proposing anything constructive . Waiving the fact that this is the stock retort of lazy minds , and the further unassailable fact that sometimes the surest progress must he made by the destruction of debris , one may say that there are constructive proposals to make to the church if it will only give ear . These may be summed up in a question : How do men act as a result of their connection with the church ? In its professed aim the church is the most potential organization in the world for giving impetus to the material and spiritual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In isolated cases where religious fervor is genuine , the church does to-day send men into the joy and the rigors of adventure with irresistible curiosity . But how could it become such a power that the pursuit of the ideal , the spirit of exploration , would become a normal part of the lives of more men ? all men who turned to the church earnestly ? The first of these proposals is very simple , but very dangerous to the calm of the existing church . It is this : The church should begin to preach everywhere the doctrine that men will find whatever is sufficient to their needs only when they seek ; and that nothing they find in their quest for truth will ever do any essential harm to a church that is honestly established on the life of Jesus . His words have been mouthed over so thoughtlessly that they have lost most of their rich overtones of truth . But when we pause to look at them receptively , his inescapable belief in fearless , constant inquiry becomes very pertinent to the life of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professing a religion of faith , has become the most doubting , the most skeptical of all organizations . it must be secure ; everything must be made safe . It wishes to know just what the result of any given exploring is going to be . And anything which threatens to encroach upon what it has regarded as its unique domain , or that newly interprets knowledge which has for ages been again and again newly interpreted , is likely to be attacked as some new kind of menace . The persistence of evil or the laggard character of truth seems not to trouble the church half so much as some threat to its influence as a temporal organization . Even the attitude which the church takes toward its position in a given community reveals its fear . It is jumpy about its standing . It must prove locally that it is an accredited concern . Does not the Honorable So-and-So belong ? And did not the church records prove that General So-and-So was baptized in the church as a child ? although lie never attended as an adult ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ star will go on the Service Flag , since it looks well , and he would not be ungracious enough to ask anybody Lo take it off . And did not Mr. So-and-so , who plays golf with the pastor , consent to have his name put on the church records provided there would be no required public confession of faith ? But the church reveals its greatest fear when new progress in knowledge is reported or when new experimentation is proposed . It proclaims itself to be the champion of truth : yet when revolutionary research is being made it seems always to fear that its position is about to be proved false . If anybody dares to suggest that either the life or the preaching of Jesus might bear witness to the healing of the body through the healing of the mind , or justify the penetrations of science into the character of biological life , he is in danger of being officially condemned as an unbeliever ; and in the uproar , men cease to be men and become either " fundamentalists " or " renegades . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth , which it professes to nurture , is being revealed in all sorts of unofficial places ? even in semi-respectable places such as Nazareth , for instance ? through those who have been moved by some strange and high spirit to inquire . The ministers who strive to keep men 's minds pleasantly closed are not restricted to the remote provinces . For many months I have attended frequently the Sunday-evening service in a well-known church in a large city . The minister is famous ; he possesses the personal magic of the real orator ; he can do what he will with most of the two-or three-thousand people who hear him . Yet every time I have attended his church he has abused his high privilege by getting a firmer and firmer anti-liberating grip on his listeners . Always he has made some appeal to the denominational prejudice of his parishioners , or has launched some attack against the group in his own denomination with whom he disagrees on " fundamentalism , " or has made facetious remarks about the futility of intellectual inquiry . He has never failed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against his own . The salvation which such men preach is not salvation through seeking and finding , but salvation through believing there is nothing new to find . Here then is one definite step that . the church could take : it could avail itself of its unique opportunity to proclaim the salvation through inquiry and growth which its founder proclaimed . It has been relatively negligent through many centuries , but its opportunity to give high impetus to life is still incomparably greater than that of any other institution . The greatness of this opportunity seems r.arely to be considered . It is the lot of almost every thoughtful man and woman to be agitated and perplexed at times about what Schopenhauer called the problem of existence . We can scarcely gather a hundred people together at random anywhere at any time without having in the group at least one or two for whom this problem is acute and disheartening . " Men are like that . " They want to see how they may be kept from disillusion . If the church were to lift up its voice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new illusions but through a new discovery of the chief reality within themselves ? the capacity to go on endlessly exploring and endlessly finding new spiritual satisfactions ? they would be drawn irresistibly by the life-giving power . In the solitude of the fields , in the dark , man-made caverns of the earth , in the monotony of the shop , in the dinginess of tenement houses , in the tawdry glamour of furnished-to-order " homes , " men suffer and wait for a spiritual freedom toward which they have not found for themselves a right approach . When the church tells them ? and tells them truthfully ? that it is unafraid to help them individually to find their own approach , it will possess some of that miraculous influence which a broken and contrite genius , whiling away his days in prison , found in the life of him who gave the church its name : " I see no difficulty at all in believing that such was the charm of his personality that his mere presence could bring peace to souls in anguish , and that those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; or that as he passed by on the highway of life , people who had seen nothing of life 's mystery saw it clearly , and others who had been deaf to every voice but that of pleasure heard for the first time the voice of love and found it as ' musical as Apollo 's lute ' ; or that evil passions fled at his approach , and men whose dull unimaginative lives had been but a mode of death , rose as it were from the grave when he called them . " The second proposal to the church is that it get into a natural position to promote social justice ; for such a position not only inspires righteousness among men but assures them that their impulses toward honest pioneering will have a fair chance of fruitage . To-day the church is not in that position . It has allowed itself to be thought of as subordinate to other interests , to be colored by something not of its own nature ; it has been induced to undertake the task of an interested arbiter in an economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The church , therefore , must be tactful . But often the tactfulness is no more than an uncourageous kind of protective coloration . In truth , one may visit the churches in any good-sized city and find that they are not preaching any identical doctrine at all . They are preaching ? each according to its economic rating ? a vague social ex pediency , which seems perfectly harmless when more or less obscured by the buzzing activities of the various societies within the church and the excitement over Sunday-school basket-ball contests . Sometimes I have performed the experiment of going from church to church in a strange city at the hours of the morning service and trying to prognosticate the quality of the expediency to be preached within by the wheel-base of the automobiles at the church entrance . If the pastors have discussed social justice at all I have usually found the ratio as follows : very long automobiles ? voluptuous optimism and the reading of much inspirational poetry ( not , too definite i n its application ) ; medium-sized automobiles ? a judicial outlook which accepts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sure faith that all of them can be solved handily if each side concedes a little " in that spirit of compromise which is the basis of progress " ; modest automobiles , or no automobiles at all ? a full exposition of evils that beset us and an adequate denunciation of the god of gold ! More frequently , however , the entire question of social justice is shrewdly passed over . Such an attitude seems especially ignoble when one reflects upon the vigor which the church has enjoyed whenever it has dared to defy those who would control it or wreck it for base reasons . And if we allow ourselves to go back to the source of Christianity , how inescapable is the command to enter into the life of the hour ! What a jest do those church members utter who demand that their ministers refrain from dealing with economic subjects and devote themselves Lo " the preaching of the gospel of Jesus ' ' ! What a subject for the ironic pen of Anatole France ! When coal that is mined at the risk of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Minnesota for nineteen dollars a ton , a price which caused acute and prolonged suffering to persons in the helplessness of old age , is there anyone who believes that this young Galilean who drove his fellow-countrymen from the temple because they made it a den of thieves would not participate in the economic discussion of the hour ? Or when the fruit of the earth has been brought forth in such abundance that everyone might possess some of it , is it conceivable that this young Galilean would remain silent and " well-bred " when he saw it rotting in hundreds of orchards because dealers could make as much money by handling smaller quantities on a wide margin as they could by handling all of it with the margin narrowed ? Or when men try to win a strike by putting emery-stone on the axles of locomotives which haul people to their daily work ; or when they refuse to let a man work at a price which to him seems fair and thus cause his children to suffer from undernourishment , is there anyone who can imagine that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the church is not in a position to consider such problems strictly on the basis of justice . Instead ? and on this point I speak with specific knowledge ? we have ministers quietly " passed on " because they do not preach the particular grade of social expediency which the most influential of the congregation wish to hear ; we have the spectacle of daily newspapers in a large city announcing that a certain bishop in a well-known denomination would not be invited to speak in the churches of that city because it was feared that he might touch upon economic problems then in the municipal mind ; and we have a great interchurch movement thrown into paroxysms ? and seemingly into the discard ? because its representatives dared to inquire into the social justice or injustice of an industrial strike . From such pusillanimity there is an escape , but the church has not yet accepted the conditions necessary to prevent that escape from being turned into a rout . The too frequent attitude is that we may discuss economic questions in a detached , vaguely expedient manner , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " There must be little penetration of specific instances , and in all things there must be a nice balance . If the president of the local miners ' union is invited to speak on " The Church and the Laboring Man , " there must be no long delay before the president of the Chamber of Commerce is invited to speak on " The Church and Business . " The church accepts as inevitable a clear division between groups of men when the business of the church , according to its own profession of faith , is to make all such artificial lines of warfare disappear . Here again it would be profitable for the church to turn to the life of its founder . For he not only showed how essential it is that his followers participate in the life of the times , but revealed clearly the basis on which the participation should be made . He was not trying to establish or disestablish a social order ; he was not a constructive critic ? the modern kind who comes forth with an outline of every subordinate office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be occupied . It is true that capitalists and socialists and communists and anarchists have tried , all of them , to prove that Jesus belonged to them ; that such and such a verse in the gospels undoubtedly shows how he had them favorably in mind . There is nothing surprising in this attitude , since the custom of breaking up the life of Jesus into its constituent aphorisms will enable one to find almost any justification which one seeks . But that is not a fair way of viewing the record ? it is not a fair way of viewing any record . The total effect of a man 's precept and practice , not isolated instances removed from their setting , must be the basis on which a man 's intent is judged . And when we look at . the life of Jesus in any such reasonable way we must see that he was not championing any order . He was a prophet , and like every other prophet he was concerned with ultimate good toward which men might look . It ought not to be difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kingdom of heaven within us would probably enter economic life and how his entry would affect the creative spirit in men . He would apply one test chiefly : Does this economic life help a man ? not some vague sociological entity ? to experience the growth , the flowering out , the satisfaction of contributing in interesting ways to the destiny of mankind , which every man in some degree craves ? And if the church were to cease trying to act as a go-between for the contending parties and were to demand the consideration of this higher question ? the question of every man 's right to a wholesome atmosphere of growth ? it would not only break up the solidarity of the opposing ranks by drawing off individual men , but , by holding aloft the brightness of a justice much more important than the contention of either party to the controversy , it would quicken men with the assurance and the passionate spirit of exploration which they always possess when the visionthey follow is high . To these proposals that the church proclaim a creative gospel and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the affairs of the day ? proposals calling for a vigorous evangelical activity a third must be added . The church should make a persistent and wholehearted effort to exalt beauty . In one respect this third proposal overlaps the second , for this question of beauty is also a question of economic life . If the aggressive trade spirit of the hour is not to convert our entire existence into an endless thoroughfare of gasoline filling-stations and glaring advertisements of the stations not yet above the horizon ? or some other equally hideous panorama ? the question of the beautiful will have to become a part of every discussion of commerce , agriculture , education , religion , and public domain . In so many ways is it cheaper , at least , for the time being , to make the world ugly rather than sightly , that all of the forces of decency will be required even to maintain the ground we possess . But the essential reason why the church should nurture beauty lies deeper than any acute problem of trade . It is unnecessary to raise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and how much of beauty is religion ; yet we must remember that in some manner our conceptions of beauty and of Christian exaltation are so interwoven that we are in danger of losing an important part of the one if we lose the other . Now the church has sometimes talked so rhetorically about the beauty of holiness that it has drowned out the modest voice that would speak for the holiness of beauty . In its efforts to keep everybody lined up for the church it has employed the cheapest devices of current life , and has allowed such an institution as the moving-picture theater , for example , to steal much of the vital part of the church . If the Orpheum round the corner has vaulted ceilings , soft lights , a great organ , and a length which contributes easily to concentrated attention ? that fact , for the public , is just one more reason for going to the Orpheum on Sunday evening . As for the specific ways in which the church might contribute to an exaltation of beauty , they are obvious . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by calling upon the creative workers in the field of the fine arts to make the church itself more beautiful . Those who are fortunate enough to live in the larger centers where there are always at least a few churches of positive beauty are in danger of forgetting how positively ugly are the churches in which most Americans worship . Yet all that is lacking is within the power of the creators whose genius the church could enlist if it would . They could produce the dignified , beautiful exterior ; they could harmonize the interior so that it might induce a spirit of prayer ; they could co-ordinate the parts of the service so that it would help one to breathe for an hour the breath of a life which is disinterested and hopeful and courageous . But the church will probably be able always to contribute most to the encouragement of the artistic creators by fulfilling in a very high degree its function of looking at the world as the idealist sees it . A kinship not sufficiently- dwelt upon always exists between the social idealist and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artist working with a different medium . He sees the world as it is , yet clairvoyantly , just as the artist does ; and like the artist he possesses the power to select , to subordinate , to relate in new ways until at last he projects for us a world that is different from the one we know , and yet essentially of it . If , then , the church is constantly quickening men through its own idealism , some of them by all the impartial laws of chance will be drawn toward the ideal of beauty . Nor will the church try to lead these men with a halter or force them to prophesy in their art according to the church 's own wish , but will content itself with being their spiritual origin and support , and with enabling them to see ? and all others who are discerning ? that the most exalted idealism is always very , very near to the most exalted beauty . It is possible , of course , to object that the church can not live if it depend on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women ; that in these days nothing short of mass action can be efficacious . But to this objection it is possible to make answer by offering a complete denial . It is possible to go further and say that there is no other way open to the church if it really wishes to promote the high kind of spiritual life to which it is dedicated . Nothing in wholesale salvation or crowd psychology is vital enough or permanent enough to make the world a fit place to live in . Man spends most of his life ? and the most influential part of it ? in relative solitude , where the question of mass action is not relevant . Occasionally , to be sure , in some hour of public disturbance the church may show its organized power to good effect ? provided , of course , it does not lose its potency between disturbances . But if it wishes to make its power unlimited and unending , it must bring its creative justification to each man in the solitude of his own soul . In doing that , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men 's wisdom , clarifying their highest conscience , and deepening their attachment to the beautiful , it may lose a little of its position as an organized influence ; but by losing a little of its body it would come into a fuller possession of its essential spirit . 