@@486401

T HE Manchurian crisis has passed , and the Chinese Eastern Railway is to be returned to the Soviet government . Secretary of State Stimson claims credit for the agreement . In truth , he had nothing to do with it . The settlement was reached without him and despite him . His invocation of the Paris pact proved a complete failure . Mr. Stimson had told Senators in Washington that the absence of machinery for implementing the Paris pact was its chief weakness . He wished , by intervening in the Manchurian situation , to give the pact an initial baptism of action . In fact , however , he further weakened it by bringing it into the situation without any warrant . Let us examine the facts . On July 10 , 1929 , China broke the two treaties of 1924 with Moscow and sequestered the Chinese Eastern Railway on the excuse of propaganda . Eight days after the seizure the United States , acting as guardian of the Paris pact , urged peace on the Soviet and Chinese governments . Both promised to remain mindful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assurance . But a few days later a mysterious aide memoire came into being in Washington . Secretary Stimson , according to an official announcement , handed it to the diplomatic representatives of Britain , France , Japan , Germany , and Italy on July 25 . It dealt with Manchuria , but the State Department withheld publication . Secrets , however , will out . The Moscow Pravda of August 6 printed a Vienna dispatch throwing light on the contents of the aide memoire . It had suggested that ( 1 ) a neutral commission be appointed to study the Manchurian conflict ; ( 2 ) the parties in dispute withdraw their troops from the danger zone and refrain from hostile action ; and ( 3 ) , and most important , a body of five Russians , five Chinese , and a neutral chairman operate the Chinese Eastern Railway pending a final settlement . The Bolsheviks suspected that the " neutral " chairman would be an American as in 1917 to 1922 when Colonel J. F. Stevens was director of the Chinese Eastern . Previously , according to Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the same general character regarding the aide memoire had filtered into the Japanese press , notably the Nichi Nichi and Asahi . I have reason to believe that the sources drawn upon by the Pravda and Asahi were , indirectly , the German and Japanese foreign offices . Moscow , at any rate , felt that it had reason to be suspicious of Washington 's lively interest in the Manchurian controversy . A declaration made at Williamstown on August 25 by Stanley K. Hornbeck , chief of the Far Eastern division of the State Department , confirmed Bolshevik suspicions . He did not deny the existence of the unpublished aide memoire . " I am not in a position to make a statement on that point , " he said . But he emphasized the fact that America 's traditional policy in respect to the Chinese Eastern Railway was neutralization . He gave instances : the Knox proposals in 1907-10 , and the period from 1917 to 1922 when an American managed the road . If the United States is innocent of a desire to " neutralize " the line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Stimson now publish the aide inemoire ? If the document contains none of the sinister things attributed to it throughout the world publication is in order at this time . Meanwhile , fighting proceeded on the Soviet-Chinese frontier . On August 19 the Soviets handed the German government a note ( Germany was protecting Russian interests in China ) which called attention to eight raids undertaken between July 18 and August 18 by Chinese and White Russian troops into Soviet territory . On September 9 the Soviets handed the German ambassador in Moscow , von Dirksen , a second note citing nineteen further attacks by Chinese and White Russian bands on Soviet steamers , border guards , and villages . A third protest to Dr. von Dirksen dated September 17 enumerated additional incursions into Siberia . No nation invoked the Paris pact . In November the Soviet government undertook armed reprisals . The press now commenced to print many details of Bolshevik pushes into Manchuria . The Soviet government had twice warned China , through Germany , that its patience would be exhausted if the Chinese continued to mine the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet citizens , and if White-Guard groups repeated their depredations in the Soviet Far East . A Russian raid in force began on November 18 . Air and artillery bombardments were reported , and newspaper dispatches announced the capture of Manchuli , the Chinese border town , Dalainor , and Hailar . Hailar had been gutted , telegrams said . An Associated Press wire from Tokio on November 21 informed the world that Mukden had decided to negotiate with Moscow for a settlement of the railway dispute . The Soviets had achieved their purpose . They realistically applied force in order to stop invasions of Russian territory , persecution of Russians in Manchuria , and the further demoralization of the Chinese Eastern Railway . One big raid compelled Chang Sueh-liang , the governor of Manchuria , to sue for peace . Hugh Byas , the Tokio correspondent of the New York Times , wired his paper on November 28 : The news from Manchuria confirms the Japanese anticipation that ' the Russians did not intend an invasion . The Russians apparently have not occupied any Chinese towns and are back on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severe slap , humiliated them by disarming 10,000 troops , and scared Mukden into a settlement , all by a relatively small operation which led to no entanglements ( italics mine ) . The moment the Red Army marched in , the Chinese and White Russians fled . Their commanders deserted , and the disorganized soldiers looted as they ran . The looting was debited to the Bolsheviks . The extent of the Chinese retreat was made out to be the extent of the Red advance . According to a United Press dispatch of November 26 from Harbin , the Soviet forces actually halted thirty-eight miles from the border and then returned to their base . Note the chronology : November 18 ? The raid started . November 21 ? Mukden requested Moscow 's terms . November 22 ? Moscow 's conditions communicated in writing ( A. P. , Moscow , November 27 ) . November 26 ? Mukden accepted conditions ( A. P. , Moscow , November 27 ) . On November 27 , the Associated Press reported from Moscow that the " Mukden government was officially reported tonight to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The same dispatch quoted a note from Litvinov to Chang Sueh-liang . " Have received your telegram of November 26 , " the commissar wrote , " declaring full acceptance of preliminary conditions communicated in writing on November 22 through Tang Yu-chen , diplomatic commissar at Harbin . " Chinese negotiators were now in touch with Melnikov , former Soviet consul at Harbin , and with Simanaysky at Khabarovsk . China had acquiesced , and the statesmen had initiated pourparlers with a view to the restitution to Russia of the Chinese Eastern Railway . But Nanking demurred . To Chiang Kai-shek it was a question of prestige , of holding Mukden 's paper allegiance , and perhaps of pleasing Washington . Himself on the edge of ruin , he wished to prolong the impasse in Manchuria . On November 29 the New York Times put the whole situation in a nutshell in its front-page headlines : " Nanking and Mukden at Odds on Policy as Hostilities Cease . Manchuria 's Yielding Ignored by Chiang , Who Offers Reds New Counter-Proposals . Appeal Seen as Gesture . Tokio Sees China Completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things appear : the fighting had ceased ; Manchuria had yielded ; the danger of war was gone . Even if American embassies and consulates never report important events abroad , the New York Times is read in Washington . On November 25 news advices from Washington stated that Mr. Stimson had discussed the situation with the Japanese ambassador . The secretary 's views were communicated to Nippon , where " the Foreign Office disclaimed any intention of taking action at present , either independently or in concert with other nations " ( A. P. , Tokio , November 27 ) . The same day Hugh Byas wired : " The Japanese still believe that intervention by other Powers could not do any good . " On the next day he suggested that " the collapse of Chinese resistance ends the situation which had aroused Secretary Stimson 's anxiety . " Meanwhile the press was full of reports from Berlin , Moscow , and Tokio regarding the favorable progress of the Soviet-Manchurian negotiations . November 28 brought further light : Litvinov declared Nanking 's counter-proposals superfluous as Mukden had already accepted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " despite denials and counter-denials ( italics mine ) peace is near . " An A. P. telegram from Tokio quoted the Japanese foreign minister , after a talk with the United States charge d'affaires , as stating that peace impended , and the prospect of an early direct settlement " makes intervention by the world Powers unnecessary and undesirable . " Dispatches stated that Soviet airplanes had bombed the little Manchurian town of Buchatu with bombs , cabbages , and soot . This , probably , was a way of applying a bit more pressure as negotiations proceeded . Or perhaps the orders to cease fighting had not reached isolated aviators . No further hostilities have since been reported along the Manchurian border . Japan resolutely declined to join any move for foreign mediation , on the ground that an anti-war pact could not be invoked when there was no war and when peaceful pourparlers promised immediate success . This represented the attitude of the German government also . On December 2 Mr. Stimson announced his two communications on the subject : one to Moscow and Nanking recalling their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pact urging their cooperation for peace . The German government re-fused on December 2 : At the present moment the German rejoinder read the German government has before it reports to the effect that direct negotiations for the peaceful composition of the conflict have opened . As the German government is not in possession of all the facts which would enable it to judge the momentary status of these negotiations , it would like to reserve its decision as to the time and form of its further steps in the matter . Mr. Stimson might have had from American officials in the Far East the same information which prompted Germany to reject his proposal . He might have had it from the Germans and probably did . He certainly was told by Mr. Debuchi , the Japanese ambassador , that hostilities had ceased , and that an agreement between Moscow and Mukden was in prospect . The Secretary of State might have learned all this even from newspaper dispatches . At least the fact that Germany and Japan declined to join his move should have given him pause , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have made his action superfluous . On November 28 the Associated Press wired from Paris that in view of reports regarding Mukden 's acceptance of Moscow 's conditions " the French Government , as one of the signatories of the Kellogg-Briand pact , feels that the situation no longer requires the intervention of the signatories . " Mr. Stimson knew this too . France , Germany ( which had undertaken to protect the nationals of China and Russia and was therefore very close to the problem ) , and Japan , the third party best informed on Manchurian affairs , all objected to the invocation of the Paris pact . Then why did Secretary Stimson invoke it ? Since he could not have been ignorant of the negotiations , the Bolsheviks concluded that his only purpose in intervening was to interfere with them . This may be an erroneous conclusion , but it will be readily understood how Litvinov might have reached it . Undoubtedly , Moscow also recalled the still secret Stimson aide memoire of July 25 , which continues to disturb Russia as well as Japan . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Soviet government regarding the Paris pact , Senator Borah prepared a statement declaring that this step implied recognition of the Soviet government . The Bolsheviks do not concur . They agree with former Secretary of State Kellogg that there can be no recognition without the intention to recognize . They submit that even direct communications between the State Department and the Commissariat of Foreign Affairs would not imply recognition . They , in fact , urge at least the relatively direct method adopted by Charles E. Hughes . But if a go-between must be used , Moscow prefers Germany or Turkey or almost any other friendly . Power rather than France , whose relations with Russfa e:rnu.rked ; by : 11iNr : : hOstH1W .. Reply ; ng:to the Sri i ri.Mk : Of December 2 , Litvinov , on December 3 , roundly rebuked the Secretary of State for interfering in the negotiations then proceeding in the Far East . This , the commissar stated , " can not . . . be taken as a friendly act . " More important , possibly , was his assertion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state or group of states the function of protector of this pact . " " Washington thinks otherwise and necessarily resents Litvinov 's objections on this matter because they involve the broad question of the future implementing of the Paris accord . Finally , Litvinov expressed " amazement " that the United States , while refusing to recognize the existence of the Soviet government , gives it " advice and counsel . " ' The Litvinov note has been styled tactless . It certainly was not a model of tact . The Bolsheviks have not yet learned to hold their tongue or to put it in their cheek . When moved by righteous indignation they are primitive and explosive . Because of their experience during the period of foreign military intervention , they react most violently to any suggestion of outside interference . And after all there must have been a tremendous temptation to administer a whipping to Mr. Stimson when one of the worst faux pas in recent diplomatic history had exposed him to attack . In Washington it is said that the Litvinov note has postponed United States de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress . It used to be debts . Then it was-propaganda . Now it is Litvinov 's English . That must wear off some day . The world will watch to see how long the government holds out against the pressure of a fast growing American trade with Russia .                     