@@468181

ability at that age is more than five times as great . If these deaths from heart disease were limited to old people , one could hardly complain ; for this mode of exit is as good as any for those who have rounded out their life work . But , as we shall see more fully later , the deaths from heart disease are not limited to the aged . There are all too many young and middle-aged victims whose premature death is often preceded by long periods of disability . For every death from heart disease that occurs annually , there are probably ten persons living impaired and deficient lives because of the breakdown . of heart function . Altogether , two million people in the United States , or about two per cent of the entire population , suffer from some form of heart trouble , many of whom can not engage in productive activities and are , to a greater or less degree , a drain on the resources of other people . Proper medical and nursing care of such patients is expensive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family breakdown . The annual reports of our charitable organizations show strikingly the prominence of heart disease as a primary cause of dependence . It has more than replaced tuberculosis , which is being relegated to a position of decreasing importance . The economic loss to the community from heart disease is enormous . I consider the problem involved an outstanding one in contemporary medicine . In discussing heart diseases we must remember that they are not the result of one , but of a combination of many factors and related disorders . The heart is a complicated organ . Essentially , it is a muscular pump composed of four chambers and their incoming and outgoing blood vessels . The action of these chambers is co-ordinated and controlled by an intricate nervous mechanism . The chambers are paired into a right half and a left half . The upper chamber on each side is called the auricle ; the lower , the ventricle . Each auricle is separated from its ventricle by a muscular valve which permits the flow of blood downward but prevents the leakage of blood backward . Venous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right auricle passes from the auricle through the valve into the right ventricle . It is then pumped through the pulmonary arteries to the lungs where it is aerated . The blood then returns to the left auricle , passes down through the valve on that side into the left ventricle , whence it is pumped out through the aorta to be distributed to all parts of the body . This complicated pumping mechanism may get out of order in many ways . A group of very common heart disorders arise from difficulties outside of the heart itself . These are the so-called functional cases . The nervous mechanism which regulates the heart action may be temporarily and slightly deranged , producing heart symptoms without causing structural changes in the heart . Emotional states and severe bodily exercise will increase the demands on the circulation and overstrain the heart . The symptoms in such cases are sometimes very distressing but usually are of no very great importance . If they are allowed to continue for long periods of time , however , these functional disorders may result in permanent heart impairment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other hand , reflect conditions within the heart . itself , and are much more serious in character . Disease of the heart valves is lamentably common , usually the aftermath or an accompaniment of disease elsewhere in the body , such as scarlet fever , serious dental infection , tonsillitis. or acute rheumatic fever , more rarely syphilis . It is estimated that acute rheumatic fever alone is responsible for twenty-five per cent of all cases of heart disease , and that syphilis accounts for ten per cent more . Rheumatic heart disease is usually acute , occurs in early life , and more often affects the valve between the auricle and ventricle on the left side . Syphilitic heart disease , on the other hand , is much more chronic in character , occurs among persons between 40 and 60 years of age and affects the aorta or the aortic valve , which is on the right side of the heart . The affected valves in such cases become scarred and deformed and no longer function perfectly . The inflow of blood from one chamber to another may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blood once through to leak back into the chamber whence it came . Obviously , to meet the body 's needs , the heart must increase its labors under such conditions and , ultimately , the muscle will become exhausted . Frequently , valvular disease is accompanied by certain sounds called " heart murmurs . " The most common form of heart trouble is associated with hardening of the arteries or with elevated blood pressure . Forty per cent of all heart cases are of this type . The arteries are normally elastic tubes , expanding and contracting , and thus aid in the distribution of the blood . As they become hardened , there is an increased resistance to blood flow and , as a consequence , more work for the heart . The hardening of the arteries may take place in the muscular walls of the heart itself , thus impairing its nutrition . Bright 's disease , in much the same manner as arteriosclerosis ? perhaps together with it ? may increase the load upon the heart and predispose to ultimate disaster . The enlargement and the degeneration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type of disease . The valves are usually riot involved at first . The disease is chronic in character and occurs , for the most part , in persons after age 50 . A variation of this class of ease is that found in old age . The senescent heart , even without any local disease process in the muscle or valves , is not able to function properly . The origin of about ten per cent of the cases of heart disease is still unknown . In the remaining fifteen per cent of the cases the cause may be one of a number not so easily classified . They include such cases as result from certainexcesses , such as alcoholism , or from an attack of goiter , and from a number of other primary disorders . These are some of the commoner ways which lead to cardiac failure . The trained physician can usually determine whether there is any considerable enlargement of the heart muscle by the physical examination of the chest , supplemented by means of fluoroscopic or x-ray pictures , and can determine the particular lesion by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blood flows through from chamber to chamber . The subjective symptoms which the patient brings to the attention of the physician are of the greatest importance in leading to a diagnosis . By means of an instrument of precision , the electrocardiograph , the heart specialist is able to diagnose more accurately still the particular defect which exists , even in its very early stages . Finally , by the actual test of the heart 's ability to tolerate standard types of exercise , the skilled physician is able to determine the amount of the heart 's disability . The first question for the vital statistician to answer is whether heart disease as a cause of disability and death is now actually increasing or decreasing . We must examine the crude death rates over a period of years . In 1900 , when the earliest reliable figures for the U. S. Death Registration Area . became available , the rate was 111.2 deaths per 100,000 of population . This means that one-tenth of one per cent of the total population died from this cause during the course of a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the rates , the figure fur 1910 being 141.5 per 100,000 . In the decade beginning with 1910 the rates were first fairly stationary and then rose regularly up to the war and influenza years , 1917 and 1918 , when figures above 153 per 100,000 were reached . Following the influenza epidemic , the three years 1919 , 1920 , and 1921 were years of comparatively low rates . There is every indication that this decline was , in large measure , the result of the epidemic itself . Physicians everywhere noted that the influenza was very often fatal to those who had been suffering from serious heart affections . Many died of influenza in 1918 and 1919 who , in the ordinary course of events , would have died two or three years later from their heart disease . Since 1922 , , the rate has been rising slightly each year , bringing the figures back to what they were immediately before the influenza period and even beyond . The general impression given by these figures and which is confirmed by the graph , is one of increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this rough method of analysis is subject to very decided limitations . Heart disease is pre-eminently a condition of the older ages of life , and it may well be that such increase in the number of deaths as has occurred has resulted not so much from an increase in the hazard from heart disease as from the shifting of the age distribution of the population . In recent years more people have reached the older ages when heart disease is more likely to occur . Thegradual reduction in the death rate from such diseases as tuberculosis , pneumonia , and the other infections has transferred many additional persons to the later age groups . It is then that heart disease is most frequent . Under conditions of twenty or thirty years ago , many of these people would have died in early life . To-day they survive to middle life and old age and then are much more likely to develop a heart defect and to die of it . Our first question , accordingly , resolves itself into a second , namely : " Is the hazard of dying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life as well as during the aggregate life span ? " This question can be answered only by reference to certain figures which we call age-specific death rates . These tell us the probability of dying from heart disease during the specific age periods in question . A comparison of the age-specific death rates of 190 with those for 1900 shows at once a number of interesting items . Among young children under 5 , the rates declined considerably during this twenty-year interval . Between ages 5 and 45 the specific death rates remained unchanged . Conditions , to be sure , varied somewhat from year to year , but taken altogether , the disease was in statu quo over this period of life . One in every seven deaths from heart disease still takes place among persons under age 45 . It may be interesting at this point to contrast the contour of the age curve for heart disease with that for tuberculosis . The latter disease under present conditions shows its maximum at or about the age of 25 and then declines with advancing years . The curve for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then mounts to its huge maximum at the oldest ages . After age 45 the rates were uniformly higher in 1920 than in 1900 and the excess of 1920 over 1900 is greater with each advancing age period . After age 75 the 1920 figures were 114 . S per cent higher than in 1900 . Among both men and women the increase in the total rate in recent years has been the result of the marked changes in the death rates at the older ages , beginning at forty-five or fifty years . Not only do more people die from heart disease because more arrive at the older ages , but also because there is an increasing hazard of dying from heart disease in the later ages of life . It should be of some interest , then , to determine under conditions as they now exist what the probability of dying from heart disease actually is . The real question is , " What is the chance that an ordinary man or woman will die eventually from heart disease ? " ? and this question can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been made , and the reader may be interested in the underlying principle of the method used . We begin with a group of 100,000 persons at a fixed age , let us say age 10 . We keep in touch with these people , recording their deaths as they occur until all have passed away . We note also in each case what was the particular cause of the death . We thus learn how many persons in the group die at each year of age after 10 . If we sum up the number of deaths from heart disease from age 10 onward to the end of the life table and divide by the total number of persons in the group , we obtain the measure of the probability of dying from heart disease . For example , if we began with 100,000 boys at age 10 , we should find that ultimately there would be a total of 19,218 deaths from heart disease before the entire group had i passed out of life . This means that for a boy 10 years of age there are 19 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chances of dying from some other cause . In the same way , the probability of dying from heart disease can be calculated at any other age . We find , for example , that for this particular disease the probability of dying eventually from it increases slightly from age 10 onward . At fifty the probability is 22 per cent ; at 70 it is 24 per cent . In other words , virtually one out of every four persons at age 70 will die from this cause . The figures for girls are approximately the same . The probability of dying eventually from heart disease is one in five at age 10 , and a little less than one in four at age 70 . It will now be possible to see what has actually happened in the last fifteen years ; for in 1910 the probability at age 10 of dying eventually from heart disease was only 15 in a hundred . In other words , there has been an increase in the probability of 31 per cent during this short interval . At age 50 the probability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent higher than in 1910 , and at 70 the increase was 26 per cent . These figures better than any at our disposal indicate how great is the budget of heart-disease mortality at present . No other disease or condition shares its primary position when studied from this angle . Another interesting statistical comparison relates to the incidence of heart disease in the several races that compose the American population . The most striking difference is shown by the white and colored races . During the main age-periods of life the rates for colored people are about twice those for whites at the corresponding ages . It has been suggested that the higher prevalence of such diseases as malaria , typhoid fever , and especially of syphilis , plays an important part in creating this excess of heart disease among the colored people . The lower standards of personal hygiene and the more difficult conditions of life of this race are clearly important items . There are also marked differences in the amount of heart disease prevailing among the various nationalities that make up the white population in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : those with a low and those with a high incidence of heart disease . Those of native birth are intermediate between the two foreign groups . The favorable foreign stocks include those born in the former Austro-Hungarian Empire , the Russians ( mostly Jews ) , and the Italians . These are the newer immigrants of eastern and southern Europe . The stocks with high heart disease rates include those born in England , Scotland , and Wales , Germany and Ireland . The figures for the Irish are particularly high , recalling those for the colored people rather than those for any white group . Why this should be so it is difficult to say . No such unfavorable conditions occur among the Irish people in the old country . But they are uniformly bad among the Irish in America . It will be an interesting study in future years to determine whether the descendants of Irish immigrants are able in their own generation to overcome this handicap of their parents and grandparents and to approximate the better conditions prevailing among Americans of other racial origins . But , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disease are as engrossing as any we can present to-day . No other disease in the entire field of medicine , with the possible exception of cancer , offers so large an opportunity for lifesaving service . It is too true , however , that the medical profession and their allies , the public-health workers , have only recently become concerned over the hazards of heart disease and have taken the public into their confidence in developing a program of relief . What can , in fact , be done in the present state of our knowledge to bring this condition under some control ? The answer must in the nature of the case be somewhat cautious and conservative . The campaign is atits very inception . We shall be better able to define the issues and to move more quickly as the program is tried out . The experience that the public-health workers have gathered in their attack on other conditions , especially tuberculosis , will prove of great service in the campaign against heart disease . At the very outset two lines of attack present themselves . The first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a whole . Each has its proper place . No great headway will be made until the two efforts are thoroughly co-ordinated and put into operation with a full measure of public support . The campaign as it concerns the individual reduces itself largely to one of personal hygiene . We must , all of us , so live as to avoid heart impairments . More definitely , this means that children must be protected against the infections which often bring heart disease in their train . Unfortunately , we do not yet know the true cause of rheumatic fever , an arch enemy of childhood . But we can prevent and give adequate convalescent care to many cases of tonsillitis and sore throat which appear often to bring on rheumatic complications . The prevention of cases of typhoid fever , of diphtheria , and of scarlet fever through specific inoculation of children against them will cut down a proportion of heart sequelle . Among young adults the reduction of syphilis will have its effect in fewer heart cases later in life . Saner and more temperate living on the part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will result in healthier bodies better prepared to avoid heart impairments . But probably the most potent of all personal efforts will be the development of the habit of the annual medical examination . The periodic health examination is the key to our problem so far as the individual is concerned . This rule applies equally to children as to adults . It is a striking fact that most persons who have heart disease have discovered this in the most accidental and casual fashion . Usually the cases are found as the result of a life-insurance examination or through the health examination of children at school , or by industrial physicians in examining applicants for employment . Usually between one and two per cent of all such examinations result in the discovery of unmistakable heart disease . The great majority of those who are found to have a heart lesion of one kind or another have not been aware of it . On the other hand , those who believe they have heart disease and go to doctors to have their suspicions confirmed are usually in error . I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rule in the United States tens of thousands of persons would be discovered every year with early cardiac defects when it would still be possible to remedy the situation . Changes of habit or of occupation are often sufficient to keep an early lesion under control , certainly for long periods of time . The contribution the community can make is likewise many sided . The first step is to spread the knowledge of right living ; to inculcate good habits of life through the agency of the schools and the other channels of public education . The public schools are in a particularly strategic position . They can discover the large group of children who are predisposed to heart disease and can provide for them a special regimen of instruction and of care which will serve to protect them from further deterioration of their heart structure . As in the successful campaign against tuberculosis , the organized health agencies of states and cities must provide heart clinics with skilled examiners and adequate equipment to help discover and treat cases of this disease , especially among adults . New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee of the New York Tuberculosis and Health Association , has taken the lead in such activities . There are now forty-seven heart clinics distributed over the city . It is not at all surprising that these are crowded , with an ever-increasing number of patients . In the year 1925 there were about twelve thousand active patients under care in these clinics of New York City , fully as many as there were receiving care in the much older tuberculosis clinics of the city . Young people for whose relief there is much hope constitute a large number of the patients , as might be expected . The clinics serve as centers of supervision and instruction and as exchanges for the distribution of patients to those agencies that are best adapted to keep them . Sanatoria and convalescent homes are especially necessary in the attack on heart disease . For in this disease there are periods of acute outbreaks when the patient must receive intensive care and complete rest before he can be released to his family or his work . And , what is equally important , suitable work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to slip and become helpless cripples . Only the organized agencies of the community can provide such service . Fortunately , most American cities are finding themselves in a position where they can provide such care without involving themselves in great initial expense . General hospitals with their out-patient departments and their staff of trained social workers are ordinarily well adapted for this type of service . There is also the possibility of utilizing vacant beds or even whole wings of tuberculosis sanatoria now more or less unoccupied . Actual experience has shown in several well-managed tuberculosis hospitals that the type of care and the equipment necessary for the conduct of tuberculosis sanatoria are adapted also for the care of heart patients . There is nothing inherently difficult or dangerous in the undertaking , and it should be entirely possible as the tuberculosis death-rate declines to shift the facilities of organized health agencies , both public and private , to the care of incipient and moderately advanced cases of heart disease . The life insurance companies occupy a particularly favorable position in the campaign we are sketching . The large number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new eases . A number of companies offer free annual examinations to their policyholders and these , too , result in bringing many cases to light . The value of this service can hardly be overestimated . A few of the larger and more powerful companies , because they pay out millions of dollars in death claims each year on account of heart disease , are especially active in spreading hygienic information broadcast among their policyholders and the general public . But what is the attitude of the companies toward those who on examination are found to have a heart . defect ? Do they insure such persons and , if they do , what has been their experience ? On the whole , the companies have been rather conservative . Lacking information as to the gravity of most heart defects , they have permitted themselves to insure limited numbers and those only who had the least dangerous lesions . The experience has been concentrated in a few companies . Taken altogether , the mortality rate has been found to be about two and a half times as high as that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The cases have been almost altogether limited to those having the hypertensive or arteriosclerotic type of the disease , cases with a slight enlargement , and in which the mitral murmur is not pronounced . These are the cases which Doctor Mackenzie , the great English heart specialist , looked upon very favorably . He felt that the insurance companies could take a great many such people without loss , but experience has shown that he was not correct . Only the least impaired cases of organic heart disease are insurable ; the rest require premiums so high as to put insurance out of reach of most persons . As information and experience increase , protection will undoubtedly be offered to larger numbers . IV What shall we say as to the future of our problem ? The prognosis is neither very clear nor very encouraging . There is good reason to believe that the extension of the program of prevention along the lines we have outlined will save many lives and prevent much suffering among young people especially . With more effort it should be possible to keep larger numbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater comfort for themselves and less financial strain on their families . There are many people who suffer from chronic heart affections and who break down at or before age sixty . Nothing could be more desirable than to postpone their premature collapse . The possibilities for such service are good . There is , however , much disappointment in store for those in the heart movement who are sanguine of quick results . This enemy of mankind will not be easily vanquished . Wherever we suffer from the results of man 's habits , relief will come slowly . There will always remain a heavy tax payable by way of heart disease . The future will probably show more heart deaths rather than less . The achievements of preventive medicine will work in that direction , for they will bring many people over into the older ages when the heart mechanism finally breaks down . If only we could be sure that a death from heart disease was synonymous with a long life and no serious interference with work ! That is really the aim of the heart movement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much more knowledge will be needed on the causes of heart disease , on how to prevent it and , failing prevention , how to take care of the afflicted over longer periods of time . A high type of statesmanship will be required to put this knowledge to work . The educator and the social worker will share with the physician in this new service .                     