@@493320

If our civilization is to become an instrument for the betterment of man , it must be tolerant of diver ? gent opinions , and let them find public expression to the end that good , not evil , may survive to guide and help at to an ultimate goal . S 0 wrote Colonel E M. House to the presi ? dent of the International Lyceum Chautau ? qua Association in August last , on the occa ? sion of the fiftieth anniversary of the first Chau ? tauqua Assembly . And in the same vein wrote Irving Fisher , Professor of Political Economy of Yale University , as follows : The success or failure of a Democracy depends on public opinion . The chautauqua movement has prob ? ably done more toward keeping Arnericall public opin ? ion informed , alert and unbiased than any other move ? ment . The press has conic to be regarded , like ad ? vertising , as warped by special interests . The pulpit is restricted as to subject matter and mariner of tu treat-v ent . The moving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet unknown for good or ill . But the chatauqua platform has kept above suspicion as the greatest agency of popular education . Splendid ideals of a free platform , these . Are we really realizing them ? The chautauqua is the Amer-Kan people 's summer school . The lyceum is their winter night school . Literally millions of our adult population attend these institutions and depend very Largely upon them for their information and edu ? cation on public problems . Next to the press , the chautauqua and the lyceum are perhaps the most potent of our educational institutions . Most people are quite unaware of the extent and importance of the service of these institutions . There are a score or more of really large chautau ? qua and lyceum organizations that serve from sev ? eral hundred to a thousand cities , towns and villages , and probably several hundred smaller ones . The size and sweep of the service of these institutions are suggested by a statement tousle by one of the " talent " recently to the effect that if one lecturer or company should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entire field of one of the larger of the systems . The opportunities to reach the public afforded by the chautauqua and lyceum are tremendous . And this fact has not escaped the notice of the private interests who depend so largely upon a favorable public opinion . The temptations that have been placed in the way of the managers of the chautau ? qua and lyceum systems , to allow their programs to be influenced and subsidized , must have been very great in the past . The fact that up to the present time the chautauqua and lyceum platform has been able to maintain so fair a reputation for free and untrammelled utterance reflects great credit upon the men who manage them . Floss-ever , we have a bit of recent history in this field that is interesting and significant . The Public Ownership League of America is a non-partisan organization of public spirited Amer ? ican citizens and organizations who have a very de ? cided conviction that the natural resources of the country ? water-power , coal , oil and gas ? should be carefully conserved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicly owned electric super-power system . The league feels that the great mass of the American people are wholly unaware of the tremendous importance of the power situation and of the advantages of public conservation , develop ? ment and control . It is therefore extremely anx ? ious to utilize every means of publicity to get its message to the American people . So naturally it has endeavored to get its speakers onto the chau ? tauqua and lyceum platform . In the course of its efforts in this direction it finally succeeded in getting Mr. Keith Vawter , the manager of one of the largest and best established chautauqua systems in the Middle West to attend one of its conferences held at Toronto , Ontario , in the early fall of September , 1923 . The confer ? ence gave him a three days ' opportunity to see the most significant public super-power system on the continent in actual operation and to study first hand the actual results of the system . He was so im ? pressed by this demonstration and by the interesting discussion of the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally contracted with the present writer for a lecture on public super-power to be delivered at 103 chautauquas on one of his several circuits . And then astonishing things began to happen . Six weeks before the chautauqua engagement open ? ed , one of the leading daily newspapers in the ter ? ritory to be covered , published a long column and a half editorial denouncing me as a socialist , a false prophet , an intellectual failure , preacher of " an empty , futile and discredited economic and political theory " and a companion of those who sought to overthrow the American government . Moreover , the editorial also inveighed against the chautauqua and its manager for imposing upon the patrons of the chautauquas by sponsoring such a purveyor of false and dangerous doctrine . " No matter how wild or impractical a scheme or an idea may be , " reads this amazing editorial , " its sponsors can count with considerable confidence on obtaining a hearing on chautauqua platforms , with the blessing of some chautauqua agency or other . " Now if this one editorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared in the district , one could easily have dismissed it as the unwarrant id attack of a narrow-minded editor . But it was only the opening gun of what seems to have been a systematic , deliberately planned and well executed campaign by the private power interests that kept up throughout the entire summer . Articles and communications along the line of the one described above obviously intended to dis ? credit the lecture and prejudice the minds of the people against the lecturer and his message in ad ? vance of his coming were mimeographed , multi-graphed or otherwise manifolded and sent to many and probably all of the cities where the lecture was to be given . Furthermore , a definite and determined effort was made to stop the lecture entirely . Local officials of the chautauqua were importuned to take me off the program . The platform managers who represented the chautauqua system were interviewed and told that I most not be allowed to speak . And in many cases these men made no secret of the fact that they were acting at the request of local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the local company was acting under orders and infor ? mation " from headquarters . " Failing in their efforts to stop the lecture by appeals to the local and platform managers , the opposition then carried their case up to Mr. Vawter , the general manager of the chautauquas himself . Telephone calls , telegrams and letters poured in upon him . Representatives , attorneys and finally the leading representative of the organized power companies of Iowa sought interviews insisting that this lecture be stopped . About the middle of July , when we were finishing in Iowa and soon to enter the state of Missouri , a delegation of five to six men representing the private power com ? panies of Missouri journeyed all the way to Cedar Rapids , Iowa , to see Mr. Vawter and , if pos ? sible , to prevent this lecture from being delivered in Missouri . Commercial and civic clubs were in some cases prevailed upon to pass resolutions against my ap ? pearing on the ehautauqua program . Communities were canvassed asking people to write to the thou ? tauqua management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ June 8 , early in the second week of the engagement , the president of the chau ? tauqua association of that city called on me per ? sonally to say that the local manager of the private power company had seen him and insisted that I should not be allowed to speak . At Albert Lea , Minnesota , where I spoke on June 14 , a repre ? sentative of the power company had a call in for roe at the hotel , but failed to get me . He finally succeeded in catching Mr. Vawter instead . He was trying to get my lecture stopped . Finally at St. Cloud , Minnesota , June 20 , the companies succeed ? ed in preventing my lecture from being given . This city is the headquarters of the Northern States Power Company which serves many cities in that sec ? tion . The local chautauqua committee , it was said , was made up largely of the stockholders of the company who were the heaviest guarantors of the program . The chairman of the committee was the general manager of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manager called upon me and explained the situation , saying in substance that the local committee positively refused to pay their guar ? antee , although they were under contract that could have been enforced by law , and declared that they and their city would have nothing to do with the chautauqua henceforth and forever ? Amen ? if this man Thompson were allowed to speak . I did not speak in St. Cloud . Not this time . There was one other town where my lecture was stopped . This was at Edina , Missouri , July 28 . The situation there was interesting . In Edina , it seems , a private company had a contract to supply electric service . It was not altogether satisfactory . The contract had expired and the company was seeking a ten-year renewal extension . Many of the citizens were opposed to extending the franchise and favored starting a municipal plant . The mat ? ter was going to referendum a few weeks after the date of the lecture . Representatives of the com ? pany knew exactly what the lecture contained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power companies and transcripts sent on in ad ? vance . A local spokesman of the power company , an ex-preacher-politician , took the floor at a meeting of one of the commercial clubs and recited the long stereotyped story about my dangerous career and desperate character , and presented and railroaded through a resolution against allowing me to speak in Edina . I did not speak . And a few weeks later the company got its contract . In this connection it should be noted that none of the criticisms of the lecture had anything what ? ever to do with the troth or the importance or the value of the message . In fact , no attempt was made at any time , at any of the chautauquas all summer long , by any of the private power companies or their representatives to question or criticise the sub ? ject matter or material of the lecture or to deny its truth or tremendous importance . And this in spite of the fact that the chautauqua management carried the standing announcement that after every lecture an open forum would he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticism would be given full opportunity to be heard ; and in spite of the further fact that at the close of every lec ? ture , the speaker not only gave an opportunity for questions and discussions , but earnestly invited them . The lecture on public super-power , while not at all in the " Mother , Home and Heaven " class , was nevertheless popular enough with the people and especially so with the city officials and those inter ? ested in civic progress . Of the 103 cities in which this lecture was given , forty-three or well on toward one-half of them , own and operate municipal light and power plants . Practically every one of these cities was struggling to maintain its plant ; nearly every one of them had encountered persistent ef ? forts on the part of private corporations to buy out or drive out of existence or in one way or an ? other get the plants away from them and in prac ? tically every case the cities were making a deter ? mined and , in most cases , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ municipally owned plants there were also several cities that had already start ? ed movements for municipal plants and one or two others that had recently had their plants sold out to the companies under conditions and on terms that had incensed the citizens who were only waiting an opportunity to retrieve their loss . In all of these communities a lecture on public super-power was in friendly territory and the lecture was welcomed as a very definite contribution to the community interest and general welfare . And besides , in great many of the cities served by private power companies there was more or less dissatisfaction with the service and rates , and a very general in ? terest in learning what other cities were doing , of better , more efficient and more economic methods of producing electric current and especially of the public super-power system as against the private monopoly system . Moreover , in South Dakota , in which eight of these chautauqua lectures were given , a movement for state ownership and development of super- power has been under way for several years . A survey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in South Dakota had been made in 1920-21 and a proposition to proceed with state ' development had gone to referendum vote in 1922 . Although the measure was defeated at that time , the sentiment in favor of such development has been steadily growing and the interest in the subject was very intense at all points in that state . So it came down to this : that it was only the private power companies that were raising all the opposition and making all the fuss . Why all this persistent and pernicious activity to stop a cha titauqua lecture ? What dangerous and dreadful doctrine so aroused the power companies ? Two-thirds of the lecture , in fact , all of that part which dealt with super-power was the very thing the power companies themselves are proclaiming in their literature , at conferences , on the platform and otherwise throughout the world . They can not repudiate their own gospel . But of course the super-power they are promoting is private super ? power ? a private monopoly . We , on the other hand , are promoting public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that part of my lecture that re ? counted the achievements of the government and municipally owned power plants and systems and particularly the striking success of the public super ? power system of Ontario and the tremendous pos ? sibilities of a similar system if initiated and devel ? oped here in the United States that alarmed and aroused the private interests . But , brethren , if the city of Tacoma has found a way to deliver electric service to its people for one cent a kilowatt hour for cooking and heating in their homes , while others pay six or eight , is there any reason why Tarkio and Trenton should not bear about it ? If Cleveland has found a way to deliver electricity to its people for three cents a kilowatt while others pay nine , is it a crime for Chillicothe and Corning to hear about it ? And if Ontario has discovered and applied the principles of a new system in the electric power field whereby a whole state is served with power at one-third the cost elsewhere , must the very foundation stones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Osage , Onawa and Odeboldt to find out about it ? And what becomes of our boasted free platform and the intellectual and civic leadership of the chau ? tauqua and lyceum if at the beck of a few powerful private interests a lecturer must emasculate his rnes+ sage or step down from the platform ? Are the private power companies willing to have it known that the discussion of public super-power has been driven from the platform at their com ? mand ? Are they willing to have it known that so far as they are able and in respect to their par ? ticular field , there shall be no such thing as a free platform in this country ? One question more ? and this addressed to those fine spirits of the lyceum and chautauqua world who have brought these institutions to their present point of development , and won for them the high esteem and confidence of the general public which they now enjoy : Can the managers of the chau ? tauqua and the lyceum of America afford to leave this subject of public super-power off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies of the country have so openly and so vehemently de ? creed that this subject shall not be heard , can the cliautauqu'a refuse it a hearing without thereby awakening a suspicion that they too have succumbed to the control of " special interests " and thus at once endanger the high esteem and confidence upon which their further success and growth depend ? Public super-power is now a local , a state and a national issue of first magnitude . It is even an in. ternational problem . It has already been fought out to a conclusion in thousands of cities . It is at stake and goes to referendum vote in two great states this fall ? California and Washington . It is one of the most crucial issues in Congress now . It has been thrust into the field of national politics already ; and from now on it will become more and more a vital , strategic and a paramount issue in every local , state and national movement . Will we be able to find a means of public expression of this great subject on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we look ' ewhere ; or , perhaps create some agency of our own for getting this message to the people of America ?                     