@@488321

WITHOUT even a noteworthy dying flurry the Demo- cratic campaign comes to its foredoomed end . That Governor Cox faces an overwhelming defeat is now freely conceded by the political correspondents of even the pro-Cox newspapers . For this he is in no wise responsible . True , he has not bettered his chances by his campaign , or made them much worse . He has not been the issue , and so the public has cared very little what he has said , as it cares precious little about the League of Nations . The one fundamental issue is now evident : it is Woodrow Wilson himself . Upon that issue the electorate of the United States made up its mind long ago and it now looks as if it would be so nearly unanimous as to place the verdict beyond insinuations that it was due to money , to the Irish , to the Germans , or to any other of the seventeen groups whom Governor Cox is charging with a wicked conspiracy to defeat him  --  he has now forgotten all about the alleged Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more  --  groups determined to turn out the Democrats , but that only means that Wilsonism with its administrative inefficiency , its incredible hypocrisy and insincerity , its needlessly putting us into the war which has neither ended war nor safeguarded democracy , its betrayal of American idealism at Paris , has gradually offended one set of Americans after the other . Let us hope there are seventy groups who still value the old qualities of sincerity and intellectual honesty , who still have consciences to be reckoned with , who still burn with sufficient loyalty to our institutions to turn out their unworthy servants from the highest offices of the land . ? N New York political interest centers upon the candidacies 1 of Governor Smith and Senator Wadsworth , with the women of the State making a special campaign to defeat the latter . Thoroughly does he deserve defeat . Not because of his opposition to suffrage . He had a right to stand by his opinion however antedeluvian , and the issue is now dead . It is his generally reactionary attitude which marks him as one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ died in the Wilderness as a major general . Senator Wadsworth , as ardent a militarist as any Prussian , failed to go with his troop of cavalry to the Mexican border and hastily resigned his commission before the war with Germany . He is none the less for universal military service in peace time and automatic conscription in war time  --  the author of the first universal training bill reported in the Senate . If he were to control America we should be in Germany 's old place in no time . But his militarism is only one of the counts against him . There is nothing of the democrat about him ; he is distinctly a representative of corporation control in politics and it , is a disgraceful thing that the Republican nomination went to him almost by default , for he is without the ability or the industry requisite for the position . Yet the prospect is that the Republican tidal wave will sweep him back into the office he in no wise adorns . F OR Governor Smith , on the other hand , who deserves reelection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes from perhaps the most patrician of our great land-holding families , " Al " Smith , as everyone calls him , comes right out of the plain people that throng the East Side of New York City . His rise is the sort of thing that Americans were once proudest of as most typical of this republic , and it is conceded that he has made , as Governors go , an excellent Governor . A product of Tammany Hall , he none the less has the-respect of all the enemies of that institution  --  the founder of the Citizens ' Union , Mr. R. Fulton Cutting , so long a leader of the reform forces , is working for his reelection . Governor Smith bravely vetoed the reactionary bills passed by the Republican Legislature last spring which practically abolished freedom of education in New York State and appropriated $100,000 for the creation of a State secret service bureau to hunt down " criminal anarchy , " and met with amazingly little criticism for so doing . He has outlined numerous constructive suggestions for the Legislature , some of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not even scratched the surface of the housing problem , his desire to aid the State and his own personal rectitude are such that he frequently does things unscathed which would get others into serious trouble . Thus , to the Legislature which expelled the Socialists , Governor Smith recommended in his annual message nine out and out socialistic proposals , ranging from the State 's going into the business of producing and distributing milk to the owning and operating of grain elevators . Yet not even the New York Times scolded him for it . The Governor will run thousands upon thousands of votes ahead of his ticket .                     