@@493294

ON the one hundredth anniversary of the pro ? clamation of the Monroe Doctrine Secretary Hughes delivered in Philadelphia a labored expo ? sition of what the State Department now conceives the Doctrine to be . It was able and exhaustive but it was also unillumined and disappointing : He analyzed with all the skill of a highly trained law ? yer what the Doctrine was in the beginning , how it came to be promulgated , the nature of its sanc ? tions , the subsequent modifications in its meanings and what ground it occupies today . But his ex- position was tnat of a lawyer who was also an administrator rather than that of a statesman who was also a popular political leader . Historians Will find his brief most valuable . It contains in authoritative summary of what the Doctrine was in theory and what it has become in practice . The American people , on the other hand , will not read it , It will not stir up public opinion , and it will not exert a formative influence on the growth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accuracy an American foreign policy which in a period of irresistible world movement is pictured as essentially static . SINCE 1823 when the Doctrine was originally promulgated , revolutionary changes have taken place in the relations among Europe , North America and South America and in the economic and political status of these continents . The Euro ? pean political and economic system is no longer a danger to the independence and security of the , American states . It is passing through a period of regression rather than aggression . For the time being the aggressive nation is the one which is expanding most vigorously in economic resources and power , and that nation is unquestionably the United States . The other American nations are also growing . They no longer need protection against European aggression . If they feel any fear , it is of the United , States rather than Europe . THEY are not afraid , we imagine , that the United States will invade their territory , but they resent the increasing disposition of the American government to rule the American hemisphere . They feel themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic inferiority and dependence . They would like to see the Monroe Doctrine regularized by being transformed into the declared policy of a League of American nations . Instead of being main tained , as it was originally promulgated , on the exclusive authority of the United States , instead of being interpreted solely by the secretaries of state and presidents of this country , they would like to see it embodied in a preamble and bill of international rights which they have themselves ac ? cepted and helped to formulate . They would like to see it administered by the whole Pan-American Union instead of by the biggest member of it . If their susceptibilities in this and other respects are ignored , they will soon be looking to Europe for protection against the United States rather than to the United States for protection against Europe . WHATEVER hopes they have nurtured of a mutual understanding must have been , rudely cut off by Mr. Hughes 's reiteration of a sordid and nationalistic version of the Doctrine ? the version which caused so much hard feeling when enunciated by Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , he pointed out , a Pan-American mutual policy at all It is a domestic concern of the United States , and will be modified by us in any direction and to any degree we see fit . The Latin-American countries are somewhat peremptorily asked to give us " most favored nation " treatment in all cases . They must respect the rights of our citizens and not pass laws confiscatory of foreign ? ers ' property . In order to defend the Panama Canal , we intend to control the Caribbean . There are worse varieties of imperialism than this ; but we need not blind ourselves to the fact that that is what it is . SECRETARY HUGHES 'S delineation of the existing relationship between the United . States and Europe was exclusively retrospective . It was prudent and realistic but devoid of vision and prophecy . He was , to be sure , expressing the future interest and resolution of the American peo ? ple as well as their past interest and resolution when he called attention to the " tenacity " with which they " hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Europe . " But he would have done well to recognize frankly that the United States did meddle in the political strife in Europe when it took part in the Great War , and that by entering the war it modified traditions and started consequences in motion which will render impossible the maintenance indefinitely of the isola ? tion which the Monroe Doctrine and the Farewell Address proclaimed . He missed an opportunity of contributing to the appeasement of political strife in Europe by failing to declare that , insofar as Europe gives up the luxury of political quarrels which involve the welfare and security of whole nations , there was no reason why the United States for certain defined purposes should not enter a European concert . THE advent of the British election has at least given unhappy Germany a breathing space of a few days . M. Poincare , who wishes to have the Baldwin government remain in power on the the ? ory that anything is preferable to a return of Lloyd George , has maintained the fiction of a re ? stored Entente by a temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have two expert in ? vestigations of German conditions , one dealing with German finance and currency , the other with her wealth abroad and how the Allies can get their hands on it . " Capacity to pay , " even for the next three years , will not be considered . Some in ? credibly optimistic individuals profess to believe the United States may even yet participate in these inquiries . Such hope is idle . Our government tested the sincerity of France when it recently re ? iterated the Hughes proposal . The answer . proved , if any one in the world still needed the evidence , that France is not interested in having Germany put on her feet and enabled to pay a just repara ? tion . France is interested only in destroying her beaten foe , and this she intends to do by her own acts , despite any effort by any other power to stop her . AFTER a week of vain efforts to form a new gov ? ernment , Dr. William Marx , the Centrist leader , has succeeded in completing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in power . Eight of the eleven holders of portfolios are carried over , and Stresemann himself becomes foreign minister . The middle ground group , Clericals , mem ? bers of the People 's party and Democrats , are be ? hind the Marx government , which is , however , with ? out a majority in the Reichstag . As we go to press it is believed that unless the Chancellor is formally granted complete powers he will probably dissolve the Reichstag and give Germany in theory what it already has in fact , rule by an emergency dictator ? ship . M. POINCARE now openly confesses what has been fairly clear from the first ? that his solemn promise to make the Ruhr occupation " invisible " after the abandonment of passive resistance was just another of those scraps of paper with which Europe has been strewn in recent years . The troops will not be withdrawn , he now explains , be ? cause of the disorder which has lately appeared in the district . This disorder , he might have added , is the result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt , if the population became as'meek as lambs he would find another excuse . Meanwhile , the Berlin govern ? ment last Sunday was forced to put an end to all assistance to the Ruhr and Rhineland . Their pop ? ulations are at the mercy of the French , who have already indicated just what that mercy amounts to . The separatist republic has at last become too grotesque a farce even for the French , though M. Poincare hopes , as he said the other day in the Chamber , that " the people of the Rhineland will voluntarily and spontaneously " break away from Prussia . At the same session the Communists in the Chamber directly accused the French govern ? ment of subsidizing the Bavarian nationalists . WHATEVER may be said in defence of Allied policy toward Germany , it can not be relieved of the charge that it has worked directly against the interest of German democracy . Of the four prin ? cipal social classes in Germany , the Junkers and captains of industry , the small investors and cap ? italists , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been absolutely ruined by the inflation made inevitable by excessive indemnity charges , and the fourth has had its position pro ? gl'essively weakened . The combined pressure of the French occupation and the big mine owners and industrialists has at last broken the resistance of the Ruhr workers and forced them back to the working day of the pre-war period . Similar pres ? sure is gradually crushing the life out of the unions in unoccupied Germany . The result is that the great captains of industry and the peasants now constitute the only real power in the German state . They may govern it under the forms of democ ? racy , but the reality behind the form will be a more or less disguised fascism . FROM the almost universal chorus of approval with which the press greeted Secretary Mellon 's plan of tax reduction , it might have been supposed that there would be little difficulty in translating the plan into actual legislation . But the opposi ? tion has been developing steadily ever since . The restless West is by no means convinced that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reductions in the lower schedules or ren ? dered necessary by the flight of capital into tax exempt securities . Cut the rates on the smaller incomes , say the agrarian spokesmen . Then we 'll consider the surtaxes on their own merits . Of course the conservatives could not consent to such a method of dealing with the problem . They must insist on all ? with trifling amendments , perhaps ? or nothing . There are enough of them , counting both Republicans and Democrats , to put Mellon 's plan through . But would it be politically safe for Democrats thus to enmesh themselves in a bipar ? tisan conservative combination ? They will think a great deal before they do it . APPARENTLY there is considerable strength behind the movement in Congress for a constitu ? tional amendment prohibiting the issue of further tax exempt securities . Such a reform appeals neither to radicalism nor to conservatism , but to universal common sense . There might be some ? thing to be said for exemption if the political authority issuing bonds exempted them only from taxes levied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offers a means by which one polit ? ical authority may secure cheap money at the ex ? pense of the revenues of other political author ? ities . North Dakota may issue bonds , to be held by citizens of New York , who need pay no taxes on the income derived from them either to New York or to the federal government . The tax exemption feature may give North Dakota a four , percent interest rate instead of five percent , but somebody else has to pay for the one percent saved . In our hypothetical case , which is typical , it is the State of New York and the federal gov ? ernment that have to pay . It is a remarkable thing that we should have preserved a device which en ? ables a state government to siphon money out of the treasuries of other states , and even out of the federal treasury . I T will be said that even a constitutional amend ? ment would leave the enormous mass of thirty billions of tax exempt securities just where they are . Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1929 to reduce the vol ? ume considerably in its tax refunding oper ? ations . Furthermore , it is entirely practicable for the federal government gradually to buy up , on account of the sinking fund , its own tax exempt securities and apply pressure to the states to com ? pel them to do likewise . It could do this through manipulating the estate taxes in such a manner as to affect the state revenues materially . Suppose that it adopted the plan of increasing the estate taxes heavily and applying the proceeds strict ? ly to debt ' retirement , transferring to the states , however , a fixed percentage of the taxes collected within their jurisdiction on condition that the sums thus transferred be applied , together with specified additional funds , to the purchase and retirement of tax exempt securities . We should gradually get rid of tax exemption , and arrive at a sounder fiscal position besides . I T. seems a pity that Secretary Mellon should have spoiled the effect of his tax reduction sug ? gestion by proposing , a little later , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ? 000,000 . Mr. Mellon thinks he ought to have $28,500,000 for additional coast guard vessels and personnel for the purpose of fighting rum run ? ners . Of this sum , it appears , $20,000,000 would be for new cutters . But the United States navy now has on hand any quantity of craft admirably suited to these purposes . It has , for example , 171 destroyers , of 1,200 tons and a speed of thirty-five knots , none more than five years old , costing $1,250,000 each . It has eight mine sweepers , of 1,192 tons and a speed of thirty-two knots . All these vessels are lying idle at the present time and there is no earthly reason why they should not be added to Secretary Mellon 's equipment for hunt ? ing down the elusive whiskey cargo where it bobs among the waves . If the Secretary insists on his twenty million dollars ' worth of new ships , the sum wasted , of course , is twice that , for it includes the $20,000 ; 000 already expended on vessels which are lying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Pittsburgh man ; but it seems far more like wild extravagance to other people . THE migration northward of the Negro agri ? cultural laborer is revising the attitude of some parts of the South toward European immigration . The old American stock , which has preserved its purity in the South as in no other section , shows no disposition to throw itself into manual labor in the fields left vacant by the Negroes . Northern farmers might eventually work their way farther South , but this will not be in our time , and the landholders of the Mississippi Valley are not con ? tent to wait upon posterity . Hence there has arisen a demand that the immigration laws should be amended to admit farm families outside of the quota limitations . Large landowners would pay the passage of such families and plant them on the land under arrangements promising ultimate inde. pendence . We may grant that some hundreds of thousands of European farmers could be distribut ? ed through the South to the benefit of the South ? ern communities and the country as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ malaria , built up its schools and devised a less spectacular way of dealing with the Negro problem , there is little chance that European families would remain on the soil , even if imported especially for this purpose . And with those problems solved , per ? haps the need for immigration would be less keen ? ly felt . I N days when intolerance rules in so many col ? leges throughout the country , it is a pleasure to record the existence of one institution where the students are not wrapped in cotton wool to stimu ? late their intellectual growth . Under the sane leadership of President Ernest Hopkins , Dart ? mouth pursues a policy of wholehearted devotion to the truth , which includes hearing both sides of controversial questions . President Hopkins evi ? dently believes enough in the intelligence and char. acter of American boys not to expect them to be led astray by " theorists " ? especially if the latter 's arguments are as fallacious as the advocates of suppression and censorship universally declare them to be . William Z. Foster , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head into conniption fits , recently lectured at Dartmouth on The Left Wing of the American Labor Move ? ment before what is described as " a sympathetic and enthusiastic audience which packed Dartmouth Hall . " A subsequent issue of the college paper carried a column article giving a highly intelligent summary of Foster 's address , which appears to have been a ' candid elementary explanation of in ? dustrial unionism . It would be too much to ex ? pect that such an instance of fair-mindedness should pass unrebuked by the hysterical little-Americans , and President Hopkins has already been the recipient of some protest . Naturally , people with a National Security League type of mind do not want even one institution left which preserves American principles of free speech and , freedom of thought . THE craze for meddling with the facts of his ? tory in the interests of " patriotism " has reached its high water mark in Arkansas . A law recently passed there , under the innocent title of " An act to require the display of the American flag by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American history shall be taught in the primary grades , and adds : The instilling into the hearts of the various pupils , of an understanding of the United States and of a love of country and of a devotion to the principles of Amer ? ican government , shall be the primary object of such instruction , which shall avoid as far as possible being a mere recital of dates and events . . . . Any teacher . . violating any of the provisions of this act shall be liable to a fine of not less than $ioo nor more than $500 , or by imprisonment in the county jail for a term of not less than 3o days and not more than six months , or both . A violation .. . shall be sufficient grounds for the discharge or removal of the teacher or official .. . and in the case of a corporation shall be sufficient ground for revoking its charter . THERE is a whole-hearted devotion to hundred ? per-centness which even the American Defense Society might envy . In most states the weak ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only noble Arkansas has gloriously abandoned useless history altogether , with its folderol of names . and dates , and gone in for propaganda alone . Here is a magnificent maintenance of the ideals of the founding fathers so splendidly expressed in the first amendment to the Constitution , where they wrote ( as we recall it ) that no laws shall be passed " abridging freedom of speech or of the press , as long as nothing is said or printed which shall seem unpatriotic to the sov ? sovereign state of Arkansas after there is one . " THE Craig contempt case , discussed at length elsewhere in this issue , has suddenly become doubly grave in character because of the action of Attorney General Daugherty and President Coolidge . The ' President has remitted the sixty-day jail sentence imposed on New York City 's Comptroller , but wants it distinctly understood that he does not con ? done what the latter did . Mr. Daugherty 's state ? ment which recommended this action is an almost incredible performance , even from our illustrious Attorney General . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the case on its merits ; insists that his original statement was a falsehood ( waving , aside the circumstance that only Judge Mayer himself has had an opportunity to pass upon the point ) ; calls Mr. Craig " arrogant , " and finally flatly advises the President to yield to a public opinion which he himself regards as wrong , and remit the jail sentence in order to quiet the clamor . With unbelievable na ? vet ? , Mr. Daugherty explains that the only " proper criticism " of the action of a court is " truthful criticism " ? which simplifies the matter beautifully , in view of the fact that ninety nine percent of all judges would of course take it for granted that any criticism of themselves was " untruthful . " The Daugherty. opinion is a far worse blow at liberty of speech than was the Mayer ruling . The Attorney General and the President have identified themselves with the ugliest forces of reaction . No true lover of liberty can tolerate their assumption that the acts of a judge are sacred , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protest them . PREMIER BALDWIN 'S son is vigorously sup ? porting labor candidates against his father 's party in the English election . Politics is politics . Young Baldwin believes that the government has been twiddling its thumbs ; the fact that his father is head of the government can not stop him from say ? ing so . Here is a form of free speech which America , the land of subservient young , has hardly a conception of . Our legal means for preventing frankness are stringent enough , but our social pres ? sure is inexorable . The idea of tribe loyalty , of a sort of Kentucky mountain , adherence to pater ? nal opinion , we still keep so bound up with family affection that the love of father for son is almost conditioned by agreement or tacit disagreement on matters of opinion . This is particularly true of the sons of prominent fathers . The public would not trust a son who " betrayed " hig father by publicly holding opposite opinions , even if- it held those opinions itself . MR . ARTHUR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue challenges the American agitators for peace to justify their atti ? tude of indifference to the policy which France is pursuing towards Germany . That policy , , if it is successfully continued , will dismember the German nation , kill off eventually many millions of the Ger ? man people , and nourish emotions of fear , hatred and insecurity in Europe which will later explode in another general war and vindicate the chief contention of the dogmatic militarist ? that a na ? tion disarmed is a nation damned . Yet , as the New Republic has frequently pointed out , the peace agitators have greeted this performance with a silence which in effect amounts to complicity . They declare with ever increasing emphasis that war is the deadly enemy of modern civilization which , if civilization is to survive , must be started on the road towards extinction . Yet they do nothing to warn their followers that one of the most male ? ficent wars of European history is now , being waged under the forms of peace . They are not prepar ? ing peace-loving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with ' a bleeding wound in the moral and political body of Europe which , unless it is healed , will postpone indefinitely the appeasement of that continent and of the rest of the world . American pacifists , although they are silent about the behavior of France to Germany , are of course far from indifferent to the disorder and dis ? tress of Europe and to the moral entanglement in that disorder of the United States . They affirm strenuously American responsibility for what is happening in Europe . They frequently talk as if Americans were more responsible for European errors and calamities than are the Europeans . Their general belief is that at the end of the . war the United States deserted Europe in a " cowardly and ignoble " manner , and by this act deprived that helpless continent of " moral leadership . " They attribute the subsequent calamities and disorders to American withdrawal . As the friends of peace they conceive themselves bound to persuade their fellow countrymen to revoke the withdrawal and to resume the political association which the Senate severed when it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working to give renewed vitality to American effort in Europe on behalf of peace by advocating the adhesion of the United States to the World Court and to the League of Nations and by clamoring for a new conference in which the United States would participate without reservations . These pacifist activities provide in our opinion no sufficient excuse for their silence about the actual existence of war in Europe due to the deliberate attempt of one nation to subjugate another nation . Their neutrality with respect to the actual war sterilizes their in other respects admirable labors to promote peace . The negligence is particularly deplorable because it does much to disable the American nation from adopting the policy which without ' invoking a new war is most likely to dis ? credit and ultimately defeat the objects which the French seek by the occupation of the Ruhr . The peace program of the American pacifists is a less excusable repetition of the mistake which ex-President Wilson committed in formulating the diplomacy and propaganda of American interven ? tion in the Great War and which resulted in the confusion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any preliminary understanding with the European Allies about the objects for which they were thereafter to fight . He placed American ' resources at the disposal of the ? opponents of Germany for the fulfillment of objects over which he exercised no effective control . To be sure he eloquently and unflinchingly asso ? ciated American intervention with a peace of re ? conciliatiOn rather than of retaliation , but he acted as if his words were potent enough to create their own obje , cts . He discouraged any discussion of his program by his fellow-countrymen which did not accept the infallibility of his own , diplomacy . He ignored and wished the American people to ignore that their European associates had entered into political bargains which would frustrate a peace of reconciliation . The American public were never                     