@@488310

S ENATOR LA FOLLETTE , in his speech at St. Louis on October 14 , discussed the World War and concluded With the most comprehensive and detailed statement of his views on foreign policy that he has made since his nomination . Owing to- the interest of many of our readers in Mr. La Follette 's probable attitude toward foreign affairs , should he be elected President , we print the speech in full below : - The time has come to return to fundamental American principles and traditions in the conduct of our foreign policy , as well as of our domestic policy . For more than one hundred years this Government constantly pursued a policy which had been defined early in the last century by the greatest American statesmen . Its principles involved a wide departure from the traditions and practices of European diplomacy , which were based upon imperialistic intrigue . They were as original and unique as the principles of representative government , upon which our domestic policy was based . It was truly an American policy . Its fundamental doctrines were , perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inaugural address , when he declared for " peace , commerce , and honest friendship with all nations ; entangling alliances with none . " They were indorsed by Washington , Franklin , and other great statesmen . Only Hamilton and his followers , who desired a monarchy in the United States and an alliance with Great Britain , dared to oppose them . This did not mean isolation from friendly intercourse and cooperation with other nations . For a hundred years the United States displayed a constant readiness to cooperate with other nations to promote the peaceful settlement of international disputes . Its reassertion will not imply any unreadiness to act with other nations in removing the causes of war . EARLY PRINCIPLES To this basic statement of American foreign policy should be added three other general principles , which were enunciated during the early years of the century : ( 1 ) Recognition of foreign governments without intervention in their affairs . ( 2 ) The Monroe Doctrine safeguarding the American continents from imperialistic exploitation . ( 3 ) Absolute neutrality toward foreign nations involved in war . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration of George Washington . England , then at war with France , sought to stop our shipments of food to the latter country . Thomas Jefferson , Washington 's Secretary of State , in a letter to the United States Minister to Great Britain , stated the doctrine ' of neurality , as follows : " Reason and usage , " said Jefferson , " have established that when two nations go to war , those who choose to live in peace retain their natural rights to pursue their agriculture , manufacture , and other ordinary vocations ; to carry the produce of their industry , for exchange to all nations , belligerent or neutral , as usual ; to go and come freely without injury or molestation ; and , in short , that the war among others shall be , for them , as if it did not exist . " In order to make the meaning of this doctrine quite clear , I desire to quote from Jefferson 's interpretation set forth in another part of the same letter , where he says : " Were we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should in like manner be bound to - withhold them from her enemies also , and thus shut to ourselves all the ports of Europe where corn is in demand or make ourselves parties in the war . This is a dilemma which Great Britain has noright to force upon us , and for which no pretext can be found in any part of our conduct . She may , indeed , feel the desire of starving an enemy nation , but she can have no right of doing it at our loss , nor of making us the instruments of it . " These were the fundamental doctrines upon which American foreign policy was based . They were adhered to for more than a century . Webster , Clay , and Lincoln were among the great statesmen who insisted upon their maintenance inviolate . They made for peace , and , in spite of the relative weakness of the American nation at the time they were proclaimed , gave to the United States a position which commanded the respect of all the world . IMPERIALISM HAS CREPT IN Today there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignored , violated , or utterly rejected . Those who have controlled our foreign policy during the last ten years have departed entirely from American traditions and American principles , and permitted our policy to be shaped by the imperialistic maxims and precepts of European diplomacy . In order that we may understand the causes which have led to the abandonment of these principles , and in some measure appreciate the dire consequences arising therefrom , I wish briefly to review a few outstanding facts and events . It is true that our departure from the traditional American policy began with the development of imperialism under William McKinley , following the Spanish-American war . The breach was broadened under Roosevelt and Taft . The establishment of colonial possessions and dependencies , the rape of Panama , and the establishment of " dollar diplomacy " were all violations of the best American traditions . Slowly but surely we were entering upon the path of imperialism , which leads only to international discord and to war . ? Nevertheless , it is my opinion that the complete abandonment of the true American foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been continued and expanded under the present Harding-Coolidge Administration . Wilson was elected as an anti-imperialist and did , in fact , do much during the first two years of his Administration to check the tendency toward imperialism by using his influence for Philippine independence , by curbing the extension of dollar diplomacy , and by his attitude toward the Mexican revolution . When war was declared in Europe in the summer of 1914 President Wilson declared for " absolute neutrality  --  neutrality in thought , word , and deed . " This was a true American policy . If this doctrine had been adhered to we would never have been drawn into war . We would be free from every form of foreign entanglement ; we would have avoided at home the dire consequences of the last few years . AMERICA 'S WAR LOSSES Sixty thousand American boys would still be alive . We would have no colossal war debt . We would be free from our heavy burden of taxation . We would have no problem of caring for hundreds of thousands of wounded , diseased , and shell-shocked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanding speedy relief . We would have had no such concentration of wealth in the hands of a few as we have witnessed in recent years . Above all , we should have preserved our proud distinction of a nation steadfastly devoted to peace . Had the plain principle of international law announced by Washington and Jefferson been followed we would not have been called upon to declare war upon any of the belligerent nations of Europe . The fatal error came in the failure of President Wilson to treat the belligerent nations of Europe alike  --  the failure to reject the unlawful " war zones " of both Germany and Great Britain ! I do not doubt that President Wilson was sincere when he declared for absolute neutrality . I know the influences which surrounded him and which , day after day , month after month , brought the heaviest imaginable pressure to induce him to abandon his position of neutrality and throw the strength of the United States openly on the side of the allied governments . The publication of the memoirs and letters of Franklin K. Lane and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picture of the insidious methods which were used to induce the President to abandon his declared position . In establishing our position of neutrality during the early years of the World War two alternative courses were open , either of which led directly to peace . One was to insist upon the maintenance of absolute freedom of the seas and to resist any action on the part of either Great Britain or Germany which encroached upon our rights as a neutral nation to sell our food and other non-contraband articles to any nation . This line of policy was the one upon which Washington and Jefferson had insisted in their dealings with Great Britain and France in 1793 . It was sanctioned by international law and clearly recognized in the Declaration of London , in which this field was more fully and definitely covered than in any other preceding document . The second path that led to peace  --  the other alternative which was open to us  --  was to withdraw our commerce from both belligerents during the period of hostility and limit our trade to neutral nations . THE PATH @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . trod timidly and hesitatingly at first , and later aggressively the path that led to war . We permitted Great Britain to mine the entire North Sea . We permitted her to cut us off entirely from legitimate commerce in food and other non-contraband articles with Germany , and to interfere with and restrict our trade with the neutral Scandinavian countries . It is true that we protested against this denial of our international rights , but we did not insist . We permitted England to stop our shipments of food while women and children , old men , and other non-combatants were starving in Germany . We permitted our ships consigned to - neutral ports to be seized and searched by the British Navy . We wrote notes of protest to the British Government , but always with the knowledge that the American Ambassador at the Court of St. James 's was making it clear that these protests need not be heeded by the British Government . Everything that followed was the inevitable consequence of this failure to observe genuine and absolute neutrality . I need not review those consequences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every man , woman , and child . They know the broad events , but they do not , in my opinion , under-. stand their significance or their causes . I would not now refer to them except that they have a bearing of the utmost importance , not alone upon our present foreign policy but upon our domestic policy as well . It is my opinion that our foreign policy at the present time is being dictated and controlled by the same forces which were responsible for the abandonment and withdrawal of American neutrality during the World War . It is my opinion that the private monopoly system was primarily responsible for the abandonment of our - traditional foreign policy ; that this system forced us into the World War ; that this system is now driving us at breakneck speed along the paths of imperialism that lead inevitably to war and to the ending of-free government at home as well . MORGAN AND THE WAR I am convinced ? I was convinced at the beginning  --  that we abandoned our policy of neutrality through the influence of J. P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Empire , who , in the early spring of 1917 , turned loose the press and agencies of propaganda to drive us into the war . At that time the credit of the Allies with the firm of J. P. Morgan &; Co. had been overdrawn to the extent of $400,000,000 , while contracts to the amount of $800,000,000 more were maturing , which could only be paid by bringing America into the war . Hundreds of other banks were in the same perilous situation . They , too , had underwritten British and French bonds . If the Allies were defeated , these debts would not be paid . The bonds of the Allied countries would fall in value , and might possibly be worthless . The House of Morgan could only be saved by being underwritten by the United States Government . This was done . It was for this reason that America abandoned the policy of Washington , the policy of Jefferson , the policy of every President of the American people for a hundred years . You need not take my word for this . Here is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treasury during the war . In an article in the Atlantic Monthly he says under his own signature : " I shall not soon forget the blunt declaration , made to me ten days before Sir Cecil Spring-Rice took the first fruits of our efforts , by a member of the firm of J. P. Morgan &; Co. : " ' We have scraped the bottom of the box . They owe us and our associate banks $400,000,000 ? practically an overdraft , since we can not sell the collateral remaining in our hands without making a panic on the New York stock market . You people in the Treasury must now bear the whole burden . We can do no more . ' " Six weeks later , we learned that , in addition to this cash commitment , the Allies had contracted for about $800,000,000 worth of goods deliverable within six months . " That was the reason that Morgan  --  now , by the grace of the British King , Sir John Pierpont Morgan  --  forced America into the World War . Then came the Treaty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is the mother of war . It gave Great Britain command of the seas and of Africa , Asia , and the resources of the world as well . It made France a militaristic , imperialistic power . It violated the terms of the armistice  --  an armistice entered into in good faith , by Germany at least , and to which the victorious nations were in honor pledged . THE TREATY Or VERSAILLES The Treaty of Versailles is a treaty of shame . By reason of it , the assurances of the American people to a defeated foe became as a scrap of paper . All Europe was made a tinder box ready to burst into flame as a result of this dishonorable treaty  --  a treaty which must be revised if peace is again to reign on the earth . Who were President Wilson 's close advisers during the making of this treaty ? Thomas W. Lamont of the firm of Morgan &; Co. and other affiliated international bankers . Have you forgotten that the bankers had copies of the treaties before the Senate was permitted to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ command to force American ratification of this treaty and thus involved us inextricably in the intrigues and wars of Europe . The abandonment of our traditional policy did not end in 1919 . The present Republican Administration was elected upon a pledge to abandon the foreign policies of the preceding Administration and restore America to the same paths which had previously been pursued . This pledge has been completely repudiated . The same forces that controlled American foreign policy when Lansing was Secretary of State , the same forces that plunged us into the World War , now dictate the policies of Secretary Hughes . It is said , " No man can serve two masters , " but Secretary Hughes , in his direction of the foreign policy of the United States , can and does serve two masters . He serves both Standard Oil and Morgan &; Co. with constant fidelity . From the beginning of the Harding-Coolidge Administration our foreign policy has been shaped in the main in the interests of one or the other of these two affiliated groups . The first act of Secretary Hughes as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the treaty to pay Colombia $25,000,000 because , as Secretary Fall and Senator Lodge coldly stated in their advocacy of the treaty , it would give our oil companies preferential chances in securing concessions in that country . The present Republican Administration was elected upon a pledge to recall American marines from Haiti and Santo Domingo and to right the wrongs which had been done to other Central and South American countries . Instead of redeeming these pledges , the Department of State , under the dictation of Morgan and other international bankers , has extended financial imperialism into new countries and has done nothing to redress the grievous wrongs of the previous administration . American taxpayers have borne the cost of collecting the debts and protecting the properties of American exploiters in these countries . American marines have been sacrificed and thousands of natives killed . America has been disgraced for the profit of private interests . The present Republican Administration was elected upon a pledge to avoid entangling alliances . But under that Administration the United States has been involved in a compact with the three great imperialistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan , which commits the United States to support those nations in the exploitation of Asia . This compact  --  the Four-Power Treaty  --  was negotiated under cover of the so-called Disarmament Conference . It is a peril to the American people and a direct threat to world peace . The international bankers , oil companies , and other exploiting interests alone will profit from it . THE HUGHES POLICY The foreign policy of our State Department under Secretary Hughes has been guided by private interests . In South America , in the Near East , in Mexico , and in Asia the American Department of State has been an agency of American bankers on the one hand and the Standard Oil Company on the other . The Interior Department is not the only department of the Government that has betrayed the people 's interests to enrich the oil syndicates . As Standard Oil has shaped our foreign policy during the present Administration in matters relating to natural resources , so Morgan &; Co. have shaped its policy in questions of international finances . Thus , in foreign as in domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial oligarchy controlled by Morgan and Standard Oil openly dominates our governmental policies in both fields . It is for this reason that the Progressives declare that their first purpose is to break the power of the private monopoly system over our Government and return it to the people . When I am elected President of the United States it will , therefore , be my first task to begin to restore this Government of ours to the people . That is the basic step in our program of housecleaning  --  a program that includes justice to all classes , to the farmer , to the worker , to the independent merchant and manufacturer , to all those unprivileged millions who have been politically voiceless during the last ten years , and who have suffered most from the war and the period since the war . THE PROGRESSIVE PROGRAM We would end war by ending the causes of war . In ending these causes of foreign war , we will in large measure reestablish our liberties at home . First : We will end secret diplomacy . Secret diplomacy in effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in commitments and obligations , in acts of aggression , and in entanglements which involve the honor of the nation . Under secret diplomacy war becomes an accomplished fact before the nation is aware of even its possibility . Second : Should war be forced upon us we would end all profit from war . Sacrifices at the front and in the home would be paralleled with equal sacrifice in the banking office , the counting room , and the munitions plant . We would enlist wealth if we enlisted men . Third : If war is forced upon us , we shall leave no heritage of debt on subsequent generations . We shall pay for war as we go . Our taxes will not be taxes on the hunger of the poor , on necessities and comforts , on recreations and amuse-ments . Our taxes will be levied on war profits , on unpatriotic dividends , on incomes , inheritances , and excess profits . This , too , will discourage war . Fourth : We will not annex the territory of any other nation . We will not invade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their sovereignty by a display of armed force . We will not menace the integrity of Mexico . We will withdraw our marines from Haiti , from Santo Domingo , and from the Central American states . We will not join in the dismemberment of China , or seek to coerce China or any other dependent people to permit us to share with other Powers in their despoliation . Fifth : We will give self-government to the Philippines , thus fulfilling the solemn promises of our Congress . In place of conquest we will offer help and encouragement to these peoples to establish self-government , to the end that they may enjoy the same liberties that we seek for ourselves at home . Sixth : We will provide for a referendum on war , except in case of armed invasion  --  an emergency which I can not conceive to arise . We make no more wars by the act of the Executive Department alone ; we will make no more wars by dragooning the Senate and the House of Representatives into war . We will make no war until those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sacrifice vote their approval of war . Such a war would not require the subversion of the Constitution , the trampling under foot of civil liberties , and the denial of the rights of free opinions . Seventh : We will seek the whole-hearted cooperation of the nations of the world to reduce armaments to a defensive basis . Eighth : We will end financial imperialism . We will divorce the State Department from imperialistic financial agencies . We will repudiate the doctrine that the American flag shall follow the investor . American youth shall no longer be sent to the tropics , to Mexico , to ' Santo Domingo , or Haiti . They shall not be used in Europe or in other continents as a collection agency for private debts . This is a constructive policy  --  a policy of peace on earth and good will to all mankind  --  a policy that would mobilize the world for peace , that would free the world from conquests , and release its workers for the production of wealth and for its enjoyment unpoisoned by fear . LA FOLLETTE 'S @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy in his speech in Cincinnati on October 10 . On the subject of financial imperialism he said : America has become the credit reservoir of the world . We have 40 per cent of the gold of the world . The whole world is knocking at our doors for loans . Since the war eight billion dollars has been invested abroad . It has gone to Europe and to Asia , to Africa and to South and Central America . J. P. Morgan &; Co. has become the dictator of the destiny of a great part of Europe . It fixes the terms on which governments may endure . It determines whether ministries shall rise or fall . It dictates the terms of peace and holds the fate of European democracy in its hands . The financial power of Wall Street showed its hand in Haiti and Santo Domingo when American marines were sent to protect its investments . Should its precarious investments in Europe , Africa , or Asia be imperiled it will demand that American boys be conscripted for their protection . The doctrine that the flag follows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conceived in the British Foreign Office seventy ydars ago . It was this wicked doctrine that destroyed the liberties of a great part of the world ; it led to the bombardment of Alexandria and the invasion of Egypt ; it made Tunis , Algiers , and Morocco subject to France . It seized on the richest provinces of China . It laid its hands on all of Africa . It inspired the Boer war . It lay back of the conflict over the Bagdad Railway and the conquest of the Mediterranean . Dollar diplomacy , financial imperialism , the doctrine that the flag follows the investor , is responsible for the great war itself . For thirty years prior to its outbreak the concession - hunters , exploiters , imperialists of England , Germany , Russia , and France , backed by the foreign office , supported by secret - diplomacy , were at war all over the unprotected world . It was - the irritations and the conflicts , the fears and the hysteria , the propaganda of the munition makers and the press that brought on the great war that left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crippled twenty million more , and brought the - civilized world to the very brink of destruction . The Treaty of Versailles which we were asked to ratify was a treaty of financial imperialists , of exploiters , of bankers , of oil monopolists , who sought through mandates to sanctify - and make permanent a redistribution of the spoils of the world and to cement forever the strangle hold of the power of gold on the defenseless peoples of the earth . America has become the creditor nation of the world . We - are standing at the threshold of a parting of the ways . We are menaced by our own imperialism , by that imperialism which destroyed the great nations of the past . It was imperialism that destroyed Greece . It destroyed Rome .                     