@@486379

T HE outstanding result of the general elections held in Czecho-Slovakia on November 15 is that the parliamentary majority of the present Coalition Government under Premier Svehla was slashed to a nominal figure . Preliminary estimates gave the Coalition only about 158 votes out of a total of 300 . Thus the Coalition as it now stands is doomed . Created during the war on the program of a united front against Austria , it served the new-born republic through many perils and vicissitudes . As the Coalition functioned through a caucus of the leaders of the five major CzechoSlovak parties it was called the Petka , or Big Five . An outgrowth of the original revolutionary committee , the Petka jealously guarded its extra-legal powers . Thus decisions in the first instance were always reached in the Petka , and later referred to Parliament or the Cabinet , as the case might be , for regularization . Despite its shortcomings the Petka has been a veritable source of strength to the new parliamentary regime in Czecho-Slovakia . Suffrage is universal and equal in Czecho-Slovakia , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Punishment for non-voting is relatively severe ; in the first instances , fines , and , later on , imprisonment from one day to a week . Extenuating circumstances , such as illness , are , however , recognized by the authorities . This provision for compulsory voting means that more than half the population take part in general elections . Further , there is proportional , not geographical , representation , and votes must be cast according to strict party lists . A party need therefore capture but a single seat to have its leader elected to Parliament , as he is naturally put first on the party list . Finally , for the sake of public convenience , elections are always held on Sunday . Though final returns from the recent elections in Czecho-Slovakia have not yet reached this country , the changes in the lower house approximately are : deleted table The above table shows that the Coalition majority has been cut from 173 to 158 seats . The first five parties on the list have hitherto made up both the Petka and the Government , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ join the ranks of the reorganized Coalition . With the exception of the not unexpected triumph of the Communists at the expense of the Czecho-Slovak Social Democrats there has been little change in the relative strength of the Coalition in Parliament . Let us first probe the causes of the rout of the Social Democratic forces . In 1920 the Social Democrats came into Parliament with nearly twice as . many seats ( about seventy-five ) as any other party . At that time , however ; the Communists formed the left wing of the party . After the failure of the Communist coup in December , 1920 , the latter group broke away from the Soeial Democrats , taking with them some twenty-two Deputies . Local elections held in 1923 and 1924 , however , revealed that these twenty-two seats came nowhere near representing the strength of the Communist Party in the country at large . About two years ago the Social Democrats had the misfortune of losing their able leader , Tusar , who had been twice Premier . Since Tusar 's death the Social Democrats have degenerated into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Communists , the only party in Czecho-Slovakia which cuts through national lines , have also gained at the expense of the German-Magyar Social Democrats . During the last year or two the Communist Party has been torn by internal dissensions as to whether it should continue its Moscow affiliations . The more moderate elements declared Soviet tactics could not be used in a highly organized country like CzechoSlovakia , whereas those " encouraged " by the Third International violently opposed this view . While this basic internal issue is probably not settled forever , the anti-Moscow forces were routed , and a definite , positive program was adopted which spelled the ruin of the Social Democrats . Looking again at the above table , we see that within both the Coalition and the Opposition there has been a distinct drift toward the right . Here the increased strength shown by the three branches of the Clericals , which , like the Agrarians , draw most of their votes from rural districts , is especially worthy of note . First of all let us examine the position of the Czech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely foreseen . Earlier in the year public opinion in Czecho-Slovakia was divided over the proposal of celebrating Huss Day ( July 6 ) for the first time in history . Jan Huss is a national as well as a religious figure in Czech history . The Clericals as Catholics were , of course , forced to oppose any recognition of Huss 's historical position , but , on the other hand , the Czech Clericals , though reactionary , have always been a patriotic party for political reasons . Here we run straight into the most puzzling political paradox in present-day Czecho-Slovakia . Contrary to specific instructions from the Vatican and the higher clergy , the Czech Clerical Party supported the Government in favor of the Huss holiday on the distinct theory that if they were to withdraw from the Cabinet the Socialists would be in position to push through the incompleted program for the separation of church and state . Thus one of the big issues of the electoral campaign was the religious issue , and the Clerical successes throughout the country are another indication of the Catholic reaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Clerical gains in Slovakia the situation is entirely different . Despite what Professor SetonWatson calls the most remarkable example of cultural progress to be found in modern history , discontent in Slovakia is wide-spread . Under the able and adventurous leadership of Father Hlinka , the Slovak People 's Party has effectively capitalized the war cry of local autonomy which will free Slovakia from the domination of Prague bureaucratism . When noting the Clerical successes in Slovakia it must be remembered that these people , as a result of a thousand years under Magyar rule , have had very little experience with representative government . Thus when Dr. Benes was Prime Minister a peasant deputation from Slovakia told him in all seriousness that to them autonomy meant paying no taxes . Of particular danger to the liberal and socialist forces in the republic is the possibility of a union between the Czech and the Slovak Clericals , which would give them a total representation in Parliament of some fifty-two seats . Though the Czecho-Slovak Agrarians have now only some forty-four seats , there is little likelihood that they will form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total up to some sixty-seven seats . Thus with these fifty-two seats the new Czecho-Slovak People 's Party , as it might be called , would have a right to demand the office of premier , which is now held by the Agrarian leader , Svehla . So long as Svehla lives there is little likelihood that this master politician can be removed from office , but his health for years has been anything but robust . Nevertheless , excluding for the time being the possibility of a consolidation of Clerical forces , it seems certain that the Socialists are no longer in position to have great influence on the policy of the revamped Coalition . There is a story which is an excellent illustration of the political philosophy of Svehla . During the Communist danger in 1920 , referred to above , the Communist leader met Svehla in the lobby of Parliament and boasted to him that a proletarian dictatorship would soon be set up in Czecho-Slovakia which would annihilate his ( Svehla 's ) and all other parties . Svehla replied to the Communist taunt that the dictatorship would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he and his Agrarians would join the Communist ranks and beat them within the bosom of their own party . Though the gains of Svehla 's party in the late elections have been slight , the Agrarians ' position is well fortified . This for two reasons : ( 1 ) It is the only CzechoSlovak party which has effectively extended its influence into Slovakia , and ( 2 ) it is largely responsible for the putting into execution of the land reform under which , at the expense of the large land-owners more than half a million hectares have already been distributed among half as many farmers . Of some importance to the Coalition is the rise of the new Industrialist Party , which roughly represents what we term the petty bourgeoisie . Largely because of able leadership and the organization of a concrete program , it proceeded to slaughter the Nationalists under ex-Premier Kramar , whose party is now identified with Big Business . The success of the Industrialists means that they will enter the new Cabinet with at least one portfolio at their disposal . When writing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign policy . This is true in the sense that his policy of conciliation is by far the best one for Czecho-Slovakia to - pursue . Benes 's party , the National Socialists , came out of the fray as the true liberal party . On the whole their position is sound . It is generally believed  --  and in my opinion , rightly  --  that Benes has no serious competitor for the portfolio of Foreign Minister . Though now forty-one years of age and in good health Benes has always worked under a tremendous strain . Should his health fail the direction of foreign affairs might fall to either the Agrarians or the Clericals . In the event of an Agrarian Foreign Minister the policy of Czecho-Slovakia abroad would be reintegrated along the lines of the Green International , which Svehla organized some years ago . Should the Clericals , on the other hand , get possession of the Foreign Office , there is no question that they would inaugurate a pro-Catholic policy . Change or no change , Czecho-Slovakia is inevitably - drifting away from the French influence in her external @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offices which is now necessitated , the Svehla Cabinet has resigned . Though the Czecho-Slovak coalition system is more than likely to be preserved , it is now in order to dissolve the famous Petka.                     