@@486300

N November 15 President Hoover issued his prosperity proclamation : The next practical step is the organizing and coordinating of a forward movement of business through the revival of construction activities , the stimulation of exports and of other legitimate business expansion , especially to take such action in concert with the use of our new powers to assist agriculture . Fortunately , the sound sense , the capacity , and readiness for cooperation of our business leaders and government agencies give assurance of action . Pursuant to this proclamation , a series of conferences of business and industrial leaders was held at Washington , ending with a grand convention of 400 " key men . " The President 's proclamation and the resulting conferences met with remarkably widespread approbation . I can recall no such regimentation of public sentiment since the days of the World War . Mr. Hoover may have his little difficulties in controlling the Senate , but as a crystallizer of public opinion , in the present instance at least , he has been just about 99 per cent successful . I am not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return . I question , however , whether we are going to get much farther through talk and " state of mind . " Prosperity propaganda was undoubtedly useful a few weeks ago in stemming the surging tide of unreasoning fear that was engulfing the judgment not only of investors and speculators , but of merchants and manufacturers as well . But now we are all once more convinced that the country is not going to be tossed back to the Indians after all , and it appears likely that the influence of propaganda on the course of the business cycle will be steadily lessened , while the influence of the actual events taking place in the arena of business and industry will steadily loom larger . I rather fear , in fact , that unless we consent to view the prospect through sober , realistic glasses we may suffer an unpleasant reaction from the dazzle of over-optimism . If the promise of good times that is being held out to us is not fulfilled in any appreciable degree , the disappointment will produce a more serious effect than would the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be gained by suggesting that 1930 will be a boom year  --  a year of expanding business activity and growing corporate profits , with full employment and rising wages . The Washington conferences are perhaps not fairly to be charged with making such suggestions . Yet they are subject to misconstruction , and they have , I believe , been generally misconstrued by the public , which has read into the proceedings what seems to me to be an unwarranted degree of optimism . The construction work which certain industrial groups and public authorities announced for the ensuing year was very largely , and probably almost entirely , authorized and planned prior to the conferences , and the conferences resulted in no significant additions to the appropriations for new construction or maintenance . This is brought out clearly in the newspaper accounts of the meetings . There is no reason to believe that this previously planned work would have been abandoned or materially curtailed in the absence of conferences of business and industrial leaders . There can be no proof of this , of course , but the circumstantial evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " at the conferences was sponsored by the railroads , other public utilities , and public authorities . Railroads and utilities plan their expansion in accordance with the expected secular trend of business , and it would undoubtedly have taken a much more decided reversal of the direction of the business cycle than has yet occurred , or is likely to occur in the immediate future , to impel the managers of these industries to revise their appraisal of the slope of the secular trend of business and population . In regard to public works , it is obvious that the reduction in the level of interest rates and the heightened demand for securities like municipal and State bonds has made it both cheaper and easier to borrow money to finance public improvements than it has been for many months . In short , the result of the conferences in terms of increasing construction or of preventing its curtailment was approximately zero . The situation in either of these respects would not have been materially different if the conferences had never been held  --  which is as it should be . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our enterprises had they allowed themselves , after the Wall Street panic , to be inveigled into a program of expansion more extensive than they had deemed appropriate prior thereto ? Surely no thoughtful person would advocate over-expansion for the sake of its momentary psychological effect or its temporary absorption of unemployment . On the other hand ? what should we think of our industrial leaders if they needed prodding to carry out an economically justifiable expansion program , or if they lacked the courage to curtail it when they found it unjustifiable ? Consider the situation from another angle . There will be a vast amount of construction work undertaken in 1930 . Can that be depended upon to compensate for any slack that may appear in employment in manufacturing industries , mining , transportation , and elsewhere ? We do not know how many unemployed workers will have to be absorbed , but for our purpose we may state this quantity as " any given number . " This given number can be absorbed , not by the total of jobs afforded by the total volume of construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afforded by the excess of construction work in 1930 over 1929 . In other words , if the volume of construction in 1930 , no matter how great that volume may be absolutely , were to be exactly equal to the volume in 1929 , there would not be a single job available for any worker displaced in any other industry . Therefore it is only the excess which can furnish jobs for the jobless . This is an inescapable conclusion , yet all the prosperity propaganda which I have seen treats the aggregate contemplated construction budget as a potential safeguard against unemployment in other directions , and does not take into account those engaged in this field in 1929 , who also must find jobs in 1930 . Will 1930 capital expansion exceed 1929 , and by how much ? Write your own ticket : I do not know . But I can demonstrate , I believe , that the surplus will not reach stupendous proportions . The railroads have approved an $800,000,000 expansion program for 1930 . This may , perhaps , be stretched to a billion dollars , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $800,000,000 . At the meeting of public-utility leaders on November 27 Matthew Sloan , of the New York Edison Company , president of the National Electric Light Association , stated that " the electric light and power , manufactured and natural gas and electric railway utilities " would increase their 1929 expenditure for new construction by $110,000,000 . The appropriation for public works will probably be somewhat greater in 1930 than in 1929 , but it is too early to estimate by how much . The federal government will increase its appropriations for public buildings by 8175,000,000 , over a ten-year period . At the meeting on November 22 construction interests estimated that the expenditure for homes , offices , and industrial plants would be about the same in 1930 as during the present year . There will probably be gains in a few other directions , such as in the communication industry , especially the telephone system . The proposed new mail contracts may stimulate shipbuilding . The War Department may add to its construction budget . But there may be contraction here and there , too , as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vice-president of the F. W. Dodge Corporation , estimates the total construction bill for 1930 at $8,435,000,000 as against $7,810,000,000 in 1929 , an increase of $625,000,000 . His figures make no allowance for possibly increased outlays for machinery and equipment . I see no justification for any estimate which places the excess 1930 capital expansion budget above $750,000,000 , and the wage share of that total will not afford full-time employment for more than between 175,000 and 200,000 men . This is certainly not an inexhaustible reservoir of jobs , and offers little hope that new construction work can take care of any marked increase of unemployment , should it come . If automobile manufacture declines 20 per cent  --  not an extravagant guess  --  this alone will throw about 100,000 workers on the streets in search of new jobs , not taking into account any corresponding reduction of force in tire , equipment , and accessory plants . If we had an efficient system of employment exchanges , we could feel far more confident that the disaster of unemployment may be minimized than we can when we have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present writing , December 11 , business statistics for November are beginning to come in , giving us some insight into actual economic developments during the first full month after the beginning of the break in security prices . Pig-iron output contracted sharply , reaching the lowest point since September , 1928 . The reduction in the daily average rate was the largest recorded since May , 1925 . There was a net loss of twenty-six active blast furnaces . Steel ingot production declined about 19 per cent in average daily output in November compared with October  --  considerably more than the normal seasonal decline . The industry operated at 69 per cent of capacity during November , 1929 , as against 87 per cent during November a year ago . It is now down to about 63 per cent . Automobile production in the United States and Canada , according to preliminary figures of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce , fell from 394,465 cars in October to 214,400 in November . During November , 1928 , 268,909 cars were turned out . About a quarter of a million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a drop of nearly 5 per cent . Daily average building construction awards in thirty-seven States east of the Rocky Mountains ( F. W. Dodge Corporation figures ) show a decline of 27 per cent for the first three weeks of November , 1929 , as compared with the corresponding period of 1928 . A preliminary report of the New York State Department of Labor announces " widespread seasonal losses in November " in employment in New York State factories , and remarks that " declines characterized November of the last three years but the curtailment was greater this year . " Of course , these are selected statistics  --  selected to confirm my viewpoint . Other more cheerful figures are or will be available . But the data I have presented make it obvious that November was a month of contraction in business and industrial activity . The downward trend , a trend that had already been present during the four or five preceding months , was at last clearly revealed to anyone willing to recognize it . The conferences and , indeed , the Administration 's pros-perity program as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ optimism was radiating from Washington , car loadings were declining , iron , steel , and automobile produc-tion was falling , building awards were diminishing , and workers were being laid off . We are in the contraction phase of a business cycle . Certain favorable factors in the funda-mental situation , . to which attention has been so often called as to make repetition unnecessary , make it probable that we shall avoid a serious or long-extended depression . On the other hand it appears even more probable that 1930 will be characterized by reduced industrial and business activity , de-dining corporate profits , and increased unemployment . To what extent the Washington conferences , the proposed reduction of federal income taxes , and other governmental measures have served to stabilize conditions will never be known . Unquestionably , however , we must give President Hoover and his administration credit for an energetic and successful attempt to divert attention from Wall Street to Main Street , thereby bringing into focus a far more pleasing prospect than had been facing the country for some three weeks , and inducing a feeling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosperity can not be commanded by proclamation , and we shall not be aided by cherishing unwarranted hopes and refusing to view realistically the difficulties that are in store for us. .                     