@@164712

It is seldom nowadays that distinguished lawyers are criminal lawyers . The big fees and the prestige result from study and practice of corporation law , estate law , banking law and to a less extent divorce law . Criminal law is a subject left to the unscrupulous shyster , the political heeler , the occasional social reformer or great charlatan or utter cynic . It has been remarkable , therefore , to watch the increasing emphasis which the American Bar Association has felt it should lay , at its distinguished annual conventions , upon the criminal tendencies and condition of the land . It has made laymen wonder whether there is any relation between the lawyers ' neglect of criminal practice and the insurgence of Crime itself . Retiring as president of the American Bar Association at last week 's meeting in Seattle , was Silas Hardy Strawn , eminent resident of " the crime capital of the U. S. , " Chicago . Last winter , when a group of Chicagoans , who were really worried about Chicago 's condition , asked Mr. Strawn to preside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by pooh-poohing blandly : " In 36 years in Chicago , 7 have never been held up , robbed or racketeered . " Last week Mr. Strawn had changed his tone , perhaps because he did not have to add specifically to Chicago 's embarrassment . He made Crime the main burthen of his retiring-president address . He even offered a neat classification of causes for Crime 's since-the-War increase , as follows : " 1 ) The increase and development in the means of communication , hard roads and high-powered automobiles , making the ' getaway ' easy . " 2 ) The vastly increased wealth of our citizens and especially of the criminal classes , enabling them to buy fast motors and expensive guns . " 3 ) Organized crime which enables the underworld to make liberal contributions to political campaigns and to exert a powerful influence in politics . " 4 ) Delay in the apprehension and speedy punishment of criminals due in part to the leniency and paltering of political judges and in part to our too liberal laws . We do not give enough attention to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) The apathy and indifference of our best citizens toward their duty as citizens . Those best qualified to serve as jurors seek to avoid the service because of its discomforts or because they dislike to leave their business . " 6 ) Unrestricted traffic in firearms . . . . And Retiring-President Strawn went further . He faced what has been going on around him in Chicago ever since Prohibition . He said : " The crime surveys show that crimes of violence , especially in the urban centres , committed largely by bootleggers and beer runners , have increased to an alarming extent . It is asserted that the existing condition conduces to a growing disregard of all law , especially by our young people , to an extent that is appalling . Frequently we read of policemen and law-enforcing officials being bribed and debauched and of innocent victims being shot down by overzealous officers in their efforts to enforce the Volstead Act . " Many of our representative citizens , who would not think of violating any other law , continuously violate the Volstead Act , or conduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thereby enriching the underworld beyond the dreams of avarice . " We can not shut our eyes to the                     