@@219753

The Sublimation of Our Ruling Passion If you would see the most typical product of American dramatic art as well as the American spirit , go see the circus . There you will find the supreme expression of America 's delight in size and speed , in superlatives and hyperbole . Barnum and Bailey 's " Greatest Show on Earth " makes no claim to subtlety , to artistic discrimination , to any of the refinements of effete European culture ; it simply exults with three rings and a side show in being bigger , faster , more dangerous and more defiant of natural law than any entertainment ever before presented to the human eye . Its tent is " the greatest stretch of canvas ever raised , " its acrobats are " the greatest aggregation of mid-aerial gymnasts in the world , " its tigers are " the greatest and most thrilling wild animals ever offered in this or any other country " and its elephants are " the biggest brutes that breathe . " Miss Bertha Beeson is " positively and obviously the most sensational high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " breaks every law of gravity , " and the circus advertises its clowns as being so funny that they " would even make a prude smile . " It seems never to have occurred to the press agents , barkers and ballyhoo men of Barnum and Bailey 's that anybody might ask " Well , what of it ? " or " Who cares ? " With an unerring understanding of popular psychology , they realize that what the American wants is quantity- all the measurements of time , space , and movement in the nth degree . We have the fastest locomotives , the biggest hotels , the longest railroads , and the largest crops in the world , and ' these measurements are their chief justification . Not how fine but how much is our motto , and the circus has made of this article of American faith a dazzling reductio ad absurdum . The influence of Barnum , the father of Buncombe , on American culture is incalculable . The whole paraphernalia of circus terminology has been lifted bodily from the circus by the moving picture people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but in thrills , shocks and statistics . The same thing is true of the newspaper syndicate features , the popular novels , and the evangelistic campaigns . The editors , writers and Billy Sundays do not care so much for quality ; their cry is for more circulation , more editions more Main Street homes reached , more agate lines , more souls saved . The phrase " Barnum was right " does not apply exclusively to his dictum that a sucker is born every minute . It applies to his whole conception of America 's ruling passion .                     