@@467901

THE fame of Lord Byron , unlike that of his predecessors in this survey , is not consecrated and unchallenged . He has not been dead long enough to satisfy the professors , who require more than a hundred years in which to make up their minds . The centenary of his death in 1924 was appropriately marked by what was the third failure to obtain his admission to the company of the great in Westminster Abbey . When this project was first attempted , in 1824 , the respected presence of Walter Scott on the Memorial Committee did not soften the hearts of the Dean and Chapter or unloosen enough purse-strings to provide compensation for some British sculptor . It was a mere foreigner , therefore ? the great Danish sculptor , Thorwaldsenwho made the statue which lay for ten years in the Customs while fruitless efforts were made to present it to the British nation . It finally found shelter in the Library of Trinity College , Cambridge , because , as a Reverend Bishop cogently remarked , " if Lord Byron in his works attacked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beauties of his verse , was one of the most dangerous advisers of youth , his statue does not deserve a place in the Temple of our God . " During his lifetime Byron thoroughly enjoyed flouting every convention and upsetting the equanimity of all humbugs . It is consoling to know that his posthumous effect is just what he would have desired . He is still the scourge of the timorously respectable , who want to eat their literary cake and have it , andhis treatment by the spokesmen of posterity is a beautiful study in the art of squirming and wriggling . If they would only stick to their business as appraisers of dead literature , his unhappy victims could escape with some show of logic and dignity . But Byron defied them by establishing his reputation over their heads , and as he , " being dead yet speaketh , " there is nothing to be done but grin and bear him , always in the secret hope that another hundred years may see the end of him . When Lord Byron was born , just one year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violently precipitated into the dreadful era of political democracy and statistical progress . By the time lie began to write , England was in the midst of an antirevolutionary hysteria comparable to that into which Europe and America lapsed after the War and the Bolshevik victory in Russia . Fear of the French Revolution and fear of Napoleon , whose retreat from Moscow coincided with the appearance of Childe Harold in 1812 , created an atmosphere in which the same elements were present as have plagued us ever since 1911 . The literary world was also in a plight analogous to that in which it has found itself during the last decade . While the authorities were panic stricken , the intellectuals were divided into those who had been disillusioned by the failure of the millennium to materialize and those who had vague hopes that somewhere , somehow , the Good , the True , and the Beautiful were about to be vindicated . The result of A NEW WAY WITH OLD MASTERPIECES 73 t this disenchanted state of mind was a period ? like all periods of transition when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts had not yet established the new equilibrium : which was to come a few years after Byron 's death when " the stupid Nineteenth Century , " as a French critic has called it got into its ponderous stride . Byron , therefore , was a typical product of the Regency ? of an age like our own when the current nostrums were rapidly losing their effectiveness and the horizeci was tieing scanned for a new panacea . The disillusionment with libertarian catchwords was then , of course , somewhat slower than it has recently become . The French Revolution had still an air of novelty and political liberty had a glamour with which no rational human being can invest them to-day . Consequently , while he obviously had no illusions about mankind , Byron employed the rhetoric of revolutionary romance so effectively that lie at once became , and remains to this day , an object of veneration to confiding souls who imagine that what was good enough for Rousseau must be good enough for them . He is respected in radical circles as the poet of rebellion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even the conservative are inclined to point with a certain pride to this English aristocrat 's stand for Liberty . Having done all that was humanly possible to stem the forces of revolution in Europe during the last years of the Eighteenth Century , England has the retrospective pleasure of recalling how nobly Coleridge , Shelley , Keats , and Wordsworth sang of Freedom . As a typical representative of this devotion to safely remote revolutionary movements has said , this poetic passion for liberty is essential to the self-respect of the Englishspeaking world . " Otherwise , whatever success may attend on Democracy or on Empire , the Anglo-Saxon race will have failed in its mission of spreading in widest commonality the highest pleasures which the human spirit can enjoy . " Byron , to do him justice , understood perfectly this peculiar temperament of his countrymen , as his letters show . " As to the estimation of the English which you talk of , let them calculate what it is worth , before they insult me with their insolent condescension . I have not written for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they chose to be so ; I have never flattered their opinions , nor their pride ; nor will I. " And so , while his services on behalf of rebellion were a source of national satisfaction to the sentimental liberals of posterity , his contemporaries described him as " impiously railing against his God madly and meanly disloyal to his Sovereign and his country ? and brutally outraging all the best feelings of family honour , affection and confidence . " References t%the " bravo 's trade " in Childe Harolairnuse his critics to ask , " not without some anxiety and alarm , whether such are indeed the opinions which a British peer entertains of a British army , " and the " calm careless ferociousness of contented and satisfied depravity " is regarded as his outstanding achievement and characteristic as a poet . He is not " such a poet as virgins might read , and Christians praise , and Englishmen take pride in . " The fact that all three consummations have been witnessed since Byron 's death is , I think , one of the pleasantest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popularity in his own day , as these diatribes might suggest , was enormous . His publisher declared that in ten years Byron 's pen had brought in three hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars , and the sale of fourteen thousand copies of one of his books in a single day is recorded . All this proceeded while scandals raged about him , while his publishers refused to print his work unless they censored it , and while a panicstricken government could not persuade itself that , after the defeat of Waterloo , England 's bogey , Napoleon , no longer required the vigilance which had filled the country with the coercive measures and spies once more associated in our minds with crusades for liberty and democracy . Byron had separated from his wife and gone to live on the Continent where he found in wine ? or , to be precise , gin ? women , and revolutionary songs an outlet for his rebellious energies . While his own people were gradually approaching the Nirvana of bourgeois industrialism , Byron was declaiming against throne , home , and altar , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enchant English ears . But he was not happy ; both his health and his amours , and the prolonged society of certain radical friends who were " fighting for the Cause , " drove him into the one great adventure of his career . He set out for Greece to take part in the Greek War of Independence . As one of his few intelligent Wographers has said , " Lord ' Byron aCCOnflished nothing at Missolongiii except his own suicide : but by that single act of heroism he secured the liberation of Greece . " When he died at the age of thirty-six , England was almost ripe for the reaction which set in against him . A few years later the Reform Bill proved that the lesson of feeding the political dog with its own tail was the one tangible product of the Revolution . Political reform , it tamed out , was the nostrum required to keep the rabblement and its leaders busy for a few generations . The middle classes emerged under this benign dispensation , and evangelical Christianity went hand in hand with profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heresies of Byron ceased to delight a generation that demanded the pious platitudes of a Tennyson . By the middle of the Nineteenth Century the reputation of the author of Don Juan was eclipsed . He had been relegated to the limbo of the unrighteous , and his intrinsic qualities were not such as could stand comparison with those of his younger contemporaries , Keats and Shelley . They at least were poets of that lineage which never dies so long as there are men and women sensitive tomelody and color . The mystery is : How did this judgment of the age to which the professors by definition and predilection belong come to be reversed ? By what freak of nature did this exotic bird find a perch among the decorous domestic fowl of our " standard authors " ? To an eminent American Victorian must be given the credit for that remarkable achievement . In 1869 Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe enlivened simultaneously the pages of a magazine in Boston and London with an article entitled " The True Story of Lady Byron 's Married Life . " The following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vindicated : a History of the Byron Controversy . The Byron controversy was not , at that time , a discussion as to the literary merits of Byron but an exchange of opinions , conjectures , gossip , and slander concerning the separation of Lord-and Lady Byron and the reasons which had sent the poet into exile . Both parties to the separation had partisans hut , on the whole , opinion sympathized with him rather than with his wife , who was abused and misrepresented incredibly . Mrs. Stowe , having done so much for Uncle Tom , decided to do something for Lady Byron ? who had taken the American novelist into her confidence . So she dropped her stone into the literary frog-pond , to no inconsiderable effect . She informed all and sundry that Byron had been guilty of incest with his half-sister Augusta Leigh , and that this was the reason why Lady Byron and her husband parted . It was Mrs. Stowe 's ingenuous belief that this revelation would not only vindicate her friend but destroy , once and for all , the influence and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stowe 's article and book enormously increased the sale of Byron 's works . By provoking endless replies , confirmations , counterarguments , and lampoons she revived an interest in him which was no less vehement than that which prevailed during his life . What was then the talk of a limited circle was now the sensation or two continents . Byron 's relations with Augusta were but a part of the scandal that accompanied him while he lived , and they did not seem more than usually wicked in a man whose family records read like an extract from the Newgate calendar , as one of his biographers has remarked . While respectable folk refused to believe their ears ( but opened them wide ) the legal representatives of Lady Byron merely declared that Mrs. Stowe 's story was not completely accurate and authoritative . But Byron 's grandson , the Earl of Lovelace , being less legalistic in his phraseology , allowed " that Mrs. Stowe 's statement is substantially correct . " As has since been demonstrated , her offence lay not in the charge against Byron but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Byron had authorized the publication of the truth . Furthermore , her narrative was incomplete , incoherent , and disingenuous . Needless to say , while the Byron revival flourished on this scandal , the most strenuous efforts were made to evade the vital fact ; and to this day the evidence , overwhelming as it has since become , merely causes the orthodox to shudder . The biographers of Byron who faced the evidence realistically are those outside the academic world . Byron 's grandson , in 1905 , was at last free to publish the essential documents , and these have been accepted by intelligent critics and biographers as beyond dispute . Lord Lovelace 's documentary statement of the case introduces letters which absolutely confirm what were previously well-founded but unproven conjectures . These letters , when coupled with the poems inspired by the same circumstances ? the " Epistle to Augusta , " the third Canto of Childe Harold , " Stanzas to Augusta , " and the famous poem beginning I speak not ? I trace not ? I breathe not thy name There is love in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fail to convince the pedagogues , the most recent of whom declare that " there is not a line in them capable of being perverted by the most unhealthy imagination into evidence against Byron and Mrs. Leigh . " The professor excepts one sentence ( an allusion to Lucretia Borgia , the implications of which are obvious ) but does not trouble to account for this peculiar allusion . He evades the first volume of Lord Byron 's correspondence by calling it " unpleasant , " and recommends a judicial attitude of suspended judgment , in the face of facts which are as clearly established as such facts could possibly be that is , by original docu-ments and the statements of all parties directly concerned . This phase of Byron 's reputation and the position adopted towards it by the sehoolinen , it will be seen , is not without its humor . The life and character of Byron are obviously what hold and fascinate , and the revival of interest in him produced by the further evidence concerning his life has given him a new lease of academic fame ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again thrust him , an obstinate effort is still made to deny the central fact of his life . But nothing is more apparent than the manner in which Byron the poet depended entirely upon the glamour of Byron the man ? who was Byron the rake , the daredevil , the rebel . The rise and fall of his fame have been meticulously recorded , and the slump which followed his death has been variously explained . But the connection between the revival of Byron and the revival of his own story is inescapable . The learned commentators shrink from this conclusion , and while they profess their profound admiration for the champion of freedom and deprecate all allusions to his immorality , one of them actually cites Hall Caine , Thomas Hardy , Mrs. Humphry Ward , and George Moore as examples of depravity comparable to his ! On the other hand ? granted that they are , as usual , temporizing and trying to adapt themselves to what appear to be accomplished facts ? what of his claims so eagerly granted by the advanced thinkers ? Here is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ardent ? congratulating himself that " fortunately not all the poets of England let themselves be frightened by the French revolution . " Byron , it seems , was " the first lord of letters of that age and of all the ages , " no other " high-up aristocrat " achieved such greatness . He wrote in Don Juan " a hateful picture of a hateful world but . . we recognize in it a great spirit trying to lift itself above an age of corruption by the instrument of scorn . " Shelley was " the best influence that ever came into his life , " yet , as we know from a less romantic source , he refused to help the " Snake , " as Shelley was called . " If we puffed the Snake , it might not turn out a profitable investment . All trades have their mysteries . If we crack up a popular author , he repays us in the same coin , principal and interest ? if we introduce Shelley to our readers , they might draw comparisons , and they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , such sentiments in a literary gentleman are not incompatible with the utmost zeal for the welfare of mankind as an abstraction . " Byron , " says Upton Sinclair , " had now become the voice of liberty against reaction throughout Europe . . . . In the beginning he had written to amuse himself and his readers ; he had catered to their sentimentalism and their folly . But in the end lie came to despise his readers and wrote only to shock them . They had made a world of lies ; and one man would tell them the truth . That is why to-day we rank him as a world force in the history of letters . . . . We are interested in a poet who possessed a clear eye and a clear brain , who saw the truth , and spoke it to all Europe , and helped to set free the future of the race . " This quotation is the most recent version of Byron the idol of radicalism . It is a simplification of the man , and isas irreconcilable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divorce his public from his private utterances . A more aristocratic English commentator once said that Byron " understood the rights of man , but he seems never to have heard of the rights of woman . " This is another way of saying that he was unregenerate , for feminism amongst his own associates was already a dogma . Mary Wollstonccraft 's Rights of Women had set the model for all subsequent dithyrambs against the man-made world , Byron 's practice with women had led him to conclusions which may be guessed by his statement that he gave his heroines " extreme refinement , joined to great simplicity and want of education . " To Lady Blessington he remarked , " I have not quite made up my mind that women have souls , " and he confessed that no more intelligence was desirable in a woman than " enough to be able to understand and value mine , but not sufficient to be able to shine herself . All men with pretensions desire this ; though few , if any , have courage to avow it . " On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past favors bestowed upon him by a lady , his reasons were clear but unsuggestive of democracy . " As neither her birth , nor her rank , nor connections of birth or marriage are inferior to my own , I am in honour bound to support her through . " The truth is that Byron 's philosophy of life had nothing of the revolutionary in it ; he was rather the first of the " aristocratic radicals , " in the sense of the term applied by Georg Brandes to Nietzsche . He did not sing of liberty , to quote the Danish critic , as " a thing which we can grasp with our hands , or confer as a gift in a constitution , or inscribe among the articles of a state church , " but he uttered " the eternal cry of the human spirit , its never-ending requirement of itself . " His connection with revolutionary movements on the Continent of Europe can be traced to his general restlessness and boredom and not to any conviction that principles were at stake . In the liberation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , political , and economic problems involved . He admired Napoleon as an expression of the supremacy of the individual will , to the embarrassment of those who have tried to number Byron amongst the apostles of social revolution . He idealized revolt for revolt 's sake , and all his Giaours , Pirates , Lams , Manfreds , and Zuleikas are as incongruous in the temple of modern radicalism as Byron himself is among the household and schoolroom gods of England and America . His part in popular movements or political emancipation was not that of the crusader ; for he had no faith in the people nor , at bottom , any hope for the future ? his opinion of the Greeks for whom he is alleged to have died was skeptical and contemptuous to the last . " I need say little on that subject , I was a fool to come here ; but , being here , I must see what is to be done , " he wrote to Teresa Guiccioli . And again : " of the Greeks I ca n't say much good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them , though they do of one another . " He declared that if the authorities " were to set a pretty woman , or a clever woman , about . me , " his devotion to Greek Independence might be diverted . That is typical of the complete honesty , and the sense of the realities of his own character , which Byron maintained in spite of cautious or romantically enthusiastic admirers and friends . He could never he persuaded to strike an attitude appropriate to the illusions of the various people who tried , and still try , to fit him into their own particular little scheme of things . When he sent the first part of Don Juan to his publishers , all his friends unanimously advised the suppression of the poem . But he was disposed to listen only for a short while . When the conviction finally took hold of him that he had written something of which he was sure , something that must stand , he delivered himself in terms which are curiously applicable tothe subsequent attitude of the orthodox critics towards his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on that point in the end , . . If they had told me the poetry was bad , I would have acquiesced ; but they say the contrary , and then , talk to me about morality . " In another letter he said to his publisher , " You sha n't make canticles of my cantos . The poem will please if it is lively ; if it is stupid it will fail ; but I will have none of your damned cutting and slashing . . . 1 know the precise worth of popular applause , for few scribblers have had more of it ; and if I chose to swerve into their paths , I could retain it , or resume it . " His position is expressed ? more Byronically ? in the lines I could not tame my nature down ; for he Must serve who fain would sway ? and soothe ? and sucAnd watch all time ? and pry into all place ? And be a living lie ? who would become A mighty thing among the mean , and such The mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though to be leader ? and of wolves These characteristic sentiments are hardly those which we associate with a savior of mankind , although they correspond closely to the disillusioned individualism of the present day . It is not for nothing that a great French critic has suggested ? though not in order to compliment either of them ? that there is an analogy between the style of Swift and that of Byron . In both he sees " a disease of heart and mind , " which is merely the inevitable formula for minimizing cynicism and skepticism , as we have seen in the analysis of Jonathan Swift 's reputation . Byron emotionally sums up the philosophy of an age of transition like our own ; and consequently his work , if little read , presents curious parallels to that element in contemporary life and literature which causes disquietude to the sedate : I hope it is no crime To laugh at all things . For I wish to know What , after all , are all things ? but a show ? These lines from Don Juan are like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its shocked elders , and they are the epitome of the poem in which Byron expressed his whole being , saying that there was ten times as much truth in it , but that its lack of sentiment would make it unacceptable to those who needed illusions . Haidee ? who " spoke not of scruples , ask 'd no vows , nor offered any " ? also strikes us as having an appositeness to present circumstances over which much indignation has been expended . The epigraph of much modern American fiction is contained in Alas ! They were so young , so beautiful , So lonely , loving , helpless , and the hour Was that in which the heart is always full , And , having o'er itself no further power , Prompts deeds eternity can not annul . Such an apologia would not nowadays bring down upon its author the charges of suborning youth which once were leveled against him . I rather suspect that eternity is now credited with powers of annulment beyond those which Byron could publicly admit . Indeed , I fear that not even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , have been able by suppression to endow Don Juan with that surreptitious popularity which still sends the ingenuous in search of Boccaccio , Mlle. de Manpin , and the works of Rabelais . Byron 's romanticism is an obstacle to his appreciation in this jazz age , although his general point of view is similar ? for similar reasons . As one of his most sincere critics said in a lecture at Princeton University though himself an alien visitor here ? " he hated and despised the spent forces , or what seemed to be such , on the side of conservation . To the last he was haunted by the ghosts of traditional beliefs , which had ceased to live within him as vital powers . He was a democrat among aristocrats and an aristocrat among democrats ; a skeptic among believers and a believer among skeptics . . . . To his quick sense ofhumor more than to anything else he owed the sanity which controls or modifies his perturbations of mind . " That summary very well describes the state of mind in the world to-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolt of the younger generation . This , too , in Professor Dowden 's phrase , is " an age of dissonance , " and we resemble Byron , who " could not satisfy his hunger for life with abstract doctrines ; he could not subsist on ideal hopes and faith ; he had a great capacity for pleasure , a strong turn for reality ... . No organized body of belief guided his intellect ; no system of social duties controlled his heart ; . . . what was old had lost its authority ; what , was new had not fully justified itself . " All this emerges clearly from his poetry , but who can read it without an effort ? Certainly not the decorous gentlemen who try to persuade us that Byron is a great classic . The slightest examination of his work at . once reveals the impossibility of its being acceptable to the pillars of society . The cant which was provoked by his personal life was bad enough , in all conscience , but the hypocrisy involved in bolstering up his literary reputation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it , for one can understand the effort to reconcile a poet of great genius with the evangelical conscience . It is so palpably disingenuous that neither the true story of Byron and Augusta Leigh nor that of his Greek adventure has had the slightest effect . His death at Missolonghi was suicide ? his last desperate encounter with an ironical Destiny , but it serves as an admirable epilogue to the rake 's career . The handbooks still refer to it as the redemption of a life of dissipation , and ignore the fact that he had previously contemplated exile to Venezuela and did not leave Italy until his existence there had been rendered intolerable . When Mrs. Stowe set out so bravely to obliterate Byron from the records of respectable literary society , she underestimated the pusillanimity of the living towards the dead . The theories which have been brought forward , without a scrap of evidence , to counter the documentary proofs furnished by Byron 's grandson in support of the incest charge are in themselves a study of the marvelous workings of the human mind . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to shield a woman whom she hardly knew from the accusation of adultery ! The conservative critics have unanimously clutched at the wildest straws rather than accept the statements of Lord Lovelace , who has convinced all the biographers and commentators without preconceived notions , from Sir Leslie Stephen to Miss Ethel Mayne . One would think , to watch these wrigglings , that Lord Byron 's life ( apart from his half-sister ) had been such a theme fur classroom eloquence that his love for Augusta would just break the professors ' hearts ! Judged by their usual standards in such matters they have already swallowed so many gnats in Byron 's case that this particular camel ought not to be so difficult , especially as both the woman and himself were as frank about it as in all Byron 's other love affairs . My own suspicion is that this determination to admit the prodigal son at all costs must be regarded as a subconscious manifestation of a peculiar dispensation of Providence to the AngloSaxon race . England is the country whose great artists and striking personalities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are sports of nature rather than the quintessence of all the qualities that go to make up the national character . In every Frenchman there is a Montaigne or a Pascal ; but what had Shakespeare or Swift or Shelley in them of the characteristics associated in all minds with the typical Englishman ? The solidity ? The practical sense ? The capacity for self-discipline ? Assuming , therefore , as these arbiters of tradition have apparently assumed , that Byron is to be VOL . CL-NO. 900. - 47classed as one of England 's wayward soils ? a freak , a departure from the sacred rules of " good form , " in brief an Englishman of genius ? it becomes clear that concessions must be made : but not too many . Hence the gnats , but the rejection of the camel . Byron , if a great poet , had inevitably to be classified with " the poets of rebel1ion " ? Wordsworth , Coleridge , Shelley , and Keats ? who wrote during the French Revolutionary period when Europe was inventing its new nostrum for human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commentators have over-emphasized the element of revolt in his work in order to confuse his aspirations with those of the period . The radicals gladly annex a Lord and the conservatives love a well-connected revolutionary ? when he is dead . IL is very much as if one were to deduce from II . L. Meneken 's attacks on Messrs . Palmer and Burleson that he was a subscriber to the teachings of the I. W. W. There is method , however , in this seeming madness on the part of British conservatism , for the Englishman of genius fulfills a very practical function ? unknown to himself , I admit . He is to the nation what the incessant patter is to the conjuror : it diverts the attention of the audience from the trick . While we all think with moist eyes about the lovely way the English poets sang of Liberty and Brotherhood , our attention is distracted from the more tangible fact that it was the governing class in England assisted , I need hardly say , by that good Irishman Mr. Burke ? which stemmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that very Freedom hymned by the poets . In our own day we are familiar with the English knight-errant who speaks only Irish in Ireland and urges the natives to die for their motherland and independence ; with the liberty-loving Liberal of good family who has forsaken the comforts and traditions of his caste in order to preach the gospel of Democracy in . . . other counties . These are the gentlemen who do the talking , while England proceeds with the serious business at hand . In countries where people are susceptible to ideas this breed of genial eccentrics is unknown . The fame of Lord Byron in Europe is bound up with that tradition of English eccentricity , and Milord summed up every superstition of the Continent concerning the Island Race . He personified the conception of her poets ? and the image cherished in foreign revolutionary circles until the recent war for democracy ? of an England ever ready to champion the oppressed . Being unaccustomed to measuring artists by their virtues as husbands , fathers , and taxpayers , Continental critics were not disturbed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Moreover , the enchantment of distance lends a charm to Byron 's verse which it lacks for those whose native tongue is English , and who are bound to compare him with its authentic masters . The professorial euphemism has it that the poetry of Byron does not lend itself to selection ? which means , in plain language , that the anthologists have difficulty in making his greatness plausible . In one of the standard English anthologies he is given six pages as against from three to five times as many for his contemporaries : Wordsworth , Coleridge , Shelley , and Keats . One of the poems selected shows him at his best : So we 'll go no more a-roving So late into the night , Though the heart be still as loving , And the moon be still as bright . For the sword outwears its sheath , And the soul wears out the breast , And the heart must pause to breathe , And love itself have rest . Though the night was made for loving , And the day returns too soon , Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the moon . It is hardly necessary to point out that , delicate as this much admired little poem is , it is neither great poetry nor the kind of poetry for which Byron is remembered ? either by his detractors , his admirers , or his whitewashers . Many of our own contemporaries , about whom we have no illusions of immortality , reach that level in the monthly magazines and are pilloried by fierce-eyed resthetes for their old-fashioned sentimentality . Byron 's actual life is an essential gloss upon his poetic professions , and was more truly expressed in Let us have wine and women , mirth and laughter , Sermons and soda-water the day after . Man , being reasonable , must get drunk ; The best of life is but intoxication . . . . If any lingering curiosity survives from our schooldays it will be better satisfied by the study of Byron 's own fascinating and turbulent life , which has at last been presented in focus , than by attempting to pump up enthusiasm for his romantic rhetoric or horror at his supposed audacities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our own age of dissonance , " and it is that dissonance in him which has its echo in the modern reader . To admit this is to give him the immortality which he deserves , rather than the fame of which he wrote , with his usual contempt for selfdeception : What is the end of Fame ? ' t is but to fill A certain portion of uncertain paper For this men write , speak , preach , and heroes fall , And bards burn what they call their " mid . night taper , " To have , when the original is dust , A name , a wretched picture , and worse bust .                     