@@486395

Senators is a personal privilege , but lying in the presence of eight United States Senators is a crime . That is the ridiculous conclusion to be reached from the acquittal of Robert W. Stewart , chairman of the Board of the Standard Oil Company of Indiana , who was tried for perjury after contradictory testimony before the Senate Oil Investigating Committee concerning his receipt of stock of the notorious Continental Trading Company . Justice Bailey of the District of Columbia Supreme Court , who presided at the Stewart trial , instructed the members of the jury to acquit the defendant if they decided that less than a quorum  --  eight Senators  --  had heard Stewart make his alleged misstatements . So Stewart goes free on a legal technicality which is not only flimsy but in contradiction to legislative practice and the whole intent of our perjury laws . Probably nine-tenths of the legislative committee work at Washington in recent years has been accomplished by committees with " telephone quorums " consisting of a small minority of Senators actually present and the remainder of members in the vicinity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assent to proceeding in their absence . Senator Norris well says that such decisions as that of Justice Bailey " have made our jurisprudence the laughingstock of the world . " Incidentally we recall the fact that John D. Rockefeller , Jr. , announced several months ago that he was going to dislodge Colonel Stewart from his position as executive head of the Standard Oil Company of Indiana , but the colonel is still on the job . How about it , Mr. Rockefeller ? Have you forgotten your high moral resolve to cleanse the oil industry ? W INTER IS COMING ON , slowly but inevitably . And evidently nothing that man is likely to do can prevent , as an unavoidable concomitant of winter , the Mississippi from rising and overflowing its banks . It does not matter that dwellers along the river have not yet recovered from last year 's disastrous floods , houses have not been rebuilt , crops have not been harvested , the burden of suffering and hunger and debt is still heavy on the inhabitants of those counties along the great river 's banks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ river with its tributaries always rises , and it nearly always overflows . From Missouri , from Kansas , from Illinois , even from Kentucky come the familiar stories of high water , threatened or accomplished inundation of rich farm lands , a score or so of persons drowned by the rushing waters . And meanwhile the President has not thought it necessary to call Congress to consider the question of flood relief , nor would such action result probably in any but the old platitudes and an insufficient appropriation for temporary assistance . We have no adequate policy for dealing with flood waters . With characteristic American extravagance we had rather spend money every year for relief to flood victims than devise a method of controlling the turbulent waters so that they would not again overflow . Our policy has been to build , in the most haphazard and desultory way , a sort of concrete wall to bind the Mississippi into its bed . Competent engineers think that such a system will never be successful ; the river will always rise above its walls . Proposals to make artificial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Congress . But no attempt has ever been made to consider the problem as a whole , to make provision for the future . And meanwhile , the waters rise . F ACTS ARE SLOWLY EMERGING from the welter of accusation and cross-accusation that accompanied the sinking of the Vestris . As the official inve3tigatIon proceeds , as the first hectic questioning of witnesses gives place to a more reasoned examination by men familiar with the ways of the sea , the tragedy takes shape more clearly before our eyes . Blazing headlines that hinted a reluctance to permit the sending of an S 0 S on the part of the Lamport and Holt officials were wrong ; suggestions that radio messages were suppressed were wrong ; statements from understandably hysterical passengers that the crew was almost to a man a set of miserable poltroons were wrong . Yet a few unhappy facts remain , and they all point to an unexplicable hesitation and incompetence on the part of the commander of the ship . Why did not Captain Carey send out his S 0 S twelve hours sooner , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why were lifeboats launched from the port side of the ship when the starboard side was almost in the water and would have presented a much less difficult feat of launching ? Why was not the crew , under the captain 's firm direction , ordered to man the boats properly , with a suitable number of officers and men in each , instead of embarking in the most haphazard fashion imaginable , sometimes with only four men in a boat designed for forty ? Why were two boatloads of women and children left dangling in mid air until the ship turned over and dragged them into the sea ? These questions will never be answered . They can be entered in the column under Human Error , Human Weakness , Human Unpredictability . Captain Carey had for forty years been a capable and sensible seaman . In a dreadful emergency his competence and his sense deserted him . This is the most melancholy fact in the whole sad business ; for what precautions can safeguard people from such a possibility ? T HE NOTION of a State and federal construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not particularly new , but it gained fresh authority when Governor Brewster of Maine presented it to the New Orleans conference of Governors with the indorsement of Herbert Hoover . Economists , labor leaders , and Socialists have been urging such a reserve fund for many years , and they have been supported by such official pronouncements as that of the President 's Unemployment Conference of 1921 . Governor Brewster 's suggestion would lead to a reserve fund totaling about twice the amount spent each year for public construction . This would be approximately $3,000,000,000 for State and federal governments , since the amount now spent on public construction by such bodies is $1,500,000,000 . The difficulties of persuading forty-eight State legislatures and forty-eight Governors to increase taxation in order to create such an emergency fund are enormous , but the educational value of the suggestion is obvious . Even if the State and federal governments do not create a reserve fund for construction work in advance of the emergency , they may be persuaded to undertake this work through bond issues after a crisis has arrived . Moreover , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a few State treasuries would be a valuable factor in preserving that business confidence which is the best preventive of unemployment . W E SAID LAST WEEK , on the authority of the Associated Press , that New Zealand had voted to license liquor in place of prohibition . The Associated Press has since issued a correction saying that at the recent election New Zealand voted to continue the licensing system already in effect . Astonishing and disquieting figures have been issued from Washington on the expense of pretending to administer the Volstead Act : $225,000,000 is the total ; $25,000,000 is the prevailing annual toll . The yearly cost of maintenance of the Department of State is $16,000,000 ; of the Department of Commerce , $30,000,000 ; of the Department of Justice , $24,000,000 . And the cost of prohibition is mounting so steadily and so fast that government officials refuse to predict what it will be in ten years . Only by the most wilfully and fatuously blind can it longer be denied that prohibition as now administered  --  the " noble experiment " of Mr. Hoover  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Eighteenth Amendment should be repealed . But it does mean that a large proportion of the people of the United States openly and with impunity disregard one of the laws of the land , that thousands of American citizens make their living by breaking that law , and that millions are annually poured into the leaky sieve of enforcement without avail . Prohibition in nine years has passed the experimental stage ; it must stand up to be judged , and whatever the remedy  --  whether repeal , modification , or real enforcement -- only its blindest partisans can fail to see that the subject should be submitted to a referendum of the American people . A LLIED STUPIDITY in the Rhineland goes on apace and will continue to do so as long as the occupation continues . George Glasgow , who writes on foreign affairs in the English Contemporary Review , is our authority for recent incidents . The Inter-Allied Rhineland High Commission drew the attention of the German Government to the fact that the Graf Zeppelin had flown over occupied territory without having obtained permission to do so ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of regret that the commander of the Zeppelin had taken the airship over occupied territory as a result of an " error of navigation " ! Mr. Glasgow also relates that the Burgomaster of Kinigstein had a bandmaster play the German national anthem without asking leave to do so , and was sentenced by the British Summary Court at Wiesbaden to pay a fine of 100 marks or go to prison for two weeks . These incidents would seem humorous if they were not so tragic . When will the Allies learn that the shedding of blood may not be confined to the victim when the pound of flesh is collected ? M OVED BY SUGGESTIONS from Mr. Kellogg , and with his help , Nicaragua and Colombia have settled an old dispute over the islands facing the coasts of those countries and ceded to the United States the right to maintain naval bases , which had already been established upon several of the islands . Colombia , on the basis of old Spanish jurisdiction , claimed the entire Atlantic coast of Nicaragua , several small islands facing it , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which latter two under the famous Bryan-Chamorro treaty Nicaragua made over to the United States as coaling bases . Nicaragua questioned the rights of the United States in regard to several small keys ( Roncador , Quitasuefio , Serrana ) upon which we had erected lighthouses and defenses to the approach of the projected Nicaraguan canal . Under the agreement just concluded Colombia relinquishes all its claims except to a few small islands , cedes to the United States marine-base rights over some of these , and receives fishing rights in the surrounding waters . Nicaragua keeps sovereignty rights over her own coast , the San Andres Archipelago , and Great and Little Corn islands , giving to the United States the right to maintain the naval bases on the two latter which had already been erected on doubtful authority . Boundary disputes are always a good thing to clear up , and it is well that we have been helpful in settling that between Colombia and Nicaragua  --  even if we did feather our own nest rather handsomely in the neighborly gesture . C AN IT BE that American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being earnest about a football victory ? We were moved to that hope when the news came from New Haven that only 500 out of 5,000 students at Yale had attended a football rally to create enthusiasm for the Yale-Harvard game . We wonder if the loyal tenth were miserable , cringing freshmen who came because they were afraid to stay away . On the platform before vast stretches of empty seats a famous football coach waved his arms and talked gloomily about the Yale spirit . Out on the campus and in the students ' rooms the repositories of this divine afflatus moved about their business as usual . Perhaps they were thinking that a victory in shoving , running , and booting a football scored by eleven Yale men over eleven Harvard men had nothing more to do with the Yale spirit than a victory by the White Sox has to do with the spirit of Chicago . At any rate they stayed away from the football rally even when a band and a parade marched across the campus to Woosley Hall in the attempt to seduce them with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is this muchboasted-about , little-analyzed , less-understood phenomenon which seems to have been the inexorable power behind the great avalanche of votes that rolled Herbert Hoover to victory ? Is it the profits in Wall Street gambling or the melons out by some of the great corporations ? Is it real-estate subdivisions littering the countryside with badly planned rows of vacant lots and occasional cheaply built houses ? Is it bread and circuses  --  motor cars for the middle classes , radios and seats at the movies for even the poorest workers ? Is it a reality or a legend ? Is it merely a matter of bookkeeping and paper profits ? Perhaps we are on the edge of a heart-to-heart talk among ourselves about this curious manifestation . Virgil Jordan , chief statistician of the National Industrial Conference Board , may have started the ball rolling by some surprising and unflattering remarks about prosperity . Speaking before the National Founders ' Association  --  and he must have jarred his audience  --  he hazarded the theory that prosperity was merely a state of mind . Money , he said , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the population and supplying it with luxuries , but the basic industries  --  the raising of food , the mining of coal , the making of cotton and woolen clothing  --  were suffering from worldwide depression . T HERE HAS BEEN NO YEAR since ' the war , or even in our previous history , according to Mr. Jordan , when " the overworked word ' prosperity ' has had less real and definite meaning . " This country is now firmly in the grasp of a prosperity complex which has been gradually and insidiously built up during the last few years . Prosperity in the present situation is rather a state of mind than a fact susceptible of demonstration either by statistics or by actual experience among business men or the general public . In larger part , it is an illusion created by extraordinaryfinancial conditions , by exceptional activity in production of certain types of goods , by radical changes in the organization and methods of manufacture , by changes in methods of distribution , and by shifts in the living habits of the urban population . These changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so that their significance and the problems they raise for the future have been submerged and obscured from public attention . Some of us may begin to suspect next that our boasted " increased standard of living " adds more to the complexity and burden of living than it does to its quality ; that it is as true today as when Thoreau said it that " Most of the luxuries , and many of the so-called comforts of life , are not only not indispensable , but positive hindrances to the elevation of mankind . " A LTHOUGH THE NATION 'S astronomical expert is not in the office as this paragraph is written , we venture to estimate that the center of the universe is 258,532,712 , - 000,000,000 miles from Arkansas . Professor Harlow Shapley and his associates of the Harvard Observatory have at last located in the constellation of Sagittarius the elusive spot which is supposed to be the magnetic focus of our system of stars . We , it seems , are near the edge of things , but nobody knows just where the jumping-off place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  no comfort for the monists can be found anywhere . There is something incalculably cold-blooded in these astronomers who can toss off lightly a statement that we are a few quadrillion miles away from that Bosom of Omnipotence where our forefathers thought we were . No wonder our Arkansas kinsmen are afraid of these men . While they are measuring the distances between stars , their brethren in the field of physics have learned to use light waves so accurately in measuring an object that the measurements are subject to an error of not more than three-one millionths of an inch . Some day they may be able to measure the mind of a fundamentalist . THOMAS FORTUNE RYAN ! Is it possible , as the newspapers say , that he has just died ? Most persons had thought of him as dead for many years . And in a sense he had been . He retired from business activity twenty years ago , and for the last decade his name , once on the lips of every commentator on financial news , had hardly been heard in a public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when our so-called " captains of industry " quit the steering wheel they are forgotten quicker and more completely , regardless of their wealth , than almost any of the persons who people for a day our crumbling halls of fame . Mr. Ryan bought a seat on the New York Stock Exchange at the age of twenty-three , and amassed an enormous fortune in a lifetime devoted to the mere manipulation for his own profit of the wealth others had produced . He was never a producer , a distributor , or in a creative sense a financial organizer , and in a sane economic system he would not have been conceded his board in a water-front lodging house . Yet he was a man of real talent , pursuing what he regarded as the wisest course in life , and he was wasted by his fellow-men quite as much as he exploited them . It is the fashion to call him a leader in a more ruthless finance than we know today . The fact is he was only a little more frank . The men of his time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pitter-patter about service and patriotism .                     