@@468491

I SEE that the Kaiser has recently published an attack on democracy in one of our popular magazines , " remarked a Princeton professor the other day to a young German scholar then engaged in surveying the institution of higher learning formerly governed by the author of the Fourteen Points . " Yes , " replied the visitor , with a merry twinkle in his eye , " poor William can sell that kind of stuff only in the United States ; his home market has been ruined . " Besides revealing a state of mind common in Europe , the retort calls attention to the apparently widespread interest of the American people in horrible revelations about the " failures of democracy . " The practice of criticism is general ; when domestic satirists exhaust their knowledge and their vocabularies foreign assistance is summoned by way of supplement . Now , nothing is easier than the game of attacking democracy by citing scandalous incidents , absurd episodes , and idiotic antics of some elected persons . This form of verbal exercise is very old ; but it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once employed against monarchs and produces nothing more important than amusement . In the eighteenth century republican agitators thought they had made au unanswerable argument for their cause by listing authentic cases of imbecility , murder , poison , arson , adultery , bastardy , corruption , drunkenness , useless wars , and other examples ofhebetudinous conduct in the history of royal families . That , too , was easy . When to the record were added the bed-chamber stories of European courts , drawn from innumerable scurrilous chronicles , the stew was made all the more savory for those who liked it . Our library shelves bend under the weight of this stuff in many tongues . An encyclopedia could be filled with " true relations . " And it is illuminating to note that scandalous and absurd doings on the part of royal persons were less criticized by their " intelligent " contemporaries than are the festivities of Great William Thompson , Lord of Chicago , by editors attached to the new American aristocracy of intellect . But on second or third thought , it must appear that calling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to certain types of mind , will not advance our political understanding , will not help much in taking our present bearings and attempting to forecast the future . A far better course is to recall the advice of Montesquieu , more than a hundred years in his grave ; that is , to remember that the forerunners of democracy ? monarchy and aristocracy ? were not badges of original sin or ready-made garments which nations could buy at political tailor shops and put on or off at will . The conditions necessary for the continuance and smooth functioning of monarchy and aristocracy arc : ( 1 ) the predominance of agriculture in national economy ? an agriculture carried on in the ancient manner by an uneducated peasantry , either servile or povertystricken ; ( 2 ) a class of feudal landlords rallying around the throne and giving support to it ; and ( 3 ) an authoritative clergy supreme over intellectual life . These conditions are not inherently " evil " ; they may in fact represent a great moral advance over the state of affairs which preceded them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avoid the pitfalls of those superficial writers who treat it as a mere mechanical form of government , which a nation may adopt , try , and discard at pleasure without respect to the conditions surrounding the operation , or who look upon it as a cure for ancient ills or as a definite drug like cocaine or alcohol , invented by political doctors in Greece , and found wanting . In reality , democracy is a very complex array of social relationships , a system , flexible in practice , that substitutes for government by hereditary or military authority government by officials directly or indirectly chosen , from time to time , at elections in which a considerable number of the people , as people , not economic bipeds , participate . Unavoidably , therefore , it involves differences of opinion , party antagonisms , acquiescence in majority or plurality decisions , and endless delays and weaknesses . It is not a medicine ; nor has it been employed on a large scale in any society previous to the modern age . On the contrary , democracy is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nineteenth century . It is an intricate collection of realities slowly evolved with the development of freehold agriculture , commerce , machinery , and science , facilitated , no doubt , by the agitations of idealists , yet moving relentlessly forward as modern economy triumphs over feudalism . It is affiliated with the printing press and the newspaper which spread ideas in spite of all censors ; with schools which are indispensable to the factory system if nothing else ; with railways and travel which break down the ignorance and rigidity of village life ; with automobiles and flying machines which make the whole world akin ; with the right of free migration which peasants and factory owners insist upon ; with cities and their fermenting intellectual life ; with telegraphs , cables , telephones , and radios ; with mass production ; with trade unions which assert the rights and power of industrial labor ; with business enterprise which can not flourish under autocratic and irresponsible government dependent upon the vagaries of personal rulers . All these things are indifferent , indeed hostile , to fixed status ? the foundation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor ask few or no questions about birth arid lineage ; they seek and develop talent wherever they find it . Moreover , there is another realistic force making for democracy in the modern world , a force to which the word " feminism " is applied . Strong men , pounding their chests , will laugh and denounce ; in a recent issue of an American magazine Mussolini shows how absurd it is ; but it must be amusing , at least , to these virile persons to recall that the World War , supposed to demonstrate manly valor at its highest pitch , accelerated the movement for woman suffrage . Nearly all the new states created after that conflict confer on women the right to vote ; to be specific , Germany , Austria , Czechoslovakia , Esthonia , Finland , Lithuania , Poland , and Russia . About the same time England and the United States joined Denmark , Norway , Sweden , and the Netherlands in proclaiming " equal suffrage . " Jugoslavia announces that the national legislature may confer it without the formality of a constitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Bosnia , instructed in 19es to take off their veils , may yet be seen going to the ballot box . But the rejoinder may be made that women won a high status in the later days of the Roman empire and lost it when the wars of invasion began , putting all things on their ultimate foundation , force . The analogy is alluring ? and without relevance . Are the European countries that have enfranchised women likely to be invaded and conquered by armies from the more virile nations which keep women under the masculine thumb ? Anyone may guess by looking at the map and calculating probabilities . Unless some masterful genius can blindfold the women , take them out of factories , offices , schools , universities , and theaters , make them illiterate once more , and back them into the kitchen and cow barn again , feminism is likely to increase rather than diminish . With reference to any such operation , a remark might be made to the effect that the economic order of any civilized nation which attempted such a transformation would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general dislocation . Indeed , if women were suddenly removed from the offices of any modern government , with a view to a restoration of " the home and fireside , " the confusion would be so great that the first call on the morning after would be for feminine help . Not even man 's grand game , war , now that it has become chemical and mechanical , can be carried on without enrolling armies of women . No , the feminist genie is out of the bottle ; it may be changed with time and circumstance ; but the work of getting it back into the non-refillable container passes the imagination . Now , if reference is made to those countries in which " democracy has failed " and dictatorships flourish at the present hour , it will be seen that they belong to the feudo-clerical order . Industry and science had not scratched the surface of Russia in 1917 ; the mass of the people were illiterate peasants governed by an autocracy , landlords , and anauthoritative church . Hungary , including Croatia , was in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poland belonged to Russia and was assimilated to Russian economy . When Mussolini seized the scepter in Italy the great majority of Italian men and women over nine years of age were employed in agriculture and related occupations ; about half the people over twenty years of age could not read or write ; the authoritative Roman Catholic Church , nominally at least , furnished the state religion ; previous to 190 , about half the adult males had been disfranchised and had enjoyed no experience in selfgovernment . In Spain ? another classic land of dictatorships ? three-fifths of the people could not read or write in 1910 ; five times as many people were engaged in agriculture as in manufacturing ; except for about thirty thousand Protestants , Jews , and skeptics , the entire population adhered to the Roman Catholic Church . Conversely , if reference is made to countries in which democracy flourishes or staggers along , it will he discovered that they are the countries in which freehold agriculture , science , machinery , and capitalism dominate the economic scene . Into this class fall Austria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States , Canada , Australia , and perhaps Japan , which has just given the vote to all adult males . Austria , even under the Hapsburgs , was moving steadily in the direction of democracy ; direct manhood suffrage was established there in 1907 . The revolution following the War completed the process by making suffrage universal . In Germany the evolution of popular government had been retarded by the monarchies and landed classes supported by timid bourgeois ; but the new constitution of 1919 provides for " the universal , equal , direct , and secret suffrage of all men and women over twenty years of age , according to the principles of proportional representation . " In the Wilhelminic era , Prussia was a kingdom with a system of class suffrage which permitted a small number of taxpayers to elect two-thirds of the legislature ; the constitution of the free state of Prussia , promulgated in 1920 , proclaims a republic and confers the ballot on " all German citizens , men and women , over twenty years of age . " In similar terms , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manhood or universal suffrage . Even the constitution of Soviet Russia , issued in July , 1918 , spoke of the dictatorship of the proletariat as created " in view of the present transition period , " and , although excluding from the suffrage certain propertied and other classes , conferred the right to vote on the broad masses of men and women . While laughing long and heartily at the whole democratic and liberal process of government , the Fascisti , in all their recent constitutional reforms , including the last adopted in May , 1928 , do not plan to eliminate popular voting entirely and to vest absolute authority in the hands of Mussolini and his lawful heirs and assigns . Nor does Spain , after a season of dictatorship , stand firm on one-man autocracy ; it is at this hour projecting and debating a constitution which contemplates elections , balloting , and caucusing in some form . Though Russia tried to disfranchise all persons of property , she had to relax her severe limits later , and , according to reports , neither Italy nor Spain is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aristocracy of high-property qualifications . Hence it appears that , even in countries " enjoying " dictatorships , what we have is , not a choice between democracy and no democracy , but a variety of selections ranging from one limit of popular participation to another . Iv Yet it may be said , with some degree of truth , that after the close of the World War political democracy was vigorouslyattacked from four sides : by the dictatorship of the proletariat , by the dictatorship of the middle class , by nationalistic parties rallying around monarchs , and by revolutionaries with projects for economic parliaments . Where do we stand now ? Well , for one thing , no other nation has followed the Russian example . There has been nothing sufficiently marvelous in the achievements of Moscow to inspire the emulative enthusiasm of the proletariat in any other country . In none of the states where democracy was functioning before the War have the Bolsheviks made more than a ripple on the surface of opinion . Russia is declining , not increasing in influence ; the recent communist swing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a flaming desire for the kind of prosperity attained by the Muscovites . England broke off relations with Russia ; nothing happened . The China upheaval , according to Trotsky , was a flash in the pan ; Chinese nationalists are not taking orders from the Third International . An outrageous assault was made on the Russian legation in Peking ; if anybody had violated a British embassy in the same manner there would have been an abject apology or a war ; but nothing happened . As of old , Russian emissaries make trouble for the British empire in Asia ; that is not difficult ; there is nothing new in it ; to talk about applying Lenin 's Taylorized Communism to seminomadic tribes in central Asia may be diverting but it has little to do with striking chains from the workers of the world . However that may be , it remains a fact that no other country has imitated the Bolshevik political design . What might happen in another World War ten times as great as the last is a matter of conjecture , illuminated , perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ footing with Russia . With grand flourishes in the manner of the Bolsheviks , the Fascisti announce to the gaping world the discovery of wonder-working political ideas and institutions and look with pitying contempt upon poor , deluded " liberals " trying to make democracy function . Fascist bands scattered from Calabria to Westchester County beat the drum and proclaim the new gospel . But no country with a literate population imitates Italy . Since Rome does not repudiate debts or expropriate the middle class , sales agents nowhere are alarmed . The general opinion seems to be that it may be good for Italy or that if Italy is pleased with Fascism , well , that is what Italy is pleased with . As for copying the latest Machiavellian device , the " ignorant , contemptible democracies " seem hardly competent . Meanwhile German seven per cent bonds sell at a premium , while those of Italy can be bought below par . V Among the other specifics offered for " degenerate " political democracy was the project for an economic parliament , the substitution of direct class representation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duly enumerated in the registration books and mathematically counted on election days . This idea , like many other world-shaking novelties , was not original . All the parliaments of the Middle Ages were class parliaments : they spoke for landed barons , clergy , country gentry , burghers , and sometimes peasants . Politicians were then economists ; at least they had all the prejudices and special wisdom ( if any ) associated with their respective kinds of property , occupations , callings , or professions . Looking back to these old class parliaments ( some of which , by the way , lived well into the twentieth century ) , or resorting to " natural reason , " a great school of critics , weary of politics , proposed to substitute economic parliaments for democracy . Of course , they differed among themselves , being human like the rest of mankind . Bourgeois speculators of thispersuasion proposed to have merchants , manufacturers , peasants , bankers , industrial workers , lawyers , and all the other propertied and occupational interests represented ; each group was to choose its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of classifying all the people neatly into economic compartments and almost infinite difficulties in the way of determining how many delegates each economic group was to elect . But as long as the scheme was merely in the air no blueprint specifications were required of its sponsors . While bourgeois meditators of this school were planning legislatures to represent all economic interests from banking to labor , guild socialists were framing economic parliaments representing miners , engineers , longshoremen , garment workers , and all the hundred and one groups of industrial operatives . The " shifty " politician , dealing in vague phrases flattering and deluding all parties , was to be supplanted by the forthright , two-fisted , and hard-headed spokesman of the economic group engaged in realistic labor . There was something attractive and appealing about the project . This idea of economic government was in the air when the great cataclysm of 1917 burst upon the world . It was given a practical turn by the Bolshevik revolution which rejected democracy and introduced workers ' councils . It was elaborated and incorporated in Article 165 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poland , and Jugoslavia . The German scheme was imposing in its proportions . Workers and employers were to be organized in local units , in districts , and in an Economic Council of the Reich ; the local and national councils were to he so constituted that " all important economic groups shall be represented therein proportionately to their economic and social significance . " The National Economic Council was given the right to initiate bills . To it the national ministry was to submit all drafts of proposed " politico-social and politico-economic " measures . Administrative as well as legislative powers could he conferred upon economic councils , national and local . Now , it was said , with a sigh of relief , business men and working men who actually know about the realistic operations of national economy will tell the mere politicians what to do and how to do it ; nay , more , will do it themselves , if necessary . Well , what has happened ? In Jugoslavia chambers of commerce , labor leaders , and ministers have been working for years over a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; they have not yet agreed on a plan . Austria is still governed by politicians in spite of the Arbeiterkammer set up in each of the states . In Germany a magnificent structure of economic councils was erected ; it has functioned in a way . But as far as the industrial workers are concerned , they still prefer to rely on their trade unions ; while capitalists make use of their special organizations and chambers of commerce as of old . It is found in practice that business men and workingmen speaking for economic councils can throw some light on " politico-economic " measures . Yet as a rule , owing perhaps to the peculiarities of the German party system , these realists prove inferior in information and comprehension to the technical and economic experts actually elected to the political parliament of the nation . Economic men are not supermen . Was this not to be expected ? Does the fact that a man manufactures shoes automatically make him an infallible oracle with respect to factory legislation , tariff on leather , railway rates , or any other economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant ? Certainly not . Does the fact that a man is a hard-headed organizer for a miners ' union automatically make him an infallible oracle with respect to the organization , ownership , taxation , or regulation of the complicated coal industry as a whole ? Certainly not . The truth is that measures apparently economic in nature also involve complicated moral , resthetic , and national questions , ending in nothing less significant than calculations relative to human destiny . A hard head is not necessarily a wise head . Economic classes may easily acquire the kind of knowledge and prejudice which lead to their mutual destruction ? as Marx and Engels point out in the Communist Manifesto . Hence we are forced to the conclusion that economic governments give little promise of driving out political democracies . They arc retreating rather than advancing , at all events for the present , in spite of the fact that Mussolini put one on paper in May , 1928 . VI If political democracy as developed in countries well advanced in industry , technology , and literacy does not recede before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic man , what of the fourth assailant , monarchy ? What are the prospects of the Romanoffs , Hapsburgs , Hohenzollerns , the Petrovitches , and other deposed rulers of Europe ? May they reasonably hope , like Charles H of England , to return from their " travels " to the thrones of their fathers ? Historical illustrations encourage them . On a fair count , restorations have been almost as numerous as dethronings ; for people love kings , gilt , and tinsel ; and in every country the party of prostration is large . After a. lapse of twenty-two years , the French Bourbons recovered their ancient crown in 1815 and managed to hold to it for fifteen years . In spite of many vicissitudes , the House of Bourbon still reigns in Spain ? that is , to some extent . The great landlords of Hungary are keeping the throne warm for somebody , though American visitors , Gentile and Jew , are shown the empty ballroom and the family chambers in the palace at Budapest ? for a small price . Into calculations respecting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and constitutional ? must inevitably enter . All the old monarchies had deep historical roots . Memories of eld , mysteries , and divinity did hedge kings about ; fighting feudal lords surrounded them and supported them against peasants and the bourgeois ; high dignitaries of the church lent the shimmering glamour of pageantry to royal appearances while bishop and priest taught obedience to the anointed of God and prayed for triumphs in peace and war . In those countries , like Germany , where technology , science , and industry , with their inevitable satellites ? skepticism , socialism , and revolution ? advanced remorselessly on the agricultural order ? with its kings , landlords , and priests ? many bourgeois , out of vanity or fear , rallied to the throne and altar ; but such recruits were not to the manner born and the corroding acid of humor and doubt ate the polish off their enthusiasm . No , a certain intellectual and aesthetic climate is necessary for the proper functioning of hereditary monarchy . Industries , cities , newspapers , literacy , socialistic agitations , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , obeisance , solemnities , and incantations . Except in Ilunga.ry and Rumania , the feudal-landlord support for the throne has either disappeared or is being subjected to the dominion of capitalism or , as in the case of Russia , has been overrun by some equally alien force . Science and industry march inexorably . The clericals can keep only a portion of the industrial workers in their ranks by running ahead of the populace with " social politics " emblazoned on their banners . As the years fly , the aged ladies and gentlemen who knew and loved " the dear King " will pass , and a generation of irreverent youth brought up on democratic sports , business , and cinemas will take their places ? a generation preferring the wide world to the shut-in palace . More realistic yet are the economic forces with which deposed kings must reckon in making their hopeful calculations . Around and through the structure of the present political settlement are woven the strong cords of international finance . And bankers do not want to plunge into the uncertainties which would accompany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Turkey or Hungary . The recent establishment of a monarchy in Albania is merely amusing , though possibly of sinister significance in the designs of Mussolini . German business , after ardent labors , is getting on an even keel again ; if still monarchist in spirit , the risk of another political revolution is about the least attractive thing it can contemplate . Now that the Prussian class system of voting is abolished and the military profession is decimated , the landed aristocracy can no longer dictate to business in Berlin . Its power was waning in 1914 ; it is shattered now . Moreover , the left wing of capitalism ? trade unionists , socialists , and communists ? is steadily increasing in proportion as against the agrarians , and it certainly has no affinity with monarchy . German socialists and communists , now numbering twelve million out of about thirty million voters , have not forgotten the Kaiser 's bitter and contemptuous words . If these industrial workers are inefficient in large constructive enterprises their negative power is immense . They can stop trains , put out electric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pumps , and man machine guns ; they did it with terrible effect when Herr von Kapp tried his little rebellion in 1920 ; they could do it again . Were the bourgeois willing to take the financial risks of a restoration they could not look without apprehension upon the sociological prospects of the operation . Nor are the constitutional and administrative difficulties in the way of a return to monarchy to be neglected . The new German constitution has ripped up the old federal order , with its monarchies , principalities , and free cities . Thousands of socialists and people of humble origins , who never got a chance at an administrative job in the old days , are now comfortably installed in official berths in the new system . Besides introducing revolutionary changes into the federal structure of Germany , the republican constitution establishes parliamentary government ? the very institution which the directors of the old regime hated like poison . This is not the whole story . From first to last , the German constitution is a radical , democratic document . So are the fundamental laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be set aside in favor of a strictly centralized monarchy , what will the states say about that ? Will the other kings , princes , grand dukes , and dukes who once presided over provincial courts and exercised independent powers consent to stand aside and see the Hohenzollerns swallow the whole federation ? If the restored Emperor is to be the restored King of Prussia , what will be the position of the other princes ? Granting a solution of such problems , is it conceivable that the German people will allow the creation of an absolute monarchy in these times ? Scarcely . Then there will be a parliament of some kind , involving the representation of the several states . Will this parliament abolish the ministerial system and permit the revival of irresponsible government , partly personal , partly political , based on backstairs negotiations and intrigues with the parties in the Reichstag ? That kind of government rightly bears a good deal of blame for getting Germany into her present plight , and neither business men nor industrial workers wish to try it again . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and accepts the republic only as a temporary necessity . Indeed , since the revolution , the political parties commanding a majority of the popular votes have been monarchist in their sympathies , some ardently , somevaguely . That is not surprising . Does history show many examples of a people consciously and deliberately substituting a republic for a monarchy ? Were not the American people loyal to George III until 1775 when shots at Lexington started an avalanche ? If there were ten republicans in all the thirteen colonies at that time they certainly did not make themselves known . A few months before , Washington wrote , " No such thing as independence is desired by any thinking man . " Did a majority of the adult males on July 4 , 1776 , favor a republic ? They were never given a chance to say , and nobody knows ? not even Mr. Bruce Barton . War and revolution made America a republic , not a solemn vote of The People . Did the English ever want a republic ? They tried one in Cromwell 's day and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1660 . Did the French ever want a republic ? Well , in 1802 , they made Napoleon Bonaparte First Consul for life by a vote of 3,568,000 in favor to 9,000 against , and then two years later made him Emperor by a majority of more than three million , to say nothing of the two million men who died in his wars for his greater glory . There is more to tell . In 1852 that prestidigitator of comic opera , Louis Napoleon , was elevated to the high post of Emperor by popular vote : 7,824,189 ayes to 253,145 nays . Then how did the French get their republic ? Largely because the Germans knocked over their Idol in the battle of Sedan . Hardly that . In fact , in the French elections of 1871 , held under the terms of the armistice , the Republicans , who called for war to the hilt , polled only about one-third of the votes ; the rest went to the Bonapartists , Orleanists , and Bourbons ; only the divisions among the monarchists forced the inescapable republic on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Germany the swing in the elections is decidedly toward the republic ; the campaign of this year ended in the utter rout of the extreme nationalists . If a majority of the Germans are , as alleged , monarchist at heart , they are not unconditional monarchists . They would put a price on restoration by plebiscite . In that case , the Hohenzollerns might be reduced to the level of King George or the Prince of Wales . That would be something fearfully like democracy . But personal elements enter into the picture . There is William II , in his prime no such a showman as the Bonaparks . The public knows more about him now than it did in 1900 or 1914 . Before the world are the thousands of documents torn from the German secret archives , revealing his powers , conduct , and intelligence . Moreover , he has himself given a measure of his understanding in his actions since November 1 , 1918 , and in memoirs and articles , apparently written with his own hand . If others prepared these papers for him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his character just as effectively . As a result of these revelations , the respectable stereotype of the former Emperor is ruinously broken . In the days of his glory " educators , " iron magnates , beer kings , and sugar princes returning home from Potsdam ? with pride keeping the dust on their knees ? tried to create a popular picture of an august War Lord to whose ingenious ministrations Germany owed her marvellous industrial and scientific advance . According to their portrait , William was wise , humane , learned , and pacific , above all pacific ; he was an adept in Egyptology , theology , and statecraft . When Roosevelt , who fished around like a lovesick boy for an invitation to Berlin , came roaring back from his lion hunt through Europe , he made flattering public statements about the Kaiser which his private letters printed after his death show to be untrue to his honest convictions . Now the mirage of the Kaiser has disappeared . He did not will the World War ; he had neither the courage , resolution , nor iron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hectic years when that mess was brewinghe was tossing around in a fever , pulled first one way and then the other . His own government , theoretically responsible to him ( if to anybody ) , was divided against itself and he was powerless to unite it on any coherent program . A large part of the foreign business was carried on behind his back , without his knowledge . He complained bitterly about this , but in vain . While it is now clear from German documents that the famous Kruger message , which made the English government frantic , was a spiritual enterprise undertaken on his own responsibility , it can not be said that the Kaiser enjoyed any such freedom to direct affairs in his own way after that episode . William 's famous letters to the Tsar , " dearest Nicky , " running from 1894 to 1914 , did not originate by spontaneous combustion in his own imagination . They were outlined for him in the German Foreign Office ; the drafts were approved by the Foreign Secretary and in part by the Chancellor himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his breezy manner , frequently with proposed changes in the text , the precious papers were sent back to the Foreign Office for final sanction . In the same class of performance seems to fall the momentous visit of the Kaiser to Tangier in 1905 , breathing fire and notifying France ( then engaged hi grabbing everything in sight ) that Germany had rights in that free country . Although the German documents do not make clear the genesis of this imperial excursion , they do show that the venture was fully prepared by the German Foreign Office and that the Kaiser , against his own wishes and contrary to his best judgment , was forced to carry out his part to assert German prestige and help sell German goods . If he had been let alone by the energetic commercial diplomats in Wilhelmstrasse , he doubtless would have preferred a game of pinochle rather than a merchandising visit to salute his great and good friend , the Sultan of Morocco . That . is to his credit , but it detracts a bit from his majesty . While the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Graf von Hue/ow , telegraphed him by way of Lisbon : " As soon as Your Majesty 's visit to Tangier was made known , I permitted the Norddeutsche to remind its readers that Your Majesty had already the year previous in Vigo declared that we seek no territorial advantage in Morocco but merely fix our attention on the matter in order that free trade may be safeguarded there . " What becomes of Heroes and Hucksters now ? The iron man of Potsdam did not run the ship after he dismissed the Pilot Bismarck . He was a drummer for German merchants . But it may be said that at least he cooperated with the directors of foreign affairs . He did . Traces of his co-operation are found scattered in a thousand places on the margins of diplomatic documents referred to him for comments and suggestions . And what are these comments ? " Bosh , " " nonsense , " " God be praised , " " imbecility , " " childish , " " that is stupid , " " it is not his business , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the language used by William while " directing " affairs of state , according to the printed papers now available . Those who have seen the manuscripts say that occasionally , if not frequently , he dropped into the vernacular of the barnyard and barroom and used words which chaste editors will not print without asterisks . Of course , if we may believe the Russians , George V also talked like a swordrattling pirate in private , but that was no justification for William 's conduct ? except inasmuch as blood will tell . When due allowance is made for royal license , it must be confessed that William as manager of foreign affairs appears in the record as a petulant , temperamental , vacillating schoolboy . All this is well known to the German people . Even William 's best friends have a hard time making a grand monarch out of him . Such is the man . Such are the circumstances . His prospect of wearing the old crown again seems slight , and is growing slighter . VII For the Hapsburgs the outlook is no rosier . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rift in the family . Of course , the unchanging and unforgetting legitimists stand firmly by young Archduke Otto , son of the late Emperor Charles . In Austria their contentions are not disputed by any of the monarchists . But in Hungary there is another claimant , Archduke Albrecht von Hapsburg . To be sure , he belongs to a collateral line and , by the strict rules of inheritance , has no title to the throne ; yet he is rich and has powerful friends who openly propose to put aside the old family and found a new dynasty in Hungary , leaving Austria to her fate . They want to keep Hungary pure , to cut loose from the bankers of Vienna , to crush the Jews , and to maintain great landlordism , an unquestioned clergy , and a subject , illiterate peasantry . Besides fighting against machinery and finance , the supporters of Albrecht have to reckon with the young Archduke Otto who has the legitimate right , when , as , and if . No decision can be made in Hungary without a contest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reunion of Austria-Hungary is open . Assuming for the moment that this is the only solution for the simon-pure legitimists , then what shape can the union take ? Austria and Hungary were never very happy in wedlock . A wide gulf separates the Magyars from the Germans . They were brought together by an accident of history and were held together not by affection but by fear of Turks , Slays , and dissolution . Budapest is white ; Vienna is red , nay , crimson , and the election of I928 deepened its color . Austria is becoming industrial and looks West not East , to capitalism , science , and socialism , rather than to monarchy , feudalism , and clericalism . If Austria is reunited with Hungary under the legitimate Hapsburg line , then Vienna , not Budapest , will be the senior partner . That means capitalism and its shadow ? socialism . Already the true-blue Hungarian monarchists accuse the mild legitimists and the present conservative government at Budapest of flirting with the bankers . Well they may . How can a class of landlords @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entailment of estates has ever kept great landed families intact and , even with entailment , they are always head over heels in debt ? with respect to their private and public finances . They may fine radicals for cheering for the Hungarian Republic ( which does not exist ) . They may imprison communists and subject them to the third and fourth degrees . They may rally around the throne and altar . But they can not run their government , such as it is , without money ; and to get money they must go hat in hand to the bankers . Brushing aside all these difficulties and imagining the Archduke Otto crowned in Vienna and Budapest , what then ? Surely no one thinks that the old Austro-Hungarian complex can be restored Germans , Magyars , Poles , Czechs , Ruthenians , Slovaks , Slovenes , Croats , Moslems , Serbs , Italians , and Rumanians . Can young Otto cut away part of Poland , extinguish Czechoslovakia , break up Jugoslavia , carve a big slice out of Rumania , and perform all the other surgical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He can hardly hope even to march into Vienna without making concessions or facing a riot , considering the red guards of that metropolis . Clericals might welcome him ; but it is doubtful whether Vienna bankers , though belabored by red taxation , would like to risk any more disturbances . Things could be worse . Moreover , there arc the advocates of union with Germany to be taken into account ; they contend that Austria can not live without this economic vineture . Nor is the Austrian constitution to be ignored . Otto would have to deal with a political democracy and a closely organized working class , His nights at Schoenbrunn would be full of trouble ; his days would be spent making terms with parliamentary majorities . If he comes to the throne it will probably be in sonic kind of a crisis that would change the face of Europe , leading to unexpected things . Providence does not move in straight lines . Of Russia , the mysterious , no one can speak with any degree of assurance . Still some facts lie on the surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As in the case of the Kaiser , the historic revelations of the past ten years tend to reduce rather than increase the mental and moral stature of the Tsar , thus diminishing popular respect for the monarchy . The machinations of his government , as exposed in the documents , have received the odium of mankind . As for the collateral Romanoff lines , they can furnish no heroic figure to serve as a rallying point for monarchists ; in skeptical Paris and amused Berlin Tsarworship is now difficult . To make matters blacker for the legitimists , the agrarian revolution in Russia was thoroughgoing ; not a single great landlord survived the holocaust with his estates intact . On the contrary , the members of the Russian nobility who are not in their graves are utterly expropriated . More than that , they are exiles scattered all the way from Belgrade to Duluth , pining and suffering in poverty , washing dishes , serving as garage mechanics , and , what is worse , entertaining the new rich . There is no feudal aristocracy left in Russia to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a collateral Romanoff upon it . The peasants may not love the Bolsheviks , but they do not want another Little Father if he brings an army of ravenous landlords in his train . Subjected steadily to communist propaganda in the press and the moving pictures , the working classes are not likely to throw up their hats at the sight of any Russian grand duke riding to his coronation ; they are more likely to throw something else Yearning merchants and Nepmen generally may hope for a restoration , but they are not numerous and , anyhow , the middle classes do not furnish good materials for royalist economy and pageantry . It is not easy for a banker or a green grocer to exchange his top hat and frock coat for ostrich feathers and velvet . It can be done , but the sight is not inspiring even to kings and queens . So the outlook for Romanoff autocracy is not promising in Leningrad and Moscow . No ; the great kaleidoscope of destiny has made a violent turn breaking the mold of established patterns and shaking out novel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a steel helmet wreathed in smoke , marches across the face of the earth spreading restless democracy in its train . A divine monarch , an unquestioned clergy , a ruling landed aristocracy can not lookupon the face of this iron giant and live . Blood , birth , and mundane mystery are not respected by science , invention , and capitalism . Newspapers , schools , literacy , moving pictures , radios , travel , research , discussion , and endless economic changes make a restoration of any kind of rigid order so highly improbable as to appear impossible . Inevitably , therefore , great masses of untitled people will have a hand in government , democracy will abide and function ? in a way . It will pass through dictatorships , perhaps , but dictators are not immortal and divisions will follow their departure . The world can not go on without masses , and masses are not going on without the instruments and practices that make for democracy : a return to the economy of the hand loom and tallow dip is as unthinkable as a return to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In spite of the cynics and philosophers who deny " time " and laugh at " progress , " the future is as real as the past , will endure as long , will be different from it , promises to be more interesting , and can scarcely display less humanism or intelligence .                     