@@467893

THE methods and tools required for measuring stellar distances are for the most part remarkably simple in principle compared with the technic necessary for the analysis of bacteria or the mensuration of electrons . The essentials of the astronomical procedure can he described with a minimum of technicalities . In the following account of modern methods , and of the striking results they have produced , we shall begin by outlining the problem of the Milky Way and dealing briefly with variable stars , stellar clusters , and the star clouds of Magellan . These interesting classes of stellar objects are of fundamental importance in the recent work of sounding space . They disclose a way of measuring distance that far transcends the power of the surveyor 's method of triangulation , which for many years has been successfully used for finding the distances and arrangement of stars comparatively near the Sun . Later we shall discuss the form , nature , and origin of the Milky Way , in so far as the newer astronomy can safely guide us . First , to define the Milky Way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ band of celestial light which , passing in a great circle around the sky , is clearly visible in some parts as silvery clouds . Until recent years it has generally been maintained that these galactic clouds are structurally distinct from the scattered naked-eye stars which immediately border them . Some of the Milky Way star clouds , it is true , appear to be isolated from their surroundings . They are now and then sharply delimited ? either actually , by the absence of stars beyond the visible borders , or apparently , by the intervening masses of non-luminous. dust and gas , called dark nebula .. But the galactic clouds in part represent the greatest number of objects that can be seen when an observer , situated in a flat watch-shaped stellar system , looks out in the direction of greatest extent . And even though there are occasional well-defined clouds of stars along the Milky Way , the gradual concentration of all faint objects toward the central galactic plane is responsible for most of the silvery band and indicates definitely the disc-like form of oursystem . To us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Milky Way in the constellations Cygnus , Aquila , and Cassiopeia appears to be brighter than the regions in Taurus , Orion , and elsewhere . Some astronomers have believed that the high frequency of stars in Cygnus indicates that the center of the Galaxy lies in that direction . But observers in lower latitudes , or in the southern hemisphere , point out that we northerners underestimate the brilliancy of the southern Milky Way . The great star clouth of Sagittarius and Scorpio are partially lost for northern observers in the haze near the southern horizon , and the rich star fields of Vela and Centaurus are rarely seen at all . When the Galaxy is studied through star counts , or examfined visually from a point on the equator , the superior brilliancy of the southern Milky Way stands clearly forth . The existence of this sidereal band of light , disclosing a central plane in the stellar arrangement , signifies that nearly all the stars we know are organized into one dominating system . Our Galaxy is , in fact , a collection of systems , a group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see many of the suborganizations ? groups of stars of similar color and motion ? such as the Hyades , the Pleiades , the bright bluish-white stars of the constellation Orion , and that large scattered group which contains the dog-star Sirius and most of the stars of the Big Dipper . With a small telescope we are able to pick up numerous small open clusters along the mid-line of the Milky Way . Obviously , clustering is a prevailing stellar tendency . Remembering also the lesser organizations ? multiple stars like Castor and Polaris , double stars like Algol and Spica , and even our own planetary system composed of a primary star surrounded by a bevy of secondary bodies we infer that independent and totally isolated stars may not be the sidereal standard . Each star , and group of stars , evidently must move under the gravitational direction of all the others in the universe . Our Sun , no doubt , moves in some complicated orbit , though we are yet far from predicting its future path . The Pleiades , two hundred strong , are moving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undoubtedly the wholecluster , though remaining within the galactic system , will gradually change its direction of motion and continually influence the masses of neighboring stars and be influenced by them . We are led to consider such questions as how this controlling body , the Milky Way system , may have come into existence with its thousands of millions of stars , and how extended it is along the galactic plane and at right angles thereto ; how thickly its stars are scattered throughout the space it occupies , and how rapidly they move . None of these inquiries can be finally answered . We are , however , more competent to answer partially the questions concerning extent . The work on variable stars and globular clusters has contributed during the last ten years something to our knowledge of the remoter parts of the stellar universe . Before then it had long been recognized that the stars are distributed around the Sun in a discoidal system , the central plane of which coincides with the galactic girdle . Estimates of the greatest diameter of the Milky Way varied from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trillion miles a year ) , but no great weight was placed on any of these guesses . They rested on untried assumptions and indirect methods . They were not founded on the extensive modern results on star distances and luminosities . Naturally , the Sun was then considered to be the center of the stellar system , There are two reasons for this erroneous deduction . In the first place , the Milky Way divides the celestial sphere into nearly equal halves ( its uneven brightness was overlooked or considered irrelevant ) . In the second place , the stars become less frequent in all directions as one goes out from the Sun . At present , however , we attach more importance than formerly to the inequalities of the Milky Way , and we explain the uniformly decreasing frequency of stars as a local phenomenon . We are more willing now to believe the evidence of our eyes and mathematics that the solar system is not centrally placed . And this concession with regard to the center leaves us open-minded also in our revaluations of the scale of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Galaxy began with the study , with Professor Russell at Princeton , of the distribution of the eclipsing variables Algol , in the constellation Perseus , is the best known of these eclipsing double stars which vary in brightness because the light traveling earthward is periodically intercepted . Eclipses occur as the two components of the double , in their orbital motions about the center of gravity , cross the line to the terrestrial observer and block each other 's light . The light variations can be measured with special instruments and analyzed mathematically . The nature of the variation depends on the sizes of the stars , their relative intensities , and the kind of orbits they follow . Two or three years ' work , spent on the comp ' - tation of the orbits of nearly a hundred eclipsing binaries , led finally to the deduction of their distances and their distribution in space . Most of them are giant stars of high candle-power , with surface temperatures of ten thousand to twenty thousand degrees , and central temperatures of millions of degrees . But they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proved to be several thousand light-years distant and suggested that the dimensions formerly assigned to the stellar system might be much too small . Another type of star that varies systematically in light power is the Cepheid variable , and it also is now known to be of high luminosity . If apparently faint when seen in a telescope , its distance must be great . The degree of faintness is indeed a measure of the distance . These Cepheids periodically brighten and fade , like their naked-eye prototype Delta C ep he i , from which they derive the name . Polaris , the north pole-star , is a Cepheid variable with a small range in light variation . Periodic pulsations or tremendous eruptions ? in the stellar atmosphere are the most probable cause of such variations . The high luminosity of the Cepheid variables and their usefulness in measuring the Milky Way was not generally admitted until recently . But now astronomers agree that the typical Cepheid is from a hundred to ten thousand times as bright as the Sun . About twenty years ago Hertzsprung first called attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ten years later the same problem was investigated by the present writer , extending the methods and deducing the individual distances for a hundred and fifty of these stellar giants . Some were found more distant than the limits formerly assigned to the whole stellar system , and a revision of the scale of the Galaxy became necessary . Thus both kinds of variables eclipsing stars and Cepheids ? led us beyond the domain of nearby stars and indicated the technic we should use in fathoming the Milky Way . The derivation of the absolute magnitude , or total candle-power , of Cepheid variables is not difficult . It can be briefly described in two paragraphs , and merits the description because of its important place in modern consideration of these problems of distance . A dozen or so Cepheids are visible without a telescope , and their positions have appeared in the star catalogues for a hundred years or more . From a comparison of old and new catalogues , the proper motions of bright typical Cepheids ? that is , their angular movement across the sky ? can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is largely the reflex of the motion of the Sun through space . The four hundred million miles covered by the solar system in a year makes the nearer stars appear to shift backward with respect to the faint and distant stars . The amount of the shift , called parallactic motion , obviously depends uponthe position of the star ? the nearer the star , the greater the shift . For the naked-eye Cepheid variables , the parallactic motion is found to be abnormally small compared with other stars that appear equally bright . This can only mean that they are , relatively , far from the Sun and the total light emission of each must be enormous to make them visible without a telescope . The problem stated here qualitatively can be treated numerically , and it is then found that the average distance of the naked-eye Cepheid variables is a thousand light-years , and their total light emission is , on the average , six hundred and fifty times that of the Sun . Iknee , if a faint star cluster contains similar giants , it must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distances in clusters and Milky Way clouds that are too great for the ordinary triangulation procedure which serves only for the nearby stars . The two star clouds of Magellan , which can be studied only from observatories of the southern hemisphere , contain hundreds of Cepheids that vary periodically in brightness . A careful study , begun at Harvard and extended at Mount Wilson , has revealed among these variable stars a striking relation between the total tight power and the interval of time between successive pulsations of light . If , for a variable star , the period between successive oscillations of brightness is twelve hours , the star is found to be about one hundred times as luminous as the Sun ; if its period is twelve days , the brightness excels that of the Sun two thousand fold . The relation between period and candlepower is so definite that , wherever the variable may be , a study of its periodic variations in light yields readily the absolute value of its luminosity , and from that value a simple computation leads to the distance . In other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light power of a star , the measurement of its apparent brightness indicates the distance from the observer . This method of measuring space is called photometric , in distinction from the trigonometric method used for nearer stars , planets , and comets . Fortunately for the problem of measuring the Milky Way , the Cepheid variables are widely distributed ; they appear among the bright and faint stars of the Galaxy , as well as in the crowded population of remote star clusters and clouds . Two distinct types of star clusters are recognized ? the globular cluster , of which nearly a hundred are now known , and the open cluster , which is more than twice as numerous . The two kinds appear to be highly important in the history of the stellar universe . In compactness and quantity of stars , globular clusters are sharply differentiated from open groups , such as the Pleiades . A typical open system may have within its borders one or two hundred stars of more than solar brightness , whereas a typical globular cluster contains twenty or thirty thousand stars brighter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sky the globular clusters differ from open groups in a way that is significant for theories of the origin of the Galaxy . The open clusters are found along the Milky Way , but not outside its central girdle . The globular clusters , on the other hand , avoid its central line and avoid also most of the northern constellations . They are , however , in the southern sky concentrated toward the Milky Way from both sides , becoming more numerous up to its very edges and then suddenly disappearing . These facts of distribution show that both the open and globular clusters form a part of our own stellar system ; they are controlled by its forces , governed by its mightier mass . In measuring their distances we are measuring the extent of our Galaxy . My photometric study of the familiar globular cluster in Hercules , Messier 13 , led to the detection of many blue-tinted stars . The colors when quantitatively measured were quite comparable with those of giant blue stars in the solar neighborhood . It seemed reasonable to assume these bluish stars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred times as bright as the Sun . On this assumption Messier 13 was computed , by simple formula ! , to be at a distance in excess of thirty thousand light-years . A second deduction from these first determinations of color is that no evidence appears of the scattering and absorption of light in interstellar space . Until we were sure that space ? or the fine matter it may contain does not seriously diminish the passing light of distant stars , we could not use photometric methods of measuring great distances . Such light-scattering material would , if it existed , diminish blue light more than red . The orange-red sunset illustrates the point , the Earth 's atmosphere and its dust being the agency of scattering and weakening preferentially the shorter waves of blue light . The observations described above , that the star colors are comparable for the Sun 's neighbors and for distant cluster stars , is adequate assurance that the space beyond our shallow atmosphere is essentially empty and that our new method can be applied . In the Hercules cluster , in addition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help in the problem of distance . The study of their variability with the great refracting telescope at the Yerkes Observatory enabled Barnard to find the periods of variation . Later I used these periods and my measures of the apparent magnitudes in estimating the distance of the cluster . The result was the same as given by blue stars . Similarly , red giants were found in the cluster , and their study led to similarestimates of distance . Thus blue stars , Cepleids , and red giants agreed in yielding for this sub-system of our Galaxy a distance greater than we had previously set for the outermost hounds of the stellar universe . Some of the other globular clusters have many variable stars of the Cepheid type . Notably is this true of the bright Omega Centauri of the southern sky , and the more northern globular systems which hear the catalogue designations of Messier 3 , Messier 5 , and Messier 15 . Long studies of their light variations at Harvard and Mount Wilson have produced the periods , and finally yielded accurate determinations of the distance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a small number of the clusters . For systems devoid of Cepheids , other methods of measuring distance had to be devised . By assuming , for instance , that all globular clusters actually have the same size and absolute brightness ( an assumption that has been found to be justified ) we can compute distances from measures of angular size and apparent brightness , and thus be independent of Cepheid variables . Using these indirect methods it was eventually possible , a few years ago , to get the distances of all known globular clusters . IL then appeared that the Hercules system is one of the nearest . The most remote so far on record is N.G.C. 7006 , which probably does not differ materially from the cluster in Hercules , but because of its great distance appears to us as diminutive and very faint . Its angular diameter is so small that only the largest telescopes can distinguish it from a single hazy star , or from a nebula . With the 100-inch reflector at Mount Wilson , Cepheid variables have been found within this distant object @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proved correct the values of distance we had previously derived from comparing its angular diameter and apparent magnitude with the same properties for nearby clusters of known distance . It is interesting to reflect that when we study the periods of Cepheids in N.G.C. 7006 we are photographing and analyzing waves or pulses of light that were emitted from the hot stellar atmospheres more than two thousand centuries ago . But the radiation , after its long interval in space , shows no measurable effects . It is identical , in natural propperties , with the radiation from the Sun that has had an experience of only five hundred seconds with the rigors of space and time . Considered as a whole , the globular clusters form a system of higher order ? an organization that is equally divided by the galactic plane , and is about three hundred thousand light-years in greatest diameter . We can , for the present at least , take this organization of clusters as coincident with the general galactic system . Most of the thousands of millions of stars of the Milky Way are confined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten thousand light-years in thickness and two or three hundred thousand light-years in greatest diameter . The center of the system of clusters , and presumably the center of the whole galactic system , lies in the direction of the constellation Sagittarius ? the direction of the rich star clouds that so greatly enhance the brilliance of the southern Milky Way . The unequal intensity of the Milky Way may thus be explained in part as the result of our eccentric location . The same cause also accounts for the one-sided distribution of the globular clusters , which are nearly absent from northern constellations . It accounts , too , for the greater number of novie found in the southern star Clouds . Planetary nebular , which are known to be objects of high luminosity and of great distance , are likewise more numerous in the direction of Sagittarius , for in the opposite part of the Milky Way the limits of the system are too near . To give sonic numerical values : The remotest of all known globular clusters is about two hundred thousand light-years distant . Twenty globular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The center of the galactic system is sixty thousand light-years from the Sun , or farther . ' The numerous dark obscuring clouds in the constellations of Ophiuchus , Sagittarius , and Scorpio may conceal clusters and star clouds still more distant than any we have as yet measured . If A light-year ? the distance which a ray of light will travel in one year ? is about six trillion miles . so , the galactic system may extend farther in some directions than we now have methods of estimation . The prevailing conception of the physical universe has gradually evolved in close correlation with the mental evolution of man . To the primitive man the cosmos , of course , was anthropocentric ? a natural deduction from the circularity of the horizon and the concentric character of the dome of heaven . At a subsequent stage of intellectual progress the universe was , no doubt , centered in restricted areas on the surface of the Earth rather than in the individual , and man adopted a locoentric or topocentrie idea of the world . In this later stage the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with each subsequent step in the widening of mental horizon , greater physical dimensions have been found . To Ptolemy and his school the universe was no longer lococentric but geocentric ; and since the time of Copernicus the Sun , as the dominating body of the solar system , has been considered to be at or near the center of the stellar domain . We have in general accepted the heliocentric view of the universe for the last four centuries . The researches of recent times have again changed the conception of the scale of the visible universe , and of the position of its center . Neither the individual , nor his abode , nor his earth , nor his sun has now the dignity of a central place . For one thing , the solar system is slightly to the north side of the central plane of the Galaxy and is increasing the distance from that plane as time goes on . In addition , as previously noted , we are at least six hundred centuries of light-travel from the central region of the Milky Way . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the open systems which lie along the Milky Way plane . The explanation proposed for this difference is that the Milky Way was originally formed , and is still forming , out , of clusters ? in part if not in whole . The Yob . CL. ? No. 900. - 42 various open clusters , moving groups , and star streams are believed to represent transition stages in the dismantling and dispersing of large systems , once external . Many of the globular clusters , whose motions have been investigated , are coming into the galactic system . They now move in orbits inclined to the galactic plane , in which they travel to and fro across the star fields of the Milky Way ; but with each crossing they lose somewhat in stars and in compactness . Dynamical theory indicates that the inclinations of their orbits will gradually decrease , their motions will become confined to the denser stellar regions along the Milky Way , their dwarf stars will he slowly scattered and , in the course of the trillions of years that are available for cosmic evolution , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enriched by the members of the globular clusters which are now extant . Perhaps many of the external systems which anteceded the present groupings in our Galaxy were globular clusters , similar to Messier 13 ; or possibly the ancestral systems had already developed into miniature galaxies ( such as the star clouds of Magellan ) when they came under the permanent control of our ever-growing system . The present discoidal form of the Milky Way might be explained as a result of a gradual growth through the absorption of clusters , each addition from the outside increasing the dimensions , the flattening , and the total mass . There is some evidence that the whole galactic system is moving through space . Possibly it will reach distant regions and absorb other globular clusters which as yet we have not seen . The future of the Galaxy may involve much growth , but already the scale of space , time , and members transcends our powers of full appreciation . Its stars are now numbered by the thousands of millions , its dimensions measured in hundreds of thousands of light-years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its immensity.                     