@@299931

Fortnight ago the armies of the rebellious generals of the southern province of Kwangsi moved against Canton , capital of Kwantung province , rich , commercial seaport of the Nationalist Government . Canton 's hasty preparations for defense seemed woefully inadequate . Oracular foreign correspondents took the fall of Canton for granted , foresaw a powerful rebellion against the Nanking government with the city of Canton as a base for the rebels . Such correspondents under estimated Kwantung strategy . <P> Last week , with the well-equipped Kwangsi armies only 25 miles away , the wily aristocratic Governor of Kwantung , General Chen Ming-chu , sent out a messenger to the Kwangsi rebels . Would the honorable enemy cease its advance on defenseless Canton in return for a sub stantial cash award ? The practical-minded Kwangsi generals thought they would , but considering their favorable tactical position , the ransom must be a heavy one . <P> They demanded $285,000 per month for an indefinite period , plus war munitions and supplies from the city of Canton , minus any interference by Canton authorities with the Kwangsi opium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Kwangsi troops ceased their advance . Wagon loads of silver coin , food and munitions were sent out from Canton to appease the besiegers . Foreign correspondents sent squibs to their papers describing this example of Chinese warfare . <P> Wily Chen Ming-chu said nothing , he had gained three valuable days . Suddenly the ransom shipments ceased . Canton 's army , completely mobilized , equipped with hand grenades , field artillery , machine guns and submachine guns , took the field , led by a squadron of 20 roaring battle planes . Kwantung gunboats shelled the rebels from the river . Kwantung airplanes shelled the rebels . For days the line of battle wavered to and fro- ding , dong-Kwangsi . Kwantung . The Kwantung airplanes and gunboats finally settled the scale . The attacking Kwangsis retreated with heavy losses , leaving 1,500 captives to C h e n M i n g -c h u                     