@@468134

DEMOCRACY ? whose principle , said Montesquieu , is virtue ? was born of money and gunpowder . Cannon and musketry battered down the feudal castle , made proud knights , conspicuous on their steeds , the easy prey of infantry , equalized villein and lord on the field of battle , and gave for the first time since Pythagoras some dignity to number . The invention of coinage and credit eased the ways of trade and the accumulation of wealth ; it built at the crossroads of commerce thriving towns , and at the ports of trade free cities ; strong enough to throw off the yoke of feudal fees ; it generated in the face of a functionless landed aristocracy an energetic moneyed bourgeoisie , a tiers ? tat which clamored for a political position commensurate with its growing economic power . Voltaire and Rousseau were the heralds of this change ; they popularized those invaluable shibboleths , liberte and ? galite , to the music of which the middle class marched to political supremacy . Originally liberty meant freedom from feudal tyranny and tolls ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the aristocracy and the clergy , to the honors and spoils of government ; originally , one suspects , fraternity meant the open access of bankers and merchants , butchers and bakers and candlestick-makers , to aristocratic and episcopal salons . It was not supposed that these splendid words would he so misunderstood as to embrace all male adults , much less all women ; mere wives and workingmen would understand that no reference to them was intended . Rousseau , father of democratic theory , wished to exclude all women , and all propertyless persons , from political power , and did not include them in the term " people . " Under the Constitution adopted by the French Revolutionary Assembly , three-fifths of all adult males were excused from participating in the franchise . Under the laws of various states in our own republic a property-qualification was attached to the franchise until the days of Andrew Jackson . By its origin , and still in its current development , democracy means the rule of the middle-class ? government by the second best . Contributory factors co-operated with this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way for that rebellious individualism which underlies the democratic brotherhood of man . The reverberation , through print , of the blows struck at superstition by scientists and philosophers from Copernicus to Darwin , had the effect of replacing an inactive and insincere belief in Heaven with a na ? ve but active trust in an Earthly Paradise , wherein all men , geniuses and fools alike , would share in happiness and power . The Industrial Revolution taught men to fudge one another in terms of productive ability ? which might appear in any rank ? rather than through fortuitous pedigree . The cost of government compelled kings to turn ever more politely to wealthy business men , and gave to the lower chamber of legislative bodies an increasing power and prestige . And the rivalry of privileged groups led each minority in turn to extend the franchise in the hope of securing in this way a continuance of its supremacy . When the masters fell out the people fell in . When the men fell out the women fell in . Now we are all in the hole together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , how we can find some one to drag us out , when every one is in . " While these general causes were operating in Europe , producing in England , France , Russia , and Germany the revolutions of 1689 , 1789 , 1917 , and 1918 , they were reinforced with certain special factors in the development of American democracy . Our Revolution of 1776 , now distant enough to be admirable , was not only a revolt of Colonials against England ; it was also a revolt of the middle-classes against an imported aristocracy ; it was part of that long series of political earthquakes which cracked and dislocated the social surface of the Western world , broke up and submerged the land-owning aristocracies , and reared a new formation of popular governments everywhere . And as in Europe the triumph of the bankers over the barons was facilitated by peasant jacquerie3 , by the lust of the harassed serf for a soil liberated from feudal rights and tithes , so in our country the rise of the middle-class was eased and quickened by the abundance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America began with equality and freedom . Like communism , real democracy tends to appear rather at the simple beginnings of a civilization than in its later stages ofcomplexity , luxury , and differentiation . De Tocqueville marvelled at the economic equality which he saw here in 1830 . Land might be had for the asking of Congress ? a privilege which must now be reserved for corporations . Democracy was actual because political equality rested upon an approximate equality of possessions , upon a widespread ownership of the soil ; men who stood upon their own ground and controlled ( within the limits of nature ) the conditions under which they lived , had personality and character , and could be called democrats beyond the narrow meaning of a quadrennial admission to barber-shop polling-booths . It was such men who made Jefferson president ? Jefferson , who was as orthodox as Thomas Paine , and as conservative as a man might be who favored a revolution every nineteen years . It was such men who provided the basis for Emerson 's self-reliant individualism and Whitman 's glorification of the common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yankee his European reputation for shrewdness , individuality , and independent judgment ? a legend now as curious to an observer of contemporary politics as the election of another Jefferson to the presidency is inconceivable . Again secondary factors crowd upon the scene . Doubtless the freedom of competition in the early days of our republic provided another prop of independence and personality . Perhaps the proportion of skilled workers was greater then than it is now , when the untrained peasantry of continental Europe pours in to form the helpless proletariat of our towns . Men were not merely " hands " in those early days ; the pride of skill in a specific trade gave some " verteber " to character , some resistance against that wholesale denudation of individuality which we achieve through education and the press . In some measure , too , the rural isolation of the early citizen enhanced his liberty and vitalized his democracy , much as our national isolation gave us freedom and security within our protecting seas . These and a hundred other conditions came together to make American democracy real . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because of trade , communication , and the invention of destructive mechanisms that facilitate invasion . Personal isolation is gone , because of the growing interdependence of producer , distributor , and consumer . Skilled labor is the exception now that machines are made to operate machines , and scientific management reduces skill to the inhuman stupidity of routine . Free land is gone , and tenancy increases . Free competition decays ; it may survive for a time in new fields like the automobile industry , but everywhere it gravitates towards monopoly . The once independent shopkeeper is in the toils of the big distributor : he yields to chain drug stores , chain cigar stores , chain groceries , chain candy stores , chain restaurants , chain theaters ? everything is in chains . Even the editor who owns his own paper and molds his own mendacity is a vestigial remnant now , when a thousand sheets across the country tell the same Iie in the same way every day better and better . An ever decreasing proportion of business executives ( and among them an ever decreasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labors of an ever increasing proportion of men . A new aristocracy is forming out of the once rebellious bourgeoisie ; equality and liberty and brotherhood are no longer the darlings of the financiers . Economic freedom , even in the middle-classes , becomes rarer and narrower every year . In a world from which freedom of competition , equality of opportunity , and social fraternity have disappeared , political equality is worthless , and democracy becomes a sham . All this has come about not ( as we thought in our youth ) through the perversity of men , but through the impersonal fatality of economic development . Men can be free only when they are approximately equal in capacity and power ; and , nevertheless , their equality is destroyed by their freedom . Inevitable hereditary differences in vigor or ability breed social and artificial differences ; strength is made stronger , and weakness weaker , by every invention and discovery . Equality is an unstable relation , as of scales poised in equilibrium ; it decreases as organization and complexity grow ; the very nature of social evolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and makes men unequally valuable to society . " Equality , " says Tarde , " is only a transition between two hierarchies , just as liberty is only a passage between two disciplines . " Observe how the original equality in colonial America has been overgrown and overwhelmed by a thousand forms of economic and political differentiation , so that to-day the gap between the most fortunate and the least fortunate in America is greater than at any time since the days of plutocratic Rome . Of what use can equality in ballots be when power is so unevenly distributed , and political decisions must obey the majority of dollars rather than the majority of men ? This disappearance of economic equality and freedom is the deepest root of our political hypocrisy and decay . But once again there are contributory causes ; and our understanding of the problem will be precariously partial if we ignore them . Let us state them as briefly as may go with clarity . There is , first , the growing size of the political unit ? the imperial expansion of America . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to preserve personality and democracy . " Democracy dies five miles from the parish pump , " declares H. G. Wells . It was meant for city-states , where men could come and , in the words of Thomas Paine , " vote in the first person . " Large populations are more easily ruled than small ones , because their inertia is greater , and it is more difficult for them to agree in their grievances or to unite in their action . Pericles and Cleon , though they differed in everything else , concurred in the opinion that democracy is inconvenient in empires . Montesquieu pointed out that democracy is more suited to small states , monarchy to large states . And so we have a monarchy . Consider , next , the growing complexity of government ? a natural result of the enlargement of the political unit , and the increasing intricacy of national economic relations . Once a government consisted of a king , his courtiers , and his courtesans ; to-day it is a vast and lumbering mechanism for the adjustment of a thousand conflicting groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in it any but the most subordinate roles ; it would be impossible to rule a modern state on the plan of popular rotation in judicial office , or the hasty decision of issues by vast uninformed assemblies , which gave Athens its liberties and brought it to an early grave . In the most natural way in the world " machines " develop in every party , every union , every convention , and every parliament ; democracy is the matrix in which oligarchies grow . The sovereign voter is absorbed in bread and butter ; how shall he keep himself abreast of the thousand problems that arise and change and melt away in his party , or his union , or his church ? He can not answer intelligently the questions placed before him ; he does not know . Democracy is government by those who do not know . Consequently it is the first casualty of war . De Tocqueville predicted that America would have to abandon democracy the moment it became entangled in the politics and wars of Europe . " Many an army has prospered under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no army has ever prospered under a debating society . " Unions tend to oligarchy for the same reason : they are military organizations designed for offense and defense . " Democracy is a luxury , " Weyl points out ; " it can be maintained only in a moderately secure and pacific world , " Reactionaries know , and may be relied upon to produce an occasional war as a substitute for birth-control or as a salutary discipline of the national will . Democracy is not a cure for war , but war is a cure for democracy . The last contributory cause of our democratic failure is the imbecility of men . The intelligence tests confirmed the opinion of those who had watched the elections of the preceding twenty years . The theory of democracy had presumed that man was a rational animal . No doubt some one had seen this in a book of logic . But man is an emotional animal , occasionally rational ; and through his feelings he can be deceived to his heart 's content . It may be true , as Lincoln pretended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people all the time ; but you can fool enough of them to rule a large country . It has been computed that the supply of fools , on this planet , is replenished at the rate of two hundred every minute ; which is a bad omen for democracy . Apparently it is not democracy alone that is a failure ; it is ourselves . We exaggerated our virtues when we made ourselves sovereign . We thought there was power in numbers , and we found only mediocrity . The larger the number of voters , the more ordinary must be the man or the qualities that will appeal to them . We do not demand greatness or foresight in our elected officials , but only bare-toothed oratory and something this side of starvation . Indeed , we do not much care who governs us ; we hardly realize that we are being governed , just as we think we pay no taxes because we pay them through the landlord or the tariff . Voltaire preferred monarchy to democracy , on the ground that in a monarchy it was necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must educate millions , and the gravedigger gets them all before you can educate ten per cent of them . What pranks the birth-rate plays with our theories and our arguments ! The minority acquire education , and have small families ; the majority have no time for education , and have large families . Nearly all of each generation are brought up in homes where the income is too small to provide for the luxury of knowledge . Hence the perennial futility of political liberalism ; the propaganda of intelligence can not keep pace with the propagation of the ignorant . And hence the decay of Protestantism ; a religion , like a nation , is saved not by the wars it wins , but by the children it breeds . Hence also the conservatism of democracies . Ana tole France bemoaned the neophobia of the crowd . Bismarck looked to universal suffrage to support monarchical policies . " Direct election and universal suffrage , " said the old cynic , " I consider to be greater guarantees of conservative action than any artificial electoral law . " Woman suffrage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would make for conservatism . The liberals of Switzerland passed certain reforms , including the popular referendum ; the conservatives put these reforms to a referendum ; the reforms , including the referendum , were defeated . The extension of the suffrage in England in 1918 brought in the most reactionary government in half a century . The new compulsory-voting Iaw in Australia raised the proportion of actual to possible voters from sixty per cent in 1912 to ninety per cent in 1925 , and resulted in an overwhelming conservative victory . " It is one of the strangest of vulgar ideas , " Sir Henry Maine predicted , " that a very wide suffrage could or would promote progress , new ideas , new discoveries , new inventions , new arts of life . The chances are that it will produce a mischievous form of conservatism . " We shall have to admit to the prejudiced Englishman that democracy seems hostile to genius and apathetic to art . It values most those things whichcome within the comprehension of the average mind ; it builds motion-picture palaces and thinks they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there would have been no Parthenon at all . It becomes evident that the intellectual tyranny of the majority may be as harassing as the political tyranny of monarchs . In some American states more than a little knowledge is a dangerous thing , and a public education becomes an impediment to the acquisition of truth . This democratic suspicion of individuality is a result of the theory of equality ; everyone is equally valuable ; therefore , a count of noses must establish any truth and sanctify any custom . Not only is democracy a result of the machine age , and not only does it rule through " machines " ; it has in itself the potentiality of the most terrible machine of all ? a vast weight of ignorant compulsion ostracising difference , crushing the exceptional mind , and discouraging novel excellence . Nowhere is education so lavishly financed and equipped as in the United States ; nowhere is it so little honored or so little used . We have devoted ourselves magnanimously to the provision , on an unprecedented scale , of schools , high schools , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all built and full , we have made education a disqualification for public office . In a nation where the few who really rule must get some show of popular consent a special class arises whose function it is , not to govern , but to secure the approval of the people for whatever policy may have been decided upon by that inevitable oligarchy which hides in the heart of every democratic state . We call this class of men politicians . The politicians divide into parties , and align the people into hostile camps . The natural party-spirit of men makes such organizations easy ; they are a survival of warlike tribal separatism . Australian savages will travel across half their continent to take in a fight the side of those who wear the same totem as themselves . The totem still helps us to organize ; and the parties that use an elephant or an ass as their sacred emblems seem to get along better than those that naively choose the torch . Now party organization is expensive , and requires angels realistic idealists who pay the costs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are satisfied , as their reward , to select the candidates , secure certain contracts and appointments , obtain protection from the enforcement of absurd and irksome laws , and play a quiet role in the arduous tasks of legislation , " They who nominate , govern . " The people can not nominate anyone , even at primaries ; for they are unorganized and uninformed ; they can be trusted to divide their favors with approximate equality ; so that a small but well-organized minority , by casting its votes entirely on one side , can usually decide a convention , a primary , or an election . The " machine " triumphs because it is a united minority acting against a divided majority . Perhaps this is what Carlyle meant when he said , " Democracy is by the nature of it a self-cancelling business , and gives in the long run a net result of zero . " " A. true democracy , " said that passionate democrat , Jean Jacques , " has never existed , and never will exist ; for it is against the natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " All politics is the rivalry of organized minorities ; the voters are bleacher athletes who cheer the victors and jeer the defeated , but do not otherwise contribute to the result . Under such circumstances voting is superfluous , and is carried on largely to grease the grooves of social control by establishing in the minds of the people the notion that the laws are made by themselves . In democracies , said Montesquieu , taxes may be greater than elsewhere without arousing resistance , because every citizen looks upon themas a tribute which he pays to himself . L'etat c'est lui ? he is the state , and the president is merely the chief of his servants . Please a man 's pride and you may do anything with him . The Romans ruled the people through prtnem et circenses : our masters need only give us a quadrennial circus ? called now an election ? and we will provide the bread for ourselves . About the only advantage which an election has in these premises is the educational opportunity offered by the aroused attention of the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clever concealment of the actual issues at stake ; a politician is worth nothing if he can not invent some interesting and unimportant issues to divert the eyes of the populace from the problems actually involved . So in the Canadian election of 1917 the real issue of conscription vs. volunteering was subtly covered over by pointing out that the defeat of the conscription proposal would mean the domination of Canada by the French element in the population . The English inhabitants rose en masse and voted for English domination , and found , when the excitement was over , that they had voted for conscription . A good show-window will sell any kind of political shoddy . Elections become a contest in fraud and noise ; and as sound arguments make the least sound , truth is lost in the confusion . Add to this the gerrymandering of city districts to keep the power with conservative rural communities ; the vast floating population which is disfranchised by its mobility ; the riot of dishonesty and violence at the polls ; and you get democracy . Under such conditions , declares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railway ticket when there is a permanent block on the line . " Is it any wonder that the proportion of actual to legal voters decreased from eighty per cent in 1883 to fifty per cent in 1924 orthat intelligent men refuse to stand in line an hour for the privilege of registering , and then again an hour for the privilege of voting ? that is to say , the privilege of choosing between A and B , who both belong to X ? The country is becoming conscious of the democratic farce . Nevertheless , suppose that we have voted . The election is over , stocks go up , and the elected senators and representatives go down to Washington to form our Congress , our Parliament or Talk-Shop , our National Palaver . Nothing could be more disconcerting than the surprises which meet these elected ladies and gentlemen . They have been chosen for political ability in the American sense ? i. e. , the ability to get themselves nominated , advertised , applauded , and elected ; they possess that sort of ability in a highly developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amenable to discipline , elastic of conscience , and free from dangerous originality or genius ; nothing would so readily disqualify them for office ( or for the devious approaches to office ) as genius of any kind ? above all , genius in statesmanship . Now suddenly our representative finds himself assailed by problems all the world away from the kind he has solved on the road to power . Those were problems of politics : of patient loyalty to the ward and district and county leaders ; of underground influences and secret understandings ; of speeches and charges and denials and manipulated publicity ; of contributions inconspicuously solicited , and spent with one eye on the law ; of favors done to the powerful , and promises made to the rest . But these problems that fall upon him in Washington , and overwhelm him in a thousand bills , are problems of economics : they have to do with land-ownership , raw materials , coal mines , oil wells , water power , production , competition , transportation , navigation , aviation , arbitration , distribution , marketing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a specialist , and painful beyond bearing to a man whose specialty is wire-pulling . As government becomes more complex , elected officials become less and less important , selected experts more and more . The executive " encroaches upon the legislative " power because the executive is armed and buttressed with expert committees ? Federal Reserve Boards , Federal Trade Commissions , Labor Boards , Interstate Commerce Commissions , debt commissions . . . . During President Harding 's administration the members of Congress were shocked to find themselves placed , in a parade , behind the members of certain of the aforesaid commissions . The Senate protested , and Mr. Harding answered with that kindly suavity which had sufficed to make him president . But the straw had shown the wind . " Representative government " had broken down ; democracy had found no way of electing brains to office ; and the brains had been placed in power while democracy was making speeches or reading newspapers . Was this the reason why we so insistently recommended democracy to our enemies ? Nietzsche speaks of the " disposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state for the sole reason that it assumes that this form of government makes the other nation weaker , more distracted , less fit for war . " Perhaps this universal debacle of democratic mediocrity and incompetence , chicanery and corruption , has had something to do with the Platonic transition from parliamentary government to " tyranny " or dictatorship in Italy and Spain and Greece and Russia and Poland and Portugal , and the imminence of similar developments in France . As for ourselves , the forces of political reform have been beaten all along the line ; and where they have won a stray victory it has been through the adoption of the methods used by the " machine " ? so that the triumph of " reform " in certain states has had something of the character of the conversion of the world to Christianity , in which it was not quite clear which of the two parties had been converted to the other . A journal of liberal opinion admitted recently : " Politics is now as completely dominated by the machines as it was during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than ever our masters . After fifty years of struggle they have finally defeated their enemy , the reformer , " Mediocracy has won . Everywhere intelligence has fled from the hustings of democracy as from an engulfing torrent . Fools are in the saddle and ride mankind . Yes , this is a partial view , a brief , rather than a complete , analysis . The half-redeeming virtues of democracy have been lauded long enough to need no litany here It is true that the oppression of minorities by majorities is ( numerically ) preferable to the oppression of majorities by minorities ; that the democratic disfranchisement of the educated man is no worse than the aristocratic suppression of new talent by ancient pedigree ; that democracy has raised the spirit and pride of the common man as much as it has broken the spirit and sterilized the genius of the exceptional individual ; that the omnipotent voter has now a sense of liberated personality which makes in some degree for courage and character ; that there are no ( conscious ) serfs among us any more , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It may be , as the patient Bryce laboriously concludes , that there are some forms of government worse than democracy . But the more we examine it the more we are revolted by its incompetence and insincerity . Since political power is unreal except as it represents military or economic mastery , universal suffrage is a delusion and a costly sham . Dictatorship is better because it is more honest ; " absolute power , " said Napoleon , " has no need to lie ; it acts and says nothing . " Democracy without education means hypocrisy without limitation ; it means the degradation of statesmanship into politics ; it means the expensive maintenance , in addition tothe real ruling class , of a large parasitic class of politicians whose function it is to serve the rulers and deceive the ruled ; it has made all public life a sewer of corruption which poisons the breath of heaven . We are rank cowards if we any longer blink this evil denouement of our wishful dreams . If we can not find some amendment to democracy that shall cleanse it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we may as well present our Constitution to some stripling nation , and import a king . Iv What shall we do ? Well , even the irate reformer must understand that very little can be done , and nothing rapidly . The most desirable thing of all would be the application of Christianity ; but that is not to be hoped for in the immediate future . The next most desirable plan would be so lavish an expenditure of our national and private wealth on education , invention , and scientific research as would improve our brains , decrease our numbers , make muscle costlier than mechanical power , dissolve the proletariat , and liberate mankind for the tasks of the Great Society . In the long run there is no solution except in education ; until men become intelligent , cities will not cease from ill . But if the world has not done all this for Mr. Wells , there is no likelihood that it will do it for us . And we have seen what devilish tricks the birthrate plays with education . The third expedient would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the land , chosen from each profession by the members of that profession , meeting to consider the rejuvenation of our Constitution , recommending new amendments to Congress and the States , and supporting these recommendations with the prestige of their professions and perhaps with the money of our millionaires , which every reformer is prepared to spend . But that again is too much to hope for ? even though the mayor of our largest city makes a respectable gesture in this direction . The fourth best plan is that which follows . The evil of modern democracy is in the politician and at the point of nomination . Let us eliminate the politician , and the nomination . Originally , no doubt , every man was his own physician , and every household prescribed its own drugs . But as medical knowledge accumulated and the corpus prescriplionum grew , it became impossible for the average individual , even for solicitous spinsters , to keep pace with the pharmacopwa . A special class of persons arose who gave all their serious hours to the study of materia medico , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ untrained practitioners , and from those sedulous neighbors who have an interne 's passion for experiment , a distinguishing title and a reassuring degree were given to those who had completed this preparation . The process has now reached the point where it is illegal to prescribe medicines unless one has received such training , and such a degree , from a recognized institution . We 710 longer permit unprepared individuals to deal with our individual ailments or to risk our individual lives . We demand a lifetime 's devotion as a preliminary to the prescription of pills . But of those who deal with our incorporated ills , and risk our hundred million lives in peace and war , and have at their beck and call all our possessions and all our liberties , no specific preparation is required ; it is sufficient if they are friends of the Chief , loyal to the Organization , handsome or suave , hand-shakers , shoulder-slappers , or baby-kissers , taking orders quietly , and as rich in promises as a weather bureau . For the rest they may have been butchers or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? it makes no difference . If they have had the good sense to be born in log cabins it is con-ceded that they have a divine right to be president . Let us imagine a pleasanter picture . Let us suppose that our great universities , which contain the seed of a redeemed America , have added to their faculties a School of Political Administration . A School not of theory so much as of practice and concrete detail ; not a School for the discussion of political history , nor of the " philosophy of the state , " nor of monarchy vs. aristocracy vs. democracy vs. socialism vs. single-tax vs. anarchism ; but a School that will go down with its students into the actual field of municipal administration ; a School that will look upon the problems of a city not as a street-corner statesman might , nor as a loyal elephant or donkey might , but as a scientist would , or an executive whose training and ability have made him see administration as an art . If such a course were as thorough and as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would attract only serious and scientific-minded men ; it would admirably frighten away the gentlemen who now rise to power through self-salesmanship and perorations . There would be few candidates for such instruction at the outset , since they would have no guarantee of finding political place upon completing their preparation . But the spread of the city-manager plan would offer openings ; the Schools would grow as medical schools once grew ; and successful city-managers would be invited to head the teaching staff . All this is within the realm of possibility ; even now our larger universities offer courses that could form the basis of these Administration Schools . But the next step in our hypothetical amendment to democracy calls for more imagination . Let us suppose that while these Schools were preparing men to rule us , other agencies had , through the written and spoken word , prepared the people for the novel and unpatriotic notion of requiring education in their masters . It is conceivable that a body of opinion might be formed which would make it unwise for a political party to nominate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is barely conceivable that the time might come when nominations would be dispensed with altogether ( as they are in the Constitution ) , and prepared administrators would offer themselves directly as candidates for election . The choice of the people would be restricted to these , and unrestricted among these ; it would be a far wider choice than now ; and whatever choice might be made would be a sane one . It would be a fool-proof democracy ; and if Heraclitus was right about majorities , this is the only kind of a democracy that can survive in this pitilessly realistic world . While our imaginations are in flight we might also suppose that no trained administrator would be eligible to a higher office who had not been twice elected to a lower one . Only successful mayors would offer themselves for governor , and only successful governors for the presidency . At every step there would be a democratic check upon aristocratic irresponsibility , and an aristocratic check upon democratic ignorance . It might be a rejuvenating conjugation of exhausted governments . Would such an amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential to democracy that every adult should share equally in the selection of major officials ; it is not essential that every adult should be equally eligible for office . Restrictions of birth and age and residence already exist ; to add the requirement of preparation is only a corollary of the growing complexity of government . The plan would widen democracy more in increasing the number of candidates than it would narrow democracy in restricting their character . It is rather our present structure that is undemocratic : it limits the voter 's choice to two nominees , and it makes but poor provision for the most fundamental democracy of all ? equality of educational and economic opportunity . If every graduate who reached a given standard of excellence were assured that municipal and state scholarships would send him on from school to college and from college to university when his own family 's funds should not suffice , then the road to the highest office , and to most of the goods of life , would be open to all on equal terms , and even the restrictions here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the core of democracy ; we have contented ourselves with the husk and meekly surrendered the core . Let us open all the roads to talent wherever horn , and for the rest we need not disturb ourselves about forms of government . Certainly our little nostrum has its flaws , which are to be compared not with Utopia but with the status quo . In substituting our universities for our saloons and hotels as the medium of nomination , we do not forget that even universities can be corrupted , and university graduates bought . But it is a question of degree ; presumably a man with scientific training , or a man earnest and brave enough to select a career involving a long and arduous preparation , would have something of the pride of craft that makes a man jealous of his honor and solicitous of his work . There is a slightly higher standard of morals among scientists than among politicians . And though there are thieves and charlatans in the ranks of medicine , it is one of the few professions in which " ethics " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is not a question of teaching radicalism or conservatism ; the science of administration has very little to do with these majestic and useless divisions . Undoubtedly power would rule under the new dispensation as effectively as now ; but it would rule more efficiently , without the wastage and indecency of stupidity , insolence , and knavery . We are not offering here a solution of the " social problem , " a plan whereby the weak can be enabled to rule the strong . Presumably a clever minority will continue to use a less clever majority ; we have no secret whereby democracy can escape this immoral ordinance of nature . Our present purpose is not to make " brooks run wine and winds whisper music , " but to make whatever government there is as capable and honest as human character can bear . That is the problem of politics , and it is the only problem with which we arc here concerned . Our tendency in these days is to take corruption and ignorance as the natural privileges of elected persons ; and we smile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government has not always been incompetent and venal ; the English still have some reputation for training in their statesmen and honor in their judges ; and the German professional Biirgermeister made their cities the best-ruled places in the world . Nothing is impossible but thinking makes it so . What we have suggested is a very old idea , the dream of Socrates and Plato , of Bacon and Carlyle , of Voltaire and Renan . Perhaps it is nothing more than a dream ; and perhaps again it may be a reality when all of us are dreams . For a long time , doubtless , it can be nothing more than a dream ; many decades of instruction would be needed to induce the necessary changes in the public mind . But unless we make some honest effort to bring ability into office , and to break down the democratic hostility to knowledge ; unless we can capture for the public good those talents and powers of mind that now are lost in private enterprise and gain ; unless we can put into our city halls and state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have prepared themselves for public administration at least as thoroughly as men prepare for far less vital tasks ? then assuredly democracy is a failure , and it might be better for the world if America had never lured and deceived the hopes of men .                     