@@493401

Canada and the St. Lawrence Plan pOWER and politics are the two factors , so far as Canada is concerned , that will eventually determine the fate of the St. Lawrence Waterway scheme . A few power magnates in Montreal and small groups of politicians in Quebec , Ottawa and Toronto will among them decide the question ? for this generation at least . The stage is set now ; the lines of battle are drawn . These lines , previously indicated by various political pronouncements , were emphasized recently by the Toronto Mail and Empire ( Conservative ) , which declared : " A British soldier who for a time commanded Canada 's forces bade the people of this Dominion to keep both hands on the Union Jack . They should keep both hands on the control of the St. Lawrence which they hold through their existing canals . " Perhaps it might be well to look for a moment at the facts about this project . By virtue of treaties entered into by Canada and the United States in 1871 and 1909 , navigation rights on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free and equal forever to the ships of both countries . This includes the right of United States vessels in the purely Canadian section of the river as well as Canadian vessels in Lake Michigan . Under the treaty of 1909 , the International Joint Commission came into being ? a tribunal of six members , three appointed by each country . It was given jurisdiction over all boundary waters . No change in levels , no works of any kind affecting levels , can be authorized by either country without the approval of this board . It also acts in an advisory capacity with respect to matters referred to it by either government or both . As a result of agitation on both sides of the line , the governments of Canada and the United States referred to the Commission the question of constructing , as a joint enterprise , a continuous deep . channel from Lake Superior to tidewater by wayof the St. Lawrence River . The commissioners , in their report , issued in 1921 , unanimously agreed that the project was not only feasible , but desirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ features . This was done in 1924 , each government naming three engineers to a joint board . At the same time each government appointed a national advisory committee to deal with other features than engineering . This board and these committees have all made their investigations and submitted their re , ports , confirming the judgment of the International Joint Commission . While the proposal at its inception contemplated navigation principally , the prominent part that hydro-electric energy has come to play in the modern economic scheme has shifted some of the emphasis from transportation to power . It was found that by damming the St. Lawrence River , as an alternative to lateral canals , about 5,000,000 horse-power of hydro-electric energy might be generated . Of this , about 2,200,000 would be obtainable in the international section , and 2,800,000 in the wholly Canadian section of the river . Of the former , one-half would belong to the United States . The Canadian committee recommended that the work be divided between the two countries . The United States was to be responsible for the improvement of navigation between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section of the St. Lawrence , as regards both power and navigation , at an approximate cost of $340 , - 000,000 . Canada was to construct the works necessary in the section of the river wholly within the Dominion and to complete the new Welland Canal , a total expenditure of $316,000,000 . Direct negotiations toward joint action began on April 13 , 1927 , when Secretary Kellogg wrote a letter to Mr. Vincent Massey , Canadian Minister at Washington . There has followed , at proper diplomatic intervals , a voluminous correspondence , quite noticeably urgent upon the part of Mr. Kellogg , and , so some Canadian critics claim , as obviously time-marking on the part of the Canadian government . What is the reason for this Canadian attitude ? In the first place , since the scheme was proposed , events in Canada have moved in other directions . Within recent years , Vancouver , on the Pacific , has become the outlet for grain produced in Alberta and the western half of Saskatchewan . In 1923 , more than 100,000,000 bushels passed through this port to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Panama Canal . Eastern Saskatchewan and Manitoba have had a very hard fight to get the Hudson Bay Railway built to a port on the Bay which , it is hoped , will bring the prairies of Western Canada 1,000 miles closer to Liverpool . This project is now nearing completion , but it has been a long and desperate contest and has served somewhat to divert prairie interest from the St. Lawrence scheme . There is no opposition from this quarter , but there is likewise no great enthusiasm . Jumping , for a moment , to the far east , the three maritime provinces , Nova Scotia , New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island , have no immediate interest in the scheme . Its proponents point out that it would enable fish , coal and other maritime products to reach the important Ontario markets , but the project is not looked upon as a pressing one by the people who live down by the sea . This leaves for consideration the two most populous and more highly industrialized provinces -- Ontario and Quebec , which contain two-thirds of the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrasts . The former is preponderantly British ; the latter is overwhelmingly French . Ontario has embarked upon the most comprehensive plan of publicly owned hydro-electric power in the - world ; Quebec believes just as firmly in development by private enterprise . The present federal government at Ottawa ( Liberal ) derives its principal support from Quebec ; the Conservative stronghold is Ontario . Nevertheless , it is in Ontario that public sentiment is most strongly in favor of the St. Lawrence Waterway . In Quebec , public opinion concerning it is either apathetic or quite violently Opposed , the opposition centering in Montreal , which fears that traffic will pass its doors . if the St. Lawrence be made navigable for ocean steamers through to the Lakes . Opposition in Montreal is fostered likewise by influential power interests . Development of the power possibilities on the St. Lawrence , coincidentally with the waterway , as has been shown , would mean the generation of 2,800,000 horse-power the purely Canadian section of the river , and all in Quebec . More electrical energy is already being generated in that province than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural that the power barons of Montreal should be averse to having this additional energy thrown on the market before industrial development has reached a point capable of absorbing it . It is perhaps natural , also , that they should seek to have control when the time arrives for its exploitation . On the other hand , the Province of Ontario will derive only 1,100,000 horse-power as a result of damming the St. Lawrence in the section along which it borders , and as the Ontario Hydro-Electric Commission is already forced to import power from Quebec sources , it may be seen that development of this power will prove very welcome in Ontario . From a standpoint of navigation , the completion of the waterway is expected to convert Ontario into a maritime province and to transform such cities as Kingston , Toronto and Fort William into world ports . Except for the provision of greater facilities of access to the interior by water , the scheme will not materially alter Quebec 's present position . The terms of the British North America Act , Canada 's written constitution , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of navigation . The development of power , however , is under provincial control . The intimate association of power and navigation in the St. Lawrence scheme has disclosed a number of points where the respective jurisdictions come into conflict . At the moment of writing , these are being referred to the Supreme Court of Canada for a decision . irrespective of the result , however , the case will go to the Privy Council , in England , a matter requiring at least a year 's time . So much for the power factor . As regards politics , here are three important factS : ( 1 ) the people of Ontario are very largely in favor of the St. Lawrence scheme ; - (2) in order to develop the maximum amount of water-power , cooperation with the United States is essential ; ( 3 ) the people of Ontario are preponderantly Conservative in their political affiliations . It would therefore seem reasonable to suppose that the Conservative party would be heartily in favor of the project as an international undertaking , in accordance with the advice of every body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a national convention of that party held in Winnipeg in 1927 , a resolution was adopted advocating the development of the seaway as an " all-Canadian " enterprise . This was supplemented a short time later by a similar pronouncement on the part of the Conservative premier of Ontario . Such a scheme is not only admittedly inferior to the other , both as regards transportation and power , but it would cost the Canadian people more than twice as much . It Is therefore out of the question for many years to come . Federal elections in Canada must be held not less ? ' frequently than every five years . The present administration attained oii.ce in 1926 and should , therefore , continue until 1931 . As governments rarely serve their full term , an election will probably be held in 1930 , if not earlier . Seventeen years ago , the Liberal government of that day appealed to the electorate on a proposal which contemplated closer commercial relations with the United States . It was decisively beaten . Some observers in Canada are now of the opinion that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such action than exists , the present Liberal government will hardly invite a similar fate by staking its political life upon a second proposal entailing a close working arrangement with the United States . There are many people in Canada who really dread the ultimate domination of the country by the United States . That this view is largely dictated by fear and prejudice is beside the point . Similar sentiments , set aflame by self-interested agencies in 1911 , resulted in the reciprocity dibiicle . The St. Lawrence scheme contains just as much dynamite . While it is probably true that the majority of people in Canada , if the proposal were dispassionately presented to them , would be in favor of it , an unprejudiced presentation can hardly be expected . The various political and financial interests concerned have too much at stake . The smoldering fires of fear and prejudice require but little fanning . Therefore , it may be anticipated that the government at Ottawa will advance with the utmost caution ; that it will be actuated solely by pressure from the Canadian people ; and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a deterrent rather than an accelerator .                     