@@490185

TO certain bemused initiates in the Alice Foote MacDougall Coffee Houses , possibly the quaintest surprise comes from the discovery that the food is genuine . It may be that they have sat down to lunch in a Spanish wine shop ; or perhaps they are situated , rather inconveniently , on the Ponte Vecchio . Here is a cathedral window . There is a Moorish balcony . Everywhere are tiled roofs , worn flagging , moldering walls . But , even in an atmosphere so elaborately faked that a movie actress would believe herself on location , kitchens have remained kitchens  --  managed , moreover , by capable dieticians in white linen uniforms , and no nonsense about it . The food in Mrs. MacDougall 's restaurants has not been influenced by her penchant for the Latin countries . Romance has not laid its heavy hand on her menus . They are as American as the jugs of maple syrup on her tables . For Mrs. MacDougall made her start in the restaurant business one blustery November day in 1922 , when she gave away waffles in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , though much coffee has flowed out of the urn since then , waffles have remained a staple product in the restaurants which bear her name . MRS . MACDoUGALL 'S gross annual business  --  including both her coffee business and her restaurants  --  is estimated at more than three millions . The vogue of her restaurants has , according to the lady herself , an explanation : the application of imagination to business . She has taken into account the nourishment not only of the bodies of her customers , but also of their souls ; and she has capitalized the discovery that to feed the soul , the historic pot of white hyacinths is not necessary  --  white cotton ones in a papier mache pot will do quite as well . For those bemused persons referred to in the opening paragraph were hypothetical . Mrs. 11 , IacDougall 's coffee houses are thronged with her enthralled admirers . They are the paradise of the uptown bridge club , the prosperous Brooklynite , the suburban shopper , the eager sightseer from the hinterland ; ladies substantial and ambitious for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little culture . Saturated with quaintness , they bask in the glare of the spotlights ( sunlight or moonlight , according to the time of day ) , feeding their souls on flat blue canvas skies , on stage wisteria , on a line of gaudy cotton garments easily recognizable as Italian washing , on mulatto girls disguised as contadinas . Nor is the originator of all this absent from their thoughts . Often the headwaitresscs are addressed by some matron , agog for a glimpse of Mrs. MacDougall . " Oh , if I could only see her ! " she sighs . If her wish is granted , she is probably well repaid . A bright , brown , busy little woman , inclined to plumpness , Mrs. MacDougall undoubtedly knows how to make a gracious acknowledgment of her public 's admiration . As a girl she had aspirations for the stage . Her manner more than a little suggests the successful artist . While she is working on a new project , she is completely absorbed by it . She has put into these restaurants of hers all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her . Mrs. MacDougall has been able to have her romance and eat it , too . ARESTRICTED childhood and a carefully chaperoned girlhood offered scanty preparation for a business career . Her great-great-grandfather , Stephen Allen , had been Mayor of New York , 1821-1824 . Her father , Emerson Foote , was a broker of steel rails , and the family home at Number One Washington Square North was a model of prosperous Victorian decorum . At twenty-one , Miss Alice Foote married . Three children , Gladys , Allan , and Donald , were born to the pair . Her husband , a jobber of green coffee , was apparently well-off ; but , when some fifteen years after their marriage he died , his business was hopelessly bankrupt . Shortly after , Mrs. MacDougall 's father died , leaving a sadly diminished fortune . At this time , she was a neurasthenic invalid , who supposed herself incapable of doing a day 's work . She undertook to become a dealer in coffee , finding her customers among her social acquaintance . She did not have enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred sales letters . But she borrowed a small amount and , as orders began to come in , she purchased a supply of coffee , and blended it to her taste . This coffee she ground on a hand grinder in a room she had rented on Front Street . She delivered the first small orders herself . In a few months her prospects warranted her borrowing more money , and she went after larger business . Soon she gained a reputation on Front Street as the only woman coffee dealer in New York . She began to deal in tea , and later in cocoa as well . When her small retail shop , opened soon after the war , in the Grand Central Terminal , received demands for weekend gifts , she proceeded to meet it . Gift shops , carrying mainly pottery pieces  --  many of which have been specially designed for her in Italy  --  are now a feature of all her coffee houses . From the outset , she has been driven by an indomitable determination . One feels this resolution in her refusal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sons were in service in France during the war  --  that the elder had been killed . She bombarded Washington with demands for a denial of this preposterous story . Hcr faith was justified . Allan MacDougall is now when Donald brought expense of her temper . She is by way of being a stern taskmaster . Her five coffee houses  --  she employs more than a thousand people , almost all of them women  --  demand a full expenditure of energy . As a rule , she spends her mornings in the Front Street office ; although her son , Allan , is in charge there , the maternal band remains firm . The remainder of the day is spent uptown . Mrs. MacDougall eats no lunch , but she likes to pop unexpectedly into a coffee-house kitchen . She holds regular meetings of her managers , delivering to them inspirational speeches on the application of imagination to business . Frequently Mrs. MacDougall has expressed a regret that she has no social life . She declares that she has lest the vernacular of the drawing room . But she clings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is proud to call herself " old-fashioned . " Her daughter , who manages her Park Avenue apartment , she describes in the same terms . Her son , Allan , married " a real home woman " and they have two children . Mrs. MacDougall was a vigorous anti-suffragist . She does not believe in the business world for a woman who is not forced into it by the pressure of necessity . One of her pet aversions is bobbed hair . If Mrs. MacDougall 's employees are shingled , they wear switches while on duty . THE theatre is a favorite diversion , and she confesses that hers is the taste of the tired business man . She enjoys " nothing but what is sweet , non-problem and amusing . " She " likes anatomy . " Musical shows delight her , but she dislikes jazz . She does n't know what the Theatre Guild means . During periods of nervous strain , when her mind is vibrating with plans for a new coffee house , she finds her chief diversion in playing Canfield . She pays herself fifty-two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each card played and keeps a methodical account of her losses . It is perhaps surprising to learn that she was chairman of the Business Women 's Committee of the Association against the Prohibition Amendment . Less amazing is her opposition to those who claim that coffee drinking is harmful . For many years she drank a quart of coffee a day , and never suffered from indigestion . Some of her scanty leisure is at present being devoted to the composition of her autobiography . She is al ready the author of a slender volume , " Coffee and Waffles . " It is a collection of discursive suggestions to the hostess , couched in the gushing and gently exclamatory style associated with lady writers south of the Mason and Dixon Line , and interlarded with recipes . Apostrophe is a favorite literary device of Mrs. MacDougall ; she appeals to " Dear persons , " " Dear women-of-the-home , " " 0 coffee pots and coffee machines , " and even " Dear woman whom God hath made hostess . " There is an exuberance about it all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her coffee houses . Mrs. MacDougall may have two grandchildren , but her enthusiasm derives from the energy of youth . This year she has seen great achievements . Not only is Scvillia triumphantly launched , but her coffee , placed for the first time in grocery stores , is having a wider sale than ever before . She will soon be looking about for new worlds to conquer , new dreams to realize over her game of Canfield . Some malignant person has been whispering about town that Mrs. MacDougall has not dared to have a Venetian coffee house , fitted with canals along which the waitresses circulate in gondolas . We suggest that care should he taken that no word of this challenge come to the ears of Mrs. MacDougall.                     