@@467741

We will now discuss in a little more detail the Struggle for Existence . " ? Charles Darwin . " Believe me , gentlemen , the way still before you is intricate , dark , and full of perplexed and treacherous mazes . Those who think they have the clue , may lead us out of this labyrinth . . . . " I may be unable to lend an helping hand to those who direct the State ; but I should be ashamed to make myself one of a noisy multitude to hollow and hearten them into doubtful and dangerous courses . " ? Burke . The words of his mouth were smoother than butter , but war was in his heart . " ? Psalm LV . IN appearance , Mr. Ramsay Mac- Donald is tall without grace and formidable without dignity . From a physical point of view he is the ideal Company - Sergeant - Major . One can think of few politicians at Westminster who would look better in scarlet tunic and towering bearskin . This rigidity of the strong , thickset , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , handsome , but unattractive face ; this rather stiff and set impressiveness of form and feature , may be taken , I think , as a true indication of the man 's mind . He is a drilled and disciplined idealist , a sentimentalist who has been machined into a martinet , a revolutionist who employs the ordered methods of the barrack-square . It is characteristic of him that his voice is loud and martial , and that he is an unquestioned master of Parliamentary procedure ? the drill-book of social reformation . But the raw materials so industriously and thoroughly manufactured into this military form are themselves much more interesting , and may even be described as romantic . Mr. MacDonald VOL . CXLVIII. ? Nu . S87. - 50has studiously made himself into a Parliamentary leader of British Socialism , and it has taken him many years to hammer his qualities into a shape suitable for this responsible predicament : at the outset of his career he was a very different person , and even now , behind the hard front of the martinet and the stiff manner of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ play of those impulsive feelings and poetic sentiments which in his early youth swept him like the torrents of spring into the shouting ranks of political idealism . To understand him , therefore , it is necessary to know his history . And to know his history is to realize that the supreme influence in the life of this tough , inflexible , and , as it were , artificial drill-sergeant of a New World , is the memory of a very beautiful and remarkable woman who now lies buried near his cottage home in Scotland . James Ramsay MacDonald was born in the year 1866 at Lossiemouth , a fishing village some few miles from Elgin in the northern latitudes of Scotland . He was brought up by his mother and grandmother in a two-roomed cottage which is now in his possession , and to which he repairs for rest at least once every year . The love which consecrated that frugal home robbed its hard poverty of bitterness . Ramsay Mac-Donald 's boyhood was happy . He had far to tramp to the Board School in which he received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wild and splendid countryside , and the boy , with his love of nature and his ambition to get on in the world , if only to help his mother and his grandmother , never complained of that particular hardship . At this school Ramsay MacDonald learned to value knowledge , and henceforward , whatever his occupation , above and beyond everything else , he was a student . He worked on a farm for some time ; then , at the instigation of his old dominie , became a pupil teacher ; but soon broke away from such modest conditions and proceeded to London , aged nineteen . Here he suffered for the first time in his life desperate privations . At one time he earned bread by addressing envelopes . He was lonely , friendless , and hungry . But he stuck to his books , worked industriously , visited the British Museum , and presently by a stroke of Iuck became secretary to a rich tea merchant with Radical notions and political ambitions . During these hard but stimulating years the young man sent money regularly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt that his grandmother and his mother had powerfully impressed upon his mind certain absolute principles of conduct which are essential to a vigor ) us moral life , and that their method in giving him these standards had also inspi:ed him with a strong affection for them . It was because of the strength of his moral character , and not because c .. e his personal sufferings , that the young IF ghlander became a Socialist . Lono shocked him and pained him . The se , rrespect which makes Scottish poverty so noble a thing was hard to find among the sordid and depressed victims of London penury ; while the vulgarity of shameless ostentation which marked the wealth of London struck a jarring note in a mind conscious above all things of duty and self-restraint . He became acquainted with one or two journalists who were interested in social reform , and out of his scanty earnings set about making a collection of political books . Encouraged by his friends , he began presently to write on political subjects , and later to appear on public platforms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fellowship . His high seriousness and his self-sacrificing devotion attracted attention , and it was not long before he was enlisted by that music-loving and poetic social reformer Keir Hardie as a recruit in the struggling ranks of the Independent Labor Party . In spite of his extravagances , Keir Hardie was a lovable and inspiring person . He was a Socialist of the order of William Morris , something of a Pre-Raphaelite politician , impelled by aesthetics rather than economics to make war on the social system . His rooms off Fleet Street were distinguished by their green hangings , their beautiful furniture , and their collection of noble books . In the company of men who warmed his heart , Keir Hardie could be as gay , as charming , and as wide-minded as Arthur Balfour . Nothing delighted him so much as giving his fire to a young , dour , and unimaginative disciple , quickening the youth with the thrill and delight of battle , making him quote William Blake 's " New Jerusalem " with a war ? rior ring , and warming him up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passion of the Marseillaise . Great was Keir Hardie 's influence on Ramsay MacDonald . Perhaps it was from this poetic and inspired reformer that the young Highlander first began to think of Socialism as an international force in the affairs of mankind . Certainly it was from Keir Hardie that he first learned to cultivate a political ambition and to look to politics for his future . But a greater influence was at hand , Margaret Ethel Gladstone was the daughter of a distinguished Scotsman who occupied Faraday 's Chair as Professor of Chemistry at the Royal Institution . This professor , who lived in London , was a fine scholar , a profound Christian of the orthodox school , and an earnest educationist . His youngest daughter grew up in an atmosphere of serious refinement . One of her uncles was William Thomson , afterward Lord Kelvin , perhaps the most creative man of science of his time . For Lord Kelvin 's brother , Professor James Thomson , also a very able man , she cherished a particular devotion which shaped her character . She writes in her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The influence he had with her never weakened , for he taught her to be true to herself , to keep pure , to follow whatever road it seemed good for her to walk upon . The road she chose was a hard one . She passed from Presbyterianism to the Church of England , and finally from all institutional religion into a mysticism which enabled her to feel the Presence of God in the darkness which so of-ten closed round about her . She passed from a well-off and refined home , from the friendship of distinguished and agreeable people , to the worst of all the slums of London , and to deep personal intimacy- with the most ignorant , the most depressed , hut the most heroic people in the British Islands . At first she was a Church worker . For years she visited " the Poor " as a superior person anxious to be helpful and to do her Christian duty . She taught in the Sunday school of a fashionable London church . She attached herself to religious societies practising a most unselfish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she wanted to be a doctorso that she might spend her life in ministering to the poor . At another she was helping the Salvation Army in its efforts to " net the sewers . " It was only after many passionate prayers , and long hours of self-scrutiny , that she came to take that plunge which outraged her fashionable and orthodox friends and cost her even the countenance of some of her nearest relations . The two great forces working in the mind of this brilliant and joyous girl , who loved life and could always thank God for the gift of it , was first the staring and piercing pain of millions of unchanapioned people all about her , and , second , the writings of Charles Kingsley and Frederick Denison Maurice , who fashioned the principles of Christian Socialism . Into both of these pressures operating on her hesitant spirit entered the invisible influence of that Christ whose Reality for her had grown only the greater and the more insistent with every step she took from the altar of traditionalism . She had pained and offended her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; she was now to shock them dreadfully by seeing virtue in the little group of Socialists seeking to alter the economic eon-. ditions of human life . There was nothing hysterical , nor anything morbid and priggish , in this evolution of her character . She was always girlish to the last days of her life , loving laughter and fun , hating gush and sentimentality , going gladly to recreations and all innocent pleasures . But she was a realist . The injunction said , " Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself , " and she could not get religious people to take that injunction seriously . Moreover , she found that until she placed herself alongside of those whom she so ardently longed to help , she could neither gain their confidence nor win their affection . When she went over to Socialism she carried to it her gladness and her mysticism . Her gladness she shared with everybody . Her mysticism remained her sanctuary from the world . To the innermost chamber of her life no human being , neither husband nor child , was ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Holy of Holies where she sat alone , and where the presence of her dearest was forbidden . In the long dark nights of the Lossiemouth late autumn and winter , with the moan of the sea passing over the land like the cry of toiling creation , the call of the night bird flying overhead , and the mass of stars shining above her , she would retire within herself and go out silently to the shore or the moors in quest of something which haunts life like a dim vision of a strange beauty or a confused echo of a far-away melody . " At a meeting of the Pioneer Club in Jitne , 1895 , she saw Ramsay MacDonald for the first time . A month previously , when he was lying ill in St. Thomas ' Hospital , she had sent him a sub-scription toward his election expenses as a political candidate at Southampton . He knew nothing about her , but she had heard of him as an able , forceful , and passionately sincere Socialist , a young High-lander who meant busi-ness , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Either then , or a little later , she heard that he was a dying man , and it touched her to think of this humble young man in London fighting for the unhappy and sor-rowful against the bit-ter opposition of all the wealth , power , and dis-tinction of London , while an organic disease was remorselessly hast-ening him toward death . They met , and an instant sympathy ripened swiftly into affection . They were married in 1896 , and took up their residence in 3 , Lincoln 's Inn Fields . ? She believed that her husband was a doomed man , and consecrated herself to carrying on his work . But into that work she brought a spirit which invigorated the man physically and spiritually . Their house became a center of Socialism . From all parts of the world dreamers and visionaries visited the MacDonalds , and she was ever the center of those gatherings , radiant , inspiring , and beautifully tender . She had passed , to borrow her husband 's phrase , from sympathizing with the sufferings of the depressed wage-earners , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would say , " I have met women the latchet of whose shoes I am unworthy to loose ; and here I sit in happy comfort , and there they now are toiling , toiling , toiling , without hope or brightness . " And , " I want to give people work , and I want to give people leisure . " And , " To work for the economic independence of women is Lo work for the purity of family life . " And , " I am interested in housing because I am interested in homing . I want houses for souls as well as for bodies . " In her husband 's noble words , " She was a link between the divided sections of society . " At the center of her heart was the faith that human life is a holy thing . To understand her influence in Ramsay MaeDonald 's career it is important that this phrase should be steadily confronted by the reader until he has realized something of what it means to a nature rich in feeling and deep with religious fervor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that evolution is the will of God , and that the whole business of man lies in lifting up the human soul to its predestined height of joy , beauty , and power . " The only creed worth believing in , " she wrote in her diary , " is , God is Love . God , put Thy love into my heart , cleanse it , deepen it , purify and hallow it ; it is in such sore need . " Her husband writes : " Women and children were her special care . Both were particularly sacred in her eyes . The child was the flower fresh from the garden of God , with the divine fragrance still like an atmosphere around it ; the woman represented maternity , she through whom the race was born , and upon whose knee the race was nursed , whose face was beautiful with hope and sorrow . And both the child and the mother were as outcasts in the world . She saw them dirty , neglected , coarse , the pinched victims of want and the decorated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and without any arguing with her conscience , without giving a thought to consequences , without offering the homage of doubt to the tremendous difficulties of doing anything at all , she began her work instantly she heard the call . " So it came to pass that while Ramsay MacDonald toiled all the day at organizing the political forces of trades-unionism , she was out in the bitter streets of Hoxton or the dark courts of Whitechapel ministering to women and children . " It was no cold-blooded scientific mission upon which she went . She used to return laden in mind and spirit , as though she had been through the lands where Dante walked . " Everywhere she saw the degradation of this holy thing which God had fashioner r an everlasting evolution in purity , beauty , and power . And every time she returned to her home it was with such tales of inconceivable brutality or devilish oppression that the heart of her husband flamed within him , and he grew to be , not the noisiest champion of the suffering workers , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produces such . evil things . To his religion of moral rectitude and simple piety , Margaret MacDonald brought the flame of her more imaginative and mystical nature . He loved the battle of Socialism for itself , being a born fighter , and even without her his economic fight would always have had a moral impulse ; but she gave to it a spiritual consecration . I do not feel that he ever quite rose to her height ; I am not sure that he ever stood quite side by side with this most beautiful spirit ; but I have no doubt whatever that the secret of his power over men is the spiritual consecration he received from his wife , of which he speaks little , but of which he is always vividly conscious in every great crisis of his career . I think she brought the thought of God close to his heart ; and I am certain that in all the religious conununings of his widowed years he has been conscious of her presence . From these suggestions the reader may gather , I hope , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head of the British Empire . Mr. Ramsay MacDonald is a good and upright " practical person " who has been touched by the sacred fire of a woman who lived always in the Presence of God . His own emotions , which are strong and deep , he has always ridden on the curb . His mind is above everything else orderly . He saw quite early in his career that tub-thumping is not the best way to get things done . He has studied Parliamentary procedure with the same intense passion which von Moltke brought to the study of military strategy . His command to his followers has ever been , Organize , organize , organize . His power over them is not moral , and certainly not spiritual , but intellectual . He has shown them how they can get things done . Among them are men of greater intellect , but none with an intellect so practical , so Parliamentary . He towers above them all in this single respect , and many there are in his discordant ranks who resent his drastic exercise of a superior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has enabled him to keep the leadership of his Party even at a time when his behavior during the War , which so many of them deeply resented , would surely in anyother country of the world have fatally imperiled its chance of power . The Reparations Problem is still unsolved , and a " Pro-German , " an anti-conscriptionist , is Prime Minister of the British Empire ! It is a curious fact that this man , who has spent all his life in the atmosphere of crankiness , has never been , and never could be appropriately , called a crank . Something high and stern in his nature has preserved him from this perilous taint . But Mr. MacDonald is not merely a clever and a forceful Parliamentarian . I will not say he is a fanatic , but he is most certainly not a pedagogue . Smooth may be his words at this juncture , and probably to the end of his life ; cold and formal may be his manner to the House of Commons ; orthodox and constitu7 tional may be his leadership of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the holy war which Margaret MacDonald waged all the days of her life against half-truths , errors , and degrading cruelties . He hates the economics of individualism as passionately as Ruskin hated the Tsthetie malformations of commercialism . His future will be watched by the whole world , for it is a future which may well touch the life of the whole world . Behind him are many men who dislike his manner and his method , impatient men with disorderly minds and fanatical egoism . In front of him are those unimaginative middleclass people of whom Samuel Butler so truthfully said that they are as horrified at hearing the Christian religion doubted as at seeing it practised . He may well fall at the hands of either , or even of both combined . If he succeed in keeping his Party together for any length of time he will be a greater man than I think ; if he succeed in defying the opposition of his political opponents it will be only because the mind of the nation has undergone a change more profound than I can believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's statesmanship will be an effort to put the Christian religion into practice . It will be that , and nothing else . No greater mistake can be made by his opponents than to attack him as a fanatic of " class-hatred " or as a dogmatist of socialist economics . Attacked on those grounds , he will strike back with shattering effect . No sneers , no gibes , no hysterical alarmism , can weaken the faith which a large number of people , representing every class in the community , are disposed to place in the policy of a sane Labor Party . Ramsay MacDonald believes that religion can change the whole face of civilization for the better . He believes that it can be applied to international relations , to domestic politics , and to the commercial activities of the nation . That it has never been applied to these concernments no one can deny . The question at issue is , whether it can be so applied . The Church is on her trial , as well as the political economy of Mammon . Theologically , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exercise the smallest influence on the affairs of mankind . It was impotent to stop the War , even to mitigate the very least of its barbarities ; and , quite unmoved , the people of Great Britain recently read of diplomatic conversations between the Church of England and the Church of Rome which thirty years ago would have thrown the country into a violent agitation . But , ethically , the Christian religion seems to be gaining ground . The realism of the modern mind is perhaps responsible for this significant advance . Life is now plainly seen to be a very ugly , a very cruel , a very wasteful , and a very dangerous muddle . A caricaturist of genius , like Mr. George Belcher , may amuse the thoughtless by his terrible pictures of drink-sodden or rheumatic-ridden humanity , but he opens the eyes of the thoughtful to behold how dreadful and destructive are the ravages of industrial civilization . These people , in their desire to do away with depravity and degradation , in their desire to find a safer method and a more rational process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more to the ethics of religion for their inspiration and their warrant . Socialism , as Ramsay MacDonald conceives it , is Christianity , rid of cant and hypocrisy , rid of selfish individualism and aesthetic sentimentalism , ruthlessly applied to the conditions of human life . This will be the motive of all his legislation , and politicians who oppose him will be well advised never to question his motives . On one ground , and only one , can he be usefully criticized , and that is the speed at which he travels . He himself will wish to travel slowly and thoroughly , but the forces behind him may break through his masterful discipline and rush his Ministry into an effort to outstrip evolution . I know his difficulties ; I respect the man greatly ; and I wish him well : but I regretfully doubt his ability either to control his own legions or to meet the onslaughts of the tremendous forces arrayed against him . He is a good man , but not a great man . He has sincerity , earnestness , ability , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followers , I think , feel any affection for him , and many actively dislike him . The same respect for his strength as a Parliamentarian which the Party felt for him in Opposition , may serve to maintain him in his position as the head of a Government so long as his Party is weak in numbers . But I do not think that a great triumph for Labor at the polls would be a triumph for him , unless , before that triumph comes , he has succeeded in bringing peace to Europe , employment to British factories , and an end to the protracted torture of the housing shortage . His prosperity hangs by a hair . For me the supreme interest of the present situation lies in the struggle for predominance which is going on in secret within the ranks of the Labor Party . Either it will keep its moral character and its spiritual impulse , and so proceed wisely and steadily to give us a far nobler civilization than the world has yet seen , or it will become a brutal and mischievous body of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the great loss of the higher life of the human race . One must hope that the good sense of the British working-classes , whose patience can never be questioned , may prove strong enough to resist that Russian or Communist influence in the Labor Party which would wreck the hopes of all idealism and break the hearts of all those who love the human race . I believe it will be well for Great Britain , and well for the rest of the world , if Ramsay MacDonald is given every just and reasonable opportunity to prove his worth and to Lest the value of Christian ethics .                     