@@493315

of the Eighth Illinois Circuit with Judge Davis and Abraham Lincoln , in after years published reminiscences of the great man . He wrote of them to a common friend in 1887 : " You will note that I have stricken out all allusion to Mr. Lincoln 's swearing , and reading the Bible .... The public would believe I lied about it . ... The heroes of the world are its standard , and in time ... they become clothed with imaginary virtues . " . Such , with few exceptions , has been the attitude of Lincoln 's biographers . They have followed the norm established by Cotton Mather 's " Pietas in Patriam " for telling the story of a great man of humble origin . Relate only those facts which prove his piety and greatness ; suppress or prettify the rest . Some have done this through ignorance , others through timidity , or mere small-mindedness , a defect that Boswell alone could make a virtue . The biographer of a great man should be potentially as great as he , and of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lincoln standard . He naught extenuates , naught sets down in malice ; and in his heavily annotated pages , no place has been found to criticize the poor creatures who preceded him . Not that all biographers of Lincoln were fools or sentimentalists . ' William 1-1 . Herndon , Lincoln 's law partner , friend and companion for twenty-five years , published in 1889 a biography of him which told the truth about his early life . There was a howl of public indignation , and the second edition was expurgated . Beveridge , granted access by Herndon 's co-author , Jesse W. Weik , to the material which they laboriously gathered , has rehabilitated Herndon while truthfully delineating Lincoln . He has had no mercy for the sentimental myths . Nancy Hanks was an ordinary frontier girl , the natural child ( so Lincoln believed ) of a Virginia planter ; but there is no evidence of her possessing those spiritual qualities which the mothers of American heroes are supposed to have . Lincoln 's indifference to his parents was striking , and wholly justified . Ann Rutledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she would have married Lincoln had she lived , and improbable that he thought long or much about her after she died . The Mary Owens affair is told without mincing words , and Lincoln 's undeniably vulgar letter about her is printed without comment . Nicolay and Hay did not print the letter in their Life of Lincoln , but wrote gushingly about the " conscience , " and " exquisite sensibility " that the letter showed . Herndon 's story of Lincoln 's strange courtship of Mary Todd , of the wedding which did not come off owing to his panicky absence , and of the gloomy wedding that eventually took place ? a story ignored by Nicolay and Hay and indignantly denied by others ? is here repeated , solidly buttressed by the testimony of Mrs. Lincoln 's sister . The duel with Shields ? whom Nicolay and Hay misrepresent as a swaggering frontier bully ? is told in full detail , leaving one with the feeling that by the standards of the day Lincoln deserved a thrashing . Beveridge 's conclusion to this affair is typical of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formed in boyhood , of ridiculing other persons through offensive anonymous writing , had been sternly checked . . . . Never did Lincoln forget that experience . . . . From the time of the Shields duel Lincoln was infinitely circumspect and considerate in his dealings with others . " If any flash of greatness escaped Lincoln before his forty-fifth year , it left no trace on historical record . He differed from hundreds of other Mid-Western lawyers of his day and generation only in his inflexible honesty , his great personal ambition , and his puzzling alternations of gaiety and gloom . He was not a great lawyer , and unsuccessful with the political methods of the age : obtaining his first election through a gang of young ruffians , later organizing the " shrewd , wild boys about town , " subordinating all in his first legislative session to getting the state capital transferred to Springfield . Obtaining a seat in Congress on the plea that " turn about is fair play , " Lincoln played so inconspicuous a part in Washington that it is almost impossible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the conclusion of that term , in 1848 , he went into political eclipse . True , he showed at that time an eagerness to learn and a capacity to grow that prepared him for great events . Yet even in the late fifties Lincoln " neither led nor retarded mass movements , but accurately registered them . " In contrast with bold , direct leaders like Sumner and Toombs , Lincoln " by instinct as well as mind , understood and responded to the sinuosities , twists , and contradictions through which a democracy expresses itself . " He had the practical politician 's averDecember 12 , 1928 ' ion to the slavery issue . He was an old-line Whig , who disapproved the formation of the new party which was destined to invoke his name in every election to the present . Even in the last few years before the war , when Lincoln 's speeches began to ring with clear notes of prescience and sincerity , he was politically cautious . Stephen Douglas , breaking with his own party administration , showed himself the braver man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admit . Not that Beveridge leads one to despise Lincoln 's caution . On the contrary , one feels that if Beveridge had lived he would have blurted out the conclusion to which he was fast coming , that the formation of the Republican party was a mistake , that the South was virtually forced into secession , and that the danger which Lincoln feared , of the further spread of slavery , was imaginary . From this inadequate outline , it must not be supposed that Beveridge has disparaged Lincoln . Indeed , Lincoln seems greater than ever , when it is brought home to us that at the age of forty-five he was still an unhappily married small-town lawyer and politician . Beveridge 's own experience gave him unique power to interpret Lincoln 's political maneuvers ; and he believed that practical politics , with the knowledge they give of handling men , was the basis of Lincoln 's statesmanship . There is , perhaps , some want of spiritual insight on the biographer 's part ; he deals only with things seen . Lincoln 's long periods of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faintly through the cautious letters of his wondering friends , the receptivity which in time of stress gave him the inspiration to say or do the right thing when more learned and experienced men were befogged , are almost submerged in a multitude of objective facts . Against this want may be set many others well filled : a candid account of Lincoln 's law practice ; the " House Divided " speech printed with the proper emphasis just as Lincoln proofread it for the Illinois State Journal ; careful studies of movements in which Lincoln was interested , such as the Kansas question , which explain an otherwise unintelligible course ; a detailed account , as cold-blooded and realistic as Charles Beard 's , of the formation of the Republican party . On the whole , this is incomparably the greatest story of Lincoln 's life before his presidency . It was a cruel stroke that took Beveridge from us before he reached the Civil War . The more regrettable because these two volumes show such growthand development compared with the " Life of Marshall " that we had every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the years of storm and stress . He had no general philosophy in history , other than an ardent love of country and of truth . Self-trained in historical research , he yet admired experts , cultivated the friendship of professional historians , and respected their judgments . Not content , like most biographers , to get up his history from the most convenient secondary work , he went to the bottom of every movement in which Marshall or Lincoln was concerned , from the Federal Convention to the Dred Scott decision . Occasionally his intense admiration for Marshall blinded him to the virtues of Marshall 's opponents ; but in the " Life of Lincoln " he shows a firm grasp of the great truth that both sides are often right . In only one instance , to my observation , have Beveridge 's prepossessions led him astray : in the Mexican War , where his strong nationalism could not tolerate the Whig argument , and where he has presented a background against which Lincoln 's opposition to the war seems foolish , or worse . 119 Beveridge was fond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of for each other , and he had a talent for providing the background to make historical biography intelligible . He worked at high pressure , concentrating on one episode or brief period before going on to the next , making a trial audience of his family , friends and guests for his discoveries and judgments . His vitality and enthusiasm made him seek such contacts , and by talking about what he was studying , Beveridge clarified his mind , expelled the irrelevant , and marshalled the indispensable facts in orderly procession . Few would rank him with literary historians like Parkman and Macaulay , but the literary critics should not be misled by his pages heavy with footnotes , or his paragraphs spotted with quotations , into supposing that he had no style . He developed an excellent narrative style because he regarded history primarily as a story . History may be subjective or objective , the mirror of truth or a tissue of lies , but it must impart a sense of movement or it is not history . And how seldom do we find movement in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artless but really well thought-out arrangement of facts , has produced the sort of narrative that leads the reader on from page to page , and absorbs him completely in the subject . Beveridge was a victim of our political system , which leaves no place for the defeated candidate . He was one of those stranded by the collapse of the Progressive party . The system , in this instance , did the country a great service ; for no mere political achievement could have done for the nation what the " Life of Marshall " and the " Life of Lincoln " have done and will do . Yet to us who knew him , the radiant personality of Albert J. Beveridge outshines the luster of his two great works . We shall always remember him as a loyal and affectionate friend , a helpful and stimulating companion , whose joy in his work made the long task of historical research a blithe and brave adventure .                     