@@493377

time to come record , a more significant legal struggle than that now being waged between the Interborough Rapid Transit Company in New York on the owl hand , and the American Federation of Labor and the Amalgamated Association of Street and Elea tric Railway Employees on the other . It is not with ? out precedent that the case concerns an application for an injunction , or that the employer has set up a " company union , " or that he has made individual contracts with his employees ( commonly called " yellow-dog contracts " ) . What is new is that thesO several anti-labor measures have been brought to ' gether in such a way , and carried to such an extreme , as to constitute an unprecedented attack on the workers ' industrial freedom . This challenge has , interested distinguished legal scholars in the unions cause , and has led to a nation-wide cooperation of economists and social scientists in the preparation of a case which seeks to present to the courts , not , merely legal technicalities , but a realistic view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bargaining , the status of the worker in modern industrial society , and the functions of the labor movement . The Interborough , some years ago , broke off re ? lations with the regular traction union ? the Amal ? gamated Association ? and formed its own " Broth ? erhood of Interborough Rapid Transit Comnalli , Employees . " The forms of this " organization , and of its so-called " contract " with the employer ' were literally handed down by the company 's Ow ' cials . Every employee , to retain his job , was corn " pelled to subscribe to these documents , and no new men could be employed unless they did so . The preamble to the constitution sets forth that it shall be " deemed to be a contract between the Brothc ? hood and each of its members individually and that , Interborough Rapid Transit Company . " The %WI contract , which each employee is compelled to sign ' contains a clause forbidding employees to be affil ' ' aced with the Amalgamated Association or any other labor organization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for two years . The company IL : now asking for an injunction to prevent the wh , , ? 1 , American Federation of Labor and each of its atti iated members , as well as the Amalgamated Assoi. ciation and its members , from trying in any way to organize its employees , on the ground that such action is an attempt to induce breach of contract . There is no strike in progress , and none is a prospect . Obviously , if the courts can be induced to vene in support of this policy and contract , the way is open for every employer , if he so wishes , to enlist the police power of the state ' e la tempt to destroy the independent organize an b ? . a ' movement by preventing it from keeping or sow . king membership . This effort could be carried on regardless of whether there was any attempt to bring about a strike and so to injure the employer , and regardless of the conduct of a strike ? the two most common occasions for anti-labor injunctions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the status of the employees , as well as on the labor movement as a whole . The plea for the injunction might be denied by the courts on one or more of several grounds . The " contract " may be shown to be not a genuine con ? tract involving a meeting of the minds of persons free to act , and offering adequate consideration on both sides . Or , if it is a valid contract , it may be marked by inequality of bargaining power such that certain of its provisions may be invalidated on the ground of public policy . Or , again , the labor movement may be justified , on grounds of Public policy or in its own defense , in acting in such a way as might lead to a breach of the con ? tract . A wide array of argument can be brought to bear through these legal embrasures . There is , first , a mass of impressive affidavits and expert citations on the necessity of unions in ? dependent of the employer and affiliated with each other , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the making of contracts , some ? thing like equality of bargaining power in setting Wages , hours , and conditions of work , and finally , an organ of expression in the general community life , capable of assuring him information , legal de ? fense , political independence and services of many kinds . There is a detailed examination of the origin of the company Brotherhood , and of its nature as shown in its constitution , as compared with a gen ? uine union like the Amalgamated Association . We have summarized this comparison on page of this issue . The constitution of the Brotherhood gives no evidence of having been framed or adopt ? ed by any representative assembly at any specific ti'rne . The fact that the employer had a controlling nand in its framing is shown by the clauses which state that it constitutes a contract with the em ? ployer , and that amendments to it were ratified by the Board of Directors of the Interborough . It would , for example , be absurd for purchasers of electric current who had formed an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the con ? stitution of that association , that the document was a contract with the company , binding them collect ? ively and individually . Another absurdity is the constitutional provision , that all employees of the company shall become members of the Brother- lad . Why such a provision in the fundamental w of a supposedly voluntary association ? If the the means anything , then , it means that ' Ile Brotherhood is an agency of the employer . e , . EcIllally ridiculous and self-contradictory is that ttlisgaiar Bnrothierhas hood a , ostensibly formed for collective ng , constitutional provision compel-ling its members to sign individual contracts with the employer . No real union would permit such a thing , and the provision gives evidence that the company has no confidence in the Brotherhood as a genuine representative of the employees . Further comparisons show the centralized structure and un ? democratic procedure of the Brotherhood , whose General Committee has the power to settle disputes without reference to the membership , and the power to expel members ( and hence to discharge them from employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a ready-made document for fear of losing or not receiving jobs , join a genuine representative body capable of con ? tracting for them ? Have they , as individuals , bargaining power equal to that of the employer ? Scarcely . And the result is shown in the work con ? tract which the " Brotherhood " has made and they are forced to sign , an analysis of which we print on page 167 . Like other contracts aimed against union ? ism , it binds the men individually not to join any labor organization , thus depriving them of the ad ? vantages which the great majority of students say is necessary to give employees adequate bargaining power and independence in modern industrial soci ? ety . Such contracts , however , usually have no definite term ; they are , as the law says , " at will , " and have , therefore , a dubious effectiveness . This contract , apparently for the sake of greater legal security , is unique in binding the men not only to this promise , but to work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But what does the employee secure in return ? A promise by his employer not to join any associ ? ation of employers ? No . A promise to employ him for two years ? Yes ? but a promise modified by clauses safeguarding the right to discharge him for any reason on account of which an employer might ever want to discharge an employee . By strict interpretation of the contract , the employee could not quit even to become President of the United States or to enjoy an inherited fortune , while the employer can discharge him if business is bad or for virtually any other reason . To be sure , the contract provides for some appeal through arbitration machinery , but this does not apply in several causes of discharge , and , even where it does apply , is used only to determine whether the assigned cause is present . As a matter of practice , men are sometimes discharged , without the com ? pany 's incurring any inquiry , by the simple expedi ? ent of expulsion from the Brotherhood by its Gen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without reference to the membership , extend the term of the contract indefinitely . Thus the men are bound much as indentured servants of the co ? lonial period were bound , but for a possibly per ? petual servitude , and though the employer assumes none of the obligations of the old master . How does such a revival of the old master-and-servant relationship look , in contrast with the supposed freedom of the employer-employee relationship , in contrast with " freedom of contract , " " freedom of association " and " equality of opportunity " for edu ? cation , self-advancement , and participation in social ' duties and responsibilities ? The company alleges that the contract with the company union assures it the " cooperation " of the employees in the interest of public service , meaning , apparently , that it is a protection against strikes . The unions show , in reply , that strikes have been more frequent under the contract with the Brotherhood than under previous relationships with the Amalgamated Association . They show that , under the constitution of the Amalgamated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? fuses to arbitrate . They further show that genuine group cooperation between a union and a manage ? ment can not take place unless the men 's organiza ? tion is independent and so free either to cooperate or not to cooperate , and that under these conditions cooperation has extended to a degree undreamed of by the Interborough , as with the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad and the shop unions . Real coopera ? tion is not dragooned subservience , but a joint ef ? fort , educational in essence , to give better service , on a basis of mutuality . The affidavits on the sub ? ject of union-management cooperation alone would constitute a textbook on this development of in ? dustrial relations . There is a presumption that " yellow-dog " con ? tracts , of the general type involved in this case , are not bona-fide attempts to bring about harmoni-. ous relationships on the basis of agreement , but are drawn with the purpose of securing the aid of the courts in controversies with labor . Any con ? tract should be mainly self-enforcing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as little as possible on intervention of the police power . This is particularly true of collective labor con ? tracts directly involving thousands of individuals . Should the courts , in the public interest , assume the burden which anti-union employers seek to put upon them in this respect ? Should they place their prestige squarely in the path of the development of the historic labor movement , which is a response to much the same conditions , using much the same methods , in every industrial nation ? Because in this case the company union has been combined with the individual contract in an effort to circumvent genuine unionism , the hollowness of both is shown in the clearest of lights . It is sig ? nificant that a bitterly anti-union employer should seize with one hand what is supposed to be a new form of collective bargaining , and with the other what is an attempt to enforce the antithetical indi ? vidual bargain , and strive to weld them into a monstrous whole . It is significant that the extreme form of both which is the product @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers . The occasion furnishes the opportunity for a broad ' defense of unionism in well-nigh all of its aspects , and for a new consideration of the status of the worker . If the law is to allow him scope for real freedom , real opportunity , real responsibility , it will have to look behind the phrases which origi , , nated in a day of simpler relationship , untangle the web of logical deceit woven by skillful attor ? neys in the interest of reactionary employers , and make a real attempt to adjust precedent to mod ? ern social needs . It is fortunate that the case is being presented in such a way as to allow the courts to do this . If they seize the opportunity , a bench mark will have been set in the law for a firmer status of labor and a broader opportunity , to seek its fulfillment . THE discussion between the New Republic and its readers as to the meaning and mission of liberalism continues to provoke such lively and varied responses from them that we are tempted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over-convinced , to continue it . The batch of letters which we publish elsewhere carries the argument a step further . They are provocative , but , unlike many of the previous letters , they are also sYrn ; pathetic . They provide a tempting opportunity or feeling our way in their company toward a better understanding of what it should and should not mean to be a liberal . One of these correspondents , Mr. Henry Carey , proposes , for instance , to define a liberal as a per ? son in whom belief and judgment dance attendance on evidence . His definition questions the title to the name of liberal of many workers in the vineyard of the Lord who are supposed to earn it by zealously , promoting some particular program of political re ? form or social betterment . The proposed test would consider not the nature of their beliefs or the . public purposes which they were trying to aecool ; plish , but the quality of their mental processes . If their prepossession with their own ideas or plans closed their minds to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be classified as lib- erals . The opposite of liberalism is not conservat ' ism in politics and social economy . It is of ness or inertia of thought and complacency f It is desirable to dissociate liberalism , as 1 ' 11- ' Carey has done , from a zealous but uninq-uissPiitirvi ; devotion to particular formulas and programs . li 's proposed definition looks in a better direction , in that it would require of liberals a mental discipline whicm , would save them from many subjective delusions an . a headstrong mistakes . But it has a limitation of ilt9 own . It assumes that liberalism is a matter excni ? sively of intellectual activity . There are ma.0 , people who are perfectly willing to discard or I-al " ' ti their beliefs or their projects in the light of facts but whose corrected judgments and well behave plans lack the emotional energy to get themselves                     