@@493341

Obstreperous Liberalism ONE grave difficulty in discussing liberalism at present arises from the different meanings which different people attach to the word . The criticism of a recent discussion of liberalism by the New Republic which is contained in a letter by Mr. Roger William Riis , published elsewhere in this issue , is provoked by the assumption of such a difference of meaning . He considers " ridiculous " a statement to the effect that " the almost complete annihilation of liberalism as an organized force is accompanied by its increased vitality as a political and social idea . " He means by the word a fully formulated political and social creed which can not obtain reality in the world unless those who believe in it organize and struggle to overcome resistance to its realization . A living liberalism must , according to Mr. Riis , conduct itself pugnaciously and obstreperously . Only if Androcles and the.Lion walk arm in arm , is there no cage for the Lion and no slavery for Androcles . There are , of course , many precedents for Mr. Riis 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Liberal party in England , and something of the kind provided the moral and intellectual impulse for American : progressiviSm from 1910 to 1913 . In so far as human beings can be liberated by enacting laws which remove obstacles to desirable social experiments , the liberal Androcles must no doubt cultivate some Lion of political power which likes to roar and lash his tail and devour his enemies . But in that case it is most important for the obstreperous liberal to feel sure of his creed and to agree with his associates about the political and social program which they seek to impose on society . The alliance between Androcles and the Lion has wonderful possibilities in so far as Androcles knows his own Mind . and so long as the Lion does not escape from Androcles 's benignant leadership . But the Androcleses of history are not uniformly capable of taming the Lions either in their own souls or in the jungles of the world , and obstreperous Lions which are not confined in cages have frequently preferred to devour Androcles rather than his oppressors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which called itself progressive and toward the end liberal , knew its own mind well enough . It was a little uncertain what it wanted to do with the trusts and battleships , but it agreed in the general idea of realizing a national program of social amelioration by political means , which implied increased popular political responsibilities . At present there is no similar agreement . Some liberals consider opposition to federal centralization of any kind as their first duty to their convictions . Others seem sincerely to believe that one of the existing parties can become a satisfactory agency of liberalism in politics . Still others who have not departed from the older progressivism in the foregoing respects still profoundly disagree among themselves as to how a progressive or liberal political party can be recruited and what legislation it would propose to enact after it obtained power . In short the political impotence in the United States of people who call themselves liberals is merely a reflection of the lack in liberalism , as liberals understand it , of a coherent political content . They can not get together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an explosion of liberal political pugnacity resembles the beating of a drum for a war dance when there is no war in sight and no army to lead to battle . Since liberalism is at present paralyzed politically by its lack of a program , those who hope to give reality to something which the word may mean should discriminate with some care the different meanings which they propose to attach to it . For this reason the New Republic has tried of late to dissociate its own use of the word from any necessary alliance with practical politics and to identify it with a philosophy and method of individual and social conduct . The original liberals were people who looked upon human life as a part of nature and who expected to contribute to human liberation by increasing the available knowledge of it as a natural process . We would like to revive this meaning now . If liberalism seeks to capitalize for purposes of human amelioration a trustworthy knowledge of the processes of individual and social life , it is easy to understand why people of liberal tendencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A knowledge . of social processes , sufficiently mature to justify political action may not have been reached or it may be impossible for the moment to give such knowledge reality in popular experience . But even in so far as such knowledge does exist , it may be soon superseded , and liberals must make allowance for the necessity of systematic revision of all particular projects . Liberals should from this point of view avoid scrupulously the temptation to wax pugnacious in the interest of temporary programs . Liberalism grows with the application to the understanding of individual and social life of a cautious experimental method which considers all social principles and institutions as projects to be tried out and watched rather than as conclusions to be affirmed and vindicated . It can not thrive in any society which is dominated by political or religious absolutism or by an official policy of internal or external violence , but every society with an orderly democratic constitutional government is liberal in so far as it leaves the door open for experiments . If it violates the obligation to be liberal in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than a desirable progressivism . The American nation can boast of a government which is with reservations and occasional backslidings orderly , democratic and constitutional . This government is , however , operated at present by people who are afraid of experimentation and who favor above everything else the encouragement of the private acquisition and concentration of wealth as a scientific and democratic social policy . It is possible that eventually the vested interests which profit by this policy will form an alliance with economic , political and religious absolutism in America for the purpose of suppressing experimentalism of all kinds , but such an alliance is still a somewhat remote threat . Coolidgism is not reactionary , for reaction in its own way is energetic and headstrong and Coolidgism is more than anything else lethargic and cautious . Yet lethargic as it is , it is also politically pliant within limits , and it is capable under sufficient pressure of undertaking a moderate program of reform . The difficulty is that for the present no pressure is being exerted . The Democrats are thoroughly licked and have no fight left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impotent . Effective political opposition to Coolidgism will not develop until the Democratic party is split and reorganized or until economic discontent precipitates the political combination of those classes whose interests will in the long run be adversely affected by a continuation of the existing government by professional politicians in the interest of wealth . That such a combination will eventually be formed , we do not for one moment doubt . Yet in spite of the temporary impotence of radicalism , the passing of liberalism as a coherent political force and the triumph in American public life of a moral rhetoric of self-satisfaction over generous and ardent discontent , liberalism , as we have defined it , is becoming increasingly effective as an unofficial method of dealing with educational , social , industrial and even political problems . Liberalism of this kind is , indeed , bound to possess an indispensable function in a social economy which , like that of this country , is coming to be and is conceived as being a collection of associated and experimental human activities which have to be understood in order to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy is obtaining constantly increasing reality . It is a by-product of the whole technical development of American society . No matter how much its opponents ignore or denounce it in theory , they are obliged to act on it in practice . They are obliged , that is , whenever they legislate to assume that existing institutions , laws , and public and corporate policies are projects whose value for society is measured , not by their - December 23 , 1925 conformity to some pre-established principle or theory , but by their consequences in practice which need , to be understood and which can be understood only by being watched . These social experiments are being watched and studied in the United States More systematically and conscientiously than in any  --  European country . Liberalism in all its forms will eventually possess an abounding vitality in a community which is as thoroughly committed to a meth : - odical scrutiny and recording of its own processes as America is . We are not afraid , consequently , that a democratic society such as ours will ever dispense with - liberalism . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sense of those people whose business it is to be thoroughly aware of social con ' duct , will not understand what a grave responsibility a society which is unconsciously experimenting with experimentalism may impose upon them . The United States is a fertile breeding ground for an infinite number of novel enterprises of all kinds . technical , industrial , social and intellectual . The Urban American of today whatever his other faults is not stagnant . On the contrary he is , if anything , . too mercurial . He is as a rule more curious , more alert , more sceptical and more uninhibited than the American of yesterday , yet his increase of curiosity and irreverence is not a wanton revolt against pre-cedent and tradition . It is the reflection of the . . increasing need of an adaptable , adventurous , experimental state of mind in carrying on with success the important practical activities of American life . This mixture of scepticism and experimentalism in business and technical activities with Coolidgism in politics and a revived fundamentalism in religion , : defines the task which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perform . They have to vindicate methodical experimentalism as a positive - substitute for routine , tradition , rules and dogmas in the conduct of life ? of life in general as well as of particular activities . The disposition to challenge and to cross-examine sacred practices , institutions and principles is gradually undermining popu ' Jar faith in many traditions , symbols and formulas Which have hitherto served as partial supports for individual morality and social order . A substitute is needed . Unless liberals wake up to the need of providing a substitute and learn how to do it , they may be confronted with a veritable revival of absolutism as the indispensable cultural justification of a , social order whose preservation seems to be threat . ened - by heretical experimentalism . Unfortunately for their ability to redeem this social responsibility , liberals have hitherto evaded the task of furnishing for themselves an equivalent for the customary moral certitudes . In what way can they strengthen the motives for creative moral and social conduct and lay out a reliable route to that remote and elusive land ? Since by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberate human beings by imposing orders and beliefs upon them , liberals have no alternative but to seek human regeneration by the introduction of some effective method into their own personal conscious effort to lead a good life . They must somehow derive from their consciousness of the actual processes of living a liberating knowledge which they can not obtain from public instruction or from the commands of church or state . Those of them who like to be obstreperous , will find in this task a sufficient outlet for their pugnacity . They can furnish the world with the example of a man who by self-acquired knowledge of himself and the world has achieved the captaincy of his soul . In his intoxicated moments , he may even conceive himself as a modern version of Prometheus who defies the gods and seeks in a humanization of the process of knowing the salvation of mankind . But science , we are afraid , has robbed Prometheus himself of heroism . The gods which the experimentalist of today has to defy can no longer summon thunderbolts from the air or let loose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not entitled to strike an attitude and to take his position too seriously . Liberals have wished on themselves without knowing it the job of discovering some way of making themselves and other people experts in the art of leading a good life . The knowledge which they need for the practice of this technique of techniques they can not borrow from any existing storehouse . Neither can they obtain it by going off into the wilderness or joining a community of the saints . They must earn it by acting as if the inquisitive , disinterested and intensely watchful pursuit of ordinary activities will , if raised to the dignity of a method , actually result in a creative personal experience which will synthesize in their minds life with truth .                     