@@493004

Mokokit-ki-ackamimat UNTIL I spent two months on an American Indian reservation in the Northwest and became interested in the present-day struggle of the Indian for mere existence ? let alone readjustment ? I took it for granted that everyone shuddered a bit in contemplation of the brutal behavior of the white intruders toward the aboriginal landlords of North America . But many to whom I talked ? East and West ? blandly denied the continuously disagreeable facts of white-Indian relations , even though recognized by the most reliable American historians . For such as these and for others who may be . more sophisticated in international affairs than in Americana , " The American Indian Frontier , " the latest volume in the formidable " History of Civilization " series , will prove a bitter but wholesome tonic . Mr. Macleod , assistant professor in the department of finance in the Wharton and Graduate Schools of the University of Pennsylvania , comes to his subject equipped with a rich background of previously published research in aboriginal North American economics and social origins . Most friends of the Indians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who approach the Indians with some ulterior motive connected with Indian real estate or oil wells . The author refuses to treat his subject " sentimentally , " but there is no need for him to inject an emotional bias into the text . The facts , amply documented , speak for themselves . From the time the Spaniards drove the helpless Indians in forced labor gangs into the mines of Mexico and Central America to the pathetic surrender of Chief Joseph to Colonel Miles in 1877 , the record is a humiliating triumph of might over decency . All the perfumes of Arabia can not sweeten the horny palms of the pioneers . The population of pre-Columbian Latin America is unknown , but at the present time , Indians and mixed bloods make up from 8o to loo percent of the population of Mexico , the Isthmian republics and South America . The Indian has flourished in Latin America . Full-bloods and mestizos are over the hundred million mark . It is Mr. Macleod 's conviction that the Spanish encomienda , or forced labor system , evil as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and saved them from extinction . Contrary to the popularly accepted belief , there are not , in the opinion of the author , as many Indians in the United States today as there were before the arrival of the whites . The pre-European Indian population , according to the latest scientific estimates , was at least three millions . There are not more than one hundred thousand full-bloods north of Mexico today . What happened to the North American Indian ? Why is he " as near extinction as the bison ? " Venereal diseases , first brought to the West Indies by Columbus ' men and carried to Mexico by Cortes ' army , and small-pox , tuberculosis and measles , diseases indigenous to the Old World , against which the Indian had no immt.nity , took devastating tolls . Fire-water , so generously sold by every trader , led to degeneration . White massacres of Indians and white wars on the North American continent in which the tribes were persuaded to take sides made a fairly clean job of exterminating the rest . A handful are left . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in brilliant papers at Americanist congresses on such subjects as the Natchez social system and the distribution of musical styles in North America . The Natchez , with their unique political and social organization , have , like many other tribes , been exterminated . Indian music , at least , has not yet been relegated to the historical tense . Against a circle of tepees piercing the star-sprinkled azure sky of a Montana summer night I have heard them ? the old Indians who remember the buffalo days ? chanting wild arid blood-stirring tribal songs and lifting moccasined feet to the rhythm of drums which fire one with primeval longings . That Indians still can sing , that their music is not frozen in their hearts , is an encouraging sign for the dawn of an Indian tomorrow . And to the Indian tomorrow Americans who feel any sense of responsibility must contribute a practical solution which will help the Indians save their finer racial traditions and at the same time find honorable place in a modern world not of their making . Not one , but many , practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which , with a staff of nine specialists under the technical direction of Lewis Meriarn , made a seven-months ' survey of all the Indian reservations at the request of Hubert Work , Secretary of the Interior . The record of their findings and recommendations has recently been published as " The Problem of Indian Administration . " Not since Helen Hunt Jackson swept the country a half-century ago with her challenging denunciation of the Indian situation has such a scathing rebuke been dealt to the administration of Indian affairs as in this report . The indictment is all the more effective because no allusion is made to the historical treatment of the Indians and because carefully weighed language is employed to convey criticism which aims to be constructive . One feels that the Institute staff deliberated long before they framed the significant chapters on health , education , and family life . The staff in the field made a thorough investigation of everything and everybody on the reservations . The same standards that are acceptable to a competent social service in any progressive American community were applied to measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the investigation are depressing and shameful . " The provisions for the care of Indian children in boarding schools are grossly inadequate . " With a per capita allowance for food of eleven cents a day , Indian children , generally suffering from malnutrition , often develop tuberculosis from their deficient , near-starvation diet . The dormitories are overcrowded , the plumbing unsatisfactory . The teaching staff is deplorably below standards required by white public schools , the antiquated educational system does not equip the Indian boy or girl to earn a living or exert initiative . The conditions in Indian hospitals and sanitariums were found to be equally appalling . Except on reservations where the Five Year Industrial program has been successfully launched , little intelligent effort has been made to teach the Indian to farm or to raise his economic status . The same story is told of every department . The survey staff jointly recommends a new educational program for the Indians which will mean a drastic reorganization of the Indian Bureau , the services of experts in many fields , the raising of standards and salaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of about ten million dollars a year more than is now being expended . That " an overwhelming majority of the Indians are poor , even extremely poor , and they are not adjusted to the economic and social system of the dominant white civilization , " is a pretty commentary on the value of " services " rendered to its " wards " by the richest government in the world . The survey staff makes the obvious clear : that the Indians must " be absorbed into the prevail --  ing civilization or be fitted to live in the presence of that civilization at least in accordance with a minimum standard of health and decency . " In the dreary desert of white and Indian relationships , one comes upon an occasional oasis . Leo Crane , who spent more than twenty years in the Indian service , is one of those rare individuals with a harmonious insight into the traditions and problems of an alien race . In " Desert Drums , " he gives the past history and present life of the Pueblo Indians of New Mexico . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , feels free to speak frankly of the difficulties of struggling against red-tape officialdom and of furnishing sinecures ( which the Indian service of all federal departments can least afford to do ) for the proteges of political tsars . He takes one into the Corona Corona atmosphere where the notorious Bursum Bill was framed ? a malodorous attempt to deprive the Pueblo Indians of their lands ? and he shows how Albert Bacon Fall , whose altruistic attitude toward the Indians has long been recognized at its true value , could break any puppet in the Indian service who did not do his bidding , The intimate pictures of Pueblo life by Mr. Crane , who , although a government official , was accepted as a friend by the desert Indians , justly suspicious of outsiders , give the book authentic value . Most books about Indians have been written by white ethnologists , historians or novelists . Rarely does an Indian speak for his own people . Except among friends he is reticent in speaking of his life or his beliefs . Buffalo Child Long Lance , a member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brothers of the Montana Blackfeet ? has written in simple , moving English the reminiscences of his Indian childhood . What epochs of experience the author has lived through in a few brief decades ! As a child he hunted the last of the buffalo and trailed along with a war expedition against the Crows ; he caught wild horses and watched the seers of his tribe make powerful medicine . But the days of the free Indians of the Northern plains were coming to an end . Long Lance and his small companions were sent to school . They were ashamed . They could not be warriors and hunters like their fathers . But Long Lance took one wistful look back to the ways of his ancestors and then turned to the distant beckoning Eastern horizon . He distinguished himself at Carlisle , won a postgraduate scholarship at St. John 's Military Academy and was appointed to - West Point by President Wilson . He sacrificed this opportunity to enter the Canadian army in 1916 and was mustered out of service at the end of the War with decorations and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bugle note calling his people to fling off their lethargy and revive their ancient courage : But the new day is here : it is here to stay . And now we must Ieave it to our old people to sit stolidly and dream of the glories of our past . Our job is to try to fit ourselves into the new scheme of life which the Great Spirit has decreed for North America . And we will do that , keeping always before us the old Blackfoot proverb : Illokokit-ki-ackantimat ? Be wise and persevere .                     