@@487273

vv E print below the opening sections of the report of the Inter-Imperial Relations Committee of the Imperial Conference , issued November 19 , as cabled to the New York Times . I.-INTRODUCTION We were appointed at a meeting of the Imperial Conference , October 25 , 1926 , to investigate all questions on the agenda affecting inter-imperial relations . Our discussions on these questions have been long and intricate . We found on examination that they involved considerations of fundamental principles affecting the relations of the various parts of the British Empire inter se as well as the relations of each part to foreign countries . For such an examination the time at our disposal has been all - too short , yet we hope that we may have laid a foundation on which subsequent conferences may build . II. ? STATUS OF GREAT BRITAIN AND THE DOMINIONS The committee are of the opinion that nothing would be gained by attempting to lay down a constitution for the British Empire . Its widely scattered parts have very different characteristics , very different histories , and are at very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it defies classification and bears no real resemblance to any other political organization which now exists or has ever yet been tried . There is , however , one most important element in it which from a strictly constitutional point of view has now as regards all vital matters reached its full development  --  we refer to the group of self-governing communities composed of Great Britain and the Dominions . Their position and mutual relation may be readily defined . They are autonomous communities within the British Empire , equal in status , in no way subordinate one to another in any aspect of their domestic or external affairs , though united by common allegiance to the Crown and freely associated as members of the British Commonwealth of Nations . A foreigner endeavoring to understand the true character of the British Empire by the aid of this formula alone would be tempted to think that it was devised rather to make mutual interference impossible than to make mutual cooperation easy . Such criticism , however , completely ignores the historic situation . The rapid evolution . of the oversee Dominions during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old political machinery to changing conditions . The tendency toward equality of status was both right and inevitable . Geographical and other conditions made this impossible of attainment by way of federation . The only alternative was by way of autonomy and along this road it has been steadily sought . Every self-governing member of the empire is master of its destiny . In fact , if not always in form , it is subject to no compulsion whatever . But no account , however accurate , of the negative relations in which Great Britain and the Dominions stand to each other can do more than express a portion of the truth . The British Empire is not founded upon negations . It depends essentially if not formally , on positive ideals . Free institutions are its lifeblood ; free cooperation is its instrument . Peace , security , and progress are among its objects . Aspects of all these great themes have been discussed at the present conference . Excellent results have been thereby obtained , and though every Dominion is now and must always remain the sole judge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause will , in our opinion , be thereby imperiled . Equality of status so far as Britain and the Dominions are concerned is the root principle governing our inter-imperial relations . But principles of equality and similarity appropriate to the status do not universally extend to the function . Here we require something more than immutable dogmas . For example , to deal with questions of diplomacy and questions of defense we require also flexible machinery  --  machinery which can from time to time be adapted to the changing circumstances of the world . This subject also has occupied our attention . The rest of this report will show we have endeavored not only to state political theory but how to apply it to our common needs . III. - SPECIAL POSITION OF INDIA It will be noted that in previous paragraphs we have made no mention of India . Our reason for limiting their scope to Great Britain and the Dominions is that the position of India in the empire is already defined by the Government of India Act of 1919 . We would , nevertheless , recall that by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was given to the important position held by India in the British Commonwealth . Where in this report we have had occasion to consider the position of India we have made particular reference to it . IV. - RELATIONS BETWEEN VARIOUS PARTS OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE Existing administrative , legislative , and judicial forms are admittedly not wholly in accord with the position as described in Section II of this report . This is inevitable , since most of these forms date back to a time well antecedent to the present stage of constitutional development . Our first task , then , was to examine these forms with special reference to any cases where want of adaptation of practice to principle caused or might be thought to cause inconvenience in the conduct of inter-imperial relations . A ? Title of His Majesty . The title of His Majesty the King is of special importance and concern to all parts of His Majesty 's Dominions . Twice within the last fifty years has the royal title been altered to suit changed conditions and constitutional developments . The present title , which is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows : George V , by the Grace of God , of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions Beyond the Seas , King , Defender of Faith , Emperor of India . Some time before the conference met it had been recognized that this form of title hardly accorded with the altered state of affairs arising from the establishment of the Irish Free State as a Dominion . It had further been ascertained that it would be in accordance with His Majesty 's wishes that any recommendation for a change should be submitted to him as a result of the discussion at the conference . We are unanimously of the opinion that a slight change is desirable and we recommend that , subject to His Majesty 's approval , necessary legislative action should be taken to secure that His Majesty 's title should henceforth be : George V , by the Grace of God , of Great Britain , Ireland and the British Dominions Beyond the Seas , King , Defender of the Faith , Emperor of India . B ? Position of Governors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formally to place on record a definition of the position held by the Governor General as His Majesty 's representative in the Dominions . That position , though now generally well recognized , undoubtedly represents a development from an earlier stage when the Governor General was appointed solely on advice of His Majesty 's Ministers in London and acted also as their representative . The Governor of Newfoundland is in the same position as the Governor General of a Dominion . In our opinion , it is essential in consequence of the equality of the status existing among the members of the British Commonwealth of Nations , that the Governor General of a Dominion is a representative of the Crown , holding in all essential respects the same position in relation to the administration of public affairs- in a Dominion as- is held by His Majesty , the King in Great Britain , and that he is not a representative or agent of His Majesty 's Government in Great Britain . or of any department of that Government . It seemed to us to follow that the practice whereby the Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communication between His Majesty 's Government in Great Britain and his governments in his Dominions might be regarded as no longer wholly in accordance with the constitutional position of the Governor General . It was thought that the recognized official channel of communication should be , in the future , between government and government direct . The representatives of Great Britain readily recognized that the existing procedure might be open to criticism and accepted the proposed change in principle in relation to any of the Dominions which desired it . The details were left for settlement as soon as possible after the conference had completed its work , but it was recognized by the committee as an essential feature of any change or development in the channels of communication that the Governor General should be supplied with copies of all documents of importance and in general should be kept as fully informed as is His Majesty the King in Great Britain of Cabinet business and public affairs . C ? Operations of Dominion Legislation . Our attention was also called to various points in connection with the operation of Dominion legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular points involved - were : ( 1 ) The present practice under which the acts of the Dominion Parliaments are sent each year to London and it is intimated through the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs that His Majesty will not be advised to exercise his powers of disallowance with regard to them . ( 2 ) The reservation of Dominion legislation in certain circumstances for the signification of His Majesty 's pleasure which is signified on advice tendered by His Majesty 's Government in Great Britain . ( 3 ) The difference between the legislative competence of the Parliament at Westminster and the Dominion Parliaments in that acts passed by the latter operate as a general rule only within the territorial area of the Dominion concerned . ( 4 ) The operation of legislation passed by Parliament at Westminster in relation to the Dominions . In this connection special attention was called to such statutes as the Colonial Laws Validity Act . It was suggested that in the future uniformity of legislation as between Great Britain and the Dominions could best be secured by the enactment of reciprocal statutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters the best consideration possible in the limited time at our disposal , but came to the conclusion that the issues involved were so complex that there would be grave danger in attempting any immediate pronouncement other than the statement of Certain principles which , in our opinion , underlie the whole question of the operation of Dominion legislation . We feel that , for the rest , it would be necessary to obtain expert guidance as a preliminary to further consideration by His Majesty 's Governments in Great Britain and the Dominions . On the questions raised with regard to disallowance and reservation of Dominion legislation , it was explained by the Irish Free State representatives that they desired to elucidate constitutional practice in relation to Canada , since it was provided by Article 2 of the articles of agreement for the Treaty of 1921 that " The position of the Irish Free State , in relation When writing to advertiser ; please mention The Nation to the Imperial Parliament and Government and otherwise shall be that of the Dominion of Canada . " On this point we propose that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provisions embodied in the constitutions or in specific statutes expressly providing for reservation , it is recognized that it is the right of the Government of each Dominion to advise the Crown in all matters relating to its own affairs . Consequently it would not be in accordance with constitutional practice for advice to be tendered to His Majesty by His Majesty 's Government in Great Britain in any matter appertaining to the affairs of a Dominion against the views of the Government of that Dominion . Appropriate procedure with regard to projected legislation in one of the self-governing parts of the empire which may affect the interests of other self-governing parts rests on previous consultation between His Majesty 's Ministers in the several parts concerned . On the question raised with regard to the legislative competence of members of the British Commonwealth of Nations other than Great Britain and in particular to the desirability of those members being enabled to legislate with extraterritorial effect , we think that it should similarly be placed on record that constitutional practice is that legislation by the Parliament at Westminster applying to a Dominion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned . As already indicated , however , we are of the opinion that there are points arising out of these considerations and in application of these general principles which , will require detailed examination , and we accordingly recommend that steps should be taken by Great Britain and the Dominions to set up a committee with terms of reference on the following lines : To inquire into and report upon and make recommendations concerning , first , existing statutory provisions requiring the reservation of Dominion legislation for assent of His Majesty or authorizing disallowance of such legislation ; second ( a ) , the present position , as to competence , of the Dominion Parliaments to give their legislation extraterritorial operation ; ( b ) the practicability and most convenient method of giving effect to the principle that each Dominion Parliament should have the power to give extraterritorial operation to its legislation in all cases where such operation is ancillary to provisions for peace , order , and good government of that Dominion ; third , principles embodied in or underlying the Colonial Laws Validity Act of 1865 and extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repealed , amended , or modified in the light of existing relations between the various members of the British Commonwealth of Nations , as described in this report . Sections on Merchant Shipping Legislation and Appeals to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council are here omitted V ? RELATIONS WITH FOREIGN COUNTRIES From questions especially concerning the relations of various parts of the British Empire with one another we naturally turned to those affecting their relations with foreign countries . In the latter sphere a ' beginning had been made toward making clear those relations by resolution of the Imperial Conference of 1923 on the subject of negotiation , signature , and ratification of treaties . But it seemed desirable to examine the working of that resolution during the past three years , and also consider whether the principles laid down with regard to treaties could not be applied with advantage in a wider sphere . A ? Procedure in Relation to Treaties . We appointed a special subcommittee , under the Chairmanship of the Minister of Justice of Canada , the Honorable E. LaPointe , K. C. , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on whose report the following paragraphs are based , found that the resolution of the conference of 1923 embodied , on most points , useful rules for the guidance of the governments . As they became more thoroughly understood and established they would prove effective in practice . Some phases of treaty procedure were examined , however , When writing to advertisers , p ease ? mention The Nation in greater detail in the light of experience in order to consider to what extent the resolution of 1923 might with advantage be supplemented . B ? Negotiations . It was agreed in 1923 that any of the governments of the empire contemplating the negotiation of a treaty should give due consideration to its possible effect upon other governments , and should take steps to inform the governments likely to be interested of its intention . This rule should be understood as applying to any negotiations which any government intends to conduct so as to leave it to the other governments to say whether they are likely to be interested . When a government has received information of the intention of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to indicate its attitude with reasonable promptitude . So long as the initiating government receives no adverse comments , and so long as its policy involves no active obligations on the part of other governments , it may proceed on the assumption that its policy is generally acceptable . It must , however , before taking any steps which might involve other governments in any active obligations , obtain their definite assent . Where by the nature of a treaty it is desirable that it should be ratified on behalf of all the governments of the empire the initiating government may assume that the government which has had full opportunity of indicating its attitude , and has made no adverse comments , will concur in the ratification of the treaty . In the case of a government that prefers not to concur in the ratification of a treaty unless it has been signed by a plenipotentiary authorized to act on its behalf it will advise the appointment of a plenipotentiary so to act . C ? Form of Treaty . Some treaties begin with a list of the contracting countries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the case of treaties negotiated under the auspices of the League of Nations adherence to the wording of the annex to the Covenant for the purpose of describing the contracting party has led to the use in the preamble of the term " British Empire , " with the enumeration of the Dominions and India if parties to the convention , but without any mention of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the colonies and protectorates . These are only included by virtue of their being covered by the term " British Empire . " This practice , while suggesting that the Dominions and India are not on a footing of equality with Great Britain as participants of the treaties in question , tends to obscurity and misunderstanding and is generally unsatisfactory . As a means of overcoming this difficulty it is recommended that all treaties ( other than agreements between governments ) , whether negotiated under the auspices of the League or not , should be made in the name of the heads of the states , and if a treaty is signed on behalf of any or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made in the name of the King , a symbol of the special relationship between the different parts of the empire . - British units on behalf of which a treaty is signed should be grouped together in the following order : Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and all the parts of the British Empire which are not separate members of the League ; Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , the Irish Free State , and India . A specimen form of treaty as recommended is attached as an appendix to the committee 's reports . In the case of a treaty applying to only one part of the empire it should be stated to be made by the King on behalf of that part . The making of a treaty in the name of the King as a symbol of the special relationship between the different parts of the empire will render superfluous the inclusion of any provision that its terms must not be regarded as regulating inter se the rights and obligations of various territories other than that on behalf of which it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In this connection it must be borne in mind that the question was discussed at the Arms Traffic Conference in 1925 , and When writing to advertisers , please mention The Nation that the Legal Committee of that conference laid it down that the principle to which the foregoing sentence gives expression underlies all international conventions . In the case of some international agreements the governments of the different parts of the empire may be willing to apply between themselves some of the provisions as administrative measures . In this case they should state the extent to which and the terms on which such provisions are to apply . Where international agreements are to be applied between the different parts of the empire , the form of treaty between the heads of states should be avoided . D ? Pull Powers . Plenipotentiaries for the various British units should have full powers issued in each case by the King , on the advice of the government concerned , indicating and corresponding to the part of the empire for which they are to sign . It will frequently be found convenient , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it is not contemplated that active obligations will be imposed , but where the position of British subjects belonging to these parts will be affected , for such government to advise the issue of full powers on their behalf to a plenipotentiary appointed to act on behalf the government or governments mainly concerned . In other cases provision might be made for the accession by other parts of the empire at a later date . E ? Signature . In a case where the names of countries are appended to signatures in a treaty different parts of the empire should be designated in the same manner as is proposed in regard to the list of plenipotentiaries in the preamble to the treaty . The signatures of the plenipotentiaries of the various parts of the empire should be grouped together in the same order as is proposed above . Signature of a treaty on behalf of a part of the empire should cover territories for which the mandate has been given to that part of the empire unless the contrary is stated at the time of signature . ?   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         