@@468260

IT IS asking a good deal of an en ? cyclopedia to include a statement of what is not known . A circle of the arts and sciences can scarcely be expected to advertise its gaps . But is there any reason why our schools and colleges should ignore this important branch of wisdom ? Why does a text ? book never begin with a statement of its fundamental limitations ? So far as most of these volumes go human knowl ? edge is boundless . Yet mathematics , for example , is compatible with a sense of humor , and the flyleaf of a high-school algebra or a college trigonometry might well display the engaging epigram coined by Bertrand Russell : " Thus mathematics may be defined as the subject in which we never know what we are talking about , nor whether what we are saying is true . " It might do some harm , for the surface meaning of the words is misleading , but it would do far more good than the sense of omniscience which most of us drink in with our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knows what it is , if he stops to reflect ; but how many people realize that next to nothing is known about this mysterious force which holds our particu ? lar corner of the universe together ? It has been painstakingly observed , and hypotheses brilliantly formulated for its measurement . That is all . Yet the textbooks , like the encyclopedias , are content with stating these hypotheses , which they call , following a convenient but misleading usage of science , laws . They maintain a discreet silence as to the manner in which the force is trans-mitted or any other essential fact as to its nature or operation . The great scientist is not misled . He is usually the humblest of men , acutely conscious of the little he knows . It is the lesser mind that is misled and in turn misleads and , particularly , that most dangerous of modern preachers , the popularizer of science , who builds his eloquence about the scantiest frame of first-hand knowledge . Newton likened himself to a child picking up pebbles on a beach . Thanks to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the meanest of us can chuckle when an apple falls and feel that he knows all about it . Yet nobody knows anything whatever about it except how to measure it ? that it varies directly as the product of the masses and inversely as the square of their distances apart ? or did until Einstein jolted even this particular apple cart . How gravity operates no physi ? cist has the slightest notion . If James Stephens contends that fairies drop the apple , or Waiter de la Mare that it is possessed by an evil spirit , no scientist can gainsay either . It is a poor mystery that will not work both ways , and when you have shocked your pseudo-scientist by your sacrile ? gious doubts of his omniscience touching gravitation you can invite him to have a cup of coffee and ask him what makes the coffee Tun uphill when you dip a lump of sugar in it . He will talk of capillary attraction and can refer you to your Encyclopedia Britanniea where there are twenty pages from the great pen of James Clerk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to date , accord bag to a footnote . Here is a history of the subject , starting , as do so many scientific topics , with Leonardo da Vinci , and a wealth of incredibly intricate formuke for measuring the operation of the process . Nowhere in the twenty pages , however , is an ex ? planation of this interesting force at ? tempted . Why does the coffee run uphill ? Nobody knows . It is another scientific mystery , and it does seem that the Encyclopedia Britannica might say so . Incidentally , it is not at all typical of Maxwell to be thus silent , for he was a lifelong chastiser of the scientists who pretended to explain everything . If anyone could find the time amid the rush of books telling what is known , he might draft a new kind of textbook , a single slender volume recording what is not known , a Grammar of Ignorance . This modest work might open with a new sort of declaration which would be not a Credo but an Ignoramus . It could begin thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know neither whence the universe came nor where it is going ; what I am that read this , nor what it is that I read , nor whether there is an I ; nor what is energy or space or matter ; nor the ex ? planation of any force or thing , whether heat or light or electricity , or thought or imagination or love . " The chapters of the book might an ? alyze the sciences in turn , ending in a crude estimate of charted as against uncharted areas , according to the prog ? ress achieved in each . Mathematics would head the list with a high mark . The natural sciences would follow at varying distances . What figure would the newer ones receive ? Say seven per cent for psychology and five per cent for economics ? or perhaps vice versa , now that the Behaviorists have decided to erase all the labors of earlier psycholo ? gists . What possible credit could be given to that delightful guessing match , an ? thropology , wherein great thinkers stand upon little mounds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mounds kicked aside by later anthropol ? ogists and new observations demanded from the ground up ? A tenth of one per cent ? As for such a field as history , an inextricable fusion of scientific inves ? tigation and literary art , these would have a considerable percentage for facts , scarcely a trace of credit for theories or any generalization as to cause and effect . A harder task would be to estimate the total of all knowledge as against the un ? known . The figures as to the several sciences would accept the present basis of the sciences , that they describe given fields of fact , observing , measuring , analyzing , formulating hypotheses of operation , without attempting as yet to deal with first causes or last ends . A figure representing all knowledge must necessarily pay heed to these vast frozen poles of thought . For centuries philoso ? phers have sailed north and south in pursuit of them to no purpose . Perhaps an ancient map ? the known world at the time of Homer ? would furnish a parallel and suggest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a calm view of the newer sciences relating to man , is there the remotest hope that they can reach solid conclusions or yield much sound advice for years to come . As far as the eye can see ahead , man must pick his wife , run his business , vote for or against a party or a policy , and fix his morals and his attitude towards the universe by the old crude methods of judgment , trial , and error , and aided by ancient customs , instincts , and institutions . Yet such are the effects of education by omnis ? cience and the dazzling brilliance of modern science that a whole hierarchy of priests of reason has arisen to decry instinct and custom and insist that science and reason are sufficient lamps for our feet . An outstanding expression of this point of view is to be found in Mind in the Making by James Harvey Robinson . He is speaking of the Book with Seven Seals described in Revelations which " no man in heaven , nor in earth , neither under the earth was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the writer can exclaim gaily , " The seals are all off now . " To be sure , having wrestled long and ably with the mysteries of history and knowing their vast extent , Professor Robinson can view the scene in a true perspective . He pro ? ceeds to say , with accuracy , " An encour ? aging beginning has been made in the case of the natural sciences and a similar success may await the studies which have to do with man . " From such cautious argument the preaching in behalf of reason runs all the way down to the boisterous enthusiasms of Mr. H. G. Wells who " believes that man has come to such a phase of knowledge and power that he is already able and may very soon be willing to put a bit between the teeth of the monster of wild change that is now trampling this world . " The remedy that Mr. Wells has in mind is his old cure-all , education , universal education , whereby man will be enabled to substitute a charted course for the present dead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swings so swiftly between remedies that faith in his navigating skill is not as widespread as enjoyment of his eloquence . But the total effect of his passionate arguments for this reform or that and for education anyhow , can not fail to encourage a preposterous optimism in the reader and persuade him to jettison instincts , customs , and institutions in favor of the new wisdom , begun or maybe to begin . Suppose Mr. Wells had said , " The use of coal for warmth or power is a wasteful and stupid process . Science is making such a rapid progress that within a hundred years or so we may be able to extract power directly from the sun . Let us , therefore , at once cease this archaic use of coal and rely upon the new wisdom . " He would be laughed off the platform the first chilly evening . Yet the proposal is not one whit more absurd than the suggestion that reason can now solve social and individual problems . Power from the sun is probably no farther off than a scientific psychology or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first hand with practical problems in any of these fields , this optimism will seem pathetic . Whether the question be the prevention of war , racial minglings , or a protective tariff , the contribution of the experts is exhausted long before a con ? clusion can be reached . The body of facts increases a little every year in eco ? nomics , in anthropology , in psychology . These contributions are precious and to be welcomed . They are still hopelessly inadequate to determine any large de ? cisions . When all the relevant facts have been digested and certain possible paths thereby eliminated , the main problem remains ? a ditch to be jumped . It must be jumped exactly as such ditches have always been jumped , by a swift single act of judgment , a mental leap , calling for experience , resolution , and above all , confidence . This is equally true whether the decision is a hasty first thought or what we so hope ? fully call a sober second thought . No one understands the workings of such empirical judgments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in different ways . Sometimes they come during sleep or , at least , appear to do so . From their nature they can not always be right . Scientific accuracy and certainty are impossible . A good batting average is all that anyone can hope for . But this average is the most important factor in a man 's life . More than any other item it spells happiness or unhappiness , achievement or failure , development or a stunted growth . These decisions are taken many times a day by everyone . They have to be . The able , well-balanced folk take them in their stride and usually land safely . At the worst they pick themselves up quickly and go forward boldly . The irresolute , the hesitant , the over-studious come to grief . This is not to be contemptuous of experts in general or of the aid that the scientific method is bringing to practical problems . Quite the contrary ; those who believe in experts should seek to free them from the false position in which they have been placed . The popular scorn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs has been caused by just such exaggeration as that preached by Mr. H. G. Wells . The expert has too often been brought in as a superior sort of magician who could whisk a complete scientific solution out of his hat . His contribution in the sciences touching man must be , as has been suggested , far more modest . Take , for a small illustration , the interesting effort of the present to apply mathe ? matics to business cycles . Buying raw materials at the right moment is one of the main bases of business success . Every able business man has long done it with uncanny accuracy , and the best of these executives are now welcoming this new aid . It does not , however , re ? lieve them of the necessity of exercising judgment . It is simply one more set of facts on the basis of which an experi ? enced mind leaps to a decision . As in every other practical concern of life , the utmost that science can do is to narrow the ditch slightly . It is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the greatest confusion . Present generations have passed so completely out of the first extreme reaction from religion that it is hard to realize how far the nine ? teenth century went in its enthusiasm over the great discoveries of science . Here was a complete substitute for religion , it was argued . An explana ? tion of the whole universe would so soon be available that anyone was a fool to look elsewhere . This was natural . So , too , was the gradual return of a sounder point of view as the true scope of science became clearer . To-day the common view of scientists is that religion and science are in no proper sense rivals . They explore the universe by different methods . Towards the essentials of religious faith science is completely agnostic . With the main subject of religious examination , first causes and last ends , science has not begun to con ? cern itself . Such conflicts as exist are clear cases in which either religion has invaded a field explored by science or science has wandered into the field of religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the development of modern science and they naturally extended over certain territory now covered by scientific research . The notable example of this in the Christian religion is the cosmogony of Genesis . This detailed description of how God created the earth is not followed in any of the great creeds of the Christian church . It is adhered to literally only by certain Fundamentalists of the Prot ? estant faith . The process of adjusting this part of the boundary line is well advanced . The invasions of religion by the self-appointed priests of science are far more numerous and more pernicious because seldom recognized . The extravagances of the nineteenth century die hard in certain rigid minds , dazzled by a super ? ficial acquaintance with the sciences . That a faith in God is entirely compati ? ble with a scientific attitude is conceded , but with reluctance ; and they would transform the Creator from a religious to a philosophical conception by insist ? ing that He be called the Absolute . As for the historical details of religious faith they are superior and scornful . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evolution , as applied to the origin of the solar system , they talk of the Dark Ages and call upon the Constitution . This attitude towards the miracles seems a clear example of the workings of false science . A fair statement of a true scientist 's position might be put thus , " I can not disprove any of the miracles , for none of them was of such a character as to leave an enduring record behind it . If the sun was stopped for Joshua it re ? sumed its march , and no measurements to-day could prove or disprove the alleged miracle . Water may have been turned into wine , the dead may have been brought to life . It is impossible for science to assert a negative as to any such miracles . The most that science can declare is that no such miracle has ever been observed scientifically and that , on the contrary , years of measure ? ment and observation have uniformly supported the basic theory of science that ours is a universe of law . I do not personally believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incongruous exceptions in the universe as I conceive it But this conviction on my part is not a scientific conclusion . It is a purely philosophic or religious belief , part of my general picture of the universe . " Probably the faith of most philosoph ? ically minded persons would agree with this scientist on this point . But what impartial critic would set it up as the one reasonable view , as being compelled by science ? It is not clear even that it is , logically speaking , the more probable view . If we agree that there may well he a God who created this universe of law , it is surely not difficult to grant him power to set aside his laws at will . The issue seems a clear example of the type cited before from practical life in which reason can aid by eliminating certain possibilities and furnishing a certain basis of fact ; but after the logical proc ? esses have done their utmost , a ditch remains to be crossed over which logic can not erect a bridge . Religious beliefs clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reason plays its part . So does observa ? tion . But the final decision must be a single leap , summing up as much of the total experience of the race as the indi ? vidual can focus upon the crisis with the aid of instinct and emotion . The counsel of the priests of science before such a problem is agnosticism ? to sit down before the ditch and wait until science catches up , if ever . The advice of Mr. Wells comes to the same result ; since education is available , let us at once start living by its texts , de ? ciphering them as we go . The answer to both is the same ? that life does not wait . We must go right on being born , loving , voting , dying . Which nymph shall we marry ? What school is best for our boy ? Should we vote to let blacks and whites fuse into one race ? Must we keep our factories supreme against the next last war ? And so on . The problems come headlong at us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up for a moment and shakes her head when we ask her to decide for us . " Come back in a thousand years or so ! " she answers . Here is the ab ? surdity of Mr. Wells ' remark about a race between " education and catastro ? phe . " What shall we teach ? Science does not yet begin to know . If civiliza ? tion is really dependent on such a race , it has already lost it by hundreds of years . This is to lay great stress upon emo ? tion . But is it not ? despite the neglect of the psychologists ? incomparably the most important stuff of consciousness ? Machines can be made to reason ? the adding machine is more accurate than any mind . Emotion is the unique possession of animals and humans . Rational thinking is not as difficult as is often assumed . Mistakes in logic are relatively rare . Give a group of men adequate premises and they will have little difficulty in reaching the right con ? clusions . The common difficulties of thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as illustrated above . The most difficult part of thinking is not reasoning at all , but the imaginative discovery of new rela ? tionships , new generalizations , creative thinking , in short . in such thinking there will be general agreement that emotion plays an active and impelling part . Emotion is indeed well named . It is the motive power of life . Without it we should be as adding machines . It is appalling to read the substitutes for religious faith that the priests of science formulate in their supposedly scientific creeds . There is outlined sim ? ply an intellectual attitude , a group of abstract concepts without power to move or inspire . What is more amazing in these writers is their total failure to realize that the primary stuff of religion is emotion . Without awe , reverence , worship , humility , the spirit of sacrifice , joy in life , courage , love , there is no religion . To feel the right emotions is fully as important as to hold the right ideas , and the great service of religion is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the most produc ? tive . This is not to belittle the importance of ideas . It is consistent with such a view to defend the sehoolmen of the Middle Ages who spent their lives in debating and defining religious concepts . Before them the decision of the Council of Nicaa was of capital importance in determining the faith of the western world ; for the clear acceptance of the divinity of Christ involved setting off God from Man beyond any possibility of confusion and held pantheism east of the Mediterranean . But the strength of Christianity ? as of every successful religion ? lies in the fact that it has usually expressed these concepts in symbols . Perhaps when emotion has been studied as long and as carefully as the other elements of consciousness , we shall comprehend better the human need of flags and crosses and personifications . The intimate connection between sym ? bols and emotions is a fact , at any rate , as the technic of poets and priests recognizes . HI Here is an unexplored field of the mind , as yet most imperfectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credits a great Englishman with stating that his religion was " the reli ? religion of all sensible men , " and when asked what that was , replying , " Sensible men never say . " Here may be more truth than cynicism . The moment one analyzes one 's faith in detail and at ? tempts to formulate it in accurate definitions the very essence of it escapes . If a hypothesis or a law is the formulated achievement of science it is perhaps fair to say that a symbol is the last word of religion . Creeds are useful , rather , as coloring the emotional tone of a symbol than as intellectual definitions . They are in no sense comparable to the gen ? eralizations of science or interchange ? able therewith . We need to perceive and admit frankly the importance of the emotions of religion and the little that is under ? stood as to their sources . Exactly as in the case of other instinctive reactions and empirical judgments , it is extremely difficult to isolate the part played by reason . The conceptions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the process of change ought clearly to be as gradual as practicable so as not needlessly to disturb the emotions of faith . The hue and cry of the profes ? sional liberals over the resistance of the fundamentalists to evolution seems , from this point of view , a short-sighted blunder , based on a grotesquely partial view of human values . If scientists were not completely free in this country to think and publish as they willed , a destructive warfare in behalf of free speech could be justified . But their freedom of research is unquestioned . The most that can be said against these mistaken Fundamentalists is that a few conservative communities prefer to go slowly in teaching children the new theories of creation . For anyone who sees human nature in the round , the famous " monkey law " of Tennessee seems a cause for patience rather than excitement . A sense of humor might even suggest that , considering the absurd exaggerations of the priests of science , no one should be astonished to find priests of religion leaning over backward to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worth remarking that the word evolution is used by the enthusiasts of science in an exceedingly careless fash ? ion . As applied to living things evolu ? tion has a clear and definite meaning , involving a development from simplicity to complexity . As applied to the earlier history of the earth , it means no such development , but simply the orderly changes that have taken place by which our solar system has become what it is . Whether the result is evolution or dis ? solution is far from clear . The break ? down of the atoms suggests that the chemical history of the world represents decline and dissolution . The use of the word evolution for this earlier period is poetic rather than scientific and holds considerable danger of misleading the popular mind . If only thinkers as able as St. Augus ? tine or Thomas Aquinas were available for this difficult task of expounding the truths of science for general understand ? ing ! The humanizing of knowledge is resulting in gross misconceptions . It is possible to wonder whether the present era of popularization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume Starlight by Harlow Shapley offers a flagrant example . After an excellent labor of exposition , this astronomer can not refrain from philosophizing thus : " Evolution is not limited chiefly to the relation of man to his anthropoid for ? bears . That phase is one of the minor steps in the development that pervades the whole universe . In truth we can not restrain the feeling that the whole of organic development . . . is trivial and transient from the standpoint of the development of the material cosmos . . .. Man 's station in this scheme is not too flattering ? an animal among many , precariously situated on the crust of a planetary fragment that obeys the gravitational impulses of one of the millions of dwarf stars that wander in remote parts of a galactic system . " Let us see how much scientific basis there is for this religious dogma . First of all , Mr. Shapley falls into the error already noted of assimilating organic evolution to the earlier history of the universe . It is , on the contrary , a unique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science knows . There is no solid evidence that life exists anywhere else in the universe than on the earth . Accepting the prevailing theory of the biologists that life developed at only one period of the earth 's history and that all life since is descended from these first living things , and considering the unique and complex combination of causes which apparently developed the first living cell , we once more face the possibility that man is exactly as the Middle Ages believed ? the center of the universe . Transient and precarious his life may be , but scarcely a minor step or trivial , in this view , and surely not unflattering . Let us add for good measure the possi ? bility that , if life is to be found nowhere else in the universe , human thought may well be unique . Mr. Shapley forgets thought . We should be curious to know just how he would weigh the importance of the astronomical ideas included in his volume against , say , Antares . And sup ? pose the sonnets of Shakespeare were in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other side , or not ? This scientist when he turns priest forgets the very things that make it possible for him to be a scientist ? consciousness , mind , thought ? which science accepts as axio ? matic and has not begun to explain , let alone , measure . What grotesquely un ? scientific nonsense thus to measure incommensurables and belittle some ? thing which science does not even try to understand ! Between a scientist adrift in religion and a Methodist bishop floundering in geology there seems little to choose . The fact that a trained scientist can thus lose his way when he steps out of his own study , is one of the chief sources of perplexity for moderns . A new and clearer orientation is urgently needed . The ideal mind would be open for specu ? lation about everything . No doors would be locked against it . Yet in thus reasoning and imagining it would never mistake surmise for fact , it would never exaggerate the known . It would see reason for what it is , an ingenious and useful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of course , traditions , customs , instincts , emotions would be untouched by new and unproved hypotheses , those first experimental guesses by which the scientist , like the detective , finds his clues . Of published men , Montaigne best struck this balance . No mind could be more free than his . Yet he lived by a larger wisdom . What will enter our modern minds when the worship of science has departed is beyond foreseeing . There may come a revival of old religions or the birth of new ? or the discovery of a new approach to life that will replace religion . At least we shall be rid of the false gods that the magicians of science have sum ? moned from their crucibles . We shall be free to grow and prosper in spirit , aided by all that we have of strength and wisdom , deeply rooted in the rich past of man . The conclusion is that the worship of reason in the last century has led down a blind alley . It has resulted , where it has prevailed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magic . We need to recapture a respect for emotion and all the instinctive processes in which it plays an active part . The first pre ? sumption must stand in favor of prej ? udices not against them . New facts and new wisdom are to be brought to bear upon old customs and old convic ? tions with caution . The danger of exaggerating the new , of misunderstand ? ing it and misapplying it , is constant and great . The most important intellectual labor of our time is the correction of the exaggerations accumulated during the age of reason . In the words of George Meredith addressed to the human race : And warn it not one instinct to efface Ere reason ripens for the vacant place                     