@@486188

O NCE upon a time salt meat and salt fish were the staple articles of food in Europe during the long winters . Hence the British Empire . For the search for something to make so monotonous a diet appetizing led to the opening of trade routes to the East , whence alone spices could be obtained . To satisfy the demand for nutmegs , cloves , and pepper intrepid explorers ? Italian , Portuguese , Dutch , and British  --  made perilous journeys by land and sea , and out of rivalry in this commercial expansion came ultimately the empire on which the sun never sets . If anyone imagines that in these days the necessities of the menu no longer provoke international complications , let him recall the trouble about the Newfoundland fisheries not many years ago . In this compact volume , a model of historical summary , Dr. Robinson traces for us the successive stages in Great Britain 's acquisition and administration of her overseas dominions , large and small . He shows us that the popular imperialist slogan , " Trade follows the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He points out , again and again , that the course of empire followed , instead of preceding , private commercial enterprise . In his story we see how , as far back as Elizabethan times , the colonial development of England was hampered by her political relation to the Continent , and how during the Stuart period the energies of France were similarly diverted from the utilization of colonizing opportunities to fruitless efforts to make large territorial gains in Europe . Holland , too , lost her early commercial leadership largely through the drain of foreign wars upon her resources . Fighting , after all , is not good business . But even the peaceful trader can muddle things when he concentrates his attention too narrowly upon his immediate personal interests . With the results of the policy of mercantilism every American should be familiar , though the lesson seems not yet to have been learned by tariff-makers and subsidy-propagandists at Washington . Dr. Robinson rightly emphasizes the imperial as well as commercial benefits derived by Great Britain from her adoption of a free-trade policy in the nineteenth century . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonies found to be the best market for their raw materials , with the result that Britain became the emporium for colonial trade . A considerable portion of this book necessarily traverses ground that has already been covered by the historical textbooks . Even so , it is of service to the student to get so well-balanced a grouping and so concise a survey of the essential facts in the history of British imperial development . The gradual supplanting of the old autocratic colonial system by the modern practice of judicious compromise is especially well brought out . It is in its record of what has happened since the accession of Queen Victoria that Dr. Robinson 's treatise is of greatest value , for it brings together important data which one would otherwise have to seek from many sources . The author gives us a lucid analysis of the new imperialism which has been so significant a phenomenon of the last few decades . He calls attention to the stimulus it received from the appearance of rival empires and to the effect of the pressure of colonial feeling toward extension of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kipling 's verses in promoting the imperial sentiment . On the political side , an outstanding feature is the movement toward federation or union in British colonies in all parts of the world . Canada , the New Zealand provinces , Australia , and South Africa have in turn responded to this impulse , and the end is not yet . Imperial federation is another matter , and Dr. Robinson is probably right in judging that its prospects of being realized are less promising today than they seemed to be a generation ago . Incidentally , the narrative throws into relief many points of curious interest . One is reminded , for instance , of how an explorer sometimes misses what he might have been expected to see , as when Tasman accomplished the remarkable exploit of sailing completely around Australia without once sighting its shores . It is strange , too , to remember today that the British only just forestalled the French in both New Zealand and Australia . Had Australia been opened for settlement half a century earlier , Dr. Robinson comments , it is not at all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Powers , as were India and North America , and might have become the scene of colonial wars . Another remarkable incident was the request of Western Australia , owing to scarcity of labor , to receive convicts at a time when the other Australian colonies were trying to rid themselves of this incubus . The indulgence of this unwholesome appetite had the unexpected result of delaying the grant of representative government to Western Australia until forty years after that boon had been conferred upon her neighbors . Dr. Robinson has brought his story well up to date . In the effort to be abreast of the times , he has run the risk of going ahead of them , as when he speaks of the partition and distribution of the Turkish Empire as one of the results of the World War . But that is no fault of Dr. Robinson 's . He not only summarizes such important developments as the recent movements for autonomy in India and Egypt , but takes note of some minor events that might easily have been overlooked , such as the treaty with Afghanistan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the book is slipshod , but there are few errors in matters of fact . Vancouver , however , is not on Vancouver Island , nor is it the capital of British Columbia ( p. 406 ) . Neither was Sinn Fein a " distinct menace " at the opening of the war of 1914 ( p. 434 ) . The text is illustrated by an excellent series of maps , and the bibliographical notes appended to the several chapters also deserve commendation . Books , however , that are of English origin and are only secondarily issued on this side of the Atlantic should not be set down as of American publication . It is confusing , for instance , to find Morley 's Gladstone mentioned as published in London , but Monypenny and Buckle 's Disraeli and Gwynn and Tuckwell 's Dilke as published in New York . There has been some unintelligent workmanship in the compilation of the index . " Navigation Act " and " Navigation laws " are separate entries , with " Navigation , growth of British " sandwiched between them . And for references @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Holland " and partly under " Dutch . " HERBERT W. HORWILL To the Farmer and for the Farmer The Labor Movement and the Farmer . By Hayes Robbins . Harcourt , Brace and Company . $1.25 . The Agricultural Bloc . By Arthur Capper . Harcourt , Brace and Company . $1.25 . M R. ROBBINS writes to explain the labor movement to the farmer . Senator Capper writes to explain the farmer 's discontent and the rise of a farmer group in Congress to the rest of the country . There is good reason for both books , and both fill their purpose fairly well . The leaders of farm thought and the more thoughtful farmers need better to understand the desires and ideals back of the labor organizations and to have a broader , truer idea of where the labor movement comes from and where it is going . It is doubtful if the farmers of the country , as a class , were ever less in sympathy with organized labor as a body , ever more inclined to doubt the immediate purposes and to question the essential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of organized labor . For much of this attitude toward them the labor unions have themselves to blame . Much of it is due directly to the poor pay the farmers have been receiving for their own labor the last few years . Much of it , I am persuaded , is due to the muddled thinking of the whole country which has confused every movement of a radical , or even a progressive , nature with the extremest ideas of the few real promoters of violence and disorder . The farmer is naturally a conservative ; it is only when things are going decidedly wrong that he becomes a radical , and even then he is likely to be distrustful of the radicalism of other people . Engaged in a business in which he must stick to his job or go under he is not likely to be patient of strikes , and when those strikes directly injure him he is likely to become excessively impatient with all strikers . Rightly or wrongly the mass of farmers blame union labor for many of their own present troubles . The great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the industrial workers for fair living conditions and are not in position , because of this lack of knowledge , to judge fairly the labor struggles of the present . Mr. Robbins has done his work well . That he is an attorney and not a judge is plain throughout the book , but he impresses one as a fair pleader and as one who believes in his case . Farmers and laborers in industry have interests in common and interests in direct opposition , but each side will do well to keep in mind that , as Mr. Robbins says , the great fight of both is a fight for essentially the same thing , a higher standard of life , and that a misunderstanding of each other 's aims may result in futile and costly effort to prevent what is both desirable and inevitable . If the farmer needs better to understand what laboring men are trying to get and what they have to contend against , the country at large needs the same better understanding of the farmers ' aims and their causes of complaint . Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his case clearly , temperately , and on the whole justly . His book is essentially timely  --  it deals with conditions which may be entirely changed in two or three years , and may be altogether out of date by that time , but it does make clear how farmers feel and why they feel so just at the present time . It is fair , I think , to say that almost every measure advocated  --  a high protective tariff alone excepted  --  will help the farmers of the country in some measure to strengthen their position economically and to make their work yield them a more satisfactory living . That the Senator could look to a protective tariff as one of the means of agricultural reconstruction , however , shows how superficial his study of the whole question has been . The things he advocates are the things the farmer sentiment of the country has demanded . Valuable as his work for the freedom of cooperative marketing has been , he seems to have only a faint idea of the deeper meaning of the development of cooperative business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bit surprised when he goes so far as to say that it is a fallacy to suppose that increasing land prices are a benefit to farmers in general , but that they are an indication of a drift toward tenant farming , and an increase in the fixed charges against production which the consumer must pay . It is doubtful if there is another expression in the book with which the majority of farmers would not agree . That one is an exceedingly hopeful sign . It may mean that some day this very capable Senator will really get down to a study of the basic problems of agriculture and really lead the farmers in a definite movement toward a real economic freedom . The book , none the less , is a good book for the man off the farm to read , for it is a mirror of the typical farmer 's mind . E. E. MILLER                     