@@493243

by huge majorities . In Ireland itself , however , however , a different story has to be told . The separatist sentiment has proved to be astonishingly strong . in the Dail Eireann , de Valera and his followers insisting that allegiance to the King in any form is a humiliation , and that to ratify would be ignominious and oppressive . This passionate feeling is shared by enough members of the Dail to leave the outcome of the debate in some doubt . The cold facts are all on the side of Collins and Griffith . The evacuation of the British army , as partnership says , is the consummate act of peace and partnership But where Collins and Griffith have formed a direct judgment of British intentions , de Valera and his followers have remained separatists with fixed convictions regarding British imperialism . The degree to which the Black and Tans revived this historic mistrust and hatred is the tragedy of de Valera 's persistence in that mood . FROM a dramatic point of view it is a great pity that Mr. W. J. Burns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the press prematurely . Just think what a sensation would have been produced on the jury that is to pass on Lindenfeld 's ten thousand words if the guilt of the Third Internationale of Moscow had been thrown before them without preliminary warning . Not only has that wonderful climax been lost , but a lot of Mr. Burns 's corroborative evidence has gone into hiding . Well may Mr. Burns wring his hands and complain that he has been double crossed . Who did the double crossing ? Perhaps the Reds of Warsaw , whose plausible reason for seeking pub ? licity is unknown to us ; perhaps the Whites , who , might naturally have sought to time the dis ? closures in such a way as to bear upon the question of amnesty to the I. W. W. Anyway , Mr. Burns should not despair . " If he is unable to prove any ? thing he can cast the blame on the premature dis ? closures . And he may still be able to prove some ? thing . Advance newspaper publicity did not de ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that confession of ten thousand words or more we are moved to wonder that Mr. Burns did not instruct Lindenfeld to be more concise . It is a rare man who can produce a confession of ten thousand words , all of them true . Europe 's Job Next THE Conference of the Pacific Powers is con ? founding the prognostications of the pessimists . The menace of war for the mastery of the Pacific , which six months ago was serious enough to evoke words of grave omen from even so brave an optimist as General Smuts , has visibly dimin ? ished . Not that all risks have been eliminated , but a precedent has been set for frank consulta ? tion among the powers chiefly interested in the Pacific . Every one of them recognizes now that peace is a more vital interest than any other ; and there is good ground for believing that this rec ? ognition will realize itself increasingly in insti ? tutions making for the insurance of peace . If a Pacific conference could produce such happy results , why should it not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a conference of Europe and America , to abate the risks of war in the region where they remain gravest ? Why not revive the League , and make it a reality through the adhesion of the United States and the admis ? sion of Germany and Russia ? These are ques ? tions that are being asked every day by the par ? tisans of Wilson and Wilson 's League . They are questions that may be summarily dismissed by that minority who believe that wars are as natural and inevitable as the winter frosts . They can not be dismissed so lightly by those who face the fact that in an age of invention which remorselessly in ? creases the destructive possibilities of war , either war must cease or civilization as we know it must come to an end . Those who recognize this can not disagree as to purposes . Their differences confine themselves to methods . Can the method which is being applied so successfully to the problems of the Pacific be applied forthwith to those of Europe ? And can America take the initiative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion of European prob ? lems as they present themselves today ? We should be the last to overlook the impor ? tance to America of a peaceful settlement of the problems of Europe . We know what the great war cost America . That cost will weigh upon us for a generation at least . If Europe , instead of recovering her balance , falls into anarchy and chronic poverty , the cost to us , culturally and economically , will be incalculable . But admitting this , what can we do about it ? At the proper time we can throw our influence on the side of peace and reconciliation . But has that time come ? Or must Europe come nearer to a liquidation of her political liabilities before any American initiative toward stabilization can be conducive to permanent peace ? The New Republic was unable to discover any promise of a stable peace on the basis laid by the Treaty of Versailles . Ratification of the Treaty and unqualified acceptance of the League Covenant we believed would serve only to postpone the readjust ? ments that must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Succeeding events have confirmed us in this belief . Under the Treaty new clashes of interest have arisen on every hand . England , Italy and France have been driven apart by the issues created by the Versailles settlement . Are those issues of such a character that they can be settled by American intervention at the present time ? We think not . Let us consider first of all the issue which bears most directly upon the work of the Washington Conference , the conflicting naval ambitions of England and France . Which power shall control the Mediterranean ? If England controls it , France can draw upon the military resources of her African empire only with the consent of England . She can use her black legions on European soil only in the execution of policies approved by the British . If France controls the Mediterranean , England will hold her position in Egypt and Syria only by the grace of the French . France can make herself the paramount Moslem power , if she chooses , and as such can make the retention of India by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take sides in a matter so vital to both powers ? Left to themselves , the British and French will be forced to a genuine compromise , be ? cause any other course might jeopardize their whole future . Under an agreement forced upon them by American pressure the process of intriguing for superior position would go on until we found ourselves forced to align ourselves definitely with one side or the other . There is just as sharp an issue between the two powers on the German question . By her geographical position England is destined to be either a great commercial nation serving as an inter ? mediary between the continent of Europe and the ports of all the non-European world , or a self-sufficing island of dwindling importance . The economic revival of Europe east of the Rhine is absolutely essential to England 's position as a great power . And any such revival must begin with Germany . But a Germany economically rehabilitated can not long remain in a condition of military prostra ? tion . If the Germans are allowed to build up their industry again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be physically possible for the diminishing population of France , even with superior military equipment , to hold them down ' The economic life of England depends on German recovery . The political security of France depends on German decadence . How can America take sides in such an issue as this ? America is indeed deeply concerned in the gen " eral peace of Europe and must eventually play her part in insuring it . In her position as creditor of the Allied nations she has a stake in the settlement that justifies her in claiming a voice . But there can be no definite settlement of the economic is ' sues in which America is directly concerned until Europe herself has settled the political issues that would be potent enough to make any economic settlement illusory . The European powers , Eng ' land , France and Italy will have to decide for themselves whether they wish to make the Mediterranean 4 road for peaceful traffic or a pawn in the game of rival imperialisms . They will have to decide for themselves whether they wish to lay . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or to take the risks and the advantages that would attend its economic recovery . There are undoubtedly forces in operation which are inclining the European powers towards a 01 : imperialistic policy . We have already witnessed marked improvement in the matter of dealing with Germany . The Germans are still formally bound to make indemnity payments beyond their utmost capacity . They are still in danger of national dismemberment . Nevertheless , now that the de faul in payments which was long ago foreseen by the French and British governments has actually taken place , the French are not threatening to extend their occupation by seizing the Ruhr . Instead , the inspired press is sounding public opinion on the question of revising the indemnity settlement , to Make it correspond more closely with the facts , if the facts are that the Allies really wish Germany to pay as much as she can . What Europe needs first of all is a conference to hasten the process of compromise which alone can save the continent from general bankruptcy and disorder . Such a conference would no doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would promptly appear that such discussion would amount to nothing until the major political issues had been cleared away . The role of America in the political discussion would necessarily be little more than that of spectator , just as the role of Prance in the Pacific Conference has been mainly that of spectator . After a workable political compromise has been effected , a compromise which checks the drain that an imperialistic naval competition would entail and Which eliminates the disorders produced by in ? demnities that can not be paid , America could afford to take an active part in the consolidation of European peace and prosperity . In so far , as American claims upon the Allied governments rep- resent a crushing burden upon the Allied peoples , America might properly be expected to entertain proposals for their remission . In the meantime it is just as well that Congress refuses to entertain such proposals . There is no advantage in taking the attitude of a lenient creditor towards nations whose policies , national and international , are carrying them remorselessly toward bankruptcy . Europe will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order if she wishes her difficulties to receive sympathetic attention from the United States . American Obligations Under the Treaty IN all probability the ratification of the Four Power Treaty will encounter more opposition in the Senate and in the country than good ob servers inferred from its first reception . There are no means of knowing at present whether or not opposition will imperil its final adoption . That will depend upon the attitude of the Democratic Senators . But dissatisfaction with the way in which the administration presented the treaty to the American public will unnecessarily increase the way to its provisions . There is not the slightest real reason for believing that the President and Secretary of State were trying to put something over on their fellow countrymen . Yet they behaved very much as men would who were intending to put something over . Although the treaty itself is an example of a new and better method of diplomatic negotiation which can only work in a medium furnished by a thoroughly informed and confident public opinion , the administration . did nothing to create an informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the public . At no time since the Conference was called or assembled did the President or his Secretary of State intimate in advance to the newspapers an in ? tention of pledging the American government to an engagement of this kind . After the news of the proposed treaty began to leak out , the State Department still refrained from publishing an au ? thoritative announcement ; and for days its friends and supporters were kept guessing about the na ? ture of the obligation which it proposed to fasten on the American nation . Finally when the terms of the treaty were announced at the open session of the Conference , a want of candor continued to pervade its presentation to the public . Senator Lodge 's speech was an ebullition of scholarship in politics which was too literary to assume the dull burden of informing his hearers and readers as to the real meaning of the treaty . Not until some days later did an official statement let out of the bag something which in passing looked like a cat . It then appeared that the treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Philippine Islands , Formosa and Australia against attack , but Japan . With so much provocation misgivings about the treaty naturally flourished in apprehen ? sive minds . Either the President or the Secre ? tary of State should take some early opportunity of explaining to their fellow countrymen why they negotiated this kind of engagement and what they hope to accomplish by it . It looks as if they did not originally intend to undertake any such bargain . But as a result of their preliminary conversations with the Japanese and British delegates they awoke to the necessity of some joint formal agreement to keep the peace in the Pacific . Unless they agreed to a guarantee of joint security Japan and Great Britain would not abandon the Anglo-Japanese alliance and the Conference would fail . either to limit naval arma ? ments or to open a vista towards appeasement for a wounded , debilitated and suffering world . The question was : how much must the guarantee cover . In our opinion the negotiators devised a happy and a satisfactory answer to this question . By limit ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hong Kong , Korea and India , which were included in the guarantees of the Anglo-Japanese treaty , but they included Australia and Japan and the Philip                     