@@487278

C ONGRESS IS IN SESSION and begins work by grappling with the cases of Senators Vare and Smith who were denied their seats and oaths at the opening of the Senate . With all respect for those who maintain that an American State should be allowed to send to the Senate anybody it sees fit , providing he is duly elected , we earnestly hope these men will not be seated . We are aware that this will create a precedent which may be abused  --  the precedent already exists , for the House of Representatives once refused to seat Victor Berger because it deemed him unpatriotic . But the offense of Smith and Vare in buying their elections ( in primary or election ) makes them as unfit for the Senate as was Senator Newberry , forced to resign because of the expenditure of moneys small , indeed , beside those contributed to the Smith and Vare campaigns by their political and big-business backers . Something must be done to stop the rising tide of corruption , and this is a first step . We are glad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring this about . As for the rest , the Democrats who could have organized the Senate with the aid of the Progressives refused to do so . But the Progressives started well by their strategy in the cases of Vare and Smith and it is obvious that their holding of the balance of power will inure to the benefit of the people throughout this session of Congress . G OVERNOR SMITH has at last spoken out on the prohibition issue , to the following extent : He correctly and properly maintained the right of citizens " to organize to oppose any law and any part of the Constitution with which they are not in sympathy " ; he denied that he had ever preached nullification or that he favored it ; he held that " enforcement of the law and obedience to the law were the very corner-stone of governmental structure , " and he declared that the State needs no more laws to enforce prohibition . The last statement was in answer to the criticisms of him for having signed the State enforcement law . He also declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Mr. Coolidge 's conference on prohibition enforcement , called the State-enforcement officers together and warned them to enforce the law . That is doubtless true , but he must confess that his warning accomplished nothing and that he has , so far as we are aware , punished nobody for official derelictions . As- for his remark that prohibition enforcement is not a State question but one for every local community to deal with , that is nonsense . " Passing the buck " to villages and towns means that there will be no enforcement whatever . - B 0 S TON IS RECOVERING . A Boston jury sensibly acquitted nine of the " Death Watch " who marched in front of the State House on that fateful August day when Governor Fuller let Sacco and Vanzetti die . Some of them were accused of " sauntering and loitering , " others of obstructing traffic ; but the simple fact that they walked briskly single-file along an eight-foot sidewalk impressed a jury released from the hysteria that stirred the police in August . Only the police superintendent , Crowley , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trial of Powers Hapgood , - charged with " inciting to riot , " Mr. Crowley naively gave his own case away . In his attempt to make it look as if a riot had threatened , he recalled that , after the police had hauled Hapgood and Cosimo Carvotta from their soap-box , someone in the crowd shouted " Kill them . " Did he attempt to arrest the man guilty of this incitement to lynching ? asked Hapgood 's attorney , Arthur Garfield Hays . Crowley had not thought of that . The Boston police , his evidence showed , was less interested in preserving order than in punishing Sacco-Vanzetti sympathizers . The jury refused to convict Hap-good except upon a technical charge of speaking without a permit . Some day Boston will recover its balance so far as to hold Memorial Day meetings for Sacco and Vanzetti on Boston Common , and it may yet happenthat a successor to Alvan Fuller will be the chief orator . R USSELL TREMAINE IS HOME AGAIN ! By an , order completely reversing the inferior court , Judge Edward E. Hardin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years has been kept in a detention home or boarded out as a prelude to adoption because his parents would not permit him to join in the flag salute at school . In an editorial in The Nation for November 30 the facts about the Tremaines , members of a non-resistant religious society , were set forth . It was pointed out that , at the risk of a slight loss of face , the State of Washington would do well to return Russell to his parents without more ado , as the most sensible and merciful procedure possible . Partly as a result of the admirable publicity campaign waged by Robert Whitaker of Los Angeles , who first brought the case to The Nation 's notice , the State of Washington has done just this . Russell is to be sent back home ; he is to be under the recognizance of the Juvenile Court judge of the district in which he lives , who will see that he goes to school . But he need not go to public school ; he can attend a school where he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not wish him to do so . The Tremaines probably will not insist on the letter of their demand  --  that Russell be allowed to attend public school and at the same time be permitted to abstain from the flag salute . After all , the Government , with endless delay , has done the decent thing in this particular case ; and it will take time to wipe out of the public schools the absurdity of an enforced ritual of patriotic devotion . O PPONENTS OF BIGOTRY and violence in Alabama have not lost their fight merely because the attempt to prosecute floggers has failed for the moment in Crenshaw County . Attorney General McCall has shown courage and true patriotism in his course . Originally an officer in the-Ku Klux Klan , he resigned from that organization and began an earnest effort to convict perpetrators of the numerous floggings attributed to members . Indictments were returned against thirty-four persons at Luverne , but after the acquittal of three in succession Mr. McCall dropped further prosecutions , charging that State law-enforcement officers had shown " a frenzied desire to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He disclosed a letter said to have been written by the Grand Dragon of the Klan in Alabama to the Cyclops of the Luverne Klavern in regard to an effort to bring the Attorney General " to his senses . " But one county is not all of Alabama . In spite of the attitude of Governor Graves , a Klan officer , there is a commendable movement in the State against the especially cowardly form of thuggery manifested in these floggings , an opposition assisted by influential newspapers like the Birmingham News and Age-Herald and the Montgomery Advertiser . We are more hopeful because of this awakening than discouraged because of a temporary set-back in one county . T HE DETERMINED EFFORT of certain groups to disgust aliens in the United States with all its institutions by subjecting them to various irritations , humiliations , and injustices is likely to be renewed at the present session of Congress , and should be watched by all who believe in a more generous Americanism . Some ten or a dozen objectionable bills which were proposed at previous sessions either have or will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bills both propose compulsory naturalization , while the Holaday measure , which passed the House in 1926 , provides for the deportation not merely of a person convicted of a. crime involving " moral turpitude " but of any one serving sentences totaling eighteen months . Such a measure , obviously , could be usedagainst trade-unionists arrested in strikes . The Aswell bill is even worse . It not only proposes compulsory registration of aliens but contains a clause empowering the President to require all aliens to report at such times and places as he shall fix . By this means it would be possible to clear a strike area of all alien strikers . Whether one believes in more restriction or greater freedom of immigration , he ought to support the National Council for Protection of Foreign-Born Workers in its opposition to legislation which turns such aliens as are with us against our government and ideals . W AGES ARE " HIGHER than anywhere else in the world or than at any other time in world history , " and the American worker is more prosperous than ever before  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1927 . Mr. Hoover divides the total amount paid in wages by the average number of wage-earners . Performing this very simple operation for the year 1925 , the Secretary finds that the average annual wage for that year was $1,280 . Never before , he concludes , has the American worker enjoyed such golden prosperity . A different view of the worker 's status in America is presented by Professor Irving Fisher , who declares in the New York Times that although the national income for 1926 , estimated at ninety billions of dollars , surpassed all previous records , figures of distribution indicate that More than 93,000,000 people out of 117,000,000 living in the United States in 1926 had about $500 of income apiece . These ninety-odd million people comprise the combined " poorest " and " lower middle " classes  --  they are 65 per cent and 15 per cent , respectively , of the whole population . . . . The " poorest " class alone , comprising 76,000,000 people ( 65 per cent of the total ) receive about 38.6 per cent of the national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . . For the standard family of five out of this group of 76,000,000 " poorest " people there would be $2,300 income during 1926 . This income is $132 below the budget of $2,432 prepared by the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics , which represents a " minimum of health and decency below which a family can not go without danger to physical and moral deterioration . " And this is our most prosperous year ! It makes President Calvin Coolidge 's warning that the " test which now confronts the nation is prosperity " rather more than humorous . A SERIES OF ARTICLES in the New York World promises to show that a League of Nations committee report on the white-slave traffic has been doctored so that it will not hurt the feelings of the nations concerned  --  and , apparently , not interfere with business ! The committee appointed by the League to investigate the traffic in women and children has drawn up a report on findings covering a period of two years . Part of the report rests on data collected in response to official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant-part is the result of some very neat sleuthing by the committee and the volunteer workers it was able to employ . Under the pretense of being themselves engaged in the white-slave trade , investigators were able to gain many interesting facts never before made public  --  facts which , if they are known to governments , are hid carefully under a bushel . These data were included in Part Two of the committee 's report  --  and Part Two , the World alleges , has been suppressed by the League . If this is true , and if the League can not think of a better explanation for the suppression , the world will be forced to conclude that the League is seeking to protect an illicit and obscene trade or  --  more charitably  --  that it is afraid to antagonize powerful interests which protect such a trade . The latter is probably nearer the truth , but it is not much more creditable . T WAS THE NEW YORK TIMES which in 1919 and 1 1920 reported the fall of Petrograd  --  which never fell  --  six different times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it reported the Soviet regime collapsing has never been calculated . The Times , we understood , had become sensitive ; it went to the extreme length of sending Walter Duranty into Russia , with the result that its Russian news was for some time the best in the world . Then , on November 30 , 1927 , the old , familiar habit-patterns reasserted themselves . A double-column spread in the feature position on page one , fully equipped with a map , gave Navarre Atkinson 's account  --  from Bucharest , Rumania  --  of the latest debacle . " Five Thousand Killed in Ukraine in a Revolt Suppressed after Three - Months Fighting , " read the headline . Place-names and dates  --  all the details were there . A few days later , on an inside page , the Times printed Mr. Duranty 's report from Moscow . The German and Polish consulates in the Ukraine , he said , had not heard of any revolts ; the daily trains from Odessa  --  scene of one of Mr. Atkinson 's uprisings  --  brought no such news ; the representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a network through the very counties whichMr . Atkinson washed in blood , offered the daily reports of loan banks to indicate that there had been no disturbance whatever  --  save in the mind of the Bucharest correspondent and the foreign news editor of the New York Times . rp HE JOKE OF THE YEAR has been played on the 1 sober , serious-minded city of Winnipeg , Manitoba . Some time ago , as these pages duly noted , a competition for designing a cenotaph held in Winnipeg was won by Emanuel Hahn , a young sculptor who had lived most of his life in Canada but who  --  sh ! horrors ! ? had been born in Germany ! As most Winnipegers could see with half an eye , this dreadful fact rendered Mr. Hahn 's design unfit for a memorial to British dead who had fought against Germany in the Great War . It was a delicate situation but the more stalwart patriots of Winnipeg did not hesitate , and they won over the protests of the-weaker-minded . Mr. Hahn received the prize money , since he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his design was declared unsuitable and another competition was held , limited to natural-born citizens of Canada . Designs were submitted ; the judges sat , and gave their- judgment . A woman won the prize this time a woman born in Canada , but a woman rash enough to be the wife of a naturalized citizen who had been born in Germany  --  indeed , none other than the wife of Emanuel Hahn ! Winnipeg thus finds itself in a pretty pickle . It is forced either to keep on endowing- the Hahn family with prize money , while refusing their designs , or to accept a design from the hands of one who has so far forgotten her Canadian heritage as to have married a Hun . We shall not be unkind enough to say that this is a lesson to overzealous patriots who show themselves lacking in ordinary horse-sense . But really , is n't it ? A Marvel of Chemistry - FRANCIS P. GARVAN , president of the Chemical FRANCI is the genius who as Alien Property Custodian decided to- filch some 4,500 chemical patents from their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government and American tradition , and to turn them over to American chemical industrialists . This was called " Americanization . " By a " broad " construction of the powers of President Wilson , who was imposed upon by Palmer , Garvan , and the chemical industry , the Supreme- Court sustained this egregious confiscation . What the Europeans had spent years of research and millions of dollars in developing , for which patent protection had been lawfully obtained , certain American chemical industrialists acquired by a simple process of theft , employing government officials and the shoddy cloak of " patriotism " to perpetrate the act . Then , in order to prevent the true inventors and discoverers of these products of science from again seeking to sell their inventions and discoveries in the United States , - the chemical industrialists persuaded Congress , after the war , to impose an embargo against the foreign products . Salvarsan , the American patent for which is worth millions , can not be introduced into the United States from Germany , because an embargo protects the American manufacturer , operating with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an inferior product . The European owners , desiring to save something from the wreckage and to win back the rewards of their brains and research , have decided to pool their interests and endeavor to reacquire what they had previously built up . The American market is still largely closed to them by artificial tariff barriers . - - Now let us note how Mr. Garvan , the public official and industrial agent who " Americanized " 4,500 Austrian and German patents , greets the resurrection of the European competition in foreign markets , now promised to the milkfed and patented American chemical industrialists : Is there an American whose soul is so dead as not to thrill at such a threat and menace as this combine makes against the safety and independence of our national defense , our national health , and our national industrial progress ? The extent of the danger is easy to comprehend . . . . Do n't make the mistake of thinking this is a dye fight , or a nitrate fight , or a rayon fight , or a fight for Asiatic or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reassert European . . supremacy in chemistry and chemical progress , and that means German military supremacy and German industrial supremacy , and German supremacy in drugs and potential necessities . . . . Enlightened American industry , enlightened American opinion , and enlightened American legislation will not allow our betrayal . Well , our soul only thrills with disgust that bunk and piffle of this kind can be perpetrated on the country , and that those who acquired 4,500 patents by second-story methods have the effrontery to produce such nonsense . - Had the patents really been deemed important in the national interest , they could have been acquired honestly by eminent domain and compensation . But the chemical industry seems to prefer a cheaper , if less honorable , method of acquiring vast benefits for itself , imposing the ignominy on the United States and cajoling the American consumer - into the belief that his burdens in higher costs are borne for the benefit of the nation .                     