@@493477

THE theory of the British Empire Is at last catching up with the facts . The proposals of the Imperial Conference , if enacted into law as they undoubtedly will be , will go far toward for - mal recognition of the new condition of independ ? ence among the dominions . The report of the sub-committee in fact expressly concedes the " ab ? solute equality " of the chief parts of the Empire ( not including India , whose status was defined in the Government of India act of 1919 ) . The Governor General of any dominion in the future will represent only the Crown and not the govern ? ment of the United Kingdom . That phrase , inci ? dentally , is to be abolished , at the insistence of Ire ? land , wherever it occurs , including the official title of the King . In the future , government will corn ? municate directly with government in all cases . No law will be promulgated by Great Britain , affecting the self-governing dominions , without their con ? sent . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country where he is domiciled , without the consent of the dominion government . While the " last word " on foreign policy will still be given by London , the right of the dominions to conduct their own foreign affairs and to appoint diplomatic representatives is specifically recognized . The dominions " of course " assume no obligations under the Locarno agreements un ? less they wish to , as a majority do not . AS WAS to be expected , the new formula is a compromise . It does not go so far as the Irish , and such bitter nationalists as General Hertzog of the Union of South Africa wished ; yet it is radical enough to make old-fashioned Britishers with their contemptuous disregard for all Colonials feel that the world is indeed coming to an end . The fact that there is no written document for the Empire corresponding to the American Constitu ? tion makes it possible to effect changes of great importance easily and quickly once the necessity for them has been recognized . That is what has happened in this case . The self-governing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural desire for the loosening of British apron-strings . While sentimental ties with England are still strong , politically and economically Canada , South Africa , Australia and New Zealand are steadily growing more self-sufficient . They can not be held in the Empire by force ; and it is therefore the part of wisdom to seek to strengthen the power of those invisible bonds which are sometimes the strongest of all . The device will doubtless serve for many more years ; though in the end it must certainly give way to a more realistic grouping based on geographic and economic- fact . RELATIONS between the United States and Mexico are strained again ? we are tempted to add , as usual . To our stock grievances of oil and land laws we now add the charge that Mexico is inter ? fering , is in fact " spreading Bolshevism " in the Central American republics and particularly in Nic ? aragua . An accusation of interference with the last-named country , coming from the United States , would be funny if the matter were not so important . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dictating affairs in Nicaragua as it possibly could , short of open annexation . During these thirteen years we kept Marines there , and since they were withdrawn in 1925 they have twice been sent back . The new President of Nicaragua , Adolfo Diaz , is notoriously a tool of the Ameri ? cans , put into power now as he has been before , by our influence . The reasons for our actions have been , first , the existence of the Panama Canal near ? by ; second , the possibility that we may some day wish to dig another canal through Nicaragua , a plan which has been brought up repeatedly during the past seventy-five years ; third , the heavy invest ? ments in Nicaragua by Americans and particularly the loans by Wall Street bankers . MEXICO replies to our charges that if the Nic ? araguan Liberals ( the revolutionists ) have been aided from Mexican soil , it has been without the knowledge or consent of the Calles government . While we have no means of knowing whether this statement is correct , certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a cheap attempt to prejudice Americans , who can still be roused by that word to a state of fury which has no relation to the facts . But if Mexico has been interfering in Nicaragua , whose tactics has she been imitating ? THE New York World is doing a fine job in its efforts to obtain investigation by the state of South Carolina of the particularly horrible lynchings which recently took place at Aiken . As our readers will remember , the three Negroes who were taken from the jail by a mob and killed had been charged with a murder committed seventeen months earlier . They had all been tried once , and the State Supreme Court having reversed the decision , were in the process of being tried once more . Some light is thrown on the probability of their guilt by the fact that Judge Lanham , sitting in the second trial , had already directed a verdict of not guilty in the case of one of the three . When South Carolina showed a laggard spirit in the investigation of the lynching and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case , sent an able investigator , Mr. Oliver Garrett , to the scene , and single-handed forced the case into the centre of the limelight . Many pro ? testations have been heard from various Carolinian editors and public officials that this constituted un ? warranted interference with the state 's private af ? fairs ; to all of which the answer is that without the World 's " meddling " nothing was in prospect but a perfunctory investigation of the affair , whereas a real one now seems inevitable . FORMER Secretary of Agriculture Edwin T. Meredith , who is one of the chief supporters of William G. McAdoo for the Democratic Presi ? dential nomination , has still another variant of ' farm relief to offer . He is convinced , according to a report by the New York Times of a speech be ? fore the New York Chamber of Commerce , that the real problem is to eliminate the crop surplus , and he believes that the amount of production is determined by the height of the price . So far he talks like any conventional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price goes low enough , production will be so reduced that the surplus will disappear . But his conclusion does not seem to fit on to his premises . He wants a commission , composed of three Cabinet officers and four other members to be appointed by the President , to fix prices for the six major crops . This will be done by declaring that the government will buy , at the price named , any surplus remaining after the end of the crop year . No farmer would therefore sell at a lower price , after accounting for interest and carrying charges . But , one may ask , what kind of prices is the commission to fix ? If higher than the market would otherwise bring , the price would not destroy but enlarge the surplus ; if lower , the whole device would be pointless and in ? effective . Since Mr. Meredith comes from Iowa we judge the former plan is in his mind , and we await further light on what the government and the taxpayers are to do with a mounting stock of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for them out of the Treasury . THOSE farmers ' advocates who object to recla ? mation projects on the ground that the chief trou ? ble with agriculture now is overproduction , and more tilled land ought not to be added in competi ? tion , ought to be relieved . when they learn that of the $13,031,000,000 worth of farm products raised last year in this country , only $96,100,000 worth , or considerably less . than 1 percent , were produced on government irrigated projects . They ought to be not merely relieved , but actively in ? terested , when they learn of the Interior Depart ? ment 's approach to the problem of reclamation in the South , for a preliminary study of which Con ? congress has authorized $100,000 . According to a recent statement by Secretary Work , it is not the intention to clear vast areas of land , but to start a few demonstration colonies on projects so care ? fully worked out that there is little chance of their failure . Naturally this can not mean adding to crop surpluses ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the farm population from the production of unmarketable surpluses to colonies so well placed and organized that they will furnish an example to others of how crops can be grown and marketed at a profit . Socially also the ex ? periment will be ' desirable as a demonstration of how a farming community properly planned can maintain values of life that will keep the young people on the farm , just as Letchworth village in England is a prototype of better urban living which is attracting attention all over the world . THE regional planners ' ' doubts of the ultimate social and economic utility of the skyscraper reached the stage of popular discussion in the news ? papers with the statement of Thomas A. Edison at ? tacking tall buildings . Of course they add so to traffic congestion and housing problems that they destroy social values and lead to inefficiency . The skyscraper has found a defender , however , in Harvey Wiley Corbett , a well known architect . It is Mr. Corbett 's contention that the automobile is the cause of traffic congestion , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hori ? zontal and thus economizes space . There would be some point in Mr. Corbett 's remarks if those who travel vertically in the skyscraper did not have to travel horizontally to and from it . If he is to de ? velop his idea logically , let him design a few build ? ings which contain not merely offices but dwelling places , stores , factories , farms and recreation parks , so that the complete cycle of life could take place on a vertical plane . Our own experiences with ver ? tical transportation , however , lead us to prefer the automobile . THE National Grange is well known as the most conservative of our farmers ' organizations , with its main strength in the Republican Northeast . At its recent convention in Maine two resolutions were presented with regard to the disposition of Muscle Shoals , one advocating government ownership and operation , the other rental to a specific private cor ? poration . Neither proposal could get a clear ma ? jority , and a compromise was finally passed advo ? cating rental to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the question of the disposal of Muscle Shoals up again , would do well to note that in the most conservative regions of the nation ? the country districts of rock-ribbed Republicanism ? there is enough sentiment for pub ? lic ownership so that it lost by an extremely narrow margin . Farmers are rapidly being educated on the question of private monopoly of public utilities through their contact with power companies , which show such tremendous favoritism in this country to manufacturing industry . If they once become aroused as they did over the railroads , the electric utilities will not enjoy such easy going and fat pick ? ings as they have for the past five years . GEORGE BERNARD SHAW has been awarded the Nobel prize for literature , for the year 1925 , and for once has done a banal thing . We do not refer to his remark that probably he got the award because he wrote not one word in 1925 ; or to his rejection of the $32,000 which went with the honor . These were both good Shavianism , and to be ex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the propagation of better literary relations between Sweden and England , we arc disappointed , not only because it is doubtful whether such expenditures are ever worth while , but because there are at least forty better ways to spend the money , and we should have expected G. B. S. to think of fully thirty-nine and probably forty-one of them . We hope Jove has but nodded , and is not settling down for a nap . THE Pittsburgh Coal Company and other large bituminous operators which violated the Jackson ? ville agreement with the United Mine ' Workers of America . and reduced wages to or below the 1917 scale have recently increased wages again , in some cases above the union rates specified in the agree ? ment . The reason is obviously that the British coal strike and possibly other influences as well , have occasioned a great increase in the demand for American coal . Profit margins are large and ability to pay higher wages results . Also , the labor market is tighter and the employers must bid higher to ob ? tain a sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the miners ' union attributes the in ? crease to a failure to obtain adequate production from unskilled and underpaid non-union labor . It is difficult to foresee what will be the effect of this situation on the union 's strength in the spring negotiations . If heavy demand and high wages continue , the union may have less attraction for the workers in non-union mines , but on the other hand the union mines will be more prosperous and there will be less prospect of a strike over a demand for wage reduction . But if the end of the British strike and diminished industrial demand lead to wage re ? ductions again , the union may be forced to go out . In any case , the shoddy character of an industry which levies the losses of its wide fluctuations on the workers is revealed . THE Soviet government in Russia has introduced compulsory military training for all young men . The New Republic , which has opposed this institu ? tion in America and in Western Europe , wishes to record its opposition to the procedure in Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present international situation , as tending in itself to pro ? duce a chauvinistic spirit , and as being wholly in op ? position to the alleged ideal of the Communists , the brotherhood of man . AT last the Board of Superintendents of the Department of Education of New York City has put into cold print what many teachers have long felt to be its reactionary attitude toward free ? dom of thought and utterance for teachers both in school and out . In justifying its refusal to promote Abraham Lefkowitz , an assistant teacher of history in the high schools , to head of department , the Board of Superintendents expressly charges him with undesirably radical activities outside of school . Here is the edict which Superintendent Mandel used this occasion to pronounce in the matter of teacher 's rights :                     