@@493503

much more seriously condemned than homicide . North Carolina might ask herself by what processes of mind has she come to consider a ragged little Union meeting so much more criminal than murder , kidnapping , flogging , false arrest and arson . I do n't see how her citizens can ask themselves such a ques ? tion without seeing the necessity of a quick march out of the bog of ethical confusion in which these labor troubles have mired them . IF THE WORLD were a play school in which we learned only what we wanted to learn , and turned our attention only to those occupations which amused us , we should read no more about reparations . Out of sheer boredom , we should be glad to accept the word of those who assure us that the Young plan is a " final and definitive settlement ' of this troublesome matter , and go on to other things . But the world 's economic education , pro ? ceeding out of the reparations problem , is a different type of schooling altogether . The nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not want to learn , as experience turned them again and again from their preoccupations and prejudices , and brought their noses close to this difficult text . Experi ? ence has not finished with us in this realm . In spite of our eagerness to play , we are likely to be kept after school to find out still more about reparations . This being the case , it may be well to attempt to anticipate our experiential task-master , for the more nearly we keep pace with him , the sooner the last cover of the lesson book will be closed . In order to understand the Young plan , we shall have to go back to the situation which preceded it . And our starting point must be the fundamentals explained so lucidly in 1923 by Moulton and Mc ? Guire of the Institute of Economics , in their study , of " Germany 's Capacity to Pay . " How can a nation pay to another such large sums as have been demanded of Germany ? It can ? not pay cash in gold and silver , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it must retain most of what it has , moreover , as a bank reserve to give stability to its currency and so to carry on ordinary economic processes . It can not hand across its borders its real capital wealth ? its land , build ? ings , and factories . It can pay paper money , but this is of use to the recipient only for what it will buy ? and , in the long run , for what it will buy in the paying country . For if a nation should go on printing and paying out paper money without a cor ? responding increase in its production and sale of goods and services , the money would rapidly become worthless . The debtor nation can pay in bonds , stocks or other securities which represent indebted ? ness or an income interest in its property ; but these ' documents will be of no value unless the interest or dividends on them are paid in money , and hence by the production and sale of goods and services . The debtor nation can thus pay only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumes of goods and services , and , second , by exporting these surplus goods and services . Before the War , Germany consistently imported more than she exported , both of goods and of gold and silver . So far as these items in her international accounts were concerned , she was not making a net payment to other nations ; they were paying her , large amounts . She was able to accomplish this , not , of course , by exacting tribute , but by selling an offsetting amount of services . The largest item among these services consisted of her investments and loans in foreign countries , in return for which she received interest and dividends . She made some ? thing by carrying foreign goods in her ships . She also earned a considerable amount from the busi ? ness done for foreigners by her banks and insurance companies . Next in line , but of considerably , smaller moment , were her receipts from foreign tourists . Altogether , her services rendered to for ? eigners outweighed the surplus of goods and gold received from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year , during the twenty . year period preceding the War . This sum she utilized to enlarge her investments abroad . If , in 1913 , she had been called upon to pay an annual indemnity , this would have been about the measure of her capacity , if we assume that she ceased to in ? vest any more abroad , and made no striking changes in the consumption and standard of living of her population , or in her capacity for producing export , . able goods and services . The War greatly reduced her capacity to pay . It cancelled most of her income from foreign invest ? ments , which either were sold to pay military ex " penses , or were confiscated by her enemies , or be ? came worthless through revolution or economic collapse in European nations . Germany 's pre -- wax : foreign holdings of about 20,000,000,000 gold ' marks shrank to about 2,000,000,000 ? on much of which the interest was not received . Her shipping was disorganized ? though she has since recuperated somewhat in this direction . There was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenditures . Through the loss of territory , she was forced to import more goods ? especially iron ore and coal ? if she was to maintain her pre-war volume of production . Imports of food had to be increased . Altogether , the " invisible " items in her international accounts were probably not more than one-tenth of the amount necessary to pay for the import surplus she required in the first three or four years following the War . She was merely eating into her remaining capital by such transfers of reparations as she did make . Her capacity to pay future reparations therefore ap ? pea red to be a minus quantity . There were many who , because of their inability to understand or their reluctance to admit these economic axioms , argued that Germany could pay huge amounts . There were others who admitted the obvious facts , but thought that unsuspected sources of payment might be found in the course of time . Germany might somewhat reduce the con ? sumption and the standard of living of her popula ? tion below the pre-war level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , she might reduce her imports and increase her exports . Her productive capacity might be increased by progress in methods and machinery . She might find new foreign mar ? - kets for her goods . Her pre-war status might be restored , and her growth resumed . It was argued , against this point of view that she could not reduce her imports appreciably , without reducing her ex ? ports as well . Her imports consisted , to a great extent , of raw materials which could not be found in Germany , or could be obtained there only at pro ? hibitive cost . Her exports consisted largely of man ? ufactured articles made from these materials . An ? other large item of imports consisted Of food staples , and the food consumption of the working population could not be greatly reduced without im ? pairing their efficiency . It was difficult to see where Germany could find a market for increased exports , moreover , with the collapse of Russia and central Europe , the increased protective duties everywhere , and the intensified competition for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed , however , that if any ? thing more were to be paid , certain primary essen ? tials had to be fulfilled . Germany 's currency , which had become worthless as a result of inflation , caused in large part by reparation difficulties , had to be restored . There had to be at least a working agreement on the reparations issue , which would permit a revival of international economic stability . rThen we could see what might be done . The Dawes plan , which became effective Septem ? ber 1 , 1924 , was intended as such a stabilizing and txperimental measure . Its adoption was accom ? panied by a gold loan to Germany for the purpose of starting her anew with a stable currency . It iced the annual reparation instalments which Ger ? many was to pay , on a rising scale , which culminated in the fifth year ( to begin September 1 , 1929 ) with 2,500,000,000 marks . This sum might be subject to further increase by the application of a " pros ? perity index . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be liable , but left this open for future determination . Aside from the economic ' fundamentals of inter ? national payments described above , there are two main technical problems . The first is to collect the necessary amounts inside the country , the second to transfer them to other countries . ( A small part of the reparation obligations were of course met by " payments in kind " ? goods shipped across the border from one government to another . There is no difficulty in transferring these , but their total is necessarily limited . ) The Dawes plan specified the amounts which were to be collected within Germany from various special taxes and revenues and from the general budget . It set up an Allied control over the collection of these revenues . The plan also created a Transfer Committee to supervise the pay ? ment of these sums to the Allied governments . In order that they may be transferred , German marks have to be exchanged for French francs , British pounds sterling , etc . Exchange transactions in such large volume might cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mark . But if the exchange value of the mark were appreciably lowered , disas ? trous consequences would result for Germany and her creditors . First , Germany would lose her gold , because people in Germany who owed money in France and who had gold , or could get it , would rather buy the relatively large number of francs they would receive for a mark 's worth of gold than the smaller number they would receive for a paper mark . After the gold was lost , or if an embargo were put upon it , prices would rise within Germany , with a consequent disturbance to her economic life . As a consequence of this danger , the Transfer Com ? mittee was instructed not to allow transfers which would materially reduce the exchange value of the mark . In what circumstances would such danger arise ? Obviously , whenever the number of marks offered for exchange into francs ( or other foreign curren ? cies ) materially exceeded the number of francs offered for marks . The number of marks to be exchanged was arbitrarily increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the number of francs to be exchanged be correspondingly in ? creased ? Only by an increase in the amount of money which people might want to send into Ger ? many . And people would have to send money into Germany only to pay for exports of German goods and services . So this technical problem brings us back again to the necessity of developing a German export surplus . On the surface , it looked as if cash payments of reparations would not be transferred , under the Dawes plan , unless Germany developed the requisite export surplus . The Dawes plan would be a test of ability to pay . As a matter of fact , during the five years of the plan , the requisite amounts were collected in Ger ? many , and they were transferred to Germany 's creditors . Therefore it is. commonly said that the Dawes plan succeeded . But this judgment is completely upset by a some ? what unexpected development . People might want to send money into Germany , not merely to pay for an export surplus of goods and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at high rates of interest . That is precisely what happened . If the Germans had not borrowed so much money in the past five years , they could not even have paid for the imports they required , to say nothing of transferring reparations annuities . The successful transfer was not accompanied by the growth of an export surplus ; quite the reverse . The following table , compiled by Dr. H. G. Moulton , makes this clear : By the end of 1928 foreign loans in Germany through public offerings totalled 6,878,000,000 gold marks , and private loans and investments going into the country probably almost equalled this amount . German governments , businesses and citizens have borrowed abroad two marks for every mark that has been paid in reparations under the Dawes plan , and have used the surplus for buying the extra goods they needed , but could not pay for with ex ? ports . This immense influx of money enabled the reparation transfers to be made without any decline in the exchange value of the mark . It also greatly facilitated the collection of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid . For it stimulated construction of public works , of industrial buildings , and other current pro ? duction . It lightened the burden of taxation for public improvements and thus allowed more to be collected for reparations . It poured into the na ? tional income a constant and enormous stream of foreign purchasing power . The Dawes plan was revised , ostensibly , because it was desirable to fix the total amount for which Germany was indebted , and to remove the foreign control over her finances . The Agent General for Reparations , Mr. S. Parker Gilbert , had written in his 1927 report : // Neither the reparation problem nor the other prob lems depending upon it will be finally solved until Germany has been given a definite task to perform on her own responsibility , without foreign supervision and without transfer protection . But the " definite task " ? in other words , the total amount to be paid ? could not be fixed on the basis of any demonstration furnished under the Dawes plan concerning Germany 's capacity to pay . We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All the evidence we have concerns Germany 's capacity to borrow . But whether she can continue indefinitely to borrow at anything like the rate she has been borrowing remains an open question . The Dawes plan was a useful bridge by which to escape from the confusion which preceded it . But it settled none of the basic problems . The Young plan , which we shall begin to describe in the next article , is therefore just another experiment .                     