@@487281

pEACE and war  --  the press is full of news relating thereto . The Disarmament Conference of the League of Nations is meeting at Geneva with the Russians in attendance . The British press is still stirred by the cut in the Admiralty 's building program and the extraordinary public manifestations of a desire that England shall disarm and keep out of dangerous foreign entanglements . " Disarmament , " Ernest Marshall cables to the New York Times , " has been easily first among the week 's topics . Speeches innumerable have been made about it both in and out of Parliament . " The politicians , he says , " realize that a generation which is still scarred by the wounds of war wants peace preserved and believes that the old Roman doctrine that being prepared for war is the best way of avoiding it was exploded in 1014 . " Mr. Marshall also reports that , in addition to Field Marshal Sir William Robertson 's recent unqualified denunciation of war and his demand for disarmament , another distinguished general who fought with honor in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universal disarmament . As for Lord Robert Cecil , he has not only resigned from the Cabinet on the disarmament issue , he is constantly speaking on the question . Indeed , he has just stated in John Bull that war is " international madness " ; that the world must " disarm or perish " ; that delay is most dangerous , and that " every month we delay , the old vested interests , material and moral , strengthen their hold . " This weekly declares in a special issue devoted to disarmament and peace , that a million British men ought to refuse to fight under any circumstances . Yet Europe is shivering with alarm over the Polish threat to Lithuania , with its possibility of another war between Poland and Russia , the unsettled conditions in Rumania , and the continuing menace to peace which is Mussolini  --  a menace little diminished by the new offensive and defensive alliance between Italy and Albania . Russia herself is kept in a constant state of unrest because of her fear of an attack headed by the British . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dozen " places in the Near East where hostilities may flare up at any moment . Lord Robert Cecil has thus the best of arguments for declaring that there is no time to lose , and Lloyd George has joined Foch in declaring that a new world war will be here within ten-years if things continue as now . So apparent has been the menace to peace that a War Danger Conference has just been meeting in London and was addressed , among others , by General von Schoenaich , a former German army officer now an ardent pacifist , and , in the form of a communication , by Henri de Jouvenal , lately one of the French delegates to the League of Nations . Speaking to this conference , Francesco Nitti , the former Premier of Italy , declared that never had the nations " armed themselves in so mad a fashion as since the existence of the League of Nations . " He , too , deems war inevitable if Mussolini remains ten years at the helm of Italy . That dictator 's plan of making a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vanity of a madman . " At this same conference America was denounced by Englishmen " as undoubtedly the most ruthless and aggressively imperialistic nation at present , " and as " the source of the greatest danger of future wars . " " They cry peace , peace , but there is no peace . " And in this emergency where stands the United States ? Well , President Coolidge has signalized the opening of the Disarmament Conference by saying that " there is no short cut to peace any more than to any other form of salvation . " The Borah proposal to outlaw war is something to approach with fear and trembling , he is quoted as saying , the chief obstacle to the plan being in his mind that provision in the federal Constitution which gives Congress the sole power to make war . Next , blowing hot after this cold draft , Mr. Coolidge is quoted as comforting himself with the thought that a treaty providing for the outlawry of war , " while it would amount to a declaration of policy sic , might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have the characteristic attitude of the statesman in office toward any new proposal for exorcising war . He fears ; he trembles ; he vacillates ; he wonders if public sentiment will back him up ; he hopes that it will help to strengthen the spirit for peace , but he sees constitutional or other difficulties in the way ; finally he issues a statement as confused as the one above . To take his courage in both hands and to insist that the obstacles shall be overcome and the definite advance toward peace made  --  that is beyond him . Naturally Senator Borah challenges the President 's position , with all the weight of his standing as a high constitutional authority , and declares that the reverse of what the President says is true ; that there is nothing in the Constitution to prevent the United States from entering into contracts with other nations to outlaw war . If the President were right it would then be his duty , in our judgment , to work for a constitutional amendment to legitimize the proposal which is one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We do not claim for it that it will end all war . We do maintain that it is one of the steps to remove the evil which Lord Robert Cecil is correct in saying must be banished or it will destroy the world . We are aware , of course , that President Coolidge sincerely desires to achieve something notable for peace before he leaves office for good . Trustworthy information which comes to us from high sources makes it plain that he is talking and thinking a good deal about it . The danger lies in his timidity and in that ineptitude which made him ruin the tripartite naval conference at Geneva by failing to ascertain diplomatically in advance of its meeting what could be accomplished , and by selecting a second-rank diplomat and a belligerent naval officer to represent the United States . So , while he feels himself compelled to throw cold water upon Senator Borah 's plan for the outlawry of war , he makes no mention of Ambassador Houghton 's far-reaching and vitally important proposal to take the war-making power out of the hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cabinets and governments and to put it into the hands of the people themselves by ordaining a referendum on war . Here is another constructive plan which , as we have already pointed out , is a great contribution to the discussion . That Europe is so filled with talk of disarmament and war prevention is the most hopeful sign that the calamity may be averted . But why should not America sound the note of courage and of leadership instead of one of doubt and vacillation ? The Negligible Graduate Student T IME was when the graduate student in America stood obscurely but definitely as a symbol of pedantry . It was he the understudy of the professor  --  who represented " mere " learning , and who was thought to be the kind of man one could never get an opinion from without having first to listen to a confusing number of hems and haws and qualifications . He burrowed away in the stacks of university libraries , digging up data for a book which after appropriate delays would be published between gray paper covers and never cause a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , perhaps , what he had discovered and recorded might influence other scholars . In a word , he was a scholar , and paid the penalties as well as reaped the rewards of being that . The world has ever been respectful of scholarship , even when it laughed at it , just as it has bowed to authority of any sort with , sometimes an embarrassed smile on its face . The world , even , has had its furtive admiration for pedantry , which it has never tried too hard to distinguish from scholarship  --  and which may not be so different from it after all , save with respect to the " value " of the thing that happens in the one case or the other to be the object-of research . And who is to decide that question of value ? Now all is different , if we are to accept the recent report of Frederic J. E. Woodbridge , Dean of the Graduate Faculties at Columbia University , to President Butler . Dean Woodbridge is speaking , of course , for Columbia ; but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well , and we believe that he is . He dismisses three-fourths of the graduate students under his charge as " negligible . " And negligible to what ? To life , as is the conventional charge ? No , to scholarship itself . In other words , most graduate students are failing in the one thing the world has left to them to master . They lack the one thing which would justify their existence : a disinterested love of learning . Mr. Mencken has long been making fun of the American professor because he is not enough of a professor , because he tries to keep up with the merry world , because he wants to seem something else than the thing he is . Now the dean of the largest graduate school in the country adds his condemnation of the student who is not enough of a student to be content with researches which shall merely result in a contribution to knowledge . What three-fourths of the graduate students want to do , says Dean Woodbridge , is to improve themselves . In contemporary America this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indeed , consists in someone 's suggesting that it is insufficient . Are we not brought up on advertisements which remind us of our need to get ahead in society and which intimate that we can do so by becoming proficient overnight in French or in the art of after-dinner speaking ? But here is an educator disapproving of those who believe that " more education will do something for them personally , make them happier or socially more prominent or effective . " Here is a dean regretting that " study is regarded as an instrument for personal improvement rather than an inquiry into the nature of things . " The nature of things ! The words come strangely to the ears of a generation so skeptical about ultimate things that it does not even consider the necessity of examining the grounds on which those things are dismissed . They comestrangely , but they should be heard . It is extremely important that we should go on producing dispassionate scholars  --  or pedants , if one likes . It is necessary , now that so many academic subjects have become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provocative , " that we should give a few men and women elbow-room in which they may devote to these subjects " competent study , wide information , matured judgment , and ripe experience . " The amount of elbow-room now at their disposal is indicated by the fact that last year there were 3,439 graduate students at Columbia ; the other graduate schools of the country we understand to be proportionately crowded . This is of course too many . Dean Woodbridge 's proposal for reducing the number is to eliminate from the departments of pure research all persons who do not want degrees , who can not give all their time- to their studies , who want to " learn a little more , " or who want to " improve themselves . " Such students can go into Extension or can read at home . An eminently practical proposal , in our opinion . The Norton Centenary T N Boston they have been celebrating the centenary of I Charles Eliot Norton , long one of Harvard 's most distinguished and useful teachers , long one of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role of teacher and faultfinder is rarely easy to play ; it was certainly never so in Cambridge . But Charles Eliot Norton was an aristocrat , a " Boston Brahmin . " He could speak his mind as he saw fit and no one dared to seek to oust him , not even in the troublous days of the Spanish War when he and others united to oppose that needless resort to arms and the subjugation of the Philippines . We had not then , as later , in the World War , broken with the historic tradition which permitted Americans to differ publicly with a war policy of their government , but the - one hundred per cent patrioteers were already sufficiently numerous to assail the great Harvard professor of fine arts . He gave them not as much attention as one bestows upon snarling curs . His record was there and that of his family . Accuse him of treason one could not . But lesser charges were freely made  --  he was , they said , a silk-stocking , a thin-skinned , thin-blooded theorist , too far removed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the average undergraduate , Professor Norton was a phenomenon to be thankful for  --  his fine-arts courses were the easiest " snaps " in the curriculum  --  but a phenomenon not to be understood . For during his lectures Professor Norton talked about everything in the field of customs , morals , and politics that interested him , as well as of the arts . His admonitions as to what constituted the right American policies were heard too often by deaf ears ; the undergraduate of thirty or forty years ago was far less interested in politics and foreign relations than are the students of today . None the less the seed by no means fell wholly upon barren ground . There are plenty of Harvard graduates who acknowledge their great debt to him and honor his memory . They were not those who called him cynical or pessimistic or a " little American , " for they responded to his profound sense of injury when his government erred and turned its back upon its noblest traditions . Were he living today he would find tragic confirmation for plenty of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Professor Norton was one of the members of the faculty who aided President Eliot most in carrying out those great scholastic reforms which meant so much not only to Harvard but the entire college world  --  even though he could not induce Mr. Eliot to see that Harvard was developing a barbarous architecture under his leadership , or move him to plan for a harmonious physical development of the university . He would have been among those horrified by the great college lately erected upon the banks of the Charles for the deification of all the gods of business  --  and would generally find himself but little in sympathy with many of the university developments of the day . To his delightful house came scholars , artists , writers , men of affairs from all over the world , and to it also came for help many students who , if worthy , never failed to meet the courteous , considerate , generous response they desired . He was that greatest of teachers  --  a great , powerful , fearless personality . As for The Nation , it could hardly have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support and wise counsel . If it was quite a different Nation from that of today , we are none the less bold enough to believe that much of what it is today would appeal to him , for his mind never grew old , and to the end he saw through the gaudy political tinsel of his day and tilted at the shams of the hour . Harvard does well to honor Charles Eliot Norton , for he will always be one of its priceless possessions . To Err Is Human J USTICE is sometimes dumb as well as blind , and outrageous blunders are made even in England , whose courts are generally believed to be the fairest and most accurate in the world . An amazing instance of fallibility has finally been officially acknowledged in the release of Oscar Slater after het had spent eighteen years in prison at Peterhead . Slater 's conviction has been called England 's Sacco-Vanzetti case , and the agitation over the latter was helpful in bringing to a successful head efforts which had extended over years to obtain the imprisoned man 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imprisonment enlisted the sympathy of a considerable number of prominent persons , among them Sir Arthur Conan Doyle , there is little similarity between the two cases . There was apparently no hysteria or prejudice to account for Slater 's conviction , and fortunately no political or industrial pressure was brought to bear to prevent his release or make impossible an unbiased review of his case . Most fortunate of all , although Slater was found guilty of murder , his sentence of death was commuted to life imprisonment two days before the date set for the execution  --  because of doubt even at that time of his guilt  --  and so it was possible to free him when one of three identifying witnesses recently signed an affidavit saying that she had not meant to identify him positively as the man she saw running away from the scene of the crime . She had been influenced to do so , she said , by the prosecutor . In this we are reminded of the ugly work of District Attorney Katzmann in the Sacco-Vanzetti trial in inducing Captain Proctor , a firearms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jury . But whereas in England a recantation by one witness was sufficient to obtain Slater 's release , in Massachusetts the repudiation of his testimonyby Captain Proctor was not considered of enough importance by the judicial machinery of the State to gain even a new trial for Sacco and Vanzetti . Slater was arrested in 1909 in New York City as he stepped ashore from the steamship Lusitania . He was charged with the robbery and murder of an aged woman in Glasgow . Slater obtained the services of an American lawyer , William A. Goodhart , now practicing in Baltimore , but did not fight extradition , although United States Commissioner Shields , before whom he was taken , did not think the evidence presented was adequate proof of guilt . Mr. Goodhart had intended to represent Slater at the trial , but an unexpected moving ahead of the date of beginning made this impossible . Mr. Goodhart remained convinced of Slater 's innocence in spite of his conviction , and went to work to unravel the mystery , learning that a brooch which his client was accused of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pawned by the convicted man four months before the crime . With this and other clues in his possession , Mr. Goodhart obtained the aid of Conan Doyle in working for Slater 's release , but progress languished until the Sacco-Vanzetti case stimulated the effort to get at the truth . The Slater case is only another of many convictions which have later turned out to have been unjustified , even in the unusually fair and accurate judicial processes of England . The false conviction of Adolf Beck has become almost as famous as that of Alfred Dreyfus and Jean Calas in France , the latter of whom was broken on the wheel although Voltaire subsequently established the man 's innocence . Beck was falsely convicted twice , just as was probably true of Vanzetti . In 1896 Beck was sentenced to seven years ' penal servitude for a series of robberies from women . He was released after five years , but in 1904 was convicted of similar offenses . At the first trial Beck was " positively identified " by ten women and at the second by five ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet eventually Beck 's innocence was so conclusively established that the British Government indemnified him for his imprisonment to the extent of $25,000 . An earlier case was that of William Habron , sentenced to death in 1876 for the murder of a policeman . On account of his youth  --  he was only eighteen ? Habron 's punishment was luckily commuted to imprisonment , and two years later a man convicted of another killing confessed also to the crime for which Hebron had been imprisoned . The confession was substantiated and Habron was released with $4,000 as compensation . Priscilla Biggadyke was not so fortunate . She was convicted in 1869 of poisoning her husband and was executed . Later , in a deathbed confession , a man admitted that he had entered Mrs. Biggadyke 's kitchen , unknown to her , and put poison in a pudding which she was making . The possibility of an error which can never be rectified is one of the strong reasons for the abolition of capital punishment . Even with the best judicial machinery there is a possibility of error in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combined record of many cases . But even this certainty of error is only one of many reasons for putting behind us the savagery of civic murder . The practice of deliberate and complaisant killing by a community is degrading and brutalizing to it . The effect is to weaken the respect for life , to accustom people to take it wantonly , - and so to encourage the very crime which it is mistakenly designed to prevent .                     