@@487230

AFTER slumbering for the last six years , the immigration question is again under discussion in this country and is before the present session of Congress for legislative action . The Johnson bill providing for a virtual prohibition of immigration for two years has passed the House , although with an amendment reducing the period of non-admittance to one year . Historically , America has been free to all corners , and we have prided ourselves that it was a refuge for the politically oppressed of other lands . As a political asylum its light is much dimmed , but as an economic asylum it is perhaps more precious than ever in this day when thousands find themselves the victims of a broken industrialism elsewhere . We must not forget , either , that the land and opportunities of this world are for those who need and are ready to use them , and are not to be held as closed preserves against the wants of humanity . This doctrine is not only good ethics but it is also the inexorable law of world evolution . A most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , large or small , civilized or savage , for new fields of livelihood , and no region can be monopolized indefinitely by the few in the face of a demand for access by the many . Moreover , the American experiment , if it means anything , means the immigrant . It is thus that we have obtained our population and our material wealth . We have undertaken an amalgamation of the races . In so far as we have any significance in the world , that is what we stand for ; success or failure , it is too late to alter our policy or seek another destiny . The Nation believes in our historic policy and favors the open door to America . At the same time we are not unresponsive to considerations that may call for a brief limitation of immigration , or a selective qualification of our welcome . If it is true that an unprecedented flood of immigration is about to set in at a moment when we are perhaps destined to experience unemployment and business stagnation , then it is to the interest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immigration ; but experience has shown the immigrant flood very sensitive to our industrial barometer . If it is true that the personnel and equipment at the Ellis Island receiving station have so deteriorated during the period of inactivity that the present arrivals can no longer be properly handled , then it may be best to check immigration sharply for a few months in order to make new arrangements . For some time after the armistice the number of aliens coming to America was exceeded by those leaving it . It was not until last spring that the tide turned definitively , and not until the new fiscal year beginning with July that the number of arrivals assumed numerical importance . Commissioner Wallis of Ellis Island was recently quoted as saying that after January 1 all previous immigration records would be broken . This may prove true , but it can not be asserted on the basis of the record to date . The total number of aliens , immigrant and non-immigrant , admitted to the United States in the five months from July to December of this year , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is an average of about 75,000 a month , or 900,000 a year . This figure tallies fairly well with the records of Ellis Island  --  which receives about nine-tenths of the total immigration . Approximate figures of arrivals there for the last five months are as follows:by Selection July , 56,000 ; August , 57,000 ; September , 85,000 ; October , 74,000 ; November , 61,000 ; total , 333,000 . This indicates an actual recession since September , the current slowing in response to slack economic conditions here just as it has in the past . The year 1907 , when we received 1,285,349 aliens , is commonly taken as the flood tide of immigration to America , but this is inexact . That figure includes both immigrant and non-immigrant aliens , while the official totals since then comprise only immigrant aliens . If , for purposes of comparison , we include both classes in subsequent years , we find that the 1907 total was exceeded in 1913 and 1914 , with arrivals , respectively , of 1,427,227 and 1,403,081 . The average annual rate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of either of those totals  --  not an appalling situation or an excuse for hysterical action . It is doubtful if the facts warrant emergency measures . A policy giving us at any time only the best of those seeking a home here , is much to be desired , provided a satisfactory test can be found . Nowhere is the present-day ideal of applying scientific methods to fundamental problems more pertinent than in the matter of immigration . Prejudice and misinformation clamor both loudly and surreptitiously concerning the danger of inferior stock infusion . Coincidently the need of education is emphasized , ranging from the un-American and exploitative " Americanization " of the National Security League to the earnest and intelligent purpose of social service agencies . These two questions ? that of keeping up the quality of the racial stock , and education  --  are involved in a fundamental error both of concept and method . Our theory of admissibility is mistaken . It should be based neither on the superficial test of literacy , an accidental and acquirable attainment , nor on the baseless and arbitrary comparison of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What is needed is a scientific application of - intelligence tests of the improved Binet-Simon type , which determine not the educational opportunities , or lack of them , in the alien 's past but his potentiality for development in his new environment . The task may seem formidable , and obviously the present immigration personnel is inadequate , both quantitatively and qualitatively , for so radical a departure . Yet we were able to do something of the sort in a cruder but none the less adequate way among the four million men called to military service within a period of eighteen months . Surely , if we were able to apply mental tests to classify men for killing and destruction , it is worth a similar effort where the future of our state is so deeply involved . Laboratory methods applied to the immigrant justifiably will exclude thousands , eligible in the past , who , well above the grade of idiots , able even to write moderately , are nevertheless adults with ten or twelve-year-old mentalities , definitely feeble-minded . They can swing a pick or perform mechanically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for our industrial barons  --  but are unable to think for themselves , unfit to become citizens and to take part in the government of our common country . At the same time they generously propagate their feeble-minded offspring  --  future Americans . Physiological adequacy should be the basis of selection . The mentally and physically strong and untainted , the better product of their race , whatever this may be , should be deemed worthy of American citizenship . A Message Mr. Wilson Might Have Written To THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES : As required by the Constitution and in accordance with precedent , I hereby submit to you my annual message as President . I conceive , however , in view of the shortness of the present session of Congress , and the emphatic declaration of the electorate at the solemn referendum held upon Election Day , that any recommendations of mine as to domestic issues will receive but scant attention . May I not , therefore , devote this communication solely to the consideration of a foreign subject of profound import to the state of the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of freedom for the Filipinos , of immigration , and other matters to my successor ? It is Ireland of which I would speak . America has a heart , and that heart throbs with all sorts of intense sympathies , and America has schooled its heart to love things that America believes in . Because she was born to show mankind the way to liberty and born to make this great gift a common gift and heritage to all the world , America can not look idly and indifferently upon what is happening across the seas , any more than she could look unmoved in 1898 upon the sufferings of the Cubans at her very doors . Since then a bridge of American boats has spanned the Atlantic . Europe , which seemed so far away , lies but be -- yond our vision , but beyond the horizon . More than that , we are the keener to perceive what is going on within the British Isles , for the beauty of the war just ended is that it brought with it a new partnership of Anglo-Saxons , and a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this reason that anything which affects the peace and happiness of our Motherland affects our own . Not a hundred years of peace have done more to knit these English-speaking nations together than a year and a half of war . But what do we see ? An island which has witnessed a great history and has floated on high the symbol of great events is today drenched with blood . From across the waters comes to us the appeal to the Irish and Scots-Irish blood which pulses in so many American veins . To millions of our American households the postman with mail from overseas brings not joy but fear lest the bulletins he carries tell of murder or reprisal , of prison , or of a new-made grave . To other homes comes once more the fear that men in the uniform which our enemies of yesterday could not defeat from Mons to the Second Marne shall once more have begun to fall for the King . These are days of very great perplexities , when a great cloud of trouble hangs and broods over the greater part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring a great service to stricken humanity . I realize that the problem of Ireland is plainly one to be studied , studied carefully , and studied without bias , just as it must be plain that in the last analysis the solution can be worked out only by English and Irish together . But to be silent when a beautiful country is being reduced to wreck and ruin , when no man 's life seems safe from sudden death , is to serve neither party to the strife . All the British blood within our veins forbids inaction if by any act of friendliness and goodwill , we of America may , greatly daring , hope to point the way to peace , to concord , to amity . Not that we would prejudge , nor that we would award praise or blame . When men 's passions have run so high , when the sword has been unsheathed , when reprisal follows upon reprisal , it is obvious that no one can be wholly in the right . To measure each deed or act is not of my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that I see is of such promise , that I would in this open and unequivocal way offer the good offices of myself personally and of the United States to our kin of the United Kingdom , acting as mediator in any guise or capacity which may be of service in bringing together the contending factions , that at least the killings may cease , while men from both sides shall seek the basis of a new understanding and a new fellowship . I am aware , of course , that there will be those to say that we should mind our own concerns . Ireland is our own concern . In election after election here in America it has come to figure in the result . There is a tide of feeling rising to meet the moon ; there is no doubt that it will soon come to the flood . We feel the tide . We fear the strength of it . We fear that it will swell and whirl into the maelstrom of politics ; that demagogues will ride its surges and seek to harness its mighty power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of peace and amity between England and America which is the chief hope , and , today , the great salvation of humanity . We fear that men 's minds may turn to the violent methods of which so much of the world is today so great a victim , so powerless a fief . To this shall it never come . But at this hour men 's hearts wait upon us ; men 's lives hang in the balance ; men 's hopes call upon us ; a race despairing turns as to its own for aid . Hence , I would end in this way a message of genuine comradeship , of genuine sympathy , and I have no doubt that our British comrades will speak in the same sense and the same language if they but understand the spirit of the peacemaker in which this offer is made . If it takes an unusual course , it is because there is a new spirit in the world , the spirit of those who would excel in service to others . WOODROW WILSON Rediscovering the South Seas P AUL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Frederick O'Brien for the Americans  --  these are but the most outstanding of those who have lately learned and praised the incomparable charm of the South Seas . Thousands of readers are traveling to Polynesia as if it were a new region for the imagination to visit . America and Europe and Asia have grown hateful to such of their sons as like the taste of dreams which are not wholly dreams , such as want to escape from the tumult of civilization by some avenue less brief than sleep . Once there were the Hyperboreans to hear about , and Atlantis ; Marco Polo and Sir John Mandeville subsequently yarned of mysterious deeps and marvelous distances ; two centuries ago Robinson Crusoe and Lemuel Gulliver had almost a world of empty places to go to for their adventures ; Fenimore Cooper could tell great tales of deeds done in the American forest ; and it is but a few years since Samuel Butler found Erewhon in deepest New Zealand . But who now cares for the Hyperboreans or Atlantis ? Mandeville has turned out to be but the myth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Henry Ford have gone wherever Marco Polo went . Lilliput and Brobdingnag and Laputa have , it seems , no latitude and longitude ; Robinson Crusoe 's island may have cheap excursions run to it any day ; the American forest has been cut down to make Sunday supplements ; New Zealand is a sociological example . There is no safe nook for peaceful dreamers to turn to if not to the soft archipelagoes of the South Seas . Each generation has its Eldorado . Let no one forget , however , that the South Seas can already number many lovers . Since the days when Captain Cook cruised among the Society and the Marquesan and the Friendly groups there has grown up a substantial library of travel regarding these enchanting islands . And not only mere travelers , but writers as well who more lawfully have brought the imagination into play in their records . The first to set foot there in the name of the empire of fiction was Herman Melville , partisan of cannibal paradises , who after four months among the gentle anthropophagi of Typee found the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later invented the mighty epic of Moby Dick . " There are but two writers who have touched the South Seas with any genius , both Americans , " said Robert Louis Stevenson in 1891 : " Melville and Charles Warren Stoddard . " Stoddard 's " South Sea Idyls " is what Stevenson had in mind , not praising the book too highly . But now his own name must be added to that pair of geniuses , for the sake of " In the South Seas , " " Island Nights ' Entertainment , " and " The Ebb-Tide , " for the sake of scores of fascinating letters home from Samoa , and for the sake of the grave on the high summit of Vaea overlooking the Pacific . There is a fourth name fit for this company  --  that of Pierre Loti , who visited Tahiti before he wrote " Le Mariage de Loti " ; and perhaps still a fifth , if Jack London did not write too hastily to hold on to fame . Of all these books the best is , everything considered , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speaks the whole secret of the sea . And yet it lies a little outside the pattern of the literature of the South Seas . It is too stern , too wild , too lonely , too severely masculine . What poetical adventurers have sought the lower Pacific for has been peace not battle . They have lain down in warm valleys under palm trees ; they have bathed in the tender waters of sapphire bays ; they have tasted the exquisite delights of nights spangled with tropic stars and heavy with tropic odors ; they have known the naive , affectionate , friendship of Kanaka men and the lavish , unexigent passion of the brown girls of the islands . They have escaped from inhumanity to humanity , from violent civilization to indolent but still kindly and tolerant barbarism . Much of the mood which has sent them there has as a matter of fact been mere sentimentalism , mere hankering for joys that rarely exist and never last ; but a part of it has been real . Melville was the shrewdest of Yankees ; Stevenson was more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough as a critic . When all reservations have been made , the fact remains that the South Seas are the loveliest part of the uncrowded world . They are the natural corner of escape now , as they have been since they were first discovered , and they must long continue to be visited , in the flesh or in the vision , when the rest of the world grows too vociferous . More pity then that their native populations are dying out . The missionaries made them put on civilized clothing ; the traders taught them civilized industry ; then came the gunboats and taught them civilized war and civilized diseases . Now they are dying of civilization . Women and Children First I F the wholehearted support of the women of the country can accomplish anything , there will be no doubt about the passage during the present brief session of Congress of the Sheppard-Towner bill for maternity and child hygiene centers . The Children 's Bureau of the Department of Labor has , as the result of patient investigations , declared that 25,000 American women die every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while 250,000 babies die from diseases that also could be prevented . These facts , carefully ascertained and widely published , have aroused women in all parts of the country , and thirteen of their national bodies such as the Consumer 's League and the League of Women Voters have thrown all the force of their organized power behind the bill which was drafted to meet this obvious need . The bill is almost without opposition , but like many such measures it may die for lack of the interest and influence needed to secure its adoption by a Congress which is more intent upon taxes than upon babies . But the bill should be passed immediately , taxes notwithstanding . It provides for an appropriation by Congress to be matched dollar for dollar by the States . Forty State legislatures meet next January and if Congress passes the bill they can adopt the legislation necessary to carry its provisions into immediate effect . Most of these legislatures adjourn in February or March not to meet again for two years . Thus the alternative to the adoption of the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it can not be tolerated when it involves , through mere sluggishness and indifference , the death of some half million infants . This job of saving babies is not an expensive one . The Sheppard-Towner bill provides for an appropriation in 1921 of two and a half million dollars , to be increased in 1923 to four million . For two years Congress has failed to sanction this moderate expense , while with an offhand , casual air it has set aside 92 per cent of the nation 's revenue for military purposes . Recently , for instance , Congress unhesitatingly appropriated $1,180,000,000 to be spent in one year for disabled soldiers , approximately 300 times as much as the amount asked for by the Sheppard-Towner bill . Nor is speed impossible when Congress is made to feel the need of speed . On June 2 of this year a bill was introduced in the House appropriating $36,000,000 ( to be raised to $42,000 , - 000 in 1922 ) for the salaries of postal employees ; on June 3 it was introduced in the Senate ; by June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the President , the whole process occupying just three days . It is not to be taken as a criticism of either of these worthy measures if we point out that soldiers and postal employees are voters and that both groups are backed by powerful organizations able to finance publicity campaigns and to support lobbies . Babies , needless to say , have little direct influence in politics , and until recently even that subtle indirect influence  --  so highly spoken of in pre-suffrage days  --  seemed to produce small effect . Since women have had the vote , however , the indirect influence of the babies is beginning to make itself felt . The fight for the bill is really the first test of the political strength of women because this particular measure , through the indifference of men and the persistent interest of women , has become peculiarly a women 's bill . No matter whom it especially concerns , it should pass at once .                     