@@488305

o NE BY ONE the miserable slanders and lies of the World War are being exposed . Now it is Brigadier General James E. Charteris , said to have been Chief of Intelligence of the British Army during the war , who at a dinner at the National Arts Club in New York City let the cat out of the bag in regard to the abominable story that the Germans were utilizing the bodies of their dead in order to obtain fats and other things needed for fertilizing and for the making of ammunition . From a dead German soldier General Charteris obtained a picture of some German dead being sent home and one of the cadavers of dead horses being returned from the front for fertilizing purposes . Knowing the Chinese ancestor-worship , General Charteris changed the caption under these pictures and sent them to a Shanghai newspaper , England being then eager to rouse Chinese sentiment against the Germans . He then forgot all about it , until six weeks later a letter from a Chinese reader of the Field , a British hunting publication , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " horrible boiling down of dead German soldiers . " T HE STORY SPREAD all over England , and this high-minded and gentlemanly general even went so far as to have a diary forged purporting to tell the feelings of a German soldier employed in the boiling-down factory when suddenly he found that he had to boil the body of his brother . This was so raw that even this hero did not dare use it , but it is now in a British war museum , doubtless as anauthenticated war document . Thus- does war make blackguards , slanderers , forgers , liars  --  in brief , scoundrels  --  of officers and gentlemen . General Charteris told this pretty anecdote to his hearers as " an amusing sidelight on the work of his office , " according to the New York Times . It seems even now that a man who would stoop to such statements ought to be expelled from the society of gentlemen and gentlewomen . Less disgusting but equally illuminating is the confession in a recent issue of the New Statesman , one of the foremost British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years since the war ended and we are still pretending that the Germans are an inferior and predatory , if not actually criminal , nation . Such pretenses served our purpose legitimately enough during the war , when we wanted to get the Americans into it , but in 1925 they are merely ridiculous . " This is the stuff that the great Ambassador Walter Hines Page and the American press fell for , by which the American people were fooled into entering the war . A DMIRAL SIMS on the witness stand is a joy forever . He has never been known to adjust his utterances to spare official feelings , and when he appeared in Washington before the air inquiry he lived up to his reputation . What could be more delicious than this ? Asked by Senator Bingham to comment on Secretary Wilbur 's statement that " my idea is that there is no such thing as control of the air as long as the enemy has one plane , " the Admiral replied : " I wonder who told him that . . . . The remark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , does not mean anything at all . " The Admiral declared Colonel Mitchell a " bully good fellow " who " has done an inestimable service in bringing this thing to the attention of the people . " His " scoring of the moss-backs in the Navy Department was merciless ; it demands a complete overhauling of the Department at the hands of Congress . As for the airplane , the admiral took the position that every battleship is at the mercy of fliers . Confirming our recent editorial , Twin Military Evils , he declared that all new weapons have been resisted by military and naval authorities throughout the ages , spoke of the opposition he had witnessed to taking the sails off battleships , to the torpedo and submarine and other new devices , and did not hesitate to refer to his own insubordination in Roosevelt 's day when he attacked the Navy Department for its delinquencies in the f matter of target practice . His testimony , however , was against such an independent air service as has been urged by Colonel Mitchell . Why Secretary Wilbur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revelations is hard to understand . J OHN W. WEEKS was the type of the dull and rich business man in a high administrative office , without vision of a new and better society , and completely contented with the world , as it is , in which his lines have been so happily cast . But he had the right to crow , as he did on retiring as Secretary of War , over what he had accomplished toward militarizing the United States . It is not his fault that we are not even further along the road to complete militarization and universal military service . From the war he learned only to go on with the system of force which his own chief , President Coolidge , has just declared a total failure . His own connections with big business were of the closest and would not have borne too eager inspection . Mr. Weeks is succeeded by a younger , abler , and more attractive figure , the Assistant Secretary of War , Colonel Dwight F. Davis , who is , however , as much in sympathy with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in schools as his predecessor . The new Assistant Secretary , Colonel Hanford MacNider , is of the perfect militarist type . As the able , **25;1815;TOOLONG head of the American Legion he committed himself to the very opposite of those new policies of disarmament and liberalism to which Mr. Coolidge has suddenly announced his devotion . Both Davis and MacNider had admirable records on the front in France ; the War Department is thus entirely in the hands of men who fought abroad . T HE CHINESE CUSTOMS CONFERENCE opens at Peking with the Western Powers apparently agreed rigidly to limit the scope of its discussions . In Shanghai the " judicial investigation " into the May murders has opened , with the British and Japanese " judges " playing , according to the correspondent of the New York Times , roles evidently dictated by diplomatic instructions . Will the Powers never learn ? We hope that Washington will not let itself be drawn into playing the British game , but will instead cut loose and follow Senator Borah 's stirring advice : China he said will assert her independence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to fix and collect her tariffs , and nothing less will satisfy and nothing less should satisfy her . If the other Powers in China do not wish to proceed along these lines , nevertheless the United States should . If the United States can not have the company and cooperation of other Powers , which she certainly would desire , she should shape her own policy and pursue her own course . We must either treat these peoples justly , fairly , and as equals , or we shall have to fight them . I am in favor of trying the policy of justice for a time instead of force , of fair treatment instead of exploitation . I think it will work more to the cause of peace . R ENTS ROSE IN PANAMA . Protest meetings were held . The President of the republic , denounced by the rent strikers as " a tool of the wealthy landlords , " forbade public meetings . Public meetings were none the less held , at which the renters demanded that a law similar to the New York State law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 12 per cent on the landlords ' investments . The Panama police fired on the demonstrators , killing one and injuring eight . The chauffeurs and streetcar conductors struck in sympathy with the League of Renters ; the bakers also threatened to suspend work . At that point the President went into conference with three American officials , including the governor of the Canal Zone and the general commanding the canal troops . ( This essential point , omitted in most of the American newspapers , was carried in the excellent United Press accounts of the affair . ) Thereupon the President " requested " American intervention , and 600 American troops marched in and took possession of Panama at 1 p. m. on October 12 . Before mid-night they had killed one and wounded two and arrested forty Panamans , and had fired into the windows of the demonstrators ' houses . All the strike leaders were jailed . Soon afterward a conference of landlords agreed to return to the rents of January , 1925 , and the American troops were withdrawn . The strike leaders are still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , quick job ; but a few Americans may wonder if that is the kind of national defense which keeps the tax rate high . E VERY AMERICAN EXPORT HOUSE will doubtless be doing an active business with Russia before the American Federation of Labor gets around to recognizing the first workers ' republic in the world . Arthur A. Purcell , fraternal delegate from Great Britain and member of the recent British Labor mission to Russia , pleaded in vain at the federation 's convention at Atlantic City for a renewed understanding with the Russian trade unions . President Green in reply uttered new vows against any traffic with communism , and the convention declared its hostility to the Soviets " not merely in defensive manner , but in a vital and aggressive manner , " commending the United States Government for " its courage , its adherence to fundamental principles of democracy " in refusing to recognize Russia . And for the first time the expulsion of Communists from the trade unions was formally recommended . Characteristically the federation coupled friendly gestures to China  --  a demand that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would develop its trade-union organizations  --  with a unanimous vote against any attempt to reopen the question of Oriental immigration . A PART FROM THESE EVIDENCES of insularity the tone of the convention was optimistic and aggressive . The A. F. of L. is growing , for the first time since the postwar slump . The paid-up membership is now 2,878,297 , with half a million more members on strike or unemployed . Mr. Green opposed the policy  --  forced upon many of the British unions  --  of accepting wage cuts for the sake of restoring markets . He urged a strenuous campaign of organization of non-union trades and plants , and pressed the adoption of union insurance schemes , even of investment advice for workers . The worst danger to unionism he sees in company unions and employee representation , and he cannily suggested that the presence of union representatives in the management of such schemes would modify their evil effects ? a page out of the book of William Z. Foster . Important plans were laid at the metal-trades meeting for organizing the great non-union automobile companies  --  including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trades involved will work out the plans together to avoid the danger of jurisdictional friction in fighting this difficult battle . If the unions gain a toehold in this open-shop fortress perhaps they will dare to face in earnest their hardest and most important campaign  --  the organization of the steel infistry . S LOWLY , but with compelling momentum , the effort to bring the baffled , perplexed parent to the door of the psychologist , and let the parent peep inside , is bearing fruit . " Spare the rod and spoil the child , " wrote Solomon centuries ago , and the Oriental despot has helped to hold the thinking of fathers and mothers in bondage ever since . Little differerence did it make to them that Solomon had so many wives that he probably did not know his own offspring by name , T WO ROBUST AND OLD-FASHIONED AMERICANS were General Isaac R. Sherwood of Ohio and Senator Samuel M. Ralston of Indiana , who died on the same day , October 14 . General Sherwood took part in forty-eight battles of the Civil War , rising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ useful and able Congressman until he had passed his ninetieth year . The scars he won from 1861 to 1865 made it easy for him to oppose both our war with Spain and our entry into the World War , as he did with all the courage and intrepidity of his brave and honorable character . America to him did not mean overseas adventures and a course of imperialism and militarism . Knowing war as he did , he could truthfully say that we should as a nation be too proud  --  and too . sensible ? to fight . Senator Ralston had by his forthright virtues won the admiration and regard of his State . He took office not as a politician but as the servitor of hispeople . So he reformed govermental methods when he was governor , reduced taxes by instituting wise economies , and developed the schools and the other institutions of the State by giving them additional appropriations out of money saved in other directions . The very fact that he did not seek office made him immune to politicians and enabled him to convince the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type of Grover Cleveland  --  an administrator who thought of duty first and his own prospects last . Novelty or Progress ? W HAT is social progress ? Is it synonymous with contemporary civilization ? Is it the mere flight of time in the history of mankind ? Or is it something rarer and more elusive ; and , if so , how are we to identify it ? The individual has never before been so deluged with newness , with novelty , as today . Teeming factories surround him with new material possessions ; roaring printing presses overwhelm him with new information and ideas . America is developing a philosophy which almost assumes that anything new is better than anything old . Probably no previous age or nation has shown such a general tendency to confound novelty with progress . Social progress is certainly not merely new inventions and ideas . Only a small part of the novelty of any generation is carried over to another and only an infinitesimal fraction survives a hundred years . It is dangerous to assume that everything new is mischievous or inconsequential , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desirable without a most searching examination . Are there any standards , any tests , to guide us in such inquiry ? The question presents itself afresh in looking through the pages of a volume that has just come from the press. * The first half is a record of recent happenings and present conditions which may be regarded as causes of discontent . The second half is a directory of organizations and movements which are working to correct or eliminate some of those causes . The causes of discontent are presented in a series of brief and largely disconnected paragraphs , which in their treatment as well as their content suggest that modern civilization is in no other way suffering so cruelly as through its failure to distinguish between novelty and progress . The book in question does not pretend to answer the question How can we distinguish between novelty and progress ? It is a volume of information , not theory . The only test which possesses any finality is that of time , and we can only speculate as to how often such judgment is as it should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true and substantial progress since the Garden of Eden  --  or the ape  --  suggests that time must usually be right . The trouble is that no individual or generation can wait for time to point the way . We must have a more immediate technique . Perhaps as good a one as can be found appears in the dedication of " Social Progress . " It is " To those who form conclusions from known facts and who wish to outlaw war , abolish poverty , unveil superstition , and secure justice . " . " Social Progress ? A Handbook of the Liberal Movement ; ' published by the Arbitrator , 114 East 31st Street , New York ; $2.50.                     