@@488318

TRANGE it seems that all liberal forces must mourn ki the death of Philander C. Knox as a genuine blow to the progress of the country ! For Mr. Knox was , like Mr. Root and Mr. Spooner and many another lawyer-leader of the Republicans , a product of Big Business . His wits were sharpened in their workshops , his experience acquired over their briefs . They counted him their own when he entered McKinley 's Cabinet and later rejoiced that he was to be a " steadying influence " when the " wild man , " Roosevelt , came to Presidential power by the accident of an assassin 's shot . But when Mr. Knox took the oath of office it was no form with him ; soon his old associates were gnashing their teeth over his " betrayal " of those who " had made him " ; he began vigorous attacks upon large corporations in the Northern Securities case , the Beef Trust prosecutions , and the Standard Oil trials ; and he justified Roosevelt 's faith that his Attorney General was , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the one to bring them to book . Still more puzzling from the liberal 's point of view was Mr. Knox 's career as Secretary of State . First he proclaimed the era of " dollar diplomacy " by which the foreign policies of the Government were to be subordinated to helping the business man to make money abroad , than which no policy is of greater danger to the peace of the world or the sanctity of weak or backward nations . To it may well be applied the words of Adam Smith in denouncing a British proposal to found a great empire for the sole purpose of raising up a people of customers : " a project altogether unfit for a nation of shopkeepers , but extremely fit for a nation whose government is influenced by shopkeepers . " But while Mr. Knox was setting this mischief afoot he was also responsible for an American President 's taking " the world 's greatest step toward universal peace through the French and British arbitration treaties . " Under his Incumbency of the office of Secretary of State there were , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbitration and more peaceful settlements of just claims and more brushing away of misunderstandings than seem to have occurred in any other corresponding period . " More than that , at the very time when he was responsible for our improper and unworthy financial and political intervention in Honduras and Nicaragua he was urging the establishment by the great Powers of an international court of arbitral justice at The Hague with jurisdiction over nearly all questions between nations . His business training was thus not wholly able to interfere with an inborn idealism which manifested itself most strikingly in the fight against the Treaty of Versailles , now proved economically as unsound and disastrous as morally it was vicious and revengeful and at the doors of which must be laid the threatening approach of European bankruptcy and disaster . The drafter of the Senatorial round robin which correctly served notice on Woodrow Wilson in February , 1919 , that the treaty would never be ratified if intertwined with the Covenant of the League of Nations , Mr. Knox was one of the three or four men to whom belongs the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ratifying a treaty which history will surely record as the self-inflicted defeat of the Allies , and one of the greatest disasters to humanity . Mr. Knox 's legal skill , his parliamentary experience , his natural acumen and ability , the power of his speeches , all contributed enormously to the result of whatseemed at first a hopeless fight against impossible odds . Probably no liberal could have accomplished as much in some directions . Certainly it made the business and political world take notice to find a rich conservative like Philander C. Knox voicing sentiments that came also from such " flighty " Senators as McCormick , Reed , La Follette , Johnson , and Borah , and were so singularly like those advanced by such dangerously radical journals as The Nation and the New Republic , albeit from a different point of view . What gave Mr. Knox even greater power was his ability to formulate constructive suggestions . His opposition was not merely opposition ; he had alternatives . It is now permissible for The Nation to say that the constructive plan for an alternative to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ November 17 , 1920 , was , save in one or two respects , identical with a memorandum prepared by Mr. Knox and held in reserve by him for use at a future time . It is because he could see through the falsities and shams of the current international propaganda , because he favored immediate and complete disarmament , because he believed that a real international court needed no army or navy to support it , because he wanted to go to the rescue of Haiti and Santo Domingo , because he had a vision of a better and wiser world with the sins of the old diplomats banished from it , that every sane liberal , and every radical too , must mourn his loss as one the country can not afford to sustain at this grave hour . The disappearance from the Senate of such an intellect , even if it had been in opposition to all modern ideas , would in itself have been a blow , so few are now the Senators of intellectual distinction and ability . Mr. Borah henceforth will rank more clearly as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most constructive force in the Senate . There was a time when he failed to face issues ; now he meets them squarely , with tireless industry , planning far ahead and often well behind the scenes . Few others deserve a place in his class . One by one , Lodge , Penrose , Smoot , and the others of the Old Guard are slipping from their places ; the new economic and social problems are beyond them . Others of whom more was to be expected have lost ground in the last two years , or but held their own . The great pack of Wadsworths , Underwoods , Pomerenes , Keyeses hunt with the party hounds and run with the popular hares . Promising men there are like Kenyon , Ladd , and France , but in the main only a head rises above the mass . Only a few have at once such a mastery of any subject as La Follette has of the railroad situation , or his unquestioned honesty and indubitable public fidelity . It is a fact that the war has produced no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its false but grandiloquent slogans had been true . Had it been a war to preserve democracy , to safeguard human liberty , to protect the small and unsafe nations , there must have been some new shining figures to emerge . Instead we mourn a giant fallen , one who was not really a liberal but could see true on certain foreign subjects ; who was neither a genius nor a man of great talent , but one who trained and used well the brains nature bestowed upon him . It is to the economic struggles of the immediate future that we must look for the forging of the new leadership of power and distinction , courage and constructive ability , nowhere more sorely needed than in these United States . The Railway Strike A NATION-WIDE railroad strike would be a public calamity , but a rigorously organized industrial feudalism resting on a very literal wage slavery and controlled by a few financiers would be an even worse calamity . Fortunately , we are not as yet confronted with a choice between such alternatives . The railroads precipitated the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for permission to make a further cut of ten per cent in wages . They have also attempted to break down the various working rules heretofore in force . President Stone of the engineers declares explicitly that it was these conditions rather than wage cuts previously authorized whichled to the strike call . The public representatives of the Labor Board also say that despite the strike vote " until Friday there was but little if any danger " of an actual walkout . Even now the strike can be settled , according to Mr. Stone 's statement , either by the railway executives ' withdrawal of their request for further reduction of ten per cent and the restoration of favorable working conditions , or by the Government 's taking over the railroads . Surely with labor in this frame of mind conciliatory counsels can avert the disaster of the strike . The menacing features are these : 1 . The attitude of the roads , many of which are determined to force the fighting not only for further cuts but in order utterly to break the unions . This is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has not only defied an order of the Railway Labor Board but admitted on the witness stand that his road maintained an elaborate system of espionage and its own police forces . In view of their own attitude toward Government regulation as well as of the facts leading up to the strike call , it is anything but ingenuous for the roads to call this a strike against the Government . 2 . The attitude of the press , largely controlled by big business interests , which has already jumped into the fight e on the employers ' side , thereby serving a class and not a public interest . The average American will do well to remember how completely the press misrepresented the real situation in the steel strike . Let the papers give us the real truth about railroad wages and finances . 3 . The attitude of labor itself , which has been divided in counsel and lacking in vision . The railway men ought to have been steadily advocating the constructive principles underlying the Plumb Plan and demonstrating the failure of the Esch-Cummins Law . Instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a head in the so-called outlaw strike , and have apparently fought only for wages . Nevertheless , it would be a mistake to think that the railway workers are fighting a wholly selfish battle . Whether they fully realize it or not , they are fighting for the American standard of living which , as we pointed out in a recent editorial , is steadily declining . Economic problems in this post-war period are grave . But they can not be solved by passing the-burdens of deflation to the shoulders of the farmers and workers . If the railroad directors can do what their allies the steel directors have done , and completely defeat labor , we are in for a period of the most powerful industrial autocracy the world has ever seen . The end of that kind of autocracy will be violent revolution . Better for all of us to endure even the calamities of a railroad strike than to face such a fate . Is Business Improving ? U NDOUBTEDLY there has been a slight , very slight , business improvement . For one thing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mad after-the-war speculation is at last at an end . The executives of great corporations are themselves beginning to work with that diligence and good sense which they have so vociferously been demanding of labor . Certain sore spots in the financial world have been given first aid ; later on more permanent dressings will be in order . The Guaranty Trust Company , for instance , as to whose embarrassment there has been such deadly silence in the daily press , is with the aid of J. P. Morgan and Company and many others , safe again . Had this great institution not been rescued there would have been a financial disaster of such magnitude as to make it clear that the Federal Reserve System is in itself no panacea against panics . Meanwhile , the bankers are making worthless all statistics of trade failures by bolstering up company after company which ordinarily would have been placed in the hands of receivers . A number of other concerns  --  some of them very large ones  --  will not weather the winter . A long-continued railroad strike would , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out whatever signs of improvement in railway finance are otherwise apparent . In certain lines , moreover , the situation continues extremely bad . Because of cancelations of orders and refusals to pay them , our merchants engaged in South American trade are gravely embarrassed . With sugar selling at two cents a pound the great sugar companies are in distress . Half their 1921 crops are unmarketed , and no money is on hand with which to produce the 1922 tonnage . One such concern which had twenty millions of dollars in bank in cash last May is now in dire straits for ten millions more . There is so little improvement in the iron and steel industry that the prospects now held out for lower freight rates on ore are not likely to stimulate putting into blast the idle furnaces which during August produced only 28 per cent of the normal output of pig iron . In the coal trade the public , despite official and private exhortations to buy , has in many- cities held off in the hope of lower prices . The August bituminous coal production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the other hand , the index of wholesale prices compiled by the Department of Labor shows that of 327 commodities 99 increased in price , 123 decreased and 105 remained stationary , the principal increases being in the important farm products and food groups . The situation would not be so bad if the producers got the increase the consumers pay . Where then are the really encouraging signs ? In building an increase of 11 per cent in New York and Northern New Jersey during August ; in the retail trade , according to the monthly review of the Federal Reserve Agent at New York , a " distinct advance " reported by eight mail order houses , though there is a decline in direct purchasing in the cities and individual sales are about 17 per cent smaller per sale . The bond market was surprisingly good in September . Prices have risen steadily from one-half to 4 per cent and a remarkably large number of 7 and 8 per cent offerings have been snapped up . New foreign bonds continue to be extensively advertised and are readily disposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together with the rise in value of Liberty Bonds , is the most encouraging feature of all , for such a demand for bonds is usually the forerunner of an improvement in stock market conditions . When all is said and done , however , such improvement as there is remains of a surface character . The most significant fact is that the September foreign trade showing is the worst of the year . Imports were only $180,000,000 , and exports $325,000,000 ? the latter only $5,000,000 above the export low record of this year . Together they constitute but 50 per cent of the joint figures for September , 1920 . As long as this condition continues it is idle to hope for any basic improvement or any marked decrease in unemployment . Those business men who assert that we can , and soon shall , have prosperity all our own , without regard to Europe and England , merely display their own ignorance and blindness . Until the Central Powers and Russia are again drawn into the world 's organization and Mexico is recognized there can be no hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , English bankers do not expect to see England recover her normal foreign trade for a period of from five to seven years . Yet there are still surprisingly many Americans who really believe that prosperity can be produced by incantation ; that if everybody will only say in unison : " Prosperity is coming " , it will soon appear from around the corner . The Judgment of Solomon U PPER Silesia is to be divided after all . Three months ago the French , supporting Poland through thick and thin , and the British , supporting Germany 's claim to the great industrial centers , agreed only upon one thing : that the great underground treasure-house could not be divided . The outlying districts could be parceled out to Germany or to Poland as their populations voted ; but the infinitely complicated nexus of railroads , coal mines , blast furnaces , iron mines , power-houses , electric connections , and water supply in the heart of Upper Silesia  --  the region including Tarnowitz , Beuthen , Konigshutte , Kattowitz , Hindenburg ( Zabrze ) , and Gleiwitz  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French drew compromises , . but neither of them was ready to draw a line that cut the heart in two . Finally they referred it to the League of Nations , a committee of which has decided  --  to cut the heart of the industrial region in two . Another permanent plague-spot is to be added to those other ludicrous but tragic post-war boundary lines where towns are cut off from their own railway stations , cities separated from their water supply , farms from their own fields . Less than three years ago Upper Silesia was so little known that Lloyd George , talking to an American journalist , turned to his secretary and asked , " Is it Upper or Lower Silesia that we are giving away ? " The first draft of the treaty did give Upper Silesia away . But between May 7 and June 28 , 1919 , Lloyd George and others learned more of their " gift , " and the final draft of the treaty prescribed a plebiscite in which the inhabitants were to vote by communes , after which the Interallied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inhabitants as shown by the vote , and to the geographical and economic conditions of the locality , " was to recommend a boundary line . The plebiscite was taken on March 23 last-709,340 voted to remain German , 479,747 to become Polish . But before the Inter-Allied Commission could make its recommendation , the Korfantyrevolt , long warned against by the Germans but scoffed at as impossible by the French , broke out . Polish insurgents , with the aid of a stream of munitions shipped across the Polish frontier and untrammeled by the French troops in occupation , swept across the province . The Polish Government disclaimed responsibility for the revolt which it had fathered . After two months of bitter fighting  --  the Germans have printed photographic evidence of most atrocious and revolting cruelty by the Poles  --  an armistice was finally arranged . The Supreme Council sat in August but could reach no solution ; so , in lightsome fashion , it referred the problem to the League . The League Commission has just made a report of which we know only the bare outlines . Solomon-like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biblical mothers , neither Germany nor Poland is likely to renounce its share . Some newspaper correspondents report a hybrid proposal by which Upper Silesia , politically hall Polish and half German , would have " economic unity " with the same monetary basis and a common railway and industrial administration  --  but such an arrangement , perpetuating the conflict , postponing the decision , and continuing the reasons for terrorism , would be even worse than a straight line . Other correspondents report the League rather as imitating the first Nicholas of Russia , who , when his engineers proposed alternative routes for the Moscow-St . Petersburg railway , took his ruler , drew a straight line which ignored swamps , hills , or settlements , and said , " Make it so . " The League makes it so . Let us not ignore the difficulty of the task . In this industrial nexus the cities voted heavily German ; most of the country districts voted less heavily Polish . No straight line separating those who voted Polish from those who voted German was possible . Nor could any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic complexity of the region , and yet divided it . To the statesman there were but two alternatives  --  to give the region entire to either Germany or Poland . The outlying districts could have been  --  and were in the later compromise proposals  --  allotted to Poland or to Germany , as their peoples voted ; the " chapeau , " the three-cornered industrial region that looked like a Napoleonic cockade on the map , was an economic as well as political unit . But politics triumphed over statesmanship ; Poland 's proved incapacity for government was set aside and she is given more than she had any right , on the record of history , of the plebiscite , or of Europe 's economic needs , to expect . She wins not only the rich undeveloped mineral wealth of Pless and Rybnik ; she is given also , according to report , the great centers of Beuthen and KOnigshiitte , which voted three to one German , and Kattowitz , which voted six to one for Germany . The pet of French policy does well on paper . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she has already perpetuated Russian hate . If in her administration of her new wealth she shows no greater competence than she has thus far shown within her present boundaries she may in the end win the hatred of France , too . For France also suffers by the decision . Even French statesmen today- admit that Germany , to pay her debts , is taxing her resources to the limit ; with this wealth-producing region cut off from her , her strength is still less . This diplomatic victory for France and Poland is likely to mean the early fall of the Wirth cabinet , fighting to pay the reparations in full . In the end it may well mean economic disaster for both Germany and France , and so for all Europe .                     