@@487287

OULD you vote for a Tammany Hall roughneck like ' Al ' Smith ? Would you have ' Al ' spitting tobacco juice about the White House as he does in the Governor 's room at Albany ? Do you believe in electing to the Presidency a man who drinks too much for his own good , and is- politically a rampant Wet ? Would you vote for a Catholic in the White House ? Do you believe in having as President a man who boasts that he has never read a book ? Would you place in his hands the critical foreign affairs of this country when he does not know the difference between Albania and Abyssinia , or Angora and Anatolia ? Ca n't we find a single gentleman in all America to grace the White House ? " These are the questions one hears whenever Alfred Smith 's candidacy for the Presidency is discussed among the privileged and the prosperous . You can not listen to them without becoming . convinced that Governor Smith , if nominated by the Democrats next June , will become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion will be a fatal bar ; to millions more his opposition to prohibition will- be unforgivable . To multitudes of others " Al " Smith is still a Tammany heeler wearing a brown- derby on one ear with a cigar in one corner of his mouth , who by dint of the aid of Tammany Hall has succeeded in having himself elected Governor of New York no less than four times ; reluctantly only do they concede his ability , his industry , his extraordinary talent for administration . They are unmoved by the fact that " Al " Smith 's appeal is to the common people of Abraham Lincoln ; they want in the White House what is known as- a gentleman , a- Wilson , a Taft , a Roosevelt . They are not willing to grant had his sentence commuted although not a soul appeared before the Governor to ask for his life ? Because to the Governor that fact made it seem his especial duty to inquire into the case . If the man had no friends then the Governor must be his public defender , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come to pass . So personally he inquired into the facts and personally he decided that the man should not die . It is not difficult to appeal to his sympathies , and yet the man who sits behind the Governor 's desk at Albany is no soft and malleable person . Like many another man in public life he has grown harder with each year , and is often irritable . He is developing the impatience of the man who is master , of his job and finds it harder and harder to put up with the ineptitudes , the fumbling , and the dulness or selfishness of the stream of persons who come to him for every conceivable purpose . He can do and still often does an extremely kindly act  --  even for a man he dislikes . But his glance is more steely , his determination more fixed . He can still tell a funny story , but when he ends it and becomes the Governor again he is the hard-bitten public official , with deep lines in his face and all the dignity and self-possession and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the White House . He has his play hours , he can unbend , but the years of office-holding and of exercising great authority are leaving their marks . When he hits out now he hits straighter and harder than ever , as his political adversaries know well . Never before has the business of the State marched along as under Governor Smith . He has worn himself out on it ; it is the " breath of his body ; the life of his soul . It fascinates him beyond anything else . A public document is his novel ; a complicated set of figures entertains him more than a theater . An extraordinarily retentive memory makes it possible for him to get up on his feet and be cross-examined as to the business of the State for hours on end without ever making a slip or hesitating for a figure . He works early and he works late ; he knows where to get his material and he knows just whom to turn to in order to have that material put into the best shape for his use . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without hesitation , in their entirety , suggestions that come to him from men and women whom he completely trusts . Public life has been his high school , his college , his post-graduate course , and when a supreme test came to him in the Constitutional Convention in New York in 1915 he proved how well he had learned . There were great public men , distinguished lawyers , and scholars in that convention , but " Al " Smith , the product of Tammany Hall , outshone them all . More than that , he has graduated from the sophistries and the bunk of the ordinary politician . He spoke with amazing frankness in that Constitutional Convention . He often deliberately pokes fun at men in public life , exposes their absurdities and hypocrisies with all that flair for acting which has been his since the days of early youth . His devotion to his task is beyond all question . He has been for years planning for the Presidency , but he has been shrewd enough to see that the best way to move in that direction was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he has publicly scorned those of his predecessors who tried to be Governors of New York when they had their eyes riveted upon the White House . This is the man who has such a hold upon the voters of the State of New York that he has only to express his opposition to a constitutionalamendment to have it snowed under by more than a half million votes , who can be Governor of New York as long as he wishes to . He has won the confidence of the great Mass of Republicans and Democrats , and he has merited it . He has been the best Governor , all in all , that New York has ever had . Let us go back to our questions . Does " Al " drink and does he drink too much ? Well , I am reliably informed that he drinks every day , and the number of his cocktails and highballs is variously estimated at from four to eight . It is positively denied that he is ever intoxicated , much gossip to the contrary notwithstanding . He is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for that consistency he is to be praised . Every journalist knows dozens of nauseating political hypoCrites who will go before any W. C. T. U. meeting , eulogize the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead Act , and then go and get drunk a few doors away ; every journalist knows Senators and Congressmen who " vote Dry and drink Wet " wherever they happen to be ; who , like the eminent Warren G. Harding , will uphold the cause of temperance and indulge in hard liquor to the wee sma ' hours . One may differ with " Al " Smith on his attitude toward prohibition , but no one can call him a hypocrite . One may regret with all one 's heart , as does the writer of these lines , that , being in an exalted position , he can not set an example of abstinence to the millions whose State he governs , but at least one knows where he stands . If there be any Progressive who puts the prohibition issue above all others he will , of course , vote against " Al @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to vote against a large majority of our politicians ? " Wet " and " Dry . " Could I vote for a Catholic for the Presidency ? I certainly could and I certainly have voted for Catholics for lesser offices , and to the best of my ability I propose to repel , wherever I can , as utterly unworthy of America , the suggestion that a man 's religion has anything whatsoever to do with his fitness for the Presidency or for any other office . If there are persons so small as to believe that a vote for Smith is a vote for the Pope when Smith 's cabinet at Albany at this moment contains only one Catholic to thirteen Protestants and one Jew , they belong in the class with those who still believe that women are nationalized in Russia , and that the Jews are organized in a gigantic con ' spiracy to control the world and to commit ritual murders on the sly . One may search " Al " Smith 's record at Albany 4from end to end only to find that if anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned . The Republicans , having tried their utmost for years to find something damaging to Alfred Smith , have never yet dared to insinuate that in choosing men and women for office he has been influenced by the religion they profess . The Catholic church blunders almost as badly in our ' politics as does the more powerful Methodist church . It ' has cardinals and archbishops who are stupid enough to dabble in politics and so afford ammunition to those who are determined that no Catholic shall ever enter the White House . But the average plain American , if he believes in ' fair play and a square deal , will never be kept from voting for " Al " Smith because he grew up in the Catholic church . The final proof of this is that in a Presidential year , 1920 , he won a million more votes in New York State than did the Protestant Democratic candidate for the Presidency . Well , what are the policies for which Governor Smith has stood at Albany ? They are unquestionably progressive ones . One often doubts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and socialism , notably that at Cornell in 1919 , whether he really knows how far-reaching some of his own recommendations are , whether he has the faintest idea as to what socialism really is . I have frequently quoted from his annual message to the Legislature in January , 1920 , the following nine recommendations : 1 . A minimum wage . 2 . The eight-hour day for all women workers . 3 . Maternity insurance for expectant mothers . 4 . The extension of workmen 's compensation to cover occupational illnesses and accidents . 5 . The appointment of State physicians and nurses in rural communities now destitute of medical aid , in cooperation with those communities . 6 . The ownership , development , and operation of all water-powers in the State . 7 . State-owned and operated grain elevators in three cities , after the manner of the Nonpartisan League experiments in North Dakota . - 8 . Control and supervision. ? of the entire milk supply of the City of New York on the theory that every child is as much entitled to pure milk as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ municipal operation of public utilities . This from a man who declares : " I am unalterably opposed to the fundamental principles of the Socialist Party ! " Of these nine proposals , four have actually been accepted by the State . Some of these recommendations go further than those of any socialistic platform I can remember , especially his insistence that the State guarantee to the child as pure milk as he is now  --  supposedly  --  guaranteed pure water and fresh air . It is perfectly obvious that if a Eugene Debs or a Victor Berger had offered a platform like this , the great New York dailies would have rent him limb from limb for his dangerous radicalism . Think of that suggestion of " Al 's " that the State begin the socialization of the medical and nursing professions by taking over the doctors and nurses to supply the communities that are without them ! Is n't that dangerously socialistic ? As for his recommendation of State grain elevators , that came first when the New York Times and our other great journalistic saviors of society were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grain elevators and otherwise putting the government into private business ; yet no one denounced Smith . Viewed from the standpoint of the days of Grover Cleveland , Alfred E. Smith is a dangerous radical . Adequately to set forth the progressive measures he has sponsored in addition to those mentioned above , would take almost an entire issue of The Nation . He has from the beginning fought for better working conditions for men , women , and children . His greatest opportunity to improve working conditions came in consequence of the Triangle factory fire with its terrible sacrifice of 145 girls ' lives . The Legislature constituted an investigating commission of which the present Senator Wagner and " Al " Smith were the chief and the most useful politiCal members . In consequence the session of .1913 was marked by the passage of an unprecedented number of labor bills , epoch-making in their improvement of labor conditions in the Empire State . Smith not only sponsored these bills but fought them through the Legislature . As a result the State Federation of Labor declared : " We doubt if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Empire State in its present code of labor laws . " Read any one of his annual messages and it is amazing how many subjects he touches upon that relate to the social progress of the people of his State . Take that of January 6 , 1926 , for example . It records the fact that New York leads the country in human-welfare activities . It deals with education , public health , institutional care , conditions of employment , housing , recreation , child welfare , and the rehabilitation of the unfortunate . Through " Al " Smith 's activities a hundred million will have been spent upon the institutions of the State which had been gradually falling behind the needs of the people during the administrations of his predecessors . He has consistently built for the future , especially for the ever-growing army of insane , thanks in large part to the fifty-million bond issue which he obtained from the State . It is largely because he has had to build for the past and the future that he has had so heavily to increase the expenditures of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his extravagance . Apropos of his financial policies the Governor annually issues a financial statement of the State 's situation which is a model of clearness and compactness  --  comparable only to the best bank statements . In the message of January , 1926 , also he asked that the Legislature declare that labor is not a commodity and demanded a revision of the use of the injunction in labor disputes . He appealed once more for the forty-eight hour week- for women and minors , and for a minimum-wage board . He asked for an extension of the emergency rent laws and set forth a plan for the solution of the tenement problem in New York City which was in large part adopted by the Legislature , with the exception of his plan for the creation of a State Housing Bank similar to the Federal Land Bank , which proved too socialistic for the Republican leaders . ( But the Governor still thinks that they will have to come to it if the bad tenement is to be eradicated . ) To the question of the parks he has given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than his refusal to allow rich property owners- of tremendous political and social influence to divert him from his plan to establish State parks on Long Island  --  the owners of large estates did not want the " masses from New York " pouring out in their direction . He has been a genuine social crusader , and there is no doubt that this is largely due to his admirable group of advisers . It must be admitted , however , that they could have done nothing for him had he not had an open mind and a remarkably sympathetic understanding and appreciation of the needs of the people of his State . You can talk social reform to a hundred men ; only those will react whose hearts and minds are attuned to the gospel preached . Even more to Governor Smith 's credit is his keeping his head during and immediately after the war . He talked of course the usual-lies about the war and its aims during that struggle , but with much less hate and bitterness than did most others , and he refused to see red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James Larkin and other political prisoners . He opposed the stupid and un-American ousting of the Socialists from the Assembly in 1920 , promptly invited them to his home and called a special election at which all of the five Socialists were reelected . He vetoed the bill permitting teachers to be questioned regarding their loyalty and political views , with a penalty of dismissal if their views were not entirely satisfactory to their examiners , and he also vetoed a bill requiring private schools to submit their courses of study to the State for approval . He vetoed a third bill under which the Attorney General could institute proceedings before the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court against any candidate whose views he considered radical . His are admirable veto messages ; there is dispute as to who wrote them , but there can be none as to the name signed to them and as to Governor Smith 's entire belief in them . As Mr. Henry F. Pringle has said of them , they are statesmanlike papers and they throw much light on a side of the Gover- ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They prove , like his opposition to a censorship  --  though he did sign one bill to padlock theaters producing improper plays  --  that he is opposed to abridgment of freedom of thought and utterance , and that he has sympathy and tolerance for views other than his awn . Finally , I must also mention his admirable water-power policy upon which he has fought all the great power combinations within the State , to prevent the exploitation by private capitalistic interests of what is the heritage of all the people . Again , he has done everything possible to develop the State Barge Canal , except to furnish the traffic that it so sorely needs to justify itself , and he has advocated whole-heartedly its use by the - federal government as a part of the proposed ship canal from the Great Lakes to the sea . In all of these matters his course has been truly progressive and beyond criticism . In conclusion , I do not urge all Progressives to support Smith . By no means . He has still much to do and much to say before Progressives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Tammany man ; against its excesses and wrongdoing in New York he never protests publicly , although he has at times used his influence to procure better nominations or to compel the Hall to indorse a bi-partisan judiciary candidate . But about the corruption of the courts and the police and the elections he has nothing to say ? Tammany still steals elections with utmost brazenness . It remains an organization for public plunder . It is outwardly whiter ; it has better figureheads and has drawn some fine young men into its ranks who hold the futile old idea that an organization like this may be reformed from within . It no longer waxes rich out of petty pilfering from prostitutes and gamblers and saloonkeepers and the criminals it licenses to prey upon the community ; it makes its money much more easily , but on a much larger scale . As for the prohibition issue , Governor Smith must tell the public exactly where he will stand if elected , whether he will continue to have his drinks in the White House or not , and whether he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he remains an unknown quantity . It is true that in 1926 he personally insisted that the Democratic State platform contain an indorsement of the World Court , and that in 1920 he made many speeches favoring Article X of the Covenant of the League of Nations and defending every part of the Wilson program , probably without much real understanding of what it was all about . But the public has a right to ask how he stands today . Will he again seek to put this country into the League ? And how does he stand as to the Caribbean ? Does he believe that the flag follows every American dollar across the seas and the Rio Grande ? It is much-to his credit that he has said apropos of Mexico : " My personal attitude is that . . . no country has the right to interfere in the internal affairs of any other country " ? but that is precisely what Mr. Coolidge has said while intervening in Nicaragua and threatening to intervene in Mexico . Will Governor Smith specify his position by adding to the words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and bloody interventions in Haiti , Santo Domingo , and Nicaragua " ? Will he , too , hold to the policy of a huge army and navy when the world is sick almost beyond hope of recovery from the use of force " without stint " ? Does or does he not believe in tariff reform ? As an administrator Governor Smith has no equal in America , not even in Herbert Hoover . But it is honest , radical , popular leadership that the country needs infinitely more than a great administrator in Washington . Will he always be for the people , or will he stand in the last resort with those whom Woodrow Wilson called " the bosses and their masters , the great capitalists " ? What guaranty is there that he whom the corporations have regarded so complacently in New York , whom Wall Street has never feared , will become the regulator of big business ? He has never formulated any deep-lying political philosophy . Doubtless he will be taught much , particularly about foreign affairs , before the convention meets , but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal knowledge of the national and international events of his lifetime which is so necessary to an intelligent conduct of the affairs of the Republic . Of all the candidates , Governor Smith on his record gives the fairest promise of progressive leadership along social and humanitarian lines . It is today , however , but a promise . Great masses of Americans , many of whom now never go to the polls , long for the coming of one more brave outspoken man , long again to " see one straightforward conscience put in pawn to win a world . " These voters are to be had , but they must be convinced and won . From now until June is the Governor 's opportunity to demonstrate that as he has been in New York so will he be in the nation . He in himself is to be the acid test of America 's democracy .                     