@@253595

The Near East <P> The several delegations of the contending parties arrived in Lausanne for the second installment of the Lausanne Conference . The main issues which are to be discussed have been thrust into almost indecent obscurity by the electrifying gyrations caused by the announcement of the Chester Concessions . <P> There is only one clear and visible sign discernible on the skyline of the Near East crisis which can have the effect of making everyone get down to bedrock common sense . This sign is the signal for a change of policy at Lausanne . The Allies and Turkey will have to abandon back-door diplomacy , and , in fact , leave the front door open for a good , honest and lasting settlement . This can only be done by each of the countries concerned putting its cards face up on the peace table of the conference . Will they do it ? It looks as if the Chester Concessions will force them , and so the world may come to have a simple knowledge of the great problems of making peace with Turkey in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in ratifying the concessions to Admiral Chester is so diaphanous that they can hardly be credited with their usual clever cunning . The Allies and the United States are hardly likely to fall out about these concessions , which , after all , are not so conflicting as the press makes out , when the International Court is ready to settle the whole matter in a peaceable manner . The Turks forget that they and their diplomacy are well known all over the world and especially in Europe ; thus , with everyone on the alert , the worst effect of their scheming will be to prolong the conference . If , however , the Turks are as anxious for peace as they have so consistently stated-and this is probably true , because they have everything to gain from an early peace-they will certainly allow the Allies and the United States to fight the matter out in the World Court , and themselves abide by the decision of that court . The concessions having been given , it can not be a matter of very grave importance who works them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Development Company-the Chester concern-to build series of railways across Turkey which will open up the interior of the country and facilitate transportation to the coast . Ports , canals , roads are to be built in addition . The next important project on a long list-at least the press says it is , but it has not yet been officially published-is the rebuilding of Angora on the plan of Washington . The New York Times correspondent says : " It is to be on an heroic scale with all modern require-ments-public buildings , Government offices , sanitation , avenues , parks and so forth . "                     