@@487300

I T was Elihu Root , if we remember rightly , who once declared that the Republican Party alone was fit to rule . Now not even Mr. Root , we believe , would greet this Republican Congress , as it meets again in its second session after its futile first sitting , with any such tribute . Never , we think , has the party fallen lower as a formulator of national policy ; never has an Administration , which took office with a large party majority in the House and a workable one in the Senate , achieved so little . A Republican President took charge after the most emphatic victory ever recorded  --  only to demonstrate that being a successful engineer in no wise guarantees that one is also a leader . It is plain that Mr. Hoover must in large measure bear the responsibility for his party 's debacle  --  for he can not lead . He indicates his wishes , but neither specifies just what he wants nor knows how to obtain it . His is the type of mind which grapples with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is further handicapped in that he is without a large and devoted following in the capital . It is the same Congress which is meeting again and it will produce as little as it did in the last session to benefit the public and much , we fear , that will do harm . In an hour when sound reason dictates the lowering of the tariff to open up more world markets to us in the coming period of industrial depression and consequent restriction of the home market , the Republican Party will make it much more difficult for the rest of the world to buy from us or to pay us what it owes us . A tariff bill will doubtless be put through , but the measure , no matter how much altered , will still reek with politics , compromise , expediency , and selfish aggrandizement . Even the Progressive Senators , with the outstanding exception of Senator Norris , have been so recreant to the plain people as to vote for a thirty-four cent duty on wool  --  the wool every citizen must buy unless he substitutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ K of the Payne-Aldrich Tariff of 1909 which so roused the country against Mr. Taft that the Republicans lost control of Congress in the following year . Mr. Taft himself admitted that Schedule K , levying a duty of thirty-three to thirty-six cents a pound on wool , was " indefensible . " In 1929 we find our leading Progressives voting for a thirtyfour-cent duty on this commodity . None the less the dispatches report that the Progressive group will be more than ever in control of the situation in the regular session and will continue the program of reducing the tariff slightly here and there and building it up at points where the group thinks the farmer can be protected . Their economics are utterly at fault . Except in a few cases , it is not possible to aid the farmer by the hocus-pocus of bringing him within the magic circle of protection . Nothing that can be done for him will offset the burdens he already carries as a result of the taxation of most of the things that he needs and uses . As to this , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and most honest of the recent members of the Tariff Commission at Washington , Edward P. Costigan , who served on that commission for years . In a recent address in Denver he declared that : The effort to put agriculture and manufacturing on a parity by means of the tariff is doomed to failure , so far as the great bulk of our production is concerned . The prices of approximately three-fourths of our farm products are fixed , not by the tariff , but in world markets , and if the government is to save the producers of those goods against loss , bounties rather than tariffs must do the work . Farm subsidies such as the debenture plan might partially relieve the present agricultural distress , but if high tariffs are to be maintained all along the line on manufactured goods , it appears certain that the farmer is destined to play a rapidly lessening part in our economic life . One reason is that farmers are not able to combine like manufacturers and thus limit production , divide markets , and fix prices . Accordingly while their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disastrously affected by domestic competition . The recent useless high tariff on butter is a striking case in point . The Progressives can not see that there is a moral issue in this tariff question and so they can not throw themselves whole-heartedly into defeating the tariff bill . This is but fresh evidence of the lack of statesmanship at Washington . The significant point about it all is that the present disintegration and demoralization of the Republican Party are of its own creation . We admit that there have been other times when the party seemed on the point of complete decay , when there was a shocking dearth of leadership by other than partisan spoilsmen . But what we are witnessing today is , we believe , a deeper rotting out of the party 's fiber than at any time heretofore . This is as it should be ; if its complete surrender to the masters of wealth and special privilege does not carry with it a progressive punishment in the corroding of its own spirit and membership , one will have to abandon one 's belief in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the party ever touched a lower tide in its leadership of the Senate than when it made Jim Watson of Indiana its leader and the spokesman of the President of the United States . Meanwhile , as Senator Walsh has pointed out , it does not lie in any Republican 's mouth to abuse the Democrats for striking hands with the Progressives . During the years 1919-1920 a Republican Congress deadlocked the government of Woodrow Wilson , wrecked its domestic reconstruction program , postponed tax reduction until 1921 , and deflated the farmers at an enormous cost to them . Senator Walsh 's indictment can not conceal the fact that the leadership on his side of the House is as inept , as futile , and as devoid of principle as that on the Republican . Democratic leadership , too , steadily disintegrates as the party more and more embraces the Republican policies it once professed to oppose . The tariff cancer is eating out its heart . The Democratic Party , too , is infected by imperialism , poisoned by the virus of big navalism , and unredeemed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based upon expediency rather than principle . How under these circumstances can there be any hesitation on the part of liberals in turning to the task of creating a new party free of corruption and sincerely devoted to the welfare of the masses ? Mr. Stimson oyes 0 F real significance is the action of the United States in appealing to fifty-three nations , signers of the Kellogg Peace Pact , to unite in bringing pressure upon Russia and China to stop further hostilities and settle their dispute over the Chinese Eastern Railway . That the action is a belated one is true , for it came after Russia and Mukden had apparently settled their differences so as to make intervention by the rest of the world superfluous . It is not even clear that there ever existed a state of war save in the minds of certain excited reporters and in the frantic reports sent out from Chinese sources at the time of their appeal to the League of Nations and to Washington for help . None the less , even if this state of affairs makes Secretary Stimson 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that it establishes first , that the United States Government is taking the Kellogg Peace Pact seriously and , second , that it has created a precedent according to which the nations may act when future emergencies arise . It would plainly have been far better had Mr. Stimson waited either to ascertain the facts as to the reported collisions in Manchuria between Chinese and Russian troops  --  he admits that he is only " credibly informed " ? or if China and Russia had settled their grievances before he moved . But the point is that the Government of the United States has shown a moral responsibility in the matter of its signature to the Peace Pact which is worthy of acclaim . China , it will be recalled , last July summarily ousted the Russian officials of the Chinese Eastern Railway , the great artery of North Manchuria , and stook over entire control of that Sino-Russian enterprise . The Chinese alleged Russian propaganda as their excuse , but even if these complaints were true they constituted no legal basis for violent seizure of the railroad . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials and , when China refused , broke most of the remaining threads of their diplomatic relations . War seemed imminent . Geneva almost boiled over with large ideas of peaceful intervention by the League . Unfortunately , Soviet Russia was not a member of the League , and had shown a certain resentment of that body 's hoity-toity attitude . Now the Kellogg Pact has no " implementation , " no machinery for enforcement , but since the ratifications are deposited at Washington , it seemed appropriate for Mr. Stimson to recall to Russia and to China that both had pledged themselves not to seek settlement of their disputes except by pacific means . It might have seemed even more appropriate and , what is more important , more effective , if the State Department had not refused to soil its hands by direct contact with the Russians . It had to work through the astute M. Briand in Paris , and the message seems to have been garbled in transmission . The Chinese had made a miscalculation . They reckoned that the Bolshevik-hating Powers , particularly Japan , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was the Chinese who were seizing private property . The Japanese saw very clearly that what was sauce for the partly Russian-owned Chinese Eastern Railway in North Manchuria might some day be sauce for their own railways in South Man-churia and they were heart and soul with the Russians . Russia brought up troops and , along the wild frontier , there were frequent but unimportant border skirmishes . Chinese news agencies made battles out of fist fights , but their wild exaggerations soon discredited them . Meanwhile , the soy-bean crop was not moving , and the Chinese farmers in Manchuria complained . Soon a split in Chinese opinion appeared . The Manchurian Government wanted peace at almost any price so that normal business could resume , and traffic flow freely to Vladivostok . The Nationalists , at their far-away capital in Nanking , stood on prestige and refused to yield a jot or tittle . But when a series of rebellions lessened the authority of Nanking , Mukden plucked up its courage and , at first secretly , resumed conversations with Moscow . Nanking apparently heard of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tremendous Russian invasion of Manchuria . ( The early reports announced capture Of certain towns by the Russians ; a week later the same Chinese news agencies were solemnly reporting bombardments of the towns which they had reported captured ! ) Geneva was eager to help , but did not see how to do it . Mr. Stimson , however , stepped forward again with the hallowed Kellogg Pact in his hands . He wanted , he said , " joint international " action for peace . Unfortunately , his words were larger than his capacity for action . Japan , for instance , has always been conspicuously averse to joint international action in Manchuria . Politely , of course , but firmly , she told Mr. Stimson to keep out . But Mr. Stimson had apparently so far committed himself as to have to go on in his appeal to the other nations and to cry " Peace , Peace " when there was no war . The bomb of peace burst . The Russians calmly announced that they had made peace on their own terms with Mukden . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Germany is finally being discussed ; after several delays , Franco-German negotiations started at Paris on November 21 . If an agreement satisfactory to both sides is reached , a large obstacle to Franco-German rapprochement will have been removed . More than three years have elapsed since the famous Thoiry luncheon when the return of the Saar was first broached . Finally , at The Hague , Briand and Stresemann in an exchange of notes dated August 30 , 1929 , agreed to discuss the matter " shortly at Paris . " An excellent spirit of conciliation seems to have marked the opening of the negotiations , and while the delicacy and difficulty of the problem presage a long conference , nevertheless the beginnings are auspicious . Most important of all , the discussions may be viewed as a move toward a peaceful revision of the sacred Versailles treaty . Although originally arranged by M. Briand 's more liberal government , the negotiations are being carried on by the Right Ministry of M. Tardieu . It will be recalled that at the Paris Peace Conference France attempted to annex the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal resources . The population of 800,000 is at least 90 per cent German , but the Versailles treaty provides that " as compensation for the destruction of the coal mines in the north of France and as part payment toward , the total reparation , " Germany should cede to France the " full and absolute " ownership of the coal mines of the Saar basin . These mines are today operated by the Mining Administration of the French Government . Furthermore , Germany renounced the government of the area in favor of the League of Nations as trustee . According to the treaty , this regime is to be in force for fifteen years , or until 1935 , when a plebiscite is to determine whether the population wishes to continue under the present League regime , to be united with France , or to return to Germany . In case of the latter contingency , Germany must repurchase the mines at a price payable in gold . As provided by the treaty , the Saar has been governed by a commission of five members appointed by the League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ composed of thirty representatives elected by the Saar inhabitants . The council is responsible to the League , and the Saar people have the right to send petitions to the League Council through the commission . This right has been frequently invoked , especially during the first troubled years after the war when the French exercised a preponderant influence in the governing commission . During that period the harassed Saarlander looked to the League as their only hope . On the economic side the introduction of the French franc into the territory in 1923 saved the inhabitants from some of the worst consequences of the German inflation , although in 1926 they suffered from the decline of the franc . The Saar forms part of the French customs system and has therefore not been cut off from the iron derived from the neighboring Lorraine . Besides having the advantages of the French market , since February , 1928 , a Franco-German commercial agreement which supplemented and extended two arrangements concluded in 1926 has provided the heavy industry of the Saar with a better German market . To appreciate the importance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the background of French policy in the Saar qince the armistice . During the first years France tried very hard to consolidate her position ; she seems to have hoped that the 1935 plebiscite might result favorably for heii and to have acted accordingly . Doubtless some of the grievances of the Saarl  --  nder as to French propaganda in the schools and attempts at Frenchification were exaggerated . But the continued presence of French troops ( until 1926 ) and the preponderant French influence on the governing commission did not tend to soothe the Germans . M. Briand , however , evidently views the Saar problem in its proper relation to the larger question of liquidation of the war . Furthermore , he realizes that were a plebiscite held it would result in at least a 90 per cent vote for reunion with Germany . The return , five years early , of territory which France must surely give up in time would be a gesture which Paris could well afford to make . It is generally assumed that a small group in the powerful Comite des Forges comprises the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , aside from the politicians of the Right , to whom any change in the Versailles treaty is an anathema . It is the task of the present conference to safeguard the interests of the French industrialists who are said to have invested at least $20,000,000 in the territory . The very fact that a delegation of sixteen Germans has been cordially received at Paris to discuss these questions augurs well for a peaceful revision of the Saar clauses of the Treaty of Versailles . Ships by Order F OR wise and far-sighted bureaucratic autocracy commend us to the Postmaster General , Walter F. Brown , lately politician in ordinary at Toledo and now economist extraordinary . This gentleman has decided to follow the President 's example and ward off by executive fiat bad times in shipyards . Summoning before him officials of the United States Lines , Mr. Brown informed them that in order to receive any mail contracts their company must expend during the next eight years $150,000,000 for the construction of three giant super-liners capable of crossing the Atlantic in less than five days to compete with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of doing twenty knots an hour , and of four passenger-and-freight ships of 12,000 tons and eighteen knots . As soon as they are completed these steamers will graciously be permitted to earn mail subsidies at the rate of $30,000,000 in ten years . Thus will Mr. Brown create , with a magic wand , a fleet to make English , German , and French shipmasters tremble in their boots , to carry American mail , with American poststamps , in American bottoms , under the American flag . It is an alluring picture , certain to stir the hearts of all our nationalists and our navalists , who desire a large reserve merchant fleet . Unfortunately , the officials Mr. Brown summoned are plainly not good patriots ; instead of praising Mr. Brown , as him from whom all ship-blessings flow , they had the impudence to suggest that he had overlooked one small matter  --  where the passengers and freight for this new fleet would come from . This is of course a mere trifle ; yet these officials dare to assert that $30,000,000 will not keep a fleet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is supplemented by other earnings , especially as the company already has the Leviathan and eleven other vessels to keep afloat . But why should that concern Mr. Brown ? If it will head off bad times to announce that these new ships are to be built , why should this great economist hesitate ? Let the company work out the details and provide the earnings ; his job is to furnish the ideas . The only difficulty is that when the company last year bought the United States and American Merchant Lines it stipulated that it should build only two super-liners . It can thus refuse to accept the new proposal . But the wily Mr. Brown is ready for such a refusal . He has let it be suggested that if the United States Lines will not see its duty " other interests which are already identified with shipping lines , such as J. P. Morgan and Company , might be found ready " to do so . It is a case of put up or shut up shop . We are convinced that , since patriotism calls and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to honor the super-economics of Mr. Brown and waive all obstacles . Why should carpers point out that the world is only just overcoming a vast surplus of tonnage ; that Italians , Germans , English , and French are all planning super-liners and the Russians a fleet of 600 ships ; that no one knows whether or not the four-and-a-half-day liner will pay ; that no trade is so dependent on prosperity as is the Atlantic service , and that no one can foretell what shipping conditions will be eight years hence ? The Postmaster General knows best . Let us all do his will .                     