@@493337

Scientifically defined . The buyer knows exactly what - .. he is getting ; the manufacturer knows exactly what he has to produce . Competition must then descend from the cloudy heights of sales appeals and brag- gadocio generally , to just one factor ? price . Who can meet the specification at the lowest price ? Quality being predetermined , there is no longer any argument as to who furnishes the " best " product ? there is n't any best or worst to furnish except as the product may be better than the required minimum for  - -  the grade in question . And down the trapdoor goes on all the advertising and all the salesmanship which falls under the general head of persuasion ? to use no harsher terms . Down goes the . distribution overhead , and with it the cost of the delivered article . Secondly , when competition is on price only , a battering ram begins to operate on profit margins . The manufacturer who shades his profit per unit the most , is likely to get the order . Down goes the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distribution at a small margin of profit per unit ? the Ford-Filene idea . Both manufacturer and consumer benefit . Thirdly , the manufacturing process itself tends to become simplified . It is no longer necessary to make so many styles and variations on the chance of catching the consumer 's eye . " Special features , " fancy packages , drop out of the picture . One can produce in large units ; one has a better chance of " balancing the load " in plant operation . Thus the concern - which now makes the government 's ink has divested itself of all snappy executives and expensive trappings , and in a plain but well lighted loft in downtown New York , bends all its energies to making good ink , day in day out , with no fear of seasonal - Variations , fluctuations , or market upsets during the present contract . Less romance perhaps , but more ' sound workmanship . With the drop in thanufactur- ing costs , doWn goes the price again . Fourthly ? and this is a category of the utmost - importance ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a position to buy for a specific purpose . If tests have made it clear that a cheaper product or a lower grade or a different product will adequately meet his need , he can buy the cheaper article and save the difference . He no longer has to protect himself by paying the highest price , fearing that cheaper grades sill be adulterated , or go wrong . How often have , you and I paid through the nose because our only test of quality was the highest price in sight ? For Certain uses , the Society of Automobile Engineers reported that lubricating oil costing twenty cents a gallon was as good as oil at $1.35 . It met the specification , and the purpose , at one-seventh the cost . Tests show that certain hardware in ten-cent stores has just as good steel as hardware in stores where the price is two or three times as much . The latter article has a little fancier handle , but for a .. given use , the tools are identical . Government research finds that for many uses reworked wool @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that certain limestones make better building material for specific uses than sandstones ? thus upsetting an ancient dogma . If and when the consumer can be guaranteed by test and specification that the cheaper grade meets his purpose as well or better , down goes the price again . Fifthly , buying to specification eliminates all possibility of deliberate adulteration . It drives the specious , the jerry-built , the actively hurtful from the market . Such products often represent a dead loss of manpower and raw material in the making , to say nothing of the terrific overhead burden of astute salesmanship which now keeps them on the market . In the aggregate this too will operate to lower prices by eliminating waste . Now we are in a position to see why the government can buy materials at only a fraction of the cost which the general consumer must pay . The government secures a certain , and on some goods a unique advantage , to be sure , because it buys in large quantities , but over and above this factor , are the five channels of saving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ varnish from $4.37 to $1.44 , the saving had nothing whatever to do with quantity purchases . It was due to the debunking process alone . A group of small consumers buying to specification may well equal one large government purchase , and while the physical cost of distribution to the small consumers must inevitably be more , and so increase the cost somewhat , the larger savings of the five channels are potentially identical for both . There are billions to be won if the consumer ? both ultimate and intermediate ( like the cement industry ) ? can follow the example of the federal government in purchasing material . information as to comparative quality -- as exemplified in testing automobiles ? is one arm of the technique ; buying to specifications which flow from tests and research is the other . Who shall conduct the tests , and what are the practicable possibilities of making the method available to the general consumer , will be considered in a subsequent article . STUART CHASE AND F. J. SCHLINK . A Georgian Anthology Never was landscape quite so clipped and callow As this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawns the water-color lovers Stray through the copse where kine and crocus follow ; And elms ? elms lonely , leaning , haunted , hollow ? Are packed with thrushes , wrens and wheeling plovers As , over every sprig of thyme , there hovers At least one curlew or nostalgic swallow . Here , far beyond the reach of life or trams , A world composed of ever-verdant vales Is thick with darkling wings and thrice-told tales , Blackbirds and buttercups and gentle darns ; While , from the hawthorn , immemorial lambs Keep moonlit trysts with deathless nightingales.                     