@@219999

THE LITTLE CHURCH AROUND THE CORNER . The cast is split in half . Half of it are capitalists , dancing and frittering away their time and their millions . The other half are coal-miners , holding up the ballroom floor for them to dance on . Eventually , when the mine caves in , the work of rescue is carried on very effectively by the mine owner 's prospective son-in-law , who is also a minister . THE LEOPARDESS . There are two kinds of collectors in this picture . One , a man named Quaigg ( Montagu Love ) , collects leopards and women . Another , Croft , collects butterflies . Quaigg , touring the South Seas with his leopardess , gathers up a little half-caste ( Alice Brady ) . He does not believe in altering methods once successful , so he treats the girl and the leopardess very similarly . When the butterfly collector , Croft , tries to see what kindness will do and explains to her that Quaigg is taking advantage of her aboriginal innocence , Quaigg throws him overboard . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Quaigg turns the leopardess on the captive girl , but , seeing a whip in her hand , the animal hastily changes her spots and disposes of Quaigg instead . Croft and the girl head back for the South Seas again . SUZANNA . There is a considerable confusion of babies and husbands in this picture . Suzanna ( Mabel Normand ) is a little Mexican lady who was changed in her cradle in order that she might be poor for the first part of the picture and rich at the end of it . She is just getting herself married to the villain , a dashing bull fighter , while the hero marries Dolores , who is not a particularly nice girl , when everything gets balled up again . The hero bolts at his altar , seizes Suzanna from her altar , and gallops off at a terrible rate . Follows a duel on horseback-with the girl hanging on at some cost to her dignity-and a final readjustment and exchange of mates . GRUMPY . Theodore Roberts does to perfection the part in which Cyril Maude triumphed on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his shawl about his shoulders , his shrewd eyes and his big magnifying glass . The plot is comparatively unimportant . It is about the stolen diamond and how Grumpy followed it to the shoeheel of the amiable villain . The chief clue is a gardenia with a woman 's hair wrapped around it .                     