@@467133

CINTLIZATION in Washington on the night of June 21. 1919 , seemed a remote thing , a curious abstraction in the mouths of diplomatists and writers . Had the nation 's capital been a German city during the Thirty Years ' War , and the streets the prize of whichever party could hold them , the scenes enacted there might have been appropriate . Crowds were massed along Pennsylvania Avenue . Rioters , led by men in the uniform of the United States Marine Corps , streamed past the Treasury Building within view of the White House . Army trucks roared through the streets filled with soldiers , bayonets fixed ; cavalry pressed their horses against maddened men to hold them back . Along U Street , in the negro residence district , there was ominous darkness and silence more menacing than any furious outcry of a crowd , a silence punctuated by an occasional spatter of shots ; the streets were filled with sauntering dark men , not a white face among them . Upper windows were lined with watching eyes . Every one waited , intent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rumor swept its length and stirred its colored residents as the wind tosses standing grain . God and the government seemed to have deserted them . They had heard that mobs were on their way to pillage and assault and burn , and so in that blackness and silence colored men , with no more than a glance or a word in undertone to one another , were on the streets , armed , to defend their homes and their families . Closed shops , little round holes in plate-glass windows , told the tale of what had passed . A white man who should have attempted to traverse U Street unaccompanied by a colored man CXL. ? tio 838. - 68that night , unless he were one of fifty marines in a flying motor-truck , would not have told the tale . Elsewhere in the gay city , outside hotels and clubs , colored men on their way home from work in government buildings were being set upon , their faces beaten to bloody pulp , or were being followed and jeered and bullied by the groups sweeping the streets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Knoxville , Omaha , and Hoop Spur and Elaine in Arkansas , to remind the nation of its derelictions , In all those , as in many another city of the United States to-day , the powder was laid for explosion , awaiting only the match to the fuse . Never , perhaps , in the history of the country has there been more intense hatred and distrust of white and colored men for one another , and never has the need been greater that the so-called race problem he seized , laid open to discussion , and thrust before the intelligence and the conscience of citizens . Washington and other centers of conflict have shown that government has very nearly failed before the task of enabling white and colored races to live side by side . And that failure , expressed in the primitive hatreds and furies that would destroy government itself , is illumined by the lurid flames of bonfires in which black men twist and turn in agony as they burn , chained , before gloating crowds . In the presence of the growing menace of race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life , intelligent men have expressed indifference or hopelessness . " The negro problem is insoluble , " one hears it said , and in the absence of planned approach , race relations are left in the hands of mobs to adjust , or are referred to editors who suggest fantastic expedients like the export of the country 's 12,000,000 colored people to Africa . Among colored people , too , their status in this land has become an acute question . Caught up in the idealism of war-time , fired , many of them , with conceptions of patriotism and democracy , they were thrust back rudely from what their sacrifices seemed to promise . As hope of better opportunity receded , despair and a dark determination not to go down ingloriously and supinely came in its place . Many a colored man , disillusioned and embittered , has said openly , and many more have had the thought , unspoken , " I 'm going to die anyhow ? I might as well die fighting . " To this the reply has been , from editorial columns of white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? that the negro is 12,000,000 in 110,000,000 ; let him try to rest his case on armed conflict , and he will be exterminated . At this point discussion ominously lags . Unless Americans are cynical as to the efficacy of intelligence and believe that blind and uncontrollable forces must dominate their national life , it is time to begin setting their cellar of race relations in order . As a preliminary to the letting in of light , be it said that few Americans , if any , have made outstanding contributions to the literature of race relations . The North is only beginning fully to realize the burden which it shares jointly with the South . The South , which has always insisted it knew the negro and could handle the problem , has apparently failed ? as the war-time migration and the present tensity of feeling show ? of any solution . For to know the negro and to study race relations is a business which must enlist the scientist and the despised professor the an-thropologist , the sociologist , the psychologist , the ethnologist , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the utmost freedom of investigation and open-mindedness as to results . But thatis precisely what Americans have not had . With many white Americans it is impossible to discuss the race question at all ; they will tell you there is nothing to discuss , that they know the " nigger , " and that they know , too , how to show him his place . And thousands of persons are ready to describe exactly the place which God has allotted to the " nigger . " Something of the cost to the nation of its race prejudice , especially of the race prejudice in the South , has been indicated by Mr. George Elliott Howard of the University of Nebraska .. It has absorbed intellectual energy in maintaining dogmas ; it has sterilized thought in other directions . " Where , " asks Mr. Howard , " is the ethical , psychological , anthropological , or economic monograph , the result of accredited modern scientific methods , produced by a representative of the Southern white caste ? Indeed , he could hardly approach such a study in the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alone can lead to scientific truth . " For the ostrich habit with the race problem ? a habit of fleeing it or denying its existence ? this country is punished with sterility of thought , with a vicious circle of misinformation and violence . Ignorance breeds hatred and violence , out of which springs more ignorance . If the citizen of Ireland was maligned by grotesque representation of him on the vaudeville stage , the negro is even more misrepresented in newspapers and public discussion . It is commonly assumed and stated that the negro is " inferior " ; that he is lazy and shiftless ; that his mind is not adapted to the more complicated processes of government ; that his vitality is low ; that mulattoes are sterile and subject to disease ; " that , " as a witty burlesque of the American credo has it , " whenever a negro is educated he refuses to work and becomes a criminal . " The negro 's enemies malign him ; his friends often feel it necessary to patronize him . The great mythology about the negro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alleged fact is even stronger than fiction , begins with Africa . Savagery is an exclusive term which fails to register , as does Mr. Robert H. Lowie , Assistant Curator of the American Museum of Natural History , that " momentous ideas may be conceived by what we regard as inferior races , " and that " eminent ethnologists suggest that the discovery of the iron technique is due to the negroes . " The pictures which are current of lazy black bucks in an African jungle , worshiping marvelously ugly wooden idols and awaiting the arrival of rum and missionaries to make them civilized , hardly stands before the reports of explorers and the researches of ethnologists and anthropologists . It would he news to many Americans who " know the nigger " that in their native land of Africa negroes " are not only conversant with the art of metallurgy , which is possibly their own invention , but are conspicuous for their ability to form large and powerful political states , and have shown at least the ability of assimilating the culture of Islam . If we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the average not with the highest products of Dutch , Danish , or Swiss culture , but with the status of the illiterate peasant communities in not a few regions of Europe , the difference will hardly be so great as to suggest any far-reaching hereditary causes . " It is possible , in passing , only to refer to the work of such men as Heinrich Schurt z , author of a schol arty w-ork on African industry , who found that in general the black races had proved themselves capable workers , and that for industrial pursuits they had more aptitude than most other primitive races ; to the studies of R. E. Den-nett , author of At the Back of the Black Man 's Mind , who found " little to alter in either the compositionorprocedure of the native courts . . . the outcome of thousands of years of accumulated experience of a people who know themselves and their needs . " These utterances of men eminent in their chosen research are not offered as conclusive statements on the problems of race adjustment in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assume opinions presented to it by dogmatic or disingenuous citizens which dispassionate inquiry sharply challenges . To ask Americans to substitute intelligence for passion in dealing with race adjustment is perhaps a wearisome repetition , and yet it is equivalent to asking intelligence on every question of national import . It is everywhere assumed that the connection between prohibition and the race question is intimate ; that the measure derived its chief strength in the South . Into discussion of universal military training the race question entered in the form of objections from the South because of the negro 's participation in that training . Even the proposed League of Nations did not escape being called " a colored league of nations " by Senator James A. Reed , of Missouri , in debate . The Senator proposed his discovery as " a distinct shock , " quite oblivious to the fact that the colored races of the world far outnumber the white , and that the eventual " race problem " may consist in the struggle for survival of the white races among their more powerful and numerical " colored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white race , derived from his Southern environment and its contempt for the negro , led the Senator to remark of the majority of the nations which would constitute the proposed League that " they are a conglomerate of the black , yellow , brown , and red races , frequently so intermixed and commingled as to constitute an unclassifiable mongrel breed . " In a community where it is traitorous to subscribe to any but one opinion , one dogma , as it is in some parts of the South , where to be anything but a Democrat means stigma , if not ostracism or intimidation , there can obviously be neither variety of opinion , freedom of utterance nor democracy . A. vivid description from a correspondent of The New York Sun of the gauntlet the intending Republican voter must run in North Carolina tells of the line of Democrats within a few steps of the ballot-boxes . Jim , the Republican voter , is met outside the polling-place by a Democratic worker . " ' Howdy , Jim , ' cries the worker ; heard you were fixin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jim 's chin then assumes a firmer angle and he allows that voting 's his usiness " ' Sure enough , Jim ! Sure enough , ' - is the cheerful response . ' Ai n't no law preventin ' a white man votin ' nigger . Any of the boys inside ' 11 tell you that . ' " And the boys inside do tell Jim that and Inure . By the time Jim has received his ballot and reached the marking-shelf he has it impressed upon him that his proposed vote is going to relegate him to that class whose pigment is the only claim to distinction from the Ethiopian . " An observer of such repute as the late Professor Shaler , of Harvard submitting to the prejudice of race for race , . frankly-excluded the possibility of true democracy in a society composed " in somewhere equal numbers " of " two such widely separated races as the Aryans and negroes , " and ventured his opinion " that any adjustment which may be effected must have many of the qualities of an oligarchy . " Relief from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . There has been for many years a scant Republican organimation throughout the South , known as " lily white , " whose appeal to the white Southerner consisted in a disclaimer of any political interest in the negro . In anticipation of the next Presidential election , the Republicans in a number of states , notably Texas , have elected to proclaim themselves " lily white " with the expressed intention of invading Democratic ranks . But in the futile scuffle , race relations are hardly bettered nor is the tone of political discussion improved . The effect of exclusion from political processes has been to unmake the negro think as he has never thought before . For this the Federal government is to blame . It educated the negro during the war to all the social processes from which he had been excluded , and not only urged , but commanded , hint to take part . It is a commonplace that in Mississippi 24,066 negroes were inducted into the United States army , as compared with 19,296 white metro , and that of the negro registrants 29.51 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ registrants 2.5.40 per cent . That commonplace with similar commonplaces had something of the character of a revelation for negroes . The education which the Federal government provided for them during the war may prove inconvenient for the two old parties . For , although the mass of negroes , as one of their gifted representatives has said , know little or nothing of the principles of socialism , and " do not know whether Bolsheviki ' applies to a new theory of government or the name of a new European country , " they have been led to question a political system which calls upon them Lo die in its defense but denies them political and social participation . The rapidly accelerated political consciousness of the negro , his development of a race feeling akin to that of the small and oppressed nation in Europe , has been inseparable from the deep industrial changes that the war brought about . Those changes made the negro an important element in the labor supply of industry in the North . They gave himn wages such as he had not before enjoyed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 500,000 , to leave the South in a migration which is still in process . And , not least , they directed attention to the focal points of race conflict , North and South . For it was not merely the pull of opportunity which brought the negro North . It was the push of segregation . Testimony is ample as to the conditions which make the negro want to leave the South . What is wanted of him there is to be submissive , a laborer . If he asks for the most fundamental rights , he is accused of wanting " social equality . " In fact , denial of social equality is made an excuse for a system of exploitation which most Americans would protest as being incredible . And the penalty for demanding " social equality " way be expulsion from home , brutal assault , even murder and torture at the hands of a mob . The position of social inferiority forced upon the negro prevents white lawyers taking his case against white landlords . " As to the facts in the case , the landlord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States Department of Labor . " It is not easy to get capable lawyers to take negroes ' cases against landlords , even when it is quite apparent injustice is being done . " No severer indictment of the industrial exploitation of the negro in the South has been published than that contained in The Memphis Commercial Appeal early in 1919 , signed " A Southerner . " " In certain parts of the South , " says the writer , " men who consider themselves men of honor and would exact a bloody expiation of one who would characterize them as common cheats , do not hesitate to boast that they rob the negroes by purchasing their cotton at prices that are larcenous , by selling goods to them at extortionate figures , and even by padding their accounts with a view of keeping them always in debt . Men of this stripe have been known to lament that in the last two years the negroes have been so prosperous that it has not been possible to filch from them all they make . " A protest from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a threat of force . Justice at the hands of a white jury in sections where this practice obtains is inconceivable . Even an attempt to carry the matter into the courts is usually provocative of violence . " Such an attempt was made by a group of negro farmers in Arkansas in October , 1919 . Between twenty-five and a hundred negroes were shot down in the cane-brakes near Elaine and the report went out that the negroes had planned a massacre . Two of the men appointed on the Governor 's committee of seven to investigate , were themselves beneficiaries of this system of exploiting the " socially inferior " negro . It will be seen that there are strong motives for misinforming the nation about the negro , for creating a mythology which paints him as inferior , diseased , criminal , slack , shiftless , irresponsible . All the force of public sentiment formed upon , and fed by , this mythology will resist his endeavors to lift himself intellectually and socially . The public opinion so formed will tend to keep him at the disadvantage which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always possible to discredit his efforts by spreading charges that he is preparing to revolt under the tutelage of the I. W. W. Such reckless and harmful accusations were actually made by Southern members of the House of Representatives and were also attributed to officers of the Department of Justice . The largest newspapers in the land published them repeatedly , maintaining the while a discreet silence as to the conditions which make the negro discontented and a fertile ground for the agitator 's sowing . The mythology about the negro will not hold against investigation . A typical ease of the bland retailing of such misrepresentation occurs in the book of Frederick L. Hoffman , who states that " of all races for which statistics are obtainable , " the " negro shows the least power of resistance in the struggle of life . " " Mr. Hoffman 's prepossessions , " says Prof. Josiah Morse , of the University of South Carolina , in a passage quoted by Mr. Howard , " have patently led him to commit the fallacy of ' false cause . ' For it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negroes , more illiteracy and ignorance of the laws of health , modern sanitation , and personal and public hygiene ; that their living-quarters are inferior , their physical environment less sanitary , and that a much larger percentage of their mothers are breadwinners . " Reports from the Surgeon-General 's office , of negroes hi the army during the war , also dispose of the question of physical inferiority . About the mulatto , accused on the one hand of being degenerate ; on the other , of showing extraordinary ability because of the admixture of white blood , even Professor Shaler repeats the old unsubstantiated and unscientific tale that he is physically inferior . In point of fact , for every statement ? and I say this advisedly ? as to the negro 's inferiority there is expert testimony to discredit it . It is possible that neither accuser nor defender possesses the whole working truth , but that truth is not to be arrived at in an atmosphere of passion . Thus , one of the most frequent assertions , repeated even by scientists , is that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book on Kaffir Socialism , " writes Mr. Henri A. Junod in his Life of a South African Tribe , " Dudley Kidd has laid great stress on the fact that the mental development of the African native is arrested at the time of puberty . . . . In all our institutions we have pupils who show great zeal for study and increased intellectual power between sixteen and twenty . I may say that Mr. MaeVicar of Lovedale concluded as I do , that this assertion of Dudley Kidd is very much exaggerated . " Another favorite " inferiority " with which the negro is pelted is that of shiftlessness , laziness , and incompetence . To this the Department of Labor , through its Director of Negro Economics , has already made answer : " The figures are not yet available , but two general indications have already been announced by the department First , that in all these plants 244 typical plants in seven states negro workers and white workers were employed , with apparently good feeling on both sides . Second , with here and there an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , absenteeism , wage scales , quantity and quality of work on which they were employed , compared favorably with the white workers in the same plant on the same work . Here is substantial answer to the old charge of shiftlessness and laziness . " Furthermore , the census of 1910 establishes that , for whatever reason , 5,192 , - 535 negroes , or 71 per cent . of those ten years of age and over in the United States , were employed in gainful occupations ? certainly no evidence of shiftless idleness . One more charge , because it is the most serious of all , merits a passing reference , although by this time the facts are beginning to be known . It is that the negro is more disposed than other races to attacks upon women , and that the American crime of mob murder , lynching , is an effective check to that disposition . In comment it need only be remarked that fifty women were lynched in the United States in the thirty years from 1889-1918 , and that of the seventy-eight or more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , less than one-fifth were even accused of rape . Not only is such crime alleged as extenuation for less than one-fourth of the mob murders , but it is frequently used to conceal indefensible motives on the part of the mob ostensibly " protecting womanhood . " A brief submitted to Congress by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People states that of 3,224 persons lynched in the United States in the thirty-year period , 1889 to 1018 , only 523 were accused of rape . Meanwhile those who assert that the negro is racially inferior do so in i he absence of substantiating fact . They , and the forces which create an unfavorable public opinion through the press by charging the negro with crime in bold head-lines , arc doing the greatest possible disservice to the United States . It is the press which spreads rumor and accusation about negro cri mi n al i tysuch as the entirely mythical " massacre of whites " in Arkansas ? which no correction can ever set right . If the creation of an alien , race-conscious group within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of grave injustice and discrimination , is not to loom as a threat against the progress and continuance of our civilization , there must be some honest attempt to overtake with fact the current mythology about the negro and about race relations . Meanwhile the rich and warm cultural contributions of the negro , slighted though they are , are being felt and assimilated without gratitude . Even in industry and agriculture the negro is building firmly , establishing banks , buying land where it is open to him to do so , forming large life-insurance companies , qualifying in every way as a United States citizen , But the poison of misinformation is still allowed to be spread from the United States Senate and House of Representatives . It debases us before the world . It imperils the candor with which we approach our most complex and difficult race problems , and it warps and stultifies our point . of view on every matter of national concern . Basic problems of the relations of races must be attacked in this country . It is a question if the antagonism between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is not too strong to make it possible for such men ever to live harmoniously together . Precisely what are the effects of race mixture is another question almost unexplored except for the vociferous doctrinaire who rushes in where the scientist has not yet trodden . These questions are not now in the way of being attempted . To the extent that the negro is bandied between his defamers and his few impassioned protagonists public discussion becomes impossible . Race problems which should be the subject of study to determine what are the possibilities of co-operation and living together in one community remain in the fog of passion , where the person of ulterior motives uses them for his own , generally anti-social , purposes . For the present the negro is in the position of the most exploited class in America . Not only is he in many places denied education , the vote , assertion of his common humanity and manhood , but he is held in subjection by social organization which makes that procedure a fundamental dogma of its Kultur . Intelligent minds in the South oppose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ostracism and intimidation of the man who dares to speak and act for the real betterment of the negro . But those voices are few and discussion must therefore come from the North . From the North the approach must necessarily be less sympathetic with the Southern white man 's difficulties than if free discussion were tolerated in the South . Meanwhile , if the negro is in bonds that must eventually make him attempt to destroy the society that forges them , the nation is equally in bonds . Its mind is restricted because a white man from the North can not speak his mind to a white man from the South . Civilizations before those of this age have crumbled because the strains within them have proven too great for their cohesive forces . To add the strain of avoidable hatreds to the dangerous impulses with which modern society must contend is to threaten disintegration . As a matter of self-protection , then , and of protection for some sort of society and political organization , Americans must take the first steps toward dealing in an orderly way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order or peace will ever be possible , are , first , to ascertain the facts ; second , to make them available to the citizens of the country . That is a problem for scientists , protected by tolerance . Americans have made and connived at a mythology about the negro which not only cloaks excesses and brutalities that parallel the most worst horrors in history and debase their nation before the world ; but they are adding to the forces of destruction within their nation and within themselves -- forces which will some day claim an exorbitant price .                     