@@488308

INTO THE LAST LAP the campaign moves , and still the prophets are at sea . How much has the hullabaloo about the dear old Constitution  --  which has already been amended nineteen times without upsetting the Republic  --  alarmed the " silent voters " about the menace of La Follette ? No one knows . How much has the picture of Republican complacency in the face of corruption burned into the hearts of the voters ? No one knows . The electorate is becoming more and more of a mystery to the dopesters . The corner saloon is gone , and there is no political dope- , shop to take its place . The women 's vote is utterly incalculable . Increasingly of late years the voters have shown their complete indifference to the editorial views of their favorite newspapers , and newspaper opinion is no longer a safe yardstick . Straw votes indicate a surprising strength for a President who has not dared to name the Ku Klux Klan or speak his mind on a single important issue  --  but straw votes are almost always taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the prophets agree , is surer of the border States than he seemed a month ago ; but what can he win in the Northeast and how far East will the La Follette landslide carry ? Those are the questions which the last week must answer . Meanwhile Davis and McAdoo , by their friendly tributes to La Follette 's character , have introduced a healthy note of common sense into the campaign . T HE EAST thinks of ex-General Dawes as a valiant re-actionary ; a high-powered locomotive running rapidly in reverse . Wall Street thinks of him as a friend and ally . They do n't know Charley as he is pictured out where the La Follette vote rolls up darkly across the blue sky of Republican confidence , out where farmers and ranchmen and miners and oil workers live and vote . For instance , he spoke one recent day in Casper , Wyoming . A two-page spread advertisement contributed by leading citizens and business concerns heralded his arrival , and revealed to the world Charles Gates Dawes  --  progressive , pacifist , radical friend of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dawes moved to Lincoln from Ohio in 1887 . He took a position as bookkeeper in a paper mill . Later he branched out into the law business . He was intensely interested in the anti-monopoly fight , became a live foe of the railroads and a recognized leader of the farmer movement for lower freight rates . . . . He was always a friend of the under dog . He was sympathetic and particularly fond of children . P. C. Spencer knew him in the early days , says that all the kids in town were his pals . . . . He became nationally and internationally prominent as a reconstruction agent working for a lasting peace . Dawes was nominated at the Cleveland Convention through the council of progressives . We feel it our duty to let the bankers of the East know what a dangerous radical is this Minute Man Dawes to whom they have pledged their hearts and their dollars and their votes  --  or at least what he is when hunting votes in Wyoming . W E HAVE OFTEN EXPRESSED the conviction that the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that account it seems unfortunate that Alvin Owsley , former national commander , and fourteen others prominent in the organization should have signed a statement arraigning the Republican Party for betraying our disabled ex-service men . Besides , the chargb  --  when used as an argument for the election of Mr. Davis  --  is not strictly fair because the beginnings of this national disgrace took place in a Democratic Administration . Both old parties are implicated in this incredibly base and cruel scandal , and this fact alone ought to be sufficient reason why not only every ex-service man but every other decent American should blast Republicans and Democrats alike at the polls . The voter should remember , as the statement of this group of American Legion men says , that Investigators have estimated that one-third of the money appropriated has been stolen by grafting politicians or wasted by incompetent office holders . A past director of the United States Veterans Bureau is under indictment for bribery . The present director is accused by leaders of his own party and by nonpartisan veterans ' organizations of keeping incompetent department chiefs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our republic men were found low enough to rob the wounded . These conditions , as the statement adds , are " intolerable and unforgivable " ? and should not be forgotten or forgiven on November 4 . G ERMANY TOO is to have an election . The long-drawn-out crisis has culminated in the decision that only a new balloting can give the country a government that will not be the plaything of party moods . With seven major political parties Germany has an even harder time than England to produce a coalition that can govern . Presumably this national election will show the same result as recent local pollings : the tendency , natural in time of increasing stability , to concentrate on the moderate middle parties . The extremists , both Left and Right , who made such great gains last May , are sure to lose ground  --  and the conservative Socialists , the Democrats , and especially the Catholic Centrists will gain . Somewhat will depend upon the outcome of the British elections . For it is a striking fact that today no country votes by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ October 29 may have some influence on the voting in this country on November 4 , just as Ramsay MacDonald 's victory in England a year ago paved the way to Herriot 's triumph in France a few months later and as MacDonald 's fall leaves Herriot shaky . Even political parties are coming to be international . XT OW THERE IS FIGHTING in . South China as well as I in the central provinces and the north . Press dispatches tell of a battle in the streets of Canton between " Fascisti " and " Red Armies , " but this is oversimplifying . The Canton Merchants ' Volunteer Corps is not fascist in the European connotation . It is an expression of Cantonese weariness with twelve years of revolutioneering by Sun Yat-sen and his cohorts . At one time the commercial elements of Canton were solidly behind Dr. Sun , morally and financially . They gave him numerous chances to practice the kind of government he preached . Instead war after war has been loosed on the city until its economic life has been paralyzed . Its population of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacking by one side or another . When Dr. Sun , to further one of his political designs , brought into the province from a neighboring and traditionally hostile province undisciplined troops who subsequently looted a large district he alienated the Cantonese still further . The merchants  --  including the small merchants  --  organized , not for any political purpose but to rid the city of politics altogether . This threatened Dr. Sun 's supremacy , and his troops tried to disarm the merchant forces , whence the collision . HINA IS NOT THE ONLY COUNTRY which would be happier if its politicians and soldiers were loaded onto a barge with a cargo of burning matches and TNT , but , being older , it has had better demonstration of the truth . Now , with three useless wars inflicting suffering on millions of innocent peasants all over the country , the point is being grievously labored . Whether Wu Pei-fu or Chang Tso-lin wins in the main conflict in the North , the country will be little better off . Domination by one general will be exchanged for domination by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to foreign imperial-ism , which is the biggest issue before the Chinese nation . Fortunately , no pretext has yet been given for foreign intervention , despite the proximity of retreating bands of troops to the foreign concessions in Shanghai and Canton . Foreign property has been unmolested . Meanwhile our own Department of State , which has latterly been free with moral preachments to China on the subject of law and order , is happily silent . Election campaigns have their uses . With Mr. Secretary Hughes crediting peace in the Pacific to Republican achievement it , would be embarrassing if American marines were to start shooting up Chinese towns . For the next few weeks Mr. Hughes will probably turn Nelson 's blind eye on Chinese " chaos . " R EAL ISSUES are hidden behind the effigy of unshaven Bolsheviks in the British elections even as in this country . If anything the English are a bit more picturesque . La Follette 's opponents ask solemnly , " How much money has been sent from Russia through Mexico to help the La Follette campaign ? " In England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you been ? Over to England where the Reds are still green . But the situation seems a little ironical in view of the action of the recent Labor Party conference in rejecting communism and Communists . After a three hours ' debate the conference refused the affiliation of the Communist Party , refused to allow Communists to be indorsed as official Labor candidates or even to be members of the Labor Party at all . A recent Labor manifesto states that The Labor Party seeks to achieve the socialist commonwealth by means of parliamentary democracy . The Communist Party seeks to achieve the " dictatorship of the proletariat " by armed revolution . . . . The Labor Party holds a fundamental objection to tyranny quite apart from the social , political , or industrial standing of the tyrant . In this country the Communists are denouncing La Follette as an arch-reactionary . Yet on both sides of the sea the bogy-industry seems to survive . Bogies are so much more interesting than issues . T HE PROSECUTION of Captain Robert Rosenbluth , charged with the murder in 1918 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the country in columns of type and flaming headlines throughout the period of his indictments and trial . The final dismissal of the last indictment and Captain Rosenbluth 's unconditional discharge were modestly noted in the press of October 15 . They are worthy of more than passing attention . Never was a man more unjustly* made the center of legal and extralegal attack ; never was government money more wantonly wasted . Captain Rosenbluth 's career has been injured if not ruined ; he has lived for years under the strain of indictments , threats , libels , and newspaper attacks . The Government , under Palmer and Daugherty , has spent some $200,000 in a vain effort to prove an innocent man guilty . Some good came out of the case ; the best legal help in the country was freely offered for Rosenbluth 's defense ; citizens of the highest character offered their support and gave testimonials to his good repute . Robert Rosenbluth did not kill the man he was accused of killing ; Major Cronkhite died of an accidental bullet wound from his own hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indirect attack on all liberalism ; his second indictment in 1922 served to prevent an inquiry into his case during the investigation of the Department of Justice then pending ; the charges made against him were exploited by agents of anti-Semitism and international ill-feeling all over the country . Now , let us hope , their mouths are stopped . But it is too late to undo the harm that was done by the spectacle of legal bullying and by the bad blood stirred  --  just as it is too late to wipe out the injury to an innocent man . W E ARE NOT FOND of rattling dead bones , but some- times it is instructive to indicate how a fine institution can be and is being destroyed . It is as important to recognize and shun the technique of decay as to learn and put into effect that of growth . So we revert from time to time to Clark University , which ever since the election of Wallace W. Atwood as president has been deteriorating from a foremost institution of graduate research and scholarship into a glorified business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " enlarged Clark " reopened on September 17 . The first item describing this enlargement is noted under the head " Development of New Athletic Field . " This , indeed , seems to be about the only justification for the boast : " When Clark University opens this fall it will be a larger institution in every way than ever before , " because the enrolment shows not an increasing but a dwindling number of students . In 1922-23 the students numbered 379 , in 1923-24 they dropped to 297 , and this autumn the registration is only 274 . The graduate department has been decimated , having dropped from ninety-four students two years ago to fifty-five this autumn . When Dr. Atwood advertised the new policy at Clark by stopping a speech by Scott Nearing he warned free scholars off the campus , and the warning has been heeded . S OCIAL WORK is becoming international , and the question of immigration and emigration is shifting its center from the local to the larger movements of peoples . The International Migration Service is one of the pioneers in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christian Association in 1921 as an experiment in international social work to give aid to women , and children who had started for this country . Local charities in some of the European ports of embarkation gave temporary help to the emigrants , but an organization with a knowledge of law and legal procedure , with representatives in his homeland , in the port of embarkation , and in the country to which he was going , was needed . The International Migration . Service filled this need and found itself investigating over 5,000 cases in a year  --  men , women , and children . This extensive service seemed to warrant an independent life for the bureau . Eventually , of course , this complicated question will have to be dealt with by an official international body . F ACTS ARE SAID TO BE stubborn things . But some people are so much more stubborn than facts that facts become non-existent to their prejudices and propaganda . The words defaitiste and dgfaitisme  --  coined in France in the bitter years of the European War  --  fill so evident a need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English as " defeatist " and " defeatism , " and incorporated with suitable changes into other languages . Yet the French Academy , in a spirit , we suppose , of outraged patriotism voted the other day not to admit them to the dictionary . Likewise we note that Mr. Courtenay Guild of Boston has protested against the use of Leningrad instead of Petrograd or St. Petersburg on the programs of the Boston Symphony Orchestra . " If we are expected to pay reverence to Lenin to please the new leader of our symphony orchestra , " he expostulates , " it may be desirable tolook for a new conductor in spite of the undoubted ability of our Russian visitor . " The Russian director disclaims any hand in the matter  --  as well he may . But we wonder what the excited Mr. Guild would say if someone in Holland should start a movement for addressing letters no longer to New York but to Nieuw Amsterdam . vv rnr THAT DEGREE of serious effort and concentration attained only by college boys about their fun , Cornell is improving its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is charged , and a " definite body of rooters " must be built up . But here masculine college spirit runs head on into feminine college spirit , for the Cornell girls , it seems , demand and apparently take a place in the cheering section along with the boys . What can be done to suppress these viragos with their soprano cheers ? The college paper is exercised over the question  --  and so are we . Feminine incapacity to shout in a hoarse bass against the November wind is undoubted . Nor can girls indulge successfully in cane rushes and hazing and military drill . Hope for the gradual growth of humor and intelligence in American colleges lies with the development of a spirit of unpatriotic aloofness in the less muscular members of the student body . B LASCO IBANEZ , novelist of Spain , has announced with a flourish that he is about to begin a campaign against the Government of his country . His pen will hold back not one drop of ink , he declares , until the full iniquity of that dictatorship has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the present Government of Spain deserves the contempt of all writers who live under it but that any Government anywhere needs to be subjected from time to time to the passionate - scrutiny of its men of letters . Yet several queStions arise in connection with Blasco Ibanez 's loud proposal . Why only now ? It is perhaps a year since Miguel de Unamuno  --  a first-rate author ? made his attack and suffered his banishment . Is heterodoxy safer today ? How destructive are ideas which already have begun to be commonplace ? And why an announcement ? Original critics of the state have never announced programs for the simple reason that there was no audience which would know what the programs meant . Everybody now knows what Blasco Ibanez is preparing to begin to say ; he has plenty of company . He would have more of our respect if he were a little lonelier . C ONSIDER THE PUSHCART . The New York City Department of Public Markets reports that in the congested Borough of Manhattan about 1,513,000 persons , or two-fifths of the population , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pushcart 's only stock in trade . It offers pretty nearly everything else from framed pictures to tooth brushes , woolen socks , and babies ' rattles . Its proprietor is willing to work a day of uncounted hours in scorching or frigid weather ; he puts no money into advertising , he pays no tribute to landlords , he wastes nothing on expensive trappings or " service , " and he is thankful to accept a profit that gives him the meagerest kind of livelihood  --  without thought of limousines or cabarets . There has been a determined effort to push the pushcart off the streets  --  chiefly on the part of those who seek more room for the gasoline pleasure cars of the well-to-do . Fortunately the effort has not been successful . All hail the pushcart !                     