@@430940

DEEP in the roots of being is the human love of strength for strength 's sake . The most delicate of women and the feeblest of men share equally with their more robust sisters and brothers , with all of the race , the allure of force , motive power stored in the human physique and enacting through it . Mythology abounds with the exploits of strong gods . The chief of all the gods on Olympus , Jupiter , is portrayed as the exemplar of physical strength . His breath was lava and his casual weapons thunderbolts ; when he roamed the earth it was in the guise of a huge maned bull . No patch in all the dim and dreadful romance of the dawn of the world is more purple than the battle between the Titans and the gods " who strode among the treetops and were taller than the trees . " The gods triumphed and so preserved the respect of the ancient Greek and Roman fable makers , who passed on their braggart and rather imperfect biographies to posterity . Egypt and Phoenicia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their poets and priests to present unmatchable standards of strength by preserving or manufacturing limitless legends of super-endowed immortals.  | The Norse mythology is stuffed with sagas of Berserker prodigies , giants who stood with naked blades on the edge of Valhalla and slew less fortunate giants who had no such advantage in foothold . Then Indian tradition crowds forward with innumerable quarrelsome gods of great girth and fabulous strength . They fought with forests and hurled hills at one another before the Incas found Peru . The furthermost fringes of civilization , the Eskimos and the Kanakas , the Zulus of Natal and the bushmen of the Never-Never Land , can supply names of preposterous beings and places of impossible battles to demonstrate that their supermen lack nothing when comparison of strength is made with the primordial ancestors of other races . The Bertillon system ( discovered and applied many moons ago ) would have saved a deal of inspired lying . The stories of the swaggering gods and the testimony of the primeval caves tell the same story of human worship for the strong . Mythological and prehistoric rhapsodies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profit or loss were it not that there are undeniable evidences on earth today of orders of mighty beings who roamed the earth in its historic yesterday . Ireland has its " Giant 's Causeway , " Cornwall its massive megaliths , France and Germany and Italy and Scandinavia and Russia their grotesque remains of civilizations of giant races . Hercules in his twelve labors , Atlas hoisting the earth to his shoulders , and the oneeyed Cyclopes piling their masonry to mock the stars are unhappily situated inasmuch as they have nothing but songs and stories to attest them , while the Celtic and Cymric giants left monuments behind . Tradition has it that , in moments of pique , these giants tossed granite boulders at one another ; but something weightier than tradition ? the solid relics of Stonehenge in England , Carnac in Brittany , for example ? proclaims that before Egypt and Assyria invented the derrick , the pulley and rollers , a race of supermen wrought mightily with their bare hands . All this boasting of size , which pulses through the poetry of every national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plunges a soberer head through the scarlet dust clouds of the battling gods the universal cult of strength worshipers becomes more discriminating . Stature and power go unsung or , at least , unpaened unless they have the saving and inspiring quality of courage . Leonidas and his handful of hand-picked strong men holding the pass at Thermopylae against Xerxes ' swarming million ; Horatius defending the Tiber bridge against storming Tuscans while his brother Romans hewed its timbers ; and the noble drama of Pheidippedes ' tragic run from Marathon to Athens ? these are the truer heroes who set the standard for the strong by informing physical power , stamina and resistance with moral purpose patriotism , self-sacrifice . the glory of great deeds done in a righteous cause , the reverberant thrill of " messages carried to Garcia . " Mythology and antiquity reek with the record of sheer physical strength in the arms , and also the size and appetites of giants . But these records are hardly vital to considering strength as an exemplar of greatness : their fabulous nature is obvious . This legendary powerfulness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have survived through the ages as legend . Yet the simpler and lyrically truer chronicles of the strong men of the Bible place a more satisfactory seal on the glory of great physique . Goliath of Gath , the Philistine giant , six cubits and a span , carried a sword larger than the spear of an ordinary first-rank fighter , wore a  | coat of brass weighing 5,000 shekels and wrought havoc among the enemies of his aggressive country . He had a mortality record longer than the combined gun notches of all the six-gun fighters of our storied West until one day , down in the vale of Ehab , he met a stripling with a sling . Goliath hurled his challenge at the encamped Israelites , vowing that if they could pick a man to slay him , then would the Philistines be servants to the children of Israel ; but that if he slew the champion of Israel , then should Saul 's nation be subject to the Philistines . The Israelites were dismayed . Then a youth named David , , on of Jesse , ruddy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not a fighter , went to King Saul and asked that he be selected to fight Goliath . The king chided him , but David was earnest . The king then offered him greaves and breastplate , sword and shield bearer . David wanted none of these . He picked five smooth pebbles from a brook and went forth to meet Goliath , who roared how he would feed the boy 's flesh to the vultures . The giant disdained single combat with one so small and stormed for larger meat to sacrifice . David 's retort was a pebble , flung , swift and sure , into the giant 's temple . Goliath fell , and David beheaded him . Then the Philistines fled before the shouting Jews , and the women chanted the song that angered Saul but made David king : " Saul hath slain his thousands , and David his ten thousands . " To the Bible we owe the most pungent episode of strength in all human history ? strength and  | weakness Samson , whose name will ever remain a synonym for human might . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of male strength defeated by female cunning . And it is inverse poetic justice that this most memorable human story of male strength outwitted by a woman 's wiles is balanced by classic examples of courageous strength militant chivalry . Theseus , the hero of Attica , carried his good sword into the grim labyrinth at Crete , and there slew the Minotaur , half bull , half man , who devoured maidens , being led back from the twining and twisting dark by fair Ariadne 's thread ; Perseus defied the dreadful Medusa , beheading the monster to rescue the rockchained virgin Andromeda . The age of chivalry was primarily an age of strength , and all the knights we know of , from Arthur and Lancelot and other noble young men of the Round Table who lived in Merlin 's magic age , fought for the love or at least the admiration of the fair . Ordeal by combat was the supreme test of strength and courage of this early Christian time , while Saladin and his brother Saracens , like the subsequent heroes of Timur the Lame 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crusades was no less strong or valorous in his strength . William the Conqueror , Richard Coeur de Lion and the Black Prince stand out  - -  as did older warrior kings like Hannibal the Carthaginian , Charlemagne , king of the Franks , and Charles Martel ? fighting leaders of a fightin people , in battles where men needed the vim and vigor of horses to fight on horseback . The sword of Edward III , to be seen new in the Tower of London , requires two ordinary men to lift it . What strength must have been required for one to wield it ? Yet Edward was no prodigy of size . Robert the Bruce , who rode ahead of the Scots ' army at Bannockburn and slew with one blow the iron-helmeted Bohun , giant of Edward 's invading army , did it with a battle-ax that two normal men of to-day could not swing comfortably . The Field of the Cloth of Gold , a brave and bloodless tournament , organized by Henry VIII as an ostentatious courtesy to Francis I of France , was the last flourish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allied with the practice of war to be merely considered as games . These tournaments were no less picturesque and thrilling saturnalias of strength the testing of the flower of manhood on bright fields beneath blazing banners for glorious women to see and to crown the conquerors with their favors.  | There is no record of the firstgames , excepting the ancient , hardboiled rules of the Medes and Persians and Romans that no game - was to be played for the game 's sake ? an exact opposite of the most desirable motto for current sport . But all the first games were warlike games , literally war games . The sun-blest isles of Greece first made sport for sport 's sake noble and exalted the coordination of strength and stamina and skill in combat rather than the dominance of brute strength alone . Wrestling and boxing had brutal elements in their playing , just as they have in these times of rarely honest combat ; but they were no more popular than the non-contact sports in which all the youth of the Hellenes competed for the annual crowns of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the honor of having their achievements sung by immortal poets of the rank of Aeschylus and Pindar . The finest specimens of ancient culture now preserved are of the Greek athletes ? the wrestlers , foot-racers , boxers , javelin and discus throwers . These games , originating at the funeral of Patroclus , slain by Hector in the Trojan war , brought to the Hellenes , through the constant and scientific training.of body , and mind , the distinction of developing the most beautiful human form known to the world , ancient or modern . At first the prizes given for victories in these new tests of strength and skill had some intrinsic value ; but , after the sixth Olympiad , only a garland of wild olive was awarded . To be a victor in any of the events , Pentathlon or Decathlon , was to be acknowledged before all Greece , and especially before all the women of Greece , as one of the beautiful and strong . The athletes participated in all events ? running , wrestling , hurling and the rest ? naked , their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , swearing they were true Greeks and pure , by dipping their hands in the blood of a sacrificial lamb . We can imagine the scene , and it is one of overpowering beauty : the speckless blue sky of Greece , the stately Acropolis as background and the opaline carpet of the sea below the crystal heights . Before the ten judges and the surrounding rulers , elders and white-sheathed beauty of Hellene ; the army of young men paraded . Heralds announced the events . The gracious sun flashed on a forest of supple , white limbs -- and the feast of the games went on from morning  | until night . So great grew the interest and so intense the popularity of the games that , from the five simple events of the Pentathlon executed in a single day , they grew to twenty-four events requiring five solid days for the thousands of contestants , who had passed through local elimination contests , to go through the heats and finals . The names of the victors were carved on the walls of their home temples , and they became at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Ludi Publici of the Romans , on the order of the Pythian , Nemean and Isthmian games , which were in turn derived from the earlier Olympiads , became perverted with theatrical performances and later degenerated into gladiatorial combats . The corruption at the heart of the empire had its roots in laziness , in the overdeveloped admiration of the Romans , which became a lust for sights of bravery and strength in others , prisoners captured by their conquering armies . The gladiators , the first professional athletes . were the strongest men among the captives . They were divided into classes : the andabatr. who fought blindfolded ; the equitus on horseback ; the essodarii from chariots ; the laquearr : with a lasso ; and the retiarti with net and trident . Sienkiewicz in " Quo Vadis " provides a thrilling account of gladiators in action in the circus ? his picture of Ursus , the giant Christian . slaying the bull that bore the beautiful living body of a maiden consigned to martyrdom , i unforgettable . He broke the bull 's neck aSamson slew his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blood-accustomed circus mobs , than the cestithe boxers who boxed with spiked gloves of hide and steel . Their performance excited keenerinterest than the savage duels to death , although the comparison of the cesti with the swore fighters does not show the former less savage but .. - more skilful and needing greater stamina . Eve their brutalized spectators appreciated this . Coming up from the Greek classics and the Roman circus , foot games were not the medium of athletes in the early and later Middle Ages . GraecoRoman wrestling , which was not for centuries succeeded by the more picturesque catch-ascan style , was the prevalent sport of the strong man in Europe , as Suma wrestling prevailed in China and japan . where huge men and women practiced it . The bulkier : strong man known to history for the past thousand years we , one who visited the United States Higaschi , champio : : Suma wrestler of the word . weighing 450 pounds , who at , ten meals a day and could throw a dray horse with ease . Boxing , whose most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of for centuries until its great revival under the rules of the London prize ring . These two sports , wrestling and boxing , rapidly outrivaled other athletic contests in which even greater strength was required for preeminence , such as weight lifting , hammer throwing and javelin hurling . There were occa- sional strong fellows who followed traveling circuses and lifted weights or wrestled with tame bears ; but we find nothing to substitute for the loss of the strong men of arms in popular imagination ? the physically strong men of arms not the successful generals who win battles by luck and strategy ? until boxing and wrestling and generally organized athletics came with recent times . In " Lorna Doone " and in Conan Doyle 's " Rodney Stone " we get excellent pictures of that period when the strong man shone as first athlete for the people in times of peace ? the time of the taverns of old England , when love of baser games like bear baiting , dog and cock fighting and rat massacres gradually lost their popularity as contact sport among men of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in a crucial punishing fight with Carver Doone , ended it by ripping with his hands the biceps from the arms of his antagonist . Rodney Stone , the English blacksmith , smashed his way through village bullies to London , where he was caught up by " the fancy , " became a ringman and lived to be an English legend as John L. Sullivan is an American . Victor Hugo 's " jean Valjean " attracts us primarily because of his huge strength ? a strength allied to gentleness , which is the prescription nearly all writers who have used strong men as heroes have adopted . And , generally speaking , they have their justification in life . The magnificently strong are generally quiet , gentle creatures . Jem Mace , the first officially recorded boxing champion of the world , was a peaceful soul in his daily pursuits . Hackenschmidt , counted the greatest of the world 's wrestlers , was always tranquil and courteous off the mat . It is only the secondraters whose possession of brawn fills defective brains with a superiority complex that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and nineteenth centuries may not have attained the social acceptance of their successors to-day , but they were more honest performers and quite as much heroes wherever youth could get information of them . The boxers have improved in science since the Queensberry rules supplanted rough and tumble London prize ring rules . Occasionally one can witness a genuinely superb exhibition of courage , strength , *ill and stamina that thrills the thousands of spectators and the millions eager to read of it . Wrestling , a splendid developing exercise for all sports , contact or otherwise , calls for soundness of wind and limb , alertness of movement . But neither wrestling nor any other sport makes the demand on all the faculties of the man that boxing requires . The boxer enters the ring trained to perfection , a lithe , keen , graceful animal ? but so much more than animal . To meet his opponent he needs more than litheness , more than grace , more than stubborn combative instinct . He stands in the ring alone , none to advise . The wrestler can reclaim a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fraction of a second off guard in the ring may mean disaster . In no other physical ordeal that a man faces is he so sternly , so utterly self-dependent . All he has of intelligence , of instinct , of speed of hand and swiftness of foot , keenness of eye and suppleness and strength of muscle , all he possesses of clean marrow , sound bone and staminal flesh , and , what is most important , all he has of grit , come into play at every moment . Let one of these qualities be lacking when his opponent has them all , or let one of the qualities be less in degree than his opponent 's ? and he is lost . With all this for spectacle is it any wonder that boxing holds undeniable allure , that a world championship contest becomes a matter of world interest ! Even the flagrant commercialism , hippodroming and common thuggery that debase professional boxing and periodically arouse agitations against it can not affect the irresistible hold on human nature of the sight of two strong men in combat . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all the games played by strong men , is not a game but a trade the sailor 's trade of rowing . This taxes a man to the limit of his resources ; not , as in football , baseball , tug-o ' - warring , and other mass games that require more of skill than of strength ? rowing has one compensation , a falterer can be helped by his crew mates . Long-distance running , especially marathon running , pole vaulting , broad and high jumping and hurdle running -- all among the most ancient of games ? require skill and stamina rather than dynamic strength . The most sensational of all marathons was won by an American of less than average height , even underweight for his heightJohnny Hayes , who defeated Dorando in London in 1908 . Putting the shot , throwing the hammer , the discus and the javelin ? all among the sports of the strong men ? are won only by the strongest In ancient Olympic meets , as in modern , only the most powerful athletes successfully enter then hurling or throwing contests . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a circus spectacle , not a sport , and : these strong men are the least in the hierarchy the physically mighty . They require no skill . merely brute leverage . I should deny the title of " strong man " to the mere flexer of large biceps or lifter of weights , for through all the ages , even from the hazy aura of mythology , the truly strong man has been he of skill as well as strength ? and , as most cases in history demonstrate , a man of innate nobility of strength , a man as considerate of the weak as he is courageous in opposing tyrannical violence .  |                     