@@490183

WHEN THE ex- traordi-nary success of the many well - organ ized bands of thieves which flourished in New York during the city 's great MARM MANDELBAUM era of wickedness would scarcely have been possible had they not possessed an equally efficient outlet for the distribution of their plunder . This was accomplished through the fences , or receivers of stolen property , who operated in the recognized criminal districts , and masked their real business by conducting small stores , generally carrying an imperishable stock which was never changed and seldom removed from the shelves , for legitimate customers were few and were not encouraged . Nothing was so large or so small that the fences would not undertake to convert it into cash ; in the middle seventies one even handled successfully fifty thousand dollars ' worth of needles and thread which had been stolen from the warehouse of a large wholesale concern . While such receivers were probably no more numerous than they are today , they had better political and police connections than their modern prototypes , and were consequently bolder and more powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; one of the notorious places of the city was the Thieves ' Exchange in the Eighth Ward , not far from Broadway and Houston Street , where fences and criminals met each night and dickered openly over their beer and whiskey for jewelry and other loot . Annual retainers were paid to criminal lawyers , and politicians and police men received stated fees , and occasionally commissions on gross business . Some of the more successful of the fences not only disposed of the plunder brought to them , but tided thieves over V-FENCES periods of adversity , and provided funds for the preliminary surveys which were necessary before a bank vault or the strong box of a store could be successfully attacked . The first of the great fences of whom there is extensive record was Joe Erich , who kept a place in Maiden Lane before the Civil War and handled the loot of many celebrated criminals . Erich 's principal rival was a man known as Old Snow , who owned a small drygoods store at Grand and Allen Streets and dealt in stolen property of every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once disposed of a score of sheep which a gang of Bowery thugs , on a vacation in the country , had stolen from a Westchester County farmer , and had driven through the streets of the city to the shop of the fence . These fences and the others who were in operation at the close of the Civil War , were soon eclipsed by the brilliant successes of Marm Mandelbaum and John D. Grady , better known as Travelling Mike , a thin , stooped , shabby , dour-visaged little man who padded about the streets wearing a heavy overcoat summer and winter and bearing a peddler 's box on his shoulder . Ostensibly , Travelling Mike sold needles and other small articles for the use of the housewife , but his box was more apt to contain pearls and diamonds , or stolen bonds , than legitimate objects of barter . Travelling Mike seldom went abroad with less than ten thousand dollars ' worth of goods in his box or on his person . He appears to have maintained no regular establishment , but he was a frequent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to time called upon his clients to suggest robberies and dicker for anything they might have stolen since his last visit . He had an especial fondness for jewelry and bonds , and rarely bought anything which he could not carry away in his box , with the occasional exception of silk , which was always in great demand . Travelling Mike was believed by the police to have suggested the raid upon Rufus L. Lord 's treasure in 1866 by Greedy Jake Rand and his accomplices , which resulted in the greatest single haul ever made by sneak thieves in the United States . Lord was an important financial figure of the time , and is said to have been worth , in bonds , stocks and real estate , more than four million dollars . His business acumen was remarkable , but he was so grasping and penurious that he had the reputation of being a miser , and had no friends and few acquaintances . He maintained a dingy , shabby office in the rear of No. 38 Exchange Place , where he spent much of his time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the clink of the double eagles which he kept in great canvas bags . He wore disreputable clothing and in summer his footgear was a pair of worn felt slippers . He had a burglar and fire-proof safe built in the rear wall of his office , but during the last years of his life he became so feeble and absent-minded that he frequently went home leaving the safe unlocked , with several millions of dollars in cash and securities at the mercy of thieves . His office was always in semi-darkness , for he would not burn more than one candle at a time , and there was but one small window through which sunlight could penetrate . Greedy Jake made several calls upon the capitalist to discuss a proposed loan or investment , and on a dark , foggy March afternoon in 1866 with two fellow thieves appeared at the office in Exchange Place , where Jake proceeded to distract Lord 's attention with much glib talk about the high rate of interest he was willing to pay . While he was so engaged the two men sneaked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sneaked out again bearing two tin boxes containing one million nine hundred thousand dollars in cash and securities , most of which were negotiable . The boxes were planted in a saloon at Spring and Wooster Streets for a few weeks , and after the hue and cry had died down somewhat , about two hundred thousand dollars of the negotiable bonds found their way into the hands of Travelling Mike Grady , who speedily converted them into cash . The remainder of the stolen property was recovered by the police within two years . Marm Mandelbaum , born Fredericka , was probably the greatest and most successful fence in the criminal annals of New York . She was a huge woman , weighing more than two hundred and fifty pounds , and had a sharply curved mouth and extraordinarily fat cheeks , above which were small black eyes , heavy black brows and a high sloping forehead , and a mass of tightly rolled black hair which was generally surmounted by a tiny black bonnet with drooping feathers . She owned a three-story building at 79 Clinton Street , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Wolfe , and their three children , on the second and third floors , which were furnished with an elegance unsurpassed anywhere in the city ; indeed , many of her finest pieces of furniture and her most costly draperies had once adorned the homes of the rich , and had been stolen for her by grateful and kind-hearted burglars . In these apartments Marm Mandelbaum entertained lavishly with dances and parties which were attended by some of the most celebrated criminals in America , and frequently by police officials and politicians who had come under the Mandelbaum influence . On the ground floor , at the Riving-ton Street corner , Marm Mandelbaum operated a small haberdashery , but her real business was conducted in a clap-boarded wing which sprawled down Clinton Street , where she handled the loot and financed the operations of a majority of the great gangs of bank and store burglars . Among the famous criminals who dealt with Marm Mandelbaum were Shang Draper ; George Leonidas Leslie , the King of the Bank Robbers ; Bill Mosher and Joe Douglas . It was Mosher and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germantown , Pa. , on July 1 , 1874 , thus pre-cipitating the greatest kidnap-ping mystery this country has ever known . Mosher and Douglas were suspected and trailed all over the East by New York detec-tives , but were not found until Decem-ber , 1874 , when they were shot to death while trying to rob the home of Judge Van Brunt in Bay Ridge , Brooklyn . Mosher was killed outright , but Douglas , whom the Judge himself had shot , lingered for several moments . The burglar before he died raised him-self on one elbow and said , " It 's no use lying now . Mosher and I stole Charley Ross from Germantown , " but he was dead before he could divulge the whereabouts of the boy , and Charley Ross has never been found , although about once every two years someone lays claim to being the missing child . ARM MANDELBAUM also had an especial soft spot in her heart for female crooks , and was the friend and patron of such famous women criminals as Black Lena Klcinschmidt , and Sophie Lyons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose husband was Ned Lyons , a bank burglar . Black Lena obtained enormous sums of money through thievery and blackmail , but in her middle age she became ambitious for social conquest and removed to Hackensack , N.J. , where she posed as the wealthy widow of a South American mining engineer . She gave elaborate functions , and aroused such a furore in New Jersey society that she became known as the Queen of Hackensack . But she remained an expert and practical pickpocket and shoplifter , and spent two days of each week in New York replenishing her coffers . She was finally dethroned when she wore an emerald ring which one of her dinner guests recognized as having been stolen from her handbag during a shopping trip to New York . Marm Mandelbaum first appeared in New York police records as a suspected fence in 1862 , and during the next twenty years she is estimated to have handled between five and ten million dollars worth of stolen property . Several times during her long career she made the experiment of putting a few of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everything they stole , and to exercise reasonable industry and sagacity . However , she too came to recognize that there is no honor among thieves , and abandoned the practice after she had caught several of her hirelings disposing of loot to Travelling Mike Grady . She is said also to have been a Fagin , and to have maintained a regular school in Grand Street , near Police Headquarters , where small boys and girls were taught by expert pickpockets and sneak thieves . She also offered advanced courses in burglary and safe blowing , and to a few of the most intimate of her associates gave post-graduate work in blackmailing and confidence schemes . T h e fame of this in-stitution grew , but she became alarmed and dismissed her teach-ing staff when the young son of a prominent police official applied for instruction . In all of her operations Marm Mandelbaum had the benefit of the expert legal counsel of Big Bill Howe and Little Abe Hummel , comprising the celebrated 1 a w firm of Howe &; Hummel , to whom she paid an annual retainer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her behalf on those rare occasions when the law made an impudent gesture in her direction , but also represented her clients whenever any of them were caught flagrante delicto . But they were unable to save her in 1884 , when the reform element came into pOWer and Richard B. Olney , then District Attorney , procured several indictments charging her with grand larceny and receiving stolen goods . The case was called for trial in December of that year , but Marm Mandelbaum had forfeited her bail and fled to Canada , where she spent the remainder of her days , although she is said to have made several visits to New York in disguise . The state received nothing for its trouble , however , as Alarm 's bondsmen had transferred the property which they had pledged for her appearance by means of back-dated instruments , and Marm herself had made over her property holdings to her daughter . Of her noted lawyers , Howe died in 1903 , and two years later District Attorney William Travers Jerome sent little Abe to prison for various malpractices.   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         