@@493333

The Dawes Plan and the Peace of Europe N the discussions of the Dawes plan on this side of the Atlantic , the one factor most entitled to consideration seems to have been the factor most overlooked . This is the point that administration of the plan in accordance with the concept of its framers constitutes a standing threat to the peace of Europe . Without desiring to be sensational , one is driven by the logic of the facts . It is true that we enter an area of non-exact forces ; we deal with men and their endurance and motives ; but men , like steel , have a breaking point , which , though not capable of precise ascertainment , nevertheless can be gauged within limits . Industry and politics alike have to take account of this breaking point . The plan contemplates placing the Allied governments virtually in the position of capital creditors of German industry with certain management rights . This is achieved by imposing mortgages upon German industrial property in favor of the reparations account replacing , in substance , the pre-war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out by demonetizing the mark ; and by giving the plan agent discretionary . powers in assessment of German internal taxes . The return by way of revenot from both of these sources depends on maintaining an efficiency and production power at least equal to that now existing ; this in turn requires maintenance of the industrial structure on the present lines . Granted that the present structure were soundly built and humanly satisfactory , the concept would have much to justify it . The facts warrant no such assumption . Labor stability on the one hand , and capital organization on the other represent the two major factors in industrial production . Both are needed to produce ; where , as in Germany , the production most meet bitter foreign competition , notably from England , the highest effectiveness of both must be assured . German industry has been meeting that competition for the past two or three years with such apparent ease that it was perhaps natural for the Dawes plan framers to assume that the efficiency making this possible would continue . In fact , however , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inflation made it possible for German industry to produce and compete , not by superior effectiveness and organization , but by dissipating its capital ; exchange conditions made it Possible to sell December 10 , 1924 THE NEW goods , actually below cost ; the constantly depreciating mark permitted the loss to be charged , not to the industrial operation , but to the holders of obligations ? the small render , investor and bondholder whose holdings could be and were made to vanish . Without explaining the process at length it may be said that capital charges ? bond interest , amortization and the like ? and floating indebtedness of every industry diminished week by week to nothing as the currency in which these were payable turned to worthless paper ; relieved of this important item of cost German goods could be sold at a price covering labor , material and processing to compete with anyone . The situation could last ? and did last ? only as there was a currency situation permitting the virtual elimination of repayment charge . This explains , among other things , why the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplies the great bulk of industrial capital ? almost ceased to exist . December , 1923 , brought a sudden end to this state of affairs . Mark inflation had run its dizzy course ; the unit had become worthless ; a halt was called ; a new mark ? sometimes called " rentenmark " but actually equal to ten forty-seconds of an American dollar ( the old gold-mark rate of exchange ) ? carne into existence , and all obligations thereafter were incurred and had to be paid on that basis . Overnight , competition at the expense of existing capital creditors or floating creditors ceased . There was still a margin of advantage in the Ger . man industrialists . Their capital creditors and interest charges were out of the way . This margin the Dawes plan framers propose to annex for the benefit of the reparations account , constituting , as has been remarked , mortgages upon German indus-tries whose interest and amortization will accumu- late in the reparations balance for the plan agent to transmit to the Allies as and how he can . The scheme looks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that something else bad happened in the meantime . The German government , through its own tax policy had more than appropriated this margin of advantage on its side ; and the German industrialists had effectively forced the burden back upon the German workman , imposing on them a condition which forms perhaps the gravest element in the whole situation . Whereas elsewhere throughout the world , workmen have been in general better off after the war than before , in Germany they are decidedly worse off . A metal worker in 1913 averaged between forty-two and forty-three gold marks per week . After.the war , as inflation set in , the mark-figure now calculated in paper , climbed from hundreds to thousands , to millions , and then to astronomic figures . In December , 1923 , when the dance of the milliards came to an end , his pay was stabilized once more in gold marks ? at 31 marks 44 pfennigs ? just three-quarters of his old wage . Living costs meanwhile had risen ; based on index , his wage was worth about 64 percent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , some faring a little better , others worse . The building trades maintained a wage-level ( based on index of purchasing power ) at 88 percent of pre-war , but they were unusually fortunate ; an average of 75 percent is , if anything , a high estimate . Translate the situation into American terms , and imagine what would be the state of affairs here if the American laborer had only three-quarters the ability to meet his family budget today that he had before the war ; and then remember that in 1913 the German workman was not nearly so well paid as the American . There is no deadlier picture than that presented by the statistics on labor costs and living expenses laid before the Dawes commission . I know of no other country in which the German situation could continue . The German workman is tremendously efficient and exceedingly disciplined ; up to the present he has accepted his misfortune as a dispensation of God . There is less industrial unrest ? Bolshevism , as Americans call it ? in Germany than in America : the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Cleveland , Ohio ; no German industrial plant ' , multi exhibit the same labor situation as that with which the Pennsylvania railroad at present contends . But it is beyond reason to hose a plan on the idea that this complaisance will last indefinitely . During inflation the workmen kept more or less even with the game ; on stabilization this ceased . Whereas before the in. dustrialists could compete at the expense of their capital creditors , now they must compete by depressing the standard of living of their labor below that of their trade rivals . Under the Dawes plan , even assuming that the German industrialists would do as well by their workmen as they possibly could ? an assumption probably contrary to fact ? they could not raise the level VC ry much , and still beat British and other competition in foreign markets to the extent required by the Dawes plan to secure profits for remission to Allied account . What may come is matter for speculation ; but unfortunately statesmen , financiers and man of affairs ( unlike academicians ) have to forecast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probability is that in time German labor will break loose , abandon its resignation to the will of the Almighty , and attempt to help itself . There will be a violent turn , either to the Right or the Left ; it is immaterial for the purposes of the Dawes discussion which of the two occurs . A mass movement toward an emperor ( and my own view is that the movement will be monarchic ) would have about the same temporary effect on industry as a cataclysm and establishment of a proletarian dictatorship . In either event we should he faced with a complete revolt of labor , and an alignment behind some sort of fighting leadership . At this point the Dawes plan begins to be an embarrassment . We might regard with comparative unconcern a German revolt against their own industrial masters . But by mediation of the plan , we have placed ourselves in the shoes of the industrialists ? or at any rate in such relation that the plan and its agents will be held up as the active cause of the misery . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but a war of freedom . It is perhaps unprofitable to carry the prophecy from that point on . There is no limit to the possible grouping of forces . Perhaps the German masses will elect to fight alone , whether under the leadership of a kaiser , king or commissar , and fling themselves without adequate resources against French and Belgian military lines . We should win , without doubt ; but the result will not be one which a far-sighted statesman would choose to achieve . Perhaps a Russian , Austrian , Italian or Balkan grouping is effected ; we should then have a war of alliances ; we should tread once more the old trail from the milestone of 1914 . I do not think this an exaggeration . No process of mathematics can conceal the fact that reparations payments , whether by way of mortgage interest or tax , must now come from the German labor class , the savings of small investors having ceased to exist ) ; that we are asking these men to reduce their standard of living below that of any other West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrangement on the theory that the German workman will permanently accept a lot which no other workmen in the world just now are willing to endure . We are giving power to a plan agent so to control taxes that this pressure is constantly maintained ? at our instance if the Germans do not do it of their own accord . Add to this the fact that the German workman now indulges the luxury of hope ; he thinks Germany will recover ; wages will be a little better ; food a little easier to buy . When he discovers that the recovery will have no effect on him , there is bound to be a reaction . The logic of the situation drives one to the belief therefore , that the Dawes plan may easily result in war . Conceivably the administration of the plan may be so mild that nothing will happen ; both the plan agent and the German industrialists may co-op. orate to alleviate the situation . Their respective financial interests are however not subserved by any permanent alleviation , and it is almost too much to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the future than they have been in the past . The plan agent may , perhaps , decide that peace is better than reparations , and permit , so far as he is concerned , a lightening of the burden . The point is that logical application of the plan machinery leads only in one direction . We may hope for someone with discretion sufficient to stop the engine before it wrecks itself . This dilemma between peace and reparations ? between the policy of M. Herriot and that of M. Poincare , and neatly set out in the campaigns made by these chieftains respectively in the last French election ? can be avoided only by proof that German industry is somehow in a better position to produce and sell than its competitors . The Dawes plan has as yet no defenders or apologists ? merely naked eulogists ; but these would say , if pressed , that this advantage has been acquired by wiping out the capital obligations of German plants through the inflation process above referred to . At this point it becomes important to examine German taxes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ length ? so complex that the German tax authorities themselves have in large measure been unable to send out bills because unable to make accurate assessment . But the high lights are worth noting . German corporations pay 20 percent of net earnings ? and they are not allowed to deduct interest on bonds or capital as an expense . They pay , in addition , 7% percent on capital ? a partnership pays 5 percent . They pay 6 percent on the value of all real property , and from 5 to 7y4 percent on personal property aggregating more than 50,000 gold marks . They pay 10 percent on any interest or dividends they receive . They pay an indeterminate amount on appreciation of value of any property . This excludes a multitude of minor taxes ? on checks , sales and other transactions . They are required to draw up a balance sheet showing valuations in gold marks to assist the tax office . This last has- not been done by anyone , because no one will arrange his capital until he knows his tax liability , and no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern has reckoned only with the central ( Reich ) government . After the fOregoing payments it must settle the bill of the state in which it operates ; and the total taxes payable have been officially estimated by United States government observers at more than 50 percent of net business income . It is no exaggeration to say that these taxes more than equal the capital liabilities wiped out by the smashing of the mark . But that is only a part of the story . Business will not act on uncertainties ; intricate , varying and speculative levies disorganize the whole machinery ; men will not build or adventure when the profit of the transaction may he seized on the morrow by a tax agent , be he German or Allied . Whatever the government may do may be upset by the Dawes agent ; any material reduction of taxes means cutting into the revenue the agent is sent there to obtain . The dilemma between peace and reparations becomes more plain . Hence I say that the Dawes plan machinery may wreck the peace of Europe . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reparations balance go by the board , or forcing a burden back on the Gerffan workman and consumer which most in time lead to an anti-Allied outbreak . And the will of a single man. ? however wise ? is a slender thread on which to hang the safety of a continent                     