@@486166

T 0 open a book leading off with the caption Early Civilization and there to find the societies of the Eskimo , the Tlingit , Saida , and Iroquois Indians of North America , the Negroes of Uganda , and the Blackfellows of the Australian Bush presented as exemplary is certain to touch with mild shock one 's lexical prepossessions . Has , then , the word " civilization " nothing of the significance which usage has ascribed to it , as discriminating from savages and barbarians those races and peoples which have enlightenment in their tradition , and are aware of it ? Or is the word to go the way of " culture , " designating every level , not of refinement , but of want of it ? In Mr. Goldenweiser 's opinion civilization is found everywhere among men ; everywhere " there is religion , social and political organization , economic pursuits and industries and art ; there is ceremonialism , and leadership , and warfare ; there is barter and a tendency toward inheritance of privileges and commodities . " Accordingly , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the British who police them , apparent discrepancies of estate being merely due to the failure of the blacks to actualize their potential gifts  --  for not only are all men civilized , but potentially all are equal , in Mr. Goldenweiser 's view . Most of us had supposed that civilization at least implied civic societies , conscious not only of their law but of their histories , and gifted with some instrument for the transmission of knowledge through measurable centuries . Inevitably distinctions of definition are difficult , but to empty " uncivilized " of meaning is no step toward anthropological , or other , science . One is given pause , too , touching the content of anthropology , to which science this volume purposes to give introduction . Unquestionably there is need for such a work ; the field is vast , the literature is enormous and yearly accumulating ; the interest is alert . There is , again , as in all growing subjects , an uncomfortable vagueness of boundaries ; problems and limits are not set ; the anthropologist encroaches upon the historian and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , upon the philologist , the psychologist , and the aesthetician , and even upon the biologist and geologist , of necessity making their problems his and viewing broad measures of their domains as subject to his more comprehensive science of man . Indeed , it is quite possible that the social sciences as a body , with some ancillary help from the natural sciences , will eventually coalesce into a larger unit under the banner of anthropology . Actually , however , in its modern intention , anthropology is a young science with reasonably clear foci , viz. , physical anthropology , descriptive ethnology , and the comparative study of religion and custom ; if folk-psychology is to be added to these it is because no field of learning , anent man , can be reasonably illumined without analysis of that mind which most distinguishes the human from other animals . Mr. Goldenweiser 's conception of his science is not comprehensive . His book is divided into three parts . In the first he illustrates " early civilizations " with sketchy descriptions of the aboriginal American , African , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is called the Mother of Civilization ; nothing from the tradition whence Europe derives . The second part deals with Industry and Art , Religion and Society of Early Man , and the spotty examples which illustrate these great topics are mainly chosen from North American and Siberian examples , with digressions to the isles of the sea and the Dark Continent . Part three deals with the ideas of early man , passing in review the theories of Spencer , Frazer , Wundt , Freud , and others . Mr. Goldenweiser 's chief overt interest in all of these fields centers about the origin and dissemination of cultural traits , and reasonable methods of determining such processes ; and he reaches the common-sense conclusion  --  rather pompously put  --  that man 's native necessities , his natural environment , his invention , and his capacity for borrowing must all be taken into account in explaining the facts . In doing this he performs the service of overriding a number of hobbies which have had some vogue in the literature of anthropology , if not beyond it . But certainly not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to anthropology to a book for which the problems of the physical character and ethnical distribution of the branches of the human race are non-existent and in which there is no hint of the fascinating variety of things human nor any scale which can assess their values . In one engaging respect Mr. Goldenweiser 's book presents an ulterior problem which itself might be termed anthropological . The author patently falls in with a certain trend of thinking for which social anthropology has a propaganda interest . Men 's minds have labored for near three-quarters of a century with a growing contradiction of their innermost convictions : the democratic assertion of the equality of men , which has passed beyond its classical signification of equality before the law into a proclamation of social and moral equivalence , runs precisely counter to the dogmas of evolutionary biology , with its emphases upon differences , fitness , higher and lower ; and the consequence has been an uncomfortable fission of our political and scientific beliefs . Naturally the social anthropologist has felt this most keenly , and he has evolved a curious doctrine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of races , which is thrown , so to speak , in the face of the obvious racial differences of mankind . Essentially the doctrine is nonsense . Even the primitive races are alike ( as Mr. Goldenweiser 's own meager evidence shows ) only in the possession of the traits which mark them as human ; their differences , cultural and physical , are many . Nor is there any lessening of the absurdity when an undefined " potentiality " ( negatived both by biological and historical science ) is brought to the rescue of an indefinable " equality . " And to add to the moil , Mr. Goldenweiser stands stoutly for individual differences within the group as a vital factor in progress . Doubtless he is right ; individuals are superior and inferior ; and with the same justness races and tribes and nations are higher and lower according to their power of producing the better sort of men . HARTLEY ALEXANDER 