@@486194

A NY real investigation by the President 's aircraft board or by the Lampert aircraft committee would be worthless unless it inquired into the activities of Howard E. Coffin , C. M. Keys , and their associates of the Manufacturers ' Aircraft Association , which has been accused on the floors of Congress of being a trust organized and maintained in violation of law . Inquiry must also be made as to the alleged activities of these men in maintaining an espionage system with secret agents attending official hearings and as to what funds , if any , have been disbursed by pergons or corporations for such espionage work , propaganda , or for any other activities relating to the subject of the investigations . The standard of patriotism of the Bureau of Aircraft Production during the war ( with which the Manufacturers ' Aircraft Association and Howard E. Coffin , president of the Government 's aircraft board , had relations ) was manifested when the Hindenburg line was still unbroken and plans were on foot to send a second army overseas . At that critical moment a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volunteers to officer the proposed army , with the result that out of its hundreds of officers wearing uniforms and not engaged in flying there were seven volunteers for the firing line ! That was the standard of morale when the dismal war failure was made , and , in the conditions which exist today , we are not permitted to forget the past . The fact is that this same Bureau of Aircraft Production , organized and manned during the days of Coffin and Deeds , was later absorbed in the post-war aviation organization . Its proteges are a part of the aircraft bureaucracy of today , while the men who protest against these sickening conditions have their necks placed under the heels of the protectors and apologists of those who jeopardized the life of America in time of war . American aviation has a long list of martyrs to duty which began during the war and continues until today . A committee seeking the truth , and with none of its members under a cloud , would discover , in the following cases among many , the methods used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 . Major General William L. Kenly , former head of the Bureau of Military Aeronautics , relieved from duty and demoted from the rank of major general to a colonelcy after testifying before the Thomas Senate committee as to conditions in the air service . 2 . A colonel who , because he testified that there were no American-made fighting planes in France , was deprived by the War Department of receiving decorations which a foreign government sought to bestow upon him for overseas services . 3 . A major in the Army Air Service who was confined to an insane ward after persisting in making complaints and who was restored to duty after the matter was quietly taken up by friends in Congress . 4 . A former member of the Lafayette Escadrille who was placed in an institution for the insane after , by the Author warning men he was training of defects in aeroplanes made by the Curtiss Aeroplane and Motor Corporation , and who alleges that he was previously warned that this would happen to him if his criticisms did not cease . 5 . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McCook Field before he had been allowed to fly it and after he had been awarded a distinguished-service certificate by the War Department for the design . 6 . An independent aircraft manufacturer who after the war was sent on a mission which carried with it imminent risk of death and who was later framed up and thrown out of government employment . Although the charges against him have been investigated by two departments of the Government and pronounced unfounded he is today discredited , and his name as a reserve officer has been removed from the rolls of the Navy Department because ' of these charges . 7 . The legal adviser of the chief of the Army Air Service who was discharged while appearing before a Senate committee where he offered information in regard to the alleged disappearance of 122 carloads of material , planes , and parts of planes belonging to the United States and valued at more than $900,000 , from the Elizabeth , New Jersey , plant of a Japanese aircraft company , which was one of the original members of the Manufacturers ' Aircraft Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misconduct , the evidence of which has been accessible to the President 's aircraft board and to the Lampert aircraft committee , have not been made the subject of inquiry and such conditions stand unexposed and unrebuked. record of the testimony of the witnesses has long since been missing in the archives of the Committee on Military Affairs . The President 's aircraft board and the Lampert aircraft committee failed to call more than fifty available witnesses , some of whom had testified before the Thomas Senate committee and many of whom were the pioneer inventors and independent manufacturers whose sacrifices , broken bones , and mortgaged homes gave aviation to the world . When the Lampert aircraft committee was holding hearings in New York , ostensibly for the purpose of taking the testimony of a group of these pioneers who claimed that they were crushed and driven out of business by the so-called air trust , these witnesses were not called to the stand . According to press reports Representative Perkins , speaking for the committee at a banquet in its honor , made an announcement to the effect that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's work . The recent investigations have covered every conceivable phase of the subject except the one that contains the crux of the situation . It is an old saying that if you take the profits out of crime there will be no crime . The solution of our aircraft troubles will be found in the answers to the following questions : 1 . Who got the money ? 2 . What has been done with those who got the money ? 3 . What is going to be done with those who let the guilty escape ? In the thousands of pages of testimony it will be found that there has been no digging in the broad fields of malversation . In crimes against the government , " the love of money is the root of all evil . " While the Thomas Senate committee set forth in its report unthinkable methods of aircraft monopoly practiced against independent manufacturers of aircraft who sought to obtain government contracts , it was clearly stated in that report3 that No attempt has been made to investigate charges of personal dishonesty or official corruption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justice , which under the direction of the Hon. Charles E. Hughes has been conducting an inquiry of its own regarding that and other phases of the subject . It will be recalled that in no instance have the recommendations for prosecutions proposed in the Hughes report been carried out , and after that investigation , conducted during the war , no presidential board or congressional committee was especially authorized to investigate acts of malversation in connection with the air services , until the appointment by the House of Representatives of the Select Committee of Inquiry into Operations of the United States Air Services , known as the Lampert aircraft committee . In ordering the investigation intrusted to the Lampert aircraft committee , the authority and direction from the House of Representatives to investigate financial wrongdoing and malversation were plenary and mandatory and any failure to do so would subject the committee to just censure by Congress and the people . House Resolution 192,4 which was agreed to on March 24 , 1924 , directed Congressional Record , August 22 , 1918 , page 9330 . Congressional Record , March 24 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the operations of the Government 's air services and provided that said inquiry shall include investigation of contracts , settlements , or audits thereof , letters , expenditures , reports , receipts , or other documents in any way connected with any or all transactions of the said United States Army Air Service , the United States Naval Bureau of Aeronautics , the United States Mail Air Service , or any agency , branch , or subsidiary of either , and any corporations , firms , or individuals or agencies having any transactions with or being in any manner associated with or controlled or regulated by the said air service . The Lampert aircraft committee was appointed on March 24 , 1924 . In view of the fact that the Lampert committee was appointed to investigate charges made on the floor of Congress that men were being killed through criminal negligence and that a speedy report as to the truth of the charges was due to be returned to the House of Representatives , the record of this committee for neglect of duty is probably the worst in the annals of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearings until December 12 , 1924 , nine months after it was appointed . Although information was read into the record of the House of Representatives on April 15 , 1924,6 that in the opinion of the Department of Justice the statute of limitations would expire in important war-fraud cases on November 12 , 1924 , the Lampert committee , failing to meet and protest against inaction , must accept a responsibility in the final escape ' of the war grafters from prosecution . Notwithstanding the mandatory character of the resolution as to the scope of the investigation which was demanded by the House of Representatives , the Lampert committee upon its organization adopted as a steering chart and as the " Scope of the Inquiry " a questionnaire6 which was unresponsive to the resolution in detail and in effect and which begins the investigation with the following interrogations : 1 . Is war in the future a possibility ? A. Is the United States in a position where we need any further protection against , or preparation for , war ? B. Within what period is it probable , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come ? C. What nation or nations would be our probable enemies in event of such a war ? 2 . Where will the next war be fought ? Nowhere in the questionnaire is there an opportunity to squeeze in a line of inquiry on the questions raised in the House resolution or to develop the facts as to 1 . Who got the money ? 2 . What has been done with those who got the money ? 3 . What will be done with those who allow the guilty to escape ? Volume VI of the hearings of the Lampert aircraft committee consists of 604 pages devoted to an index to the 3,558 printed pages of hearings . The index volume comprises 35,969 items , and under the subjects of " Fraud and Corruption " and " Graft " the following testimony alone is cited , viz. : Page Fraud and corruption not proved ? Coffin 1277 Fraud , claims involving , not numerous ? Stoeckell 874 Graft , absent in negotiations ? Keys 1386 Graft , allegations have not been made ? Weeks 3017 5 Page 6416 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Howard E. Coffin , former chairman of the Government 's aircraft board , now president of the National Air Transport , Inc. , and at present a member of the President 's new aircraft board to report on the aircraft situation for the benefit of the President and Congress , testified before the Lampert aircraft committee7 as follows : Ma . T:RA Now , Mr. Coffin , . . . Do you know of any case where any real case of moral turpitude has developed ? Ma . COFFIN . Only cases where , perhaps , a man who was a bookkeeper or a clerk got away with a few dollars . Again , Mr. Coffin testified8 as follows : The accomplishments of the War Department in aviation were easily among its best in the war  --  cranks and manufactured public opinion to the contrary notwithstanding . It is hardly conceivable that the members of the Lampert committee are not aware that since the exposures on the floors of Congress in 1922 there have been annual appropriations by Congress of $500,000 , increased during the last session to an annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frauds Bureau in the Department of Justice and that numerous aircraft contracts involving millions of dollars , pronounced fraudulent by officials of the War Department itself , have been awaiting prosecution in the Department of Justice for more than three years . In September the Lampert committee disqualified itself from rendering any report when Chairman Lampert released a statement for the afternoon papers in which he said : " Problems are too complicated for congressional determination . " On September 12 , 1925 , three days after this stateHearings , page 1274 . Ib ul , page 1210. ment was given to the press by Chairman Lampert , a presidential aircraft board , with Howard E. Coffin named as one of the investigators , was announced , but apparently it was not directed to discover what is wrong with the air service . In fact , the gist of the President 's instructions to his new air board  --  known as the Morrow committee  --  was reported in the press as follows : I feel that your efforts will result in bringing out the good qualities of the air service and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If America , whose genius gave the art of heavier-than-air flight to the world , has the brains and the money and pilots with unsurpassed records , why has she lost her place in the sun ? The answer will not be found in the hearings or in the reports of the President 's aircraft board and the Lampert aircraft committee . If we are to correct the evils of our air services , - accurate and reliable information for the public is necessary . Without it no findings or conclusions can have weight . While the Lampert aircraft committee has washed the outside of the cup , the Morrow board has done the same for the platter . The application of the nursery rhyme is for the kindergarten class in public affairs : Simple Simon went a-fishing For to catch a whale ; All the water he had got Was in his mother 's pail . In his first article , published last week , Captain Scaife summarized the history of the aircraft frauds . His final article , next week , will deal with the Morrow committee report and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               