@@467963

ter of the population with a slight inclination toward Hollywood , California . Having broken corn bread and having eaten roast pork with the men of Dayton at the time when the world was looking derisively at the little town , I feel moved to rise to the defense of Dayton despite the fact that its hospitality induced acute indigestion . If I were fishing for morons I should throw my dragnet at Forty-second Street and Broadway , New York , rather than at Main and Market streets , Dayton . The case of the whale of Jonah versus science started in the Tennessee state legislature and not in Robinson 's drug store as advertised . John Washington Butler , farmer-Solon , drafted the law . John Washington Butler subscribed to a religious weekly in which he read that there was a growing skepticism as to the whale and as to other points in the Old Testament . John went before the voters of his assembly district on the issue of the whale and was elected . The Tennessee legislature did the rest . Again I maintain that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence that the aggregate intelligence of the Tennessee legislature is any lower than that of the legislature of ? say New York or California . I have listened at Albany and at Sacramento . An Albany legislature is quite capable of passing a statute providing a penitentiary sentence for anybody questioning the authenticity of George Washington 's cherry tree , and a California legislature one of these days may declare an extra session to provide a suitable punishment for the heretic who expresses open skepticism as to the pies thrown by Mr. Charles Chaplin . The bill of John Washington Butler was passed in due time and the Governor of Tennessee , believing that he was interpreting the drawling voice of his people , signed it . I am not so sure that the Governor of Tennessee interpreted his people 's dialect correctly . He is not the first governor who listened in and , getting an earful of static ; acted on it . Then the scene shifted to Robinson 's drug store on Main Street , Dayton , where John Thomas Scopes , the twenty-fouryear-old teacher of biology and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phosphates with George Rappleyea , agent for the Cumberland Coal and Iron Company , and Robinson , the druggist and chairman of the Rhea County school-book committee . Young Scopes gaily offered to become the martyr of this modern heresy trial . In open defiance of the law of John Washington Butler he resolved to reenter the Rhea County High School and to review the nebular hypothesis as set down in Hunter 's Civic Biology , a book that was iniquitous according to John Washington Butler 's bill . Before I went to Dayton I was convinced that all of this was a cunning bid for publicity on the part of a Chamber of Commerce or a business men 's association of some sort . It looked Iike a duplicate of Mr. Tex Rickard 's scheme of staging a prizefight at Goldfield , Nevada , to draw customers for mining stock . It seemed to have the earmarks of Mayor Jim Johnson 's plan to draw oil stock investors to Shelby , Montana , by bidding three hundred thousand dollars for the services of Mr. Jack Dempsey , the heavyweight champion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such sordid commercialism . They could have profiteered upon the hordes of correspondents and the casual visitors but they did not . They had nothing to sell . They were indifferent to the visitors ' opinions as to their climate , their green hills , and their ways of living . As one who has suffered from the importunities of boosters in big and little cities , I want to set it down here that the people of Dayton , Tennessee , instinctively are the best-bred people in this regard whom I ever encountered . They did want something though . I found that out later . The pitiful part of it is that they did not get what they thought the trial would bring them . The people of Dayton wanted something to which the people of the big cities are indifferent . They wanted knowledge , and of this they were cheated . They fondly believed that they would hear some of the greatest scientists in the country on the stand at the Rhea County Courthouse . Citizens of Rhea County fought to get on that jury . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week before declared under oath that he would be able to hear the case with an unbiased mind . He was curious and he said he was unconvinced . Let us compare the intellectual tastes of New York City and Dayton , Tennessee . Obviously New York City 's notion of the greatest show on earth is the Follies with Mr. Will Rogers , Mr. William C. Fields , and girlhood glorified by Mr. Ziegfeld . The notion of Dayton as to the greatest intellectual treat was the summoning of the scientists to testify to the finish as to all theories of creation . On this showing which is the moron city ? Riding over the Cumberland ridges through the night into Dayton , I questioned the man who drove the Ford . " What do the people of Dayton expect to get out of this ? " I demanded . " Rental for rooms ? Advertising for coal mines or crops ? " " Do n't you see the scheme , " he countered . " They are going to have some of the greatest scientists and the greatest speakers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a smart scheme . They are going to get a college education for nothing . " And that really was all that Dayton wanted . The people of Dayton were so eager for knowledge that they were willWHY PICK ON DAYTON ? 62.5 ing to face the ridicule of the world , including two thousand words of cable daily filed by London correspondents to call upon all of the United Kingdom to witness that the inmates of the United States were incomprehensible ? which , after all , was no news in the United Kingdom . Was this naivete on the part of the people of Dayton or was it deep cunning as the driver of the Ford suspected ? Whatever it was , I can not see how it can be accepted as a symptom of acute moronism . I fear that it will go bard with John T. Raulston , the County Judge who , after seeking daily guidance in prayer , decided upon the inadmissability of the scientific testimony . He faces an election this fall . Of course he acted in accordance with the mundane guidance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great show . He barred further information concerning mammals , protoplasms , and other strange subjects touched upon only with tantalizing brevity and then under violent objection on the part of the Attorney General of the State of Tennessee . Half an hour after the jury had found John Thomas Scopes guilty of teaching the young of Rhea County , Tennessee , out of the iniquitous Hunter 's Civic Biology which contained salacious details concerning protoplasms and mammals , the foreman , Captain Jack Thompson , dropped in to fraternize with the correspondents . Captain Jack was a fine up-standing old gentleman affecting the gray goatee which is indigenous to the old South of fiction and the moving pictures . He had been United States Marshal under all Democratic administrations and bad about him the air and dignity that is part of the more or less habitual United States Marshal . " Of course the verdict had to be guilty , " said Captain Jack in that musical dialect that can be caught only by a phonograph . " But it was hard on the jury , not being able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 505. - 40'arty hard on us not being able to hear the speeches . They say that some of the jurors listened in on the loud speaker . That is not true . I was in charge and I was a United States Marshal under the late President Wilson . " What the higher court will do , we do not know . But Scopes taught evolution , and that is against the law . Now if you all can spare the time I would like to have you all come out to my farm and spend a few days . Of course , it is n't much but you certainly would be welcome . Being busy on the jury prevented me from welcoming you all to our country . Could you find time to fix me up a list of books on evolution ? " Everywhere in Dayton there was this touching curiosity . Robinson 's drugstore sold out the complete stock of Hunter 's Civic Biology . The place was swamped with orders for forbidden literature concerning evolution . When the New York City Board of Theatrical Censors put certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortunes on those plays . Books on evolution being placed under the ban in Tennessee , there was a rush for the forbidden literature . New York scrambles for plays suspected of being salacious . Dayton scrambles for books suspected of being informative . Which is to be taken as evidence of moronry ? The English correspondents were utterly bewildered by it . They were struck first by the entirely obvious . It was a shirtsleeve court . His Honor , Judge Raulston , was stripped to his conservative galluses . Mr. Clarence Darrow appeared in lavender suspenders . Even Mr. Dudley Field Malone peeled off his coat when he prepared to make the speech that was heard for the length and breadth of Rhea County . Why should not Justice dress comfortably ? We are a coatless nation when we are ourselves and when coats are superfluous . The Spanish-American War was fought by young men in their shirtsleeves because they felt more comfortable and natural without the regulation blouses . In Tennessee it is not indecorous to appear before the ladies , or even at Meeting , in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that . To them the revealed galIuses will always be symbols of revealed barbarity . No English judge would have found John Thomas Scopes guilty while the judicial braces were even slightly exposed to the elements and to the gaze of the vulgar . I was particularly impressed with the dignity shown all through by the young defendant , John Thomas Scopes , who came from Paducah , Kentucky , the birthplace of Irvin S. Cobb . Consider the forces that strove to afflict young John Thomas , the unmartyred martyr of our most spectacular heresy trial , with the prevalent and infectious ailment known as the swelled head . I am not particularly quick at figures , but I gathered from young Mr. Scopes as he gossiped with us on the back porch over Morgan 's hardware store that he had declined something like twenty thousand dollars ' worth of moving-picture and newspaper offers . Who of our young men made famous overnight would have this strength of mind ? Mr. Jack Dempsey and Mr. Babe Ruth rushed into literature and into the silent drama with much slighter provocation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he emerged from it a poor young ex-teacher . There is a young man of character with a sense of humor and a sense of the fitness of things rare in his day and generation . Many a leader of other causes has been deflected by the lure of the easy money of the moving-picture industry and the easy money of easy literature . The future of Tennessee and of the South is safe in the hands of young men of the caliber of young John Thomas Scopes , the boy whose head refused to swell and who smiled quietly at his serio-comic martyrdom . Give a twenty-four-yearold of the city a chance like that at the moving pictures and the Sunday supplements and there will be troubb in supplying him with sufficient celluloid and news-print paper . Young John Thomas Scopes was certain of himself . It was not cocksureness either . He treated the members of the prosecution with a grave courtesy . It was the kindly tolerance of wise youth for the set intolerance of age , and it was beautiful ? and ominous . There was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this heretic from Paducah , Kentucky . He was the first exhibit of the prosecution to show the terrible effects of the iniquitous Hunter 's Civic Biology , as taught by John Thomas Scopes , upon the youth of Rhea County , Tennessee . Of course the first witness called had to be a Morgan . Most of the voters of Rhea County are Morgans . The McKenzies are fairly numerous but the Morgans arc the indigenous family . Under questioning by the Attorney General of Tennessee , little Howard Morgan told how he had been taught the nebular hypothesis after the teaching of that iniquity had been made illegal in Tennessee . Also , he had been taught about mammals . He delivered this damning testimony in low tones because IIoward Morgan worshipped John Thomas Scopes . All of the pupils worshipped him . Under cross-examination by Mr. Clarence Darrow , Howard volunteered the information that he had not known that the whale was a mammal . " Well , you do know now , " said Mr. Darrow . " It has not done you any harm , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Howard Morgan . " It is for the mother of this boy to say what harm this diabolical business has done him , " thundered a member of the prosecution . Mr. Darrow only twiddled his galluses . That night one of the more enterprising correspondents interviewed the mother of young Howard Morgan . She said that the morals of her boy had been unimpaired by the course in Hunter 's Civic Biology . He was a good boy and a bright boy . She was proud of him . She wanted him to learn more about evolution and everything else . He was as keen a Bible student as he was a student of biology . This testimony , of course , did not go to the jury . It is not at all unlikely that one of these days young Howard Morgan may be Governor of the State of Tennessee or Attorney General . Tennessee 's future is in the hands of such as Howard . All of our states are in the hands of such as these , who are taught at an early age that whales are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Hunter 's Civic Biology ? which leads me to believe that the future of the whole country is safe and sane . The world-wide conflict between youth and settled maturity was being waged in Dayton , and youth was winning as youth is winning all over the world . Age remained resentful and bitter . On our last night in Dayton the correspondents domiciled with the Morgans staged as gay a party as was possible away from the metropolitan accessories for such an affair . There was a dance and all were invited . The correspondents wanted to express their gratitude for the admirable restraint exercised by the Boosters ' Club ? if any ? for the duration of the trial . The lavender galluses of Mr. Clarence Darrow were to be presented to the correspondents by Mr. Dudley Field Malone . Mr. Darrow in turn was to present in turn the silk shirt worn by Mr. Dudley Field Malone . The Morgans especially were invited . Everybody had forgiven everybody when the case was concluded . As the hour drew near for the merriment John Morgan , the patriarch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hall of revelry with his Bible under his arm . " Wo n't you stay for the party ? " he was asked . The Patriarch of the Morgans frowned " No , sir , " he said , gripping his Bible more firmly . " I am going to Meeting . But make yourselves at home . " All of the other Morgans , the sons , the grandsons , and the nephews attended , including Buckshot Morgan , Tighteye Morgan , Spiller Morgan , and many other Morgans and McKenzies . It was a gala night and the Mason and Dixon line was erased completely for the evening . Youth had lost a technical decision but still had cause to celebrate the future , which is youth 's , while the patriarch went to Meeting . Dayton is a small town with a Main Street but I found there beauty , courtesy , and intelligence . Also I found indigestion ; but in spite of that I left there with a better understanding of the United States as I saw it in miniature . In spite of the ravages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a better understanding and a deeper affection , " My country , ' t is of thee . " And some day I hope to return to Dayton to walk with Mr. Buckshot among the everlasting hills and the equally everlasting stills of the Cumberlands . In the meantime I will leave any proposition affecting myself or the world in general to a jury picked from Main Street , Dayton , provided there are no restrictions placed upon the evidence to be presented . Dayton , Tennessee , is a long way from Moronia.                     