@@488111

T HE best there is to say of the pow-wow in Washington between President Coolidge and the State Governors in regard to prohibition is that the meeting and its recommendations will soon be forgotten . It was a fine exhibition of unctuous claptrap which apparently satisfied nobody except the official stenographers who were paid for reporting it by the word . Governor Pinchot of Pennsylvania , who fathered the whole movement , says it got nowhere ; Governors Parker of Louisiana , Ritchie of Maryland , and Smith of New York think it got too far ; and Governor Blaine of Wisconsin asserts that the only result was to boost Governor Pinchot as a Republican Presidential candidate . Even these mild estimates give an exaggerated importance to the meeting . The speeches and resolutions reek with " cooperate , " " coordinate , " and other words whose use we discovered during the war when we were trying- to express in a high-sounding way something we did n't in the least understand or mean . Mr. Coolidge himself was not a little muddled about the duties of States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in general States have a direct duty to enforce Federal laws , he announced a doctrine not hitherto accepted . If he referred to the " concurrent power " to enforce prohibition which is specifically given to the States by the Eighteenth Amendment , he forgot that the fun of that has been destroyed by the Supreme Court 's ruling that no higher alcoholic content can be fixed than in the Volstead law . The fact is that in prohibition the United States is undertaking a great radical experiment . Successful enforcement will come only if eventually the law commends itself not to a large minority or a small majority but to an overwhelming proportion of our citizens . In the meanwhile we are in for rather a nasty time of it . T HAT staunch old democrat , President Masaryk , of Czecho-Slovakia , must have twinged when he read the comparisons in the Paris press between his visit to the French capital and that of the Czar of Russia some years ago which sealed an alliance that began with a loan and ended in a war . For he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he is too experienced in the ways of diplomacy not to know and regret the possible implications of his and his country 's action . Henceforth , apparently , the French army of more than 600,000 men , the French-trained Polish army of 400,000 men , and the French-trained Czech army of 300,000 men will form one military unit . We shall soon see published in the League of Nations Treaty Series , as the Covenant of the League requires , the text of some nocuous " defensive " treaty ; but the accompanying military treaty will be styled " agreement " or " convention , " and kept secret . As a matter of fact this new treaty marks the completion of another chapter in the development of a system of alliances which makes Central Europe virtually ' a prov7 ince of France . That empire of Mitteleuropa of which pan-Germans dreamed during the war has been realized  --  but by Germany 's ancient enemy . A N intricate network of post-war alliances binding the new nations of Central Europe to each other and to France perpetuates the hates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loans to follow France . Political , commercial , and military treaties between France and Poland , signed during Marshal Pilsudski 's visit to Paris in February , 1921 , gave the signal for the " Little Entente ! Czecho-Slovakia and Jugoslavia and Rumania , moved by a common fear of mutilated Hungary , signed military agreements in June and July of 1921 ; Rumania and Poland made an agreement directed against Russia at the same time ; and before the end of the year Czecho-Slovakia and Poland composed their disagreements . ezecho-Slovakia moved toward including ruined Austria in her orbit in December , 1921 , but Austria 's subsequent adoption as a ward of the League has left her out of any scheme of alliances . Poland sought , just before the Genoa Conference of 1922 , to sweep the Baltic states into the Polish military system , but they resisted . Meanwhile a series of loans and , commercial agreements has cemented the dependence of . Poland , Czecho-Slovakia , and Rumania upon France . Jugo- , slavia 's future remains uncertain ; she may settle her dif. - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or ' , follow the easier path of French domination . In any case an enormously powerful . military system has been estab- ? lished in Europe , and GeimAnyi " facing g'imptiont sees an alliance of enemies reaching greedy heaftkflietifpnit , dvery side . Outside the si:ystWi.:Ith-ydqzon ; it power ? Sedlet Russia ; and toward it too " Pbindard , i 's ; niVv ; extCtiagir , feelers. ? ! " .                     