@@490087

Gypsies at the Ritz MRS . WILLIAM RANDOLPH HEARST , as all the world , figuring on the guest list alone , should know , recently gave a party at the Hotel Ritz . It was , as parties have gotten into the habit of being , in honor of Ambassador Moore , and they do say that when the Ambassador sailed for his Spanish post the following day there was a sharp downward movement in the quotations of string bands and Pierrot costumes . A few weeks ago Conde Nast staged a pageant of the New York theatrical and literary world  --  whimsically calling it a small housewarming  --  at which it was observed of Ambassador Moore that he never rose from a chair without scattering to the winds a dozen or more ing  --  nues , who had been draping themselves around him , and that just before departing , as the result of a vigorous brushing by a salaried attendant , no fewer than eight musical comedy stars were dislodged from folds in his dinner jacket . This time , at Mrs. Hearst 's , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really gypsies , of course , but dressed like gypsies . This is clear from an examination of the guest List , which shows such names as Prince Habil Lotfallah , the Grand Duke Boris and Senator Copeland , and everyone knows they 're not gypsies . As was to be expected , the New York ilmerican and the New York Mirror scored beats on the occasion , both papers appearing on the streets early in the evening , before the party had begun , with full ac-counts of the night 's festivities . As a reward for this display of enterprise , it is assumed , the ilmerican and the Mirror will be allowed to exercise a similar efficiency on future occasions . " Under Joseph Urban 's magic wand , " the .4mericat ; had it , " the famous Crystal Room was trans .. formed into a gypsy camp , nestled away in a forest of pine trees . Gayly colored streamers were attached to the trees and an imitation gypsy fire added a picturesque touch . A full moon shone from the far end of the forest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tent two palmists told fortune s , while an organ-grinder and the inevitable monkey wandered among the guests , all of whom were in fancy dress . " The name of the author of the ilmerican 's piece should be made public and broadcast . 0 ! the bitter cynicism , and 01 the glorious venom of the man ! " The inevitable monkey , " he writes , and thereby he achieves in three words what lesser and cheaper authors could scarcely hint at in three thousand . There was a cabaret , a hired one , and they do say that there was a wistful look in the eyes of W. C. Fields as he gazed at his distinguished audience and allowed his thoughts to play with the wealth of juggleable material that confronted him . " Supper was served following the cabaret , " said the Mirror , " and early in the morning the social gypsies wished Ambassador Moore bon voyage at a breakfast of scrambled eggs , hot waffles and coffee , served on the imitation grass that lined the edges of the hall room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen , has its morose and brilliant commentator . " Social gypsies , " he writes . " Social gypsies , " Indeed ! But it was a highly successful and entertaining party , and Ambassador Moore did sail the following morning . Second Cahn Passage PAAVO NURMI , back home , is a worker in one of the building trades of his native land . He is , you gather , no millionaire . He came to the United States as the guest of the Finnish-American Athletic Club , and he came , since that was the form of transport provided , by second cabin . The Finns are thrifty people , even when they emigrate to America and form athletic clubs . Since his arrival here Nurmi has been a great money maker for native athletic clubs . He ran once under auspices of his hosts , the Finnish-Americans , and thereafter for whatever organizations could persuade or manoeuver him into signing an entry blank . His amazing performances and the flood of publicity they commanded have proved a financial blessing for clubs everywhere along the Atlantic seaboard . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has attracted packed houses . The rivalry for his  --  may one say services in connection with amateur sport ? ? services , then , has been so great that on the Pacific Coast they are saying even more nasty things than usual about the East because Nurmi has not run out there . Experts in such matters estimate that Nurmi has attracted between seventy-five and one hundred thousand dollars into various armories and such-like barns since he came here . Yet , the ways of our rulers of amateur sports being what they are , the man has lived as the guest and at the expense of a distant family connection  --  in the none-too-palatial residence of an apartment house superintendent in the Bronx  --  save when he has been traveling from city to city to compete in various races . For the payment of his railroad fares and hotel bills outside New York , the beneficent A. A. U. is assessing each club benefiting by his services one hundred dollars , the resulting fund being administered by A. A. U. officials . The club usually profits through Nurmi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this cost item is nominal if ever one was . But some of diem are said to have yielded with ill , almost deathly ill grace . From the fund amassed by the assessment of the clubs , the A. A. U. expects to pay Mr. Nurmi 's return passage . It has not been decided yet whether he will be packed back second cabin , as he came , or first . But if Mr. Nurmi has anything to say about it , he will push off our shores in the royal suite of some Cunarder . His is not a grasping soul , but as the recipient of our very amateur hospitality and as a student at last of the profits he has earned for his hosts , he is quite likely to balk at taking passage on par with maiden school teachers vacationing out of Dubuque . And , maybe , someone has whispered into his ear that our native athletic lights would scorn any such meagre traveling allowances as have been granted him . Indeed , it is said that it costs more to bring some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transport Nurmi , second cabin , from Finland to our hospitable shores . THERE are certain polite amenities that seem to be necessary for the proper enjoyment of those who pay their pennies to patronize sport . If a prize fighter accidentally slips and falls without being hit , his opponent gracefully extends his gloved paws as a sort of elegant acknowledgment that he is taking no undue credit for the spill of his opponent . This always brings a generous round of applause from the pop-eyed spectators who are pleased to note that the gallant gladiator did n't kick his adversary in the face . It sometimes happens that a boxer does n't hear the bell and caresses his opponent 's jaw with a swishing 3 uppercut or a stabbing jab when he should have been walking toward his corner . The noble recipient of this little attention , if the blow is not too severe , or if he happens to be winning at the time , claims no foul , but again extends his gloves in that curious handshake of the professional fighter . He shows the wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classes , and from diabetic ringside scat holders to the broken-arched , squint-eyed hero in the gallery there comes a patter of approval and the endorsement to the nearest friend or stranger that that guy 's a sport all right . It takes thirty-four laps for a five thousand meter race on the track at Madison Square Garden . The two greatest long distance runners of the age were entered in the K. C. meet , and they are not friends . Nurmi took the lead and held it , and as lap after lap was reeled off in world 's record time , Ritola dropped farther and farther behind . When seventy-five yards separated the two great runners , Nurnai stopped and with a look of agony on his face doubled up as one will in a cramp . His legs were all right but his physiology was all wrong . What happened to him has caused swimmers to drown , and the pain was like the one that caused Corbett to writhe on the canvas while completely conscious , unable to get up and rend the freckled Fitzsimmons . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Nurrni 's agony seventy-five yards away sent an electric energy into the other Finn 's legs . Despondent and beaten , he became exalted and poundedaround the wooden track with all of the spirit of one mowing down a big field of brilliant competitors . He won the race . The twelve thousand spectators , one imagines , would have anticipated the tearing down of old Madison Square Garden by ripping a few shingles off the ancient roof with an explosion of approval for a knightly deed if Ritola had covered the seventy yards to his opponent and then , keeping pace with him , left the track at the same moment that Nurmi was helped off by his trainers . Ho-hum ! WITH the publicity flourishes that attend every movement of this erratic family , the Richard Bennetts are definitely being divorced and the separation agreement specifies that Mrs. Bennett is to have the two other children . At the same time it is announced that Maurice is to ( lance with Barbara . Maurice , not too inconsolable after the sudden marriage of his former partner , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lido , in search of a blonde who could learn to step out with him as gracefully as she could receive her $1,750 weekly cheque . ( Members of the Junior League were offered $1,800 , but there were no takers . ) To the Lido then came girls with unspeakable ankles , gross tonnages of several hundred pounds , and faces like Quasimodo  --  a lurid collection for New York , the city of beautiful women . Maurice was prostrated with woe , until Barbara Bennett chanced upon the scene . Voila ! Maurice must sail on Saturday for France ; Barbara was dark , lovely-Looking , and covetous of her sister Connie 's flair for publicity . Amid loud fanfares and the blowing of trumpets , Maurice introduced Barbara as his new partner , and was guiding her expertly about the floor of the Lido when her mother came upon the scene . Vigorous shushing from Maurice as Mrs. Bennett aptly said , " How wonderful ! Can this be true ? " and more shushing before the answer , " Mrs. Bennett , it is true . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fey club , temporarily , knows her no more . AS.IC seven taxpayers sampling their after-lunch toothpicks in front of a drug store window and watching the lady demonstrate the virtues of the No-Ink Fountain Pen , " Who is the greatest thinker in the United States ? " Five of them will answer with ease and spontaneity , " Arthur Brisbane . " ( On a rainy afternoon , the number will be increased to six . ) Mr. Brisbane 's status as a thinker is one which inspires snorts of derision in the bosoms of the nation 's most important thinkers . Nevertheless , there is a singularly engaging quality about Mr. Brisbane 's thinking , a certain sorrowful leit motif in his thoughts , an almost droll wistfulness that has a decided charm . For instance , after the Hearst newspapers , which Mr. Brisbane helps direct , have devoted weeks to inflaming the masses with curiosity and excitement over a Dempsey-Firpo fight , Mr. Brisbane , writing from the ringside , places his finger to his brow and says how ridiculous is the spectacle of two subnormal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's attitude toward other national and international events is similarly depressing . Following the hysterical hullaballoo caused by the approach of a Republican or Democratic National Convention ? a hullaballoo which the Hearst papers do more than their share in contributing  --  Mr. Brisbane seats himself again at the ringside and writes deflatingly of the entire show . His column in the Hearst papers is filled continually with references to the Unimportance of Events , the Meaninglessness of Politics , Conventions , Calamities , etc . Wistfully , Mr. Brisbane contrasts the little skyrocket excitements of the day with the History of Man . In one day 's column , recently , there were refererences , half of them inaccurate , to the French Revolution , to the Cro-Magnons , to the grave distances of the stars , and to the vanished civilizations of Babylon , Nineveh and Troy . Contrasted to these profound and epic matters , the contemporary disturbances upon which Mr. Brisbane commented grew puny and even unreal . The technique which animates Mr. Brisbane 's thinking is both philosophic and impressive . Mr. Brisbane , in fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is reminiscent of Anatole France . He breathes forth day after day , under astonishing handicaps , an adroit " tut tut , " a curious " tut tut , " whose far-fetched calm startles the millions of nerve-harried Hearst subscribers who follow his words . The secret of the matter is obviously that Mr. Brisbane himself suffers from a Hearst hangover . The crazed excitements he has directed , the jabberwockian hysterias his employer 's newspapers have assisted from time to time in creating , have acted inversely upon Mr. Brisbane 's soul . For a generation the Hearst press has led in whipping the masses into the species of sterile but dervish-like enthusiasms which has come to be known as Public Opinion . His gazettes , stretching from Atlanta to San Francisco , have stressed the importance of fugitive and trivial happenings beyond the dreams of yesterday 's journalistic Barnums . They have developed into an art the business of inflating salacious details , superficial gestures and the endlessly unvarying buncombe of Public Characters into seven column headline news ; with the result that the mind of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible , to a St. Vitus dance of fevered and chaotic nonsense . And Mr. Brisbane is the hangover . His daily column is a gentle and amiable give away of the headline screams which enliven the remainder of the papers for which he writes . Calmly , and with the aid of seventeen sets of encyclopedia ' , Mr. Brisbane repudiates from day to day the Importance of News . At times he even moralizes . His moralizings are frequently succinct and civilized . And frequently they degenerate into a loose mumble , as if it were too dangerous to make oneself understood on some topics . On the whole , however , his moralizings tower splendidly over the moralizings of Dr. Frank Crane , Bruce Barton and such To the taxpayers turning from the acrobatic squallings of the headlines to the hangover weariness of Mr. Brisbane , the latter becomes in a very startling manner a great thinker , a tonic . His remarks soothe the frazzled nerves of the Hearst readers and give them a vicarious sense of cynicism without endangering the comparative emptiness of their heads . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the fetiches which the press dangles before its customers are wrong or questionable , but merely that they are , compared to something else to be found in an encyclopedia , unimportant . Mr. Brisbane is Mr. Hearst 's Buddha Complex . THE herding tendency is now hard at work on the afternoon tea crowds . No one  --  American scientists are obviously shiftless ? has ever figured                     