@@486172

T HE spectacular days of Gandhi and non-cooperation in India have passed and the surface of Indian politics is now less troubled than for eight years ; nevertheless the intensity of Indian political sentiment is greater than ever before and the activity of the Nationalists more effective . Before the appointment of the Montagu-Chelmsford Commission on Indian Constitutional Reform the anti-British , or home rule , feeling expressed itself chiefly in direct seditious action and utterance . When the new constitution was defined and made operative , the disappointment of the Nationalists broke out in further sedition that culminated in the serious disorders accompanying non-cooperation . But during the past three years the Nationalists , taking advantage of the weapons provided by the new constitution , have brought legislative , rather than seditious , pressure to bear upon the Government of India . Their aims are the same , the spirit is not diminished , but the greater certainty of success has produced action that is less frantic . The credit for the change of tactics belongs almost entirely to the Swaraj Party and its founder , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political ability , he had first opposed Gandhi 's non-cooperation , then later accepted it ; but in December , 1922 , feeling that the movement was not proving successful , he had advocated a modified noncooperation . He failed to carry with him the All-India National Congress , of which he was president at the time , and he broke away , forming a new party , now known as the Swaraj Party . This is at present the dominant party in India ; it is back again in the All-India Congress , having returned by invitation last Christmas on its own terms , and last July it received the final surrender of Gandhi , who declared it his accredited agent . Das 's attitude was practical , expedient , that of a competent political strategist , lying midway between complete boycott of the " Satanic " British rulership urged by the Mahatma and the whole-hearted cooperation so earnestly besought by the Government for the new constitution . Although , like Gandhi , he hated the new scheme with its principle of " dyarchy , " he perceived the weakness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administration for legislation and " transferring " others to the legislative bodies for action , which action , however , in most cases the Government could override through its powers of " certification " of defeated measures . Gandhi 's method was complete refusal to employ the legislative bodies established under the constitution , to contest no elections , and at the same time to boycott the courts . Das , on the other hand , urged the Nationalists to elect representatives to the national and provincial legislative bodies . These representatives would form an opposition to the hand-made Government party , which is composed not of elected members but of certain administrative officials who are in the legislative bodies ex officio and a number of members who are " nominated , " that is , appointed , by the Government . The Nationalist representatives should make their demands in the legislatures . If these demands should be granted , well enough ; but if they should be refused by the Government  --  and it was a foregone conclusion that they wouldbe  --  then the Nationalists should adopt a settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If they should prove able to defeat the Government party , then a situation would arise in which a " responsible " Government , as in England , would resign , and a new ministry be formed with the confidence of the dominant party . In India , where the Government is not " responsible , " there would be no such easy success , but the Government would be in the unenviable position of having to use its powers of certification to enact legislation that had been repudiated by the people 's elected representatives . This plan of entry into the Legislative Councils has been successful . Although the Swaraj Party itself has never had a majority in any national or provincial legislative body , it has been able with the frequent help of other Nationalists to defeat the Government in Bengal , Bihar , and the Central Provinces , to compel the withdrawal there of certain " transferred " subjects of legislation , to deny salaries to the ministers , who are appointed by the goVernors  --  in short , to give verisimilitude to the claim that the dyarchy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs they have not had this success , for there legislation lies in the hands not of one body but of two , the National Legislative Assembly and a second chamber , known as the Council of State . This second chamber has a larger proportional government element than the lower house , while its elected members are chosen by a much more limited electorate . Hence , while the Swarajists , with their allies , have succeeded in defeating the Government in the Assembly , their action has invariably been rescinded by the Council of State . , The deadlock thus created seemed unalterable until the Swarajists about six months back showed the first signs of abating their intransigence . The initial gesture was made by Mr. Das on May 2 , in his presidential address at the opening on the Bengal Provincial Conference . He repeated the demand for dominion status ? " not servitude but free alliance by consent " ? censured the Government of India for the Amritsar tragedy and the Bengal " ordinance " of last winter that authorized the administration to arrest , hold , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of law , but at the same time made the significant pronouncement that " provided some real responsibility is transferred to the people , there is no reason why we should not cooperate with the Government . " These opinions were embodied in a resolution and adopted by the conference . Shortly afterward Gandhi gave his approval , and a little later Mr. Jinnah , leader of the other important Indian party , the Independents , announced himself in accord with the Swarajists . The good faith of the Swarajist gesture has been further made evident by two specific instances of cooperation . The first of these was the acceptance by Mr. Nehru , successor to Mr. Das as All-India head of the party , of a seat on a government-appointed committee to recommend means of increasing the Indian element in the army . The second came at the opening of the session ' of the National Legislative Assembly , August 21 , when the chair of president fell vacant and for the first time was thrown open to election . Mr. Patel , the leading Swarajist of western India , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since genuinely cooperated with the Government by subordinating party loyalty to the demand of his position for impartiality and has thereby won the commendation of the Government and the Nationalists alike . Meanwhile , Lord Birkenhead , Secretary of State for India , had in July made his long-awaited speech before the House of Lords , which he had prepared only after consultation with the Viceroy , Lord Reading , who had been called home from India especially for that purpose . The heart of his remarks was that there would be no serious change in the Indian constitution before 1929 , the date originally set for revision , but meanwhile the Government would welcome signs of unity among the Indians and would consider extension of representative government along lines that might be agreed upon by all parties . The signs of unity were not long coming . When the National Legislative Assembly met in August the Swarajists and the Independents succeeded in constructing a common program and at the proper time presented it . The occasion was the report of the Muddiman Committee on Indian Constitutional Reform . This committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lord Birkenhead had stated that the very moderate recommendations of the majority report would be executed . When the report was presented to the Assembly , Lord Reading asked that the majority report be accepted and recommended . But the Nationalists , completely united , by a vote of 72 to 45 rejected it as inadequate and urged the execution of a series of measures proposed by Mr. Nehru in an amendment . Although this amendment was afterward rejected by the Government-controlled Council of State and the Government was not embarrassed by having to consider it formally , it is worth reproducing here as embodying the present aspiration of Indian leaders . The following is quoted from the weekly Calcutta Statesman for September 10 : This Assembly , while confirming and reiterating the demand contained in the resolution passed by it on February 18 , 1924 , recommends to the Governor General-inCouncil that he be pleased to take immediate steps to move His Majesty 's Government to make a declaration in Parliament embodying the following fundamental changes in the present constitutional machinery and administration of India : ( a ) The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or accruing from property or rights vested in His Majesty under the Government of India Act , 1858 , or the present act or received by the Secretary of State-inCouncil under any of the said acts shall hereafter vest in the Governor General-in-Council for purposes of the Government of India . ( b ) The Governor General-in-Council shall be responsible to the Indian Legislature , and , subject to such responsibility , shall have power to control expenditure of the revenues of India and make such grants and appropriations of any part of those revenues or of any other property as is at present under the control or disposal of the Secretary of State for India-in-Council save and except the following which shall for a fixed term of years remain under the control of the Secretary of State for India : ( 1 ) expenditure on the Military Services up to a fixed limit ; ( 2 ) expenditure classed as political and foreign ; ( 3 ) payment of all debts and liabilities hitherto lawfully contracted and incurred by the Secretary of State for India-in-Council on account of the Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of State for India shall be abolished , and the position and functions of the Secretary of State for India shall be assimilated to those of the Secretary of State for self-governing dominions save as otherwise provided in clause ( b ) . ( d ) The Indian army shall be nationalized within a reasonably short and definite period of time , and Indians shall be admitted for service in all arms of defense , and for that purpose the Governor General and the Commanderin-Chief shall be assisted by a minister responsible to the Assembly . ( e ) The central and provincial legislatures shall consist entirely of members elected by constituencies formed on as wide a franchise as possible . MILITARY EXPENDITURE ( f ) The principle of responsibility to the Legislature shall be introduced in all branches of the administration of the Central Government subject to transitional reservation and residuary powers in the Governor-General in respect of the control of military , foreign , and political affairs for a fixed term of years , provided that during the said fixed term the proposal of the Governor General-in- Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other expenditure classified as " defense " shall be submitted to the vote of the Legislature but that the Governor General-in-Council shall have power notwithstanding the vote of the Assembly to appropriate up to a fixed maximum any sum he may consider necessary for such expenditure , and , in the event of a war , to authorize such expenditure as may be considered necessary . . . . All this might seem to be nothing more than parliamentary maneuvering , but such is not the-case . The fight is not merely between the Swaraj Party and the Government ; it is a struggle between the entire Indian electorate and the Government , Small ' though the enfranchised fraction of the .. po , Aul , ation is , its ' voice is , after all , the only volee ret has apt it Tmist be listened to attentively. - In lesser . rnattes ; e4PeCianY- in the provinces , the Swar.aj , - , Pd41 , hag : last ; summer and this fall suffered a nunlicrei. , : a defeats and even experienced internal dissensidn ' but on large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Swarajists . In the face of the persistence and universality of the Indian cry for immediate , far-reaching constitutional reform the Government may find itself forced to cease looking upon the date 1929 as sacrosanct . Perhaps Mr. Wood , the newly appointed Viceroy , may be able to devise a satisfactory compromise . The change of pilot offers the Government an opportunity to alter its course without losing face . Mr. Wood is unknown in India ; he comes out with nothing against him personally . He even has two advantages that no other recent Viceroy has enjoyed . He is the present British Minister of Agriculture , and as such may have acquired experience that will enable him to provide a much desired solution of some of India 's most pressing agricultural problems . He was also for many years prominent as president of the English Church Union , from which fact it is deductible that he is a man of strong religious interests . This is antecedently likely to endear him to Hindus , to whom religion is the paramount interest in life , and who , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admire a man for religious activity , even though it be in behalf of another faith than their own . With a fair degree of political tact , he may be able to pacify the Nationalists , secure them a part of their wishes , and at the same time attain the British end , which is now merely to guide the inevitable transition of India from subject to self-governing state within the empire . When writing to advertisers , please mention The Nation                     