@@490220

ASHOP with what amounts to a genius for buying Paris models that have not a copiedby-the-thousand look is Chez . Ninon . Furthermore , it makes up its models in the most heavenly fabrics and colors imaginable ; so your last excuse for looking like everybody else is shattered to hits . The samples you have to choose from , particularly the printed crepes and chiffons , arc enough to drive any but the most decisive woman plumb crazy . At this place I took hack without a murmur all them harsh words about the banality of printed-chiffon evening dresses . If you want one that will look really distinctive and new , I advise your jumping into a taxi and going there for it . One extreme print that merits reporting is a suit by Yvonne Carette . This has a very full skirt and a frilled FASHIONS blouse made of crepe in a yellow-andorange all-over print  --  the short jacket has the same pattern in green tones . Chez Ninon has a grand Vionnet suit in that dull yellowish-green color so smart these days . Distinctive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the skirt , the silk blouse with a scarf emerging from a cowl in back to he tied haphazardly in front , and the fact that the three-quarter coat has a collar that is not attached for a few important inches across the back of die neck . This removes the " set " look that even the most expertly tailored collars will achieve , and makes it possible for you to arrange this one casually in the manner most becoming to yourself . Vionnet is doing this a great deal , which is the reason I bothered to explain in such detail . You should also look at a Worth suit in brown wool with lemon-yellow and beige touches for Palm Beach or Aiken ; at Patou 's 188 ( 1 afternoon dress of a gray heavy silk that turns out to he composed of tiny black-and-white checks ; and at a Worth tennis dress of a light new wool with a silky mesh finish . There is also a Molyneux evening dress of chiffon , with narrow panels sewed flat until they reach the natural waistline in hack , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most flattering dresses for a shortish and heavyish woman yet seen . And for the piquant type , there is a Carette dress of black chiffon with a tiny pink-rose pattern adorned with a detachable ruffled apron . THE TAILORED WOMAN IS noted , among other things , for its well-bred black-silk coats . This type of Elting has to be beautifully designed and beautifully tailored or you know perfectly well what the first damp day will go and do to it . A very good model now to be seen there has a lavish collar of a new fur known as " snow-tipped kit fox , " which is a gray-brown color that is becoming to the gray and the beige brigades alike . There are also quantities of imported handmade French dinner dresses of black chiffon , with pink-chiffon linings , adorned with pin tucks and touches of black lace . Very feminine , and ideal for the informal evening occasion . Moreover , they can be packed in no space at all . You will also find there a thirtyfive-dollar two-piece jersey dress ; the jumper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrasting in color . Combinations of flame and black , rose and brown , two shades of blue , and so on arc available . There is a new tweed suit whose well-tailored jacket and skirt have contrasting herringbone and diagonal weaves . One charming youthful suit is of blue covert . The three-quarter coat has a shoulder cape and the blouse is of shirting material . A new wrinkle in tennis dresses is made of a washable suede velveteen , cut surplice-like at the top and circular at the skirt . And those of you who already sniff spring in the air should look at a black-jersey Paton suit with a simple white blouse . DELMAN-VAC has opened a swank place down Palm Beach way to still the clamors of his vacationing patrons is husy sending from his New York shop many a mode for the modern and smart . Shoes of shantung. either plain or embroidered ( the wildest with polka dots in color ) , arc favorites there this year . You will also find those ' leaders of aristocratic summer footgear  --  the brown-andwhite oxford and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every possible color has been developed , with the sunburned kind high in favor . And there is a new informal beach sandal with a low heel , in color , white , or in Indian print , to bring hack your barefoot days . Golfers should never forget that masterpiece of design  --  a sports shoe with a low heel and a supporting arch . This now appears in various shades of waterproof linen combined with lizard or snake trimmings in many colors , and still costs $18.50 . For the rest , there arc pastel snakes and lizards for daytime , printed cr4 ) es and hand-blocked linens , pastel kid , trid openwork straws . Anyone who can not be suited here is just an old fusshiah ! et .                     