@@493354

Soviet Foreign Policy After Locarno NLESS all signs fail the Locarno Conference and its sequels , the signing of the Guaranty Pact and the entrance of Germany into the League of Nations , will constitute an important historical milestone in Eastern as well as in Western Europe . Foreign Commissar Chicherin 's visit to Warsaw and Berlin and the ' detailed interviews on the subject of the Guaranty Pact which he gave out to the press in the German capital reflect the keen interest which the Locarno negotiations excited in Moscow . And there can be little doubt that Germany 's reconciliation with the Western powers and entrance into the League of Nations introduce certain new factors into the international political situation which are likely to exert an important influence upon the future course of Soviet diplomacy . The question may naturally arise whether Soviet foreign policy is really an important factor in world politics . The correct answer , I think , is unquestionably in the affirmative . Russia is no longer the broken , bankrupt , starving country of 1920 and 1921 , incapable of aggression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The great famine of 1921-1922 marked the low ebb of Russia 's resources . Since that time there has been a steady , uninterrupted process of recovery , which may be attributed partly to the cessation of war and blockade and partly to the action of the Soviet government in employing more workable economic policies . The extent of this recovery may be measured by the fact that , according to the most reliable estimates , Russian industrial and agricultural production will reach pre-war levels by the end of 1926 or the beginning of 1927 . Russia 's political and military significance inevitably increases as the country returns to more normal economic conditions . Russia plays a lone hand on the international stage today ; it is not involved in any binding alliances and it is free from the armament restrictions which have been imposed upon the defeated states . It is just for these reasons that its foreign policy is an especially interesting object of study . Ever since the project was first broached the Soviet government has been consistently hostile to the idea of the proposed Security Pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Na , tions . The Soviet official and semi-official press has advanced argument after argument to dissuade Germany from going on with the Pact negotiations . The German government has been repeatedly warned that entrance into the League of Nations will make it difficult for the Soviet government to maintain the friendly relations which have prevailed between the two countries since the signing of the Rapallo Treaty in 19221 The reasons for Russia 's hostility to the Pact are fairly obvious . Ever since Germany took the initiative among the large powers in granting full political recognition to the Soviet government through the Rapallo Treaty Russia and Germany have been united by certain common bonds of interest . Both countries have remained outside the League of Nations ; both have been treated as international outcasts by the Western powers . Russo-German relations have not indeed always been characterized by complete harmony . German business men have been disappointed because the Soviet government has not relaxed its rigid state monopoly of foreign trade and the action of the Berlin police in raiding the office of the Soviet Trade Mission in search @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incident in the spring of 1924 . The trial of three German students on the charge of being Fascist conspirators , in Moscow last summer , evoked bitter comments in the German press . But , notwithstanding the maintenance of the foreign trade monopoly , German commercial agents have been canvassing the Russian field with unfailing assiduity , picking up whatever crumbs they could . And a strong conviction persists in German political and commercial circles that Germany 's future lies in the East and consequently depends upon the development of friendly relations with Russia . Count Brockdorff-Rantzau , the German ambassador in Moscow , is a pronounced representative of this viewpoint ; and his influence was helpful in steering the recent Russo-German commercial negotiations around the rocks which threatened to wreck them for a time , thereby bringing about the signing of the Soviet-German Commercial Treaty on October 12 , 1925 . So long as Germany remained outside the League of Nations the possibility of a close coordination of Soviet and German foreign policies was never altogether excluded . But now , with Germany on the eve of entering the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observers , is very much diminished . " Germany has been drawn into the orbit of British diplomatic influence " ; and " Germany has capitulated before England " : these are the most familiar comments on the Locarno Pact in Soviet diplomatic and press circles . Immediately after the signing of the Soviet-German Commercial Treaty a high Soviet foreign office spokesman remarked : We can not consider this Treaty as an insurance against the dangers to Russo-German friendship which may come as a result of Germany 's agreement with the ' Western powers . League obligations take precedence over all other international obligations . So , if the League of Nations should decree a boycott of the Soviet Union , the provisions of our Commercial Treaty might be automatically annulled or suspended . The fact that in Moscow the Locarno Pact is generally regarded as a triumph of British diplomacy is alone sufficient to explain the Soviet government 's attitude of hostility . For the antagonism between the Soviet Union and Great Britain is perhaps the most stable factor in the shifting and transitional stage of European political relationships . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history . Throughout the greater part of the nineteenth century the average Englishman was inclined to look on Russia as the potential enemy , the half-savage bear which was waiting to clasp in a mighty hug the rich prize of India . The emergence of Germany as a formidable rival in the trade and colonial spheres led to the Russo-British entente of 1907 ; but this entente , which was based on little but mutual apprehension , lost its reason for existence when the German menace was eliminated as a result of the World War . The old conflict of interests in Asia would therefore in all probability have revived to complicate the relations between England and any Russian government . But there are at least two reasons why the antagonism between England under its present Conservative government and the Soviet Union is even sharper than might have been the case under different circumstances . While the Soviet government has renounced the imperialistic designs of its Tsarist predecessor , its openly professed sympathy with the aspirations of the Eastern revolutionary nationalist movements is scarcely calculated to conciliate a power with England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more difficult to find a formula for allaying the Russo-British conflict in Asia now than it was in the pre-war period . Tsarist Russia might be amenable to a suggestion for dividing Asia into " spheres " of Russian and British interest ; but such an arrangement would scarcely be possible with the Soviet government so long as the latter remains consistent in its policy of friendship for " the oppressed peoples of the East " from Turkey to China . It is not only in the East that the British Consetvatives profess to see " the hand of Moscow . " The growing tendency toward rapprochement between Russian and British labor is a cause of grave concern to the existing regime in England . The very favorable report of the British Trades Union delegation which visited the Soviet Union in the fall of 1924 and the skilful diplomacy of the Russian Trade Union President , Mr. Tomsky , in stressing the appeal of world labor unity have been important factors in persuading the British trade unions to adopt an attitude of friendly sympathy toward the Soviet system which is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and on the European continent . The Soviet government of course has no official concern with the activities of the Russian trade unions , but the conservative-minded Briton is apt to make scant distinction between movements and policies which may plausibly be attributed to Moscow . So the present coolness in Anglo-Soviet relations seems destined to endure , barring some quite unexpected development , such as a sweeping change in Soviet policies or the emergence of a radical Labor government in England . ( It may be recalled that the conservative Labor government headed by Mr. Ramsay MacDonald addressed a sharp note of protest to the Soviet government on account of an alleged letter addressed by Zinoviev , as President of the Third International , to the British Communist party . Zinoviev vigorously repudiated the authenticity of this letter and the British Trades - Union delegation endorsed his repudiation . But ' the incident shows that even a moderate Labor government might quite conceivably fall out with the Soviet regime . ) The Locarno Pact , according to the prevalent judgment in Soviet circles , gives England a firm grip on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this diplomatic victory of Russia 's greatest enemy ? In the first place there is an obvious attempt to safeguard the western frontier of the Soviet Union by establishing friendly relations with Poland . Chicherin 's rather ostentatious visit to Warsaw early in October merely symbolized and focussed public attention upon a process of rapprochement which has been unobtrusively going on between the two countries for some time . An understanding with Poland is of noteworthy strategic advantage to the Soviet government . Poland would almost certainly-constitute the spearhead of any attack directed against Russia from Western Europe . The Baltic States are too small to represent a serious military menace to the Russian colossus ; and Rumania would certainly not be likely to precipitate a war with the Soviet Union without obtaining some assurance of support from her Polish ally . Under these circumstances a Soviet-Polish. agreement would certainly do much to rob the Guaranty Pact of its anti-Russian sting . Poland has equally cogent reasons for desiring peaceful relations with her huge Eastern neighbor . Her expanding textile and other industries clamor for their old markets in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barrier to a Russian invasion ; and immediately behind this frontier live millions of Ukrainian and White Russian peasants whose loyalty to Poland in a time of crisis would be doubtful , to say the least . Finally , and this is a point which has been much stressed by Soviet commentators , Locarno has not strengthened Poland 's sense of security . England and Italy do not guarantee Poland 's frontiers as ' they do those of France and Belgium . And the international guaranty of the inviolability of the Rhineland sets up at least a paper barrier against a singlehanded attempt on the part of France to cross German territory in defense of Poland . Given this background it is easy to understand why Russia and Poland have been steadily moving in the direction of rapprochement during the last few months . The first visible sign of this tendency was the signing of a Soviet-Polish border convention last summer . This convention was calculated to settle some outstanding difficulties which had arisen in connection with border raids and to prevent the recurrence of such incidents in the future . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of Polish industrialists formed a joint stock company for the purpose of facilitating import and export operations . It seems most probable that a Soviet-Polish commercial treaty will soon be in process of negotiation ; and the two countries have already reached an agreement on certain regulations affecting railroad transport . While the rumors that the Soviet government has proposed to guarantee Poland 's western boundary against Germany may be dismissed as highly improbable , the present policies of the two governments are clearly designed to prevent any flare-up of the Russo-Polish hostilities which ended with the conclusion of the Peace of Riga in 1921 . Secured in the rear by the establishment of friendly relations with Poland the Soviet government is able to devote a still larger share of its - diplomatic activity to what is perhaps its most promising field of operations : the Far East . Moscow is now full of Oriental diplomats and business men . Soviet , Japanese and Chinese representatives are participating in a triangular railroad conference which has been called for the purpose of eliminating existing frontier . difficulties and establishing direct communication between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give Japanese firms important coal and oil concessions in the northern half of the island of Sakhalin have been prolonged beyond the time limit set by the Russo-Japanese Treaty of last January ; but it seems likely that the Japanese will eventually get the concessions . A number of Japanese business representatives have been studying the possibilities of developing the fisheries and the lumber andmineral resources of the Russian Far East . Russia is pursuing with boldness and success an original policy in China , a policy based upon active sympathy with the more radical and nationalist elements which are contending for mastery in that disorgaifized and chaotic country . Mr. Hu Han Min , Foreign Minister of the radical Canton government , arrived in Moscow about the middle of October ; and a delegation representing the Chinese " Christian General " Feng-yu-Hsiang is also in the Russian capital . The Soviet government has already helped the Canton regime tide over a serious crisis by sending fuel from Vladivostok and Russian officers are assisting in the training of the Canton-Chinese army . A high Soviet diplomatic official recently remarked that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ western Chinese territories controlled by General Feng , at the same time smilingly disclaiming any knowledge as to whether arms and munitions played any part in this " lively trade . " As the only country which has voluntarily renounced extra-territoriality and other special privileges enjoyed by most foreigners in China the Soviet Union has won considerable favor among the Chinese nationalists . There are indications that the Soviet government is trying to persuade Japan to adopt a similar policy toward China ; and , while an attitude of discreet reserve has characterized Japanese policy up to the present time , such incidents as the passage of the American Immigration Law and the decision of the British Conservative government to build a naval base at Singapore have certainly strengthened the advocates of a Russian orientation in Japan . So it seems likely that in the immediate future the Soviet Union will take its natural place as a great Asiatic power , with more interests in the Pacific than in Europe . Economically Russia is becoming more closely connected with Western countries as its imports and exports expand ; Soviet business and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Germany and America . But politically the trend of the Soviet Union is toward the East ; and Locarno will in all probability accelerate this trend .                     