@@493240

December 15 , 1920 times correspondent , from the scene of the trouble , ? at only 16 . This part of the country has a long tradition of bloody feuds and quick triggers , and there is no doubt that many of the miners car ? ry guns and use them . But the blame is over ? whelmingly on the other side : on the coal opera ? tors who employ private battalions of armed guards and gunmen , and use them to evict striking miners from company houses without warrant and without due legal notice . These gunmen have in several eases shot union miners without provocation . It Is Homestead all over again , and until laws are Passed that effectively prevent private corporations from employing private armies to enforce their anti-union policies such civil war is bound to recur . EARLY in January Charles Merz will begin a trip through Syria , Mesopotamia , Persia , India , the Straits Settlements , China and Japan . He ex ? Pects to be absent about a year . fourth of Mr. H. N. Brailsford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . S soon as the armistice was signed , the business leaders of the country , in undertaking the re-'construction of the American economic organiza ? ti ? n , concentrated their attention on one idea and one object . The object was to get rid a- quickly and as completely as possible of the existing political control of private business . The idea was that the slilPervision of private business in the interest of the Production of an unusually ' abundant supply of ' a ? 1:1s , necessary though it , was during war , had no .111stification during peace . Although the state could linedeleted t ' ' le military needs of the nation , the state could and ? must fall back on the old organization and llintives just as soon as hostilities were over . The A i illerican business men did not want any limitation TriP ? sed on their activity either in the real or sup- v'sed interest of the public . They had resented the e L ntrols and the restrictions of profits to which they LI ci been subjected during the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paternalistic oterference with their private affairs , which could ' 11Y result in friction , waste and inefficiency and ack 0 f production . Dur , ha , i ng the past two years business men have doing their will . " Reconstruction " has consisted of away both with the crude war organization of private business for public service and with any reliance on the motive of public service or dis ? interested technical efficiency as drives for business operations . Yet leaving aside a certain number of exceptionally fortunate profiteers the result up to date of rebuilding the old edifice on the old founda ? tion is apparently unsatisfactory to almost every ? body . There is not one important business class or interest , except possibly the banks , which is not suffering severely from the ill effects of acting on the assumption that under the conditions that existed at the time of the armistice the public interest re ? quired the state to give a free rein to the cupidity of various classes who participated in the work of production . If the government had continued the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the results might not , considering the clumsy ignorance of the bureaucratic machinery , have been any better , but it is difficult to see how they could have been any worse . At present the all important economic need both of the American nation and of the other nations is an abundance of production to repair the wastes of the war . Every articulate business leader of the country was shouting this truth from the house-tops a year ago ; and it is as true now as it was then . But production is precisely what the nations are not getting . There was an interval during which in France , Great Britain and this country the volume of production was considerable , but the goods were offered for sale at prices which always restricted the demand and finally killed it . The volume of prodUction is , consequently , diminishing in many classes of goods and is threatened with diminution in others . Although the price which consumers are asked to pay for food is still almost as high as ever , the prices at which the farmers can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ing is so low that it is not profitable to produce them . Factories are shutting down and are either discharging their employees or putting them on half time or reducing their wages . Yet these unemployed wage-earners are still obliged to pay almost as much as ever for the necessities of life because the pro ? ducers and distributors who are carrying large stocks of unsold goods can not afford to lower the scheduled price of their stocks . With but few ex ? ceptions manufacturers , wholesalers and retailers , are all engaged desperately in avoiding the writing off of losses on their inventories . Even the stock gamblers who are the most notorious and the least excusable of the war profiteers have abandoned a large percentage of their supposed . profits . Business has had a freer hand than at any time since the days of Mark Hanna . Yet the farmers , the manufac ? turers , the wholesalers , the retailers and the wage earners are all ' bitterly dissatisfied with the result . During the last two years the way to make large profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into tacit or admitted combinations with other producers in order to mark up prices . The demand for certain objects of immediate con ? sumption , such as food , fuel , clothing and luxuries was such that for the time being consumers would pay almost anything for them . The sudden and complete ' abolition of the former controls over prices enabled the business man , who was supposed to serve the public by satisfying his own cupidity , to take advantage of this peculiar situation . The government had encouraged during the war the more important producers in particular industries to cooperate for the purpose of satisfying its demands for commodities . These combinations of producers persisted after the end of the war and used their machinery of association not to increase production or to eliminate wastes but usually to limit production and to impose on'the consumer extortionate charges . The testimony about the practices which have pre ? vailed in the coal trade and in the building trades is conclusive upon this point . The protection which competition was supposed to guarantee to the consumer almost completely disappeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ al ? most morbidly suspicious of capitalist combinations , enthusiastically elected to the Presidency the candi ? date whose chief conviction about public policy is that of a preestablished harmony between private and public business interests . Those who share Mr. Harding 's trust in private business , prompted by exclusively selfish motives , as the only and best instrument to obtain for the public a large volume of a high ' quality of produc ? tion answer that the profiteers are now being pun ? ished for their sins and that the competitive system is righting itself . This contention is only partially true . The consumers ' strike is bringing prices down , but it is bringing them down in such a manner and to such an extent that the innocent suffer far more than the guilty and the public need of a large volume of production will not be satisfied . The three classes which will suffer most from the process of defla ? tion are the farmers , the wage-earners and the petty business men . The farmers are obliged to sell their products at utterly unrenumeratives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the last decade of the nineteenth century , the justifi ? cation for such disastrous vicissitudes in their . eco ? nomic standing . They are wondering whether the card 's are not stacked against them and in favor of their creditors . The wage-earners who have struggled with only partial success to maintain the pre-war standard of real wages , are now threat ? ened with an actual lowering of standard and with the immense volume of human suffering and wreck ? age which such a debasement brings with it . A powerful group of their employers are deliberatell planning to use their suffering for the purpose of reducing them ' to completer subjection . The petty business man whose capital is small and whose existence is at best precarious is always killed off by the thousands during a period of rapid and acute deflation . In the present case the casualties will be unusually large , because while they have profited by the inflation , they have had to use their profits in their living and are unable to protect themselves against the shrinkage in prices . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a con ? siderably diminished power of popular consurnP. tion . The actual effect of depending upon wholly private business to satisfy the public need of cone suma'ble goods is the extinction of the need not by satisfaction but by its starvation . The American people , it is already sufficiently apparent , will not submit tamely and unprotesting. ly to the consequence for particular localities and classes of this costly process of deflation . Even though they have elected Mr. Harding on a plate form of non-interference with the sacred process of private business , they will soon be insisting on inter ' ference as drastic and probably as futile as the re ' cent interference by the New York legislature with rights of the owner of areal property . The inter ? ference is likely in the beginning to assume the tra ' ditional form of increased protection for the farmer and the manufacturer combined with some state ' aided effort to finance the sales of American corn ' modities in central Europe ; but the attempt which the Republicans will make to monopolize the home market while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-contradictory and is bound t ? fail . As soon as its failure is apparent there la ' follow an impatient demand on the part of the farmer , the wage-earner and the petty busines9 man for a kind of interference with private'business which will renew the radical agitation of the last decade of the nineteenth and the first decade of the twentieth centuries . The existing complacency Of popular opinion about the abuses which ' have te " sulted and will continue to result from allowing the ' business man a free hand in the pursuit of his private interests is illusory and will not endure ' The classes which will suffer most from the break ' down of unregulated capitalism will protest ever ' getically , bitterly and perhaps dangeronsly . But their new protest will not succeed any better than their past protests unless they supplement it with a sounder interpretation of the causes of the failure of unregulated capitalism . They will 3C ' eomplish little or nothing by repeating in the case of other industries the kind of regulation Which prevails in the railroad industry . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wage-earners are driven in order to do away with dangers to themselves of unregulated competition have a real justification , and an industrial democracy must find ' a way of incorporating them in its own organi ? zation . But although necessary they are dangerous and impossible as long as the combination consists of units which are authorized to believe that in satisfying their own interest they are also satisfying the public interest and to act on that belief . The regulation of the competitive system , if it is to be effective and to provide a positive substitute for free competition , must reform the motive which Provides the machine with its energy . It must sub ? stItute a disinterested objective motive for the self ? 1sh ingrowing motive , out of which modern society IS vainly trying to obtain a socialized result . The Cooperative movement supplies such a motive . Based as it is on the twin principles of the limita ? tion of profits and the subordination of the capital invested in an economic enterprise to human life , it provides the one promising method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ savage public repression which pre ? vent existing industry from even beginning to satis ? fY the economic needs of a civilized people . CLOTHING strikes in New York come with the regularity of eastern epidemics . Their recurrence makes it important to analyse the sources of the trouble , especially since the industry affects immediately about a half million people Who are dependent upon the earnings ' of the work ? ers ? And not only New York , but indirectly , through the contagion of industrial unrest , the whole country is concerned . William James used to say " By plucking a feather , you do not get a chicken . " Nor is the truth about the New York clothing strike to be ? Iptained by a stray fact or two touching the im ? illediate controversy . An understanding of this winter 's trouble depends upon knowledge of the . othing industry for at least a generation , and the relation which the Amalgamated Clothing Work ? ers of America has to the industry . The " sweat-shop , " with all that it connotes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market before the organization of the workers in the Amalgamated . The ' operatives in the in ? industry were underpaid and furiously overworkedin unsanitary shops . Prior to 1915 , when the union began to increase its organization , 35 per cent of the clothing workers were earning from $io to $15 a week , 27 per cent from $5 to Sic ) a week , and only 3 per cent were earning more than $25 a week . These earnings are an index of the level at which the clothing worker was forced to live . With the progress of the Amalgamated or ? ganization , under the leadership of Mr. Sidney Hillman , the union successively crowded out the more notorious abuses , and progressively lifted the level of life . Thus , while even after the first two years of union activity the per capita weekly wages of its workers were lower than the average per capita in twelve representative industries , from 1917 on , the per capita weekly wages of clothing workers began to approximate a worker 's needs as estimated by the authorities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that by 1919 , 85 per cent of the industry was on a 48-hour basis and in the spring of that year , the industry through ? out the country went on a 44-hour basis . These ameliorations ' of sweat-shop conditions and the adoption of sanitary standards were mere ? ly concrete manifestations of more fundamental changes . The evils of the clothing industry had grown out of the circumstances of its being . Neither the wickedness nor the incorrigible ex ? ploitation of manufacturers were responsible , at bottom , for the sweat-shop , but the highly season ? able and morbidly competitive nature of the busi ? ness . During slack seasons the manufacturers had the workers by the throat , and during busy seasons the workers exerted what economic pressure they could . In other words , the New York market was controlled ' by economic forces which none of the many sma4ll employers by himself could overcome . Profiting by the experience ' of industrial peace gained in Chicago at Hart , Schaffner &; Marx 's , the union sought to introduce the same methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a machinery of government was set up in New York . The essence of the machinery consisted in subject ? ing the entire market to a control which curbed the individualism of both manufacturers and workers , and made both submit to a rule of industrial law which promised stability , minimized brute economic power in a highly seasonal occupation , and safe ? guarded the public interest as well , by enforcement through an impartial ? tribunal . 1919 was an ab ? normal year for such a plan , involving as it did , subordination of temporary individual interests to the permanent good of the entire industry . Last year was a year of heavy buying and correspond ? ing labor shortage . Yet the attempt proved its value despite the turbulent strain of , the year . Without the joint control exercised by the impartial                     