@@493351

The Week SUPERFICIALLY the Briand cabinet does not 0 look as if it were any more capable of furnishing an answer to the French problem than its predecessor . It is supposed to obtain its majority from the centre groups in the Chamber , and consequently it is much more satisfactory to Parisian finance than any government since that of M. Poincare . But the conservative groups are apparently even less prepared to undertake the drastic measures which are necessary to save the franc than were their more radical colleagues . The program of the new government , so far as already announced , consists in the issue of more bank notes in order to meet the short term bonds which mature in December , an early settlement of the American debt and the protection of the franc by a large flotation of bonds in this country . The only fundamental action proposed consists in special taxation to amount to five billion francs a year to be devoted entirely to the redemption of treasury bonds . THIS program , so far as it includes a settlement of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After the brilliant triumph which the Italian Commission won in this country , it will look like an extremely unfair discrimination not to grant to the French , almost equally favorable terms . The American government should certainly be more willing to make life easy for the republican parliamentary government of France than it was for the revolutionary tyranny of Mussolini . The New Republic would be cordially in favor of a settlement with France no less favorable than the settlement with Italy were it not for one sinister fact . The motive for the settlement in both cases is the desire of the debtors . to borrow more money in this coun-try , and the extension of these credits will in the long run be harmful to all the parties to the arrangement . It will be harmful to the American lenders because they will be buying a most doubtful security . It will be harmful to the French borrowers because they will obtain the money on most unfavorable terms , and because the purchase of this American gold will enable them to postpone the financial reforms which are their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loans with so little public opposition is a glaring illustration of the subservience of public opinion in this country to financial interests . The plain effect of a French bond issue will be not to strengthen , but to weaken the recuperative power of France and to make it more improbable that she will ever make any substantial payments on her debts to the American government . DUBIOUS as is the immediate financial program of the new French government , its formation probably represents some progress from the political standpoint . It is sufficiently clear as a result of the experience of the last few years that the radical socialist bloc is incapable of putting through a sufficiently thorough-going reform of French national finance . It is also sufficiently clear that a nationalist bloc , even if it could manufacture a majority in the Chamber , would represent interests which would also be opposed to the necessary reforms . If , consequently , these reforms are to be accomplished by a parliamentary majority , it must be composed of the moderates of both wings who understand the necessity for drastic action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial house-cleaning . The Briand cabinet will not accomplish anything heroic of the kind which is needed , but it is a movement in the direction of a ministry of republican defense and its successor may turn out to be a better edition of the same thing . It contains as its finance minister M. Loucheur , an able and courageous man , who apparently realizes the necessity of partial repudiation in order to prevent a more complete default . He is the only conspicuous French politician who conceivably might become the savior of French national finance . If he can hold his position throughout the tribulations of the next few months , he may in the end engineer the change which will finally pull France out of her difficulties . FINANCE Minister Loucheur 's reported intention to settle the debt to the United States as soon as possible sounds odd in view of the fact that M. Loucheur has long privately held , and has said publicly at least once , that payment of the French foreign debt is impossible . Can anything have happened in the past two years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course of events must have confirmed it , for the difficulty of making the budget balance either through paying or repudiating the internal debt , without adding any external payments , must now be clearer than ever to such a shrewd mind . What seems to have happened is that he has taken a leaf from the Italian book and has bowed gracefully to the demand of the American debt commissioners for dissimulation . He will negotiate a settlement calling for small and feasible payments in early years , and large payments later , which no informed person expects to be made . This will enable him to borrow in America for present purposes ; before the later obligations fall due there will be a general readjustment of the international debt burden consequent upon the failure of the Dawes plan to produce reparation payments from Germany . M. Loucheur must be approaching his task with his tongue in his cheek , and in his heart a humorous disgust for the pious subterfuges of American politicians . DESPATCHES from France before the announcement of Briand 's premiership unfairly placed the blame for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The left bloc had a majority and could , if it held together , prevent any other group from governing . The majority depends on Socialist votes in the Chamber , and the Socialists were therefore in a position to enforce their program as a price of their support . But their program was unaccountable , not only to the right , but to that section of the left bloc itself which was close to the centre . Therefore the obstinacy of the Socialists caused irritation and was blamed for the failure to act . All true ? but it must be remembered that the plight of the Treasury was not of the Socialists ' making ; it was a legacy from right and centre governments . The plan of the Socialists may be politically unpractical , but it is as close to a sound economic solution of the problem as any that has been offered in France . Furthermore it was honestly devised to protect the poorer classes whom the Socialist deputies represent . Their obstinacy in supporting it was no greater than the obstinacy of other elements in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their right not to accept any responsibility for a government which did not follow a course approved by them Was unimpeachable . The real difficulty lies in the onerous burden which Ii rance must bear , and in the conflict of interest involved in the attempt to distribute that burden . All classes and parties must bear a share of the responsibility for this situation , but the Socialists ' proper share is least of all . WITH Governor Pinchot 's mediation offer and its acceptance by the anthracite miners , the issues of the strike take on a new complexion , and the consumer digs a little closer to the trouble in the industry . Hitherto the public has been informed that the strike went on because the miners would not submit to arbitration , virtuously demanded by the operators . Now Mr. Pinchot proposes , and the miners agree , to end the strike by a wage increase if that is possible without raising the price of coal , and by no wage increase if it would mean a price increase . In order to discover the relevant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and an impartial commission is to investigate them . This is arbitration of a sort ? but a sort that is fair . to all concerned . In the old kind , the arbitrator fixed wages without power over prices or profits . The operator therefore had nothing to lose by it , and the conflict of interest lay between the worker and the consumer . In the kind suggested by Mr. Pinchot , anything the miners gain must come from the operators , not from the public , and the arbitrator 's job is the proper one of dividing the proceeds of the industry among its participants . This means that the employers must reveal their figures and risk a subtraction from profits ? which they are naturally reluctant to do . Whatever the operators may say this will remain the core of their real objection . Their attitude is revealed as the principal cause of anthracite warfare . FINALLY one Democratic member of Congress has had sufficient gumption to denounce the Mellon plan of tax revision which has been taken over rith few changes by the Ways and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Illinois has protested against the reduction of the super-taxes on large incomes . The protest is not very vigorous and will have no effect , but it at least exposes what a sorry figure the Democratic party is cutting as the ostensible alternative to the Republican party . If the Democrats believed in the tra- . . &tons; of their party and in their own minds really objected to the government in the interest of business which the Republicans embody , they would have opposed the reduction of the super-taxes on two grounds . As tariff reformers , they would have pro -- posed to do away with taxes on consumption and for protective purposes rather than on great wealth , and as equalitarian democrats they would have wished to discourage the growth of money power : which is the inevitable accompaniment of the in ' crease of large fortunes . But they were unwilling to oppose Mr. Mellon on these grounds , partly because they really agreed with him , and partly because they regarded his program as popular . In the light of their own convictions , they were fully justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is tantamount to their resignation as an official opposition . They should not complain if intelligent voters refuse to take them very seriously as a genuine alternative to Republican rule . The Democratic party exists at present for the purpose of smothering any effective opposition to the Republican party . It is nourished on the offices which it can control in the southern states and in a few northern cities . But it represents no single and progressive impulse , no traditions or principles and no political intelligence and foresight . THE New Republic has commended President Mezes of the College of the City of New York for permitting the discussion among his students of the question whether military training should be compulsory . A vote taken by the student paper , The City College Campus , resulted in an over ' whelming majority against such requirement . Now President Mezes turns around and forbids the Campus to publish further articles on the subject . In his statement to the newspaper he is quoted as belittling the movement among his students , attrib- uting it to a boyish dislike of required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the article in the Campus , President Mezes can so misinterpret the spirit of the young men whom he is engaged to lead . Moreover , his veto of the expression of opinion by his students on subjects of vital interest to them is a denial of the fundamental object of their education , the ability to think for themselves . If President Mezes is not a free agent in the matter of compulsory military training , if to abolish it would be to sacrifice an appropriation which is a part of the budget of the college , by all means let him say so , and let the discussion be shifted from the educational to the political ground where- it belongs . THE report of the Aircraft Board of Inquiry , as forecast by the newspapers , is against a unified air . service under a separate department of the government . This unification could have been brought about either by the establishment of a separate department of aviation , on an equality with the present departments of War , Navy , and Commerce ; or the reorganization of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National . Defense , in which aviation would be on a par with the others . Instead the Board recommends the creation of three assistant secretaryships , in the departments of War , Navy and Commerce , entirely for matters of aviation , thus providing a basis of unified action through a committee . This compromise is an ingenious method of sidestepping , and rather amusingly characteristic of this administration . With the War and Navy departments both holding on to their shares in the air service , and unwilling to let go , the Board of Inquiry doubtless felt that either could obtain sufficient support in Congress to block any measure of dispossession in favor of the other or of a third department . As to the proposal of a single department of National Defense , such as has long been recommended in the interests of economy and efficiency , both the War and Navy departments would be united against it ; and their allies in Congress would be fired with double-zeal for its rejection . THAT matters were not proceeding smoothly with the Communist Revolution in the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that revolution , the Workers ' - party , is of course under the control of the Third International , and the leaders of the former are bound by discipline to decisions made in Moscow . That these do not always meet the situation in the United States is natural . For one thing , the whole outfit was shifted from New York to Chicago , greatly to the discontent of some of the comrades who found revolution in Greenwich Village a far pleasanter indoor sport than in Chicago . Since the shift to Chicago the course of the Workers ' party has veered between the policy of Mr. W. Z. Foster to bore from within the trade union movement and that of C. E. Ruthenberg to attack it from without . Last summer a representative of the Third International was understood to be looking over the work with a design of salvaging the enterprise . According to his decision Foster , though elected party leader by a majority of votes , has his office abolished ; and the Ruthenberg connection , though a minority , is given virtual control . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed him to counter appeal . The present crisis affords an admirable test of loyalty . If Foster and his majority can continue cheerfully to obey orders in which they do not believe , and follow policies which they know are futile and discrediting , they will be entitled to the triple crown of revolutionary martyrdom . IVHILE the recognition of the Soviet government of Russia by the United States lingers in the lap of politics , the economic law of gravity has made that government our leading customer for raw cotton . The balance sheet of the All-Russian Textile Syndicate of September 30 shows among its assets cotton in transit to the amount of $10,201,257.06 . That the purchase is financed through American banks is shown by the corresponding items of Bank Acceptances Discounted $5,100,000 and Bank Loans $2,500,000 for which the cotton in transit is pledged . Total purchases of cotton for the year ending September 30 , 1925 , amount to 297,848 bales at a cost of $44,284,833.27 as against 222 , - 645 bales and $36,682,130.12 for the previous year . The Textile Syndicate is the purchasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 98 percent of the total production of textiles in Russia . Indicative of the industrial recovery of Russia are the following figures . The total number of workmen on cotton goods has risen from 132,553 in 1921-22 to 256,012 in 1924-25 . The number of spindles has risen from 1,974,121 to 5,333,580 and the finished goods from 288,218,913 to 1,500,000,000 meters . Woolen and linen textiles show a similar . advance . The Economic Bureau of Moscow estimates the total production as compared to the pre-war year 1912 , as cotton goods 65.4 percent ; woolen goods 82.7 percent ; linen goods 107.3 percent . ONE of the tasks for which M. Briand is specially fitted is the liquidation of the Syrian situation . There the French have gained some military successes over the rebels and have apparently made some progress with their policy of dividing their opponents on religious lines by arming the Christians against the Druses . A holy war if it does not materially help the French commanders in their campaign will at least palliate their failures . This is the explanation for its presentation by General Sarrail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plainer than that the movement in Syria is political and goes straight back to the assumption of control by the French in 1919 against the expressed wishes of the inhabitants and in defiance of solemn promises of independence made by both France and England to the Arabs . General Sarrail minimizes the bombardment of Damascus , putting the loss at 135 persons killed and 250 houses destroyed . L'Humanite flatly accuses General Sarrail of falsehood , and places the killed at 1456 , including 117 children and 219 women . There is sound , wholesome indignation in France over the conduct of General Sarrail , which may make it easier for M. Briand to deal with Syria at the sacrifice of French prestige . jN assessing responsibility for such a scandalous rending apart of even the decent pretenses which have been used to cloak imperialism , too much guilt should not be laid to the individual . The final question is in regard to the system which leaves to a single man such an alternative as confronted General Dyer at Amritsar , or General Sarrail at Damascus . The responsibility rests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of policy the exercise of control over weaker , politically inefficient or divided peoples , and ultimately upon the nation which acquiesces in it . Nevertheless the man on the ground is properly held to account for the manner in which he interprets the policy . A government which requires for its maintenance the toll of blood which the English general took at Amritsar or the French at Damascus is ipso : facto condemned . A domestic government which involved such a sacrifice would not be tolerated in normal times in France . Accordingly it is right that indignation shoulcrbe roused against agents who fail conspicuously to uphold the lofty pretensions of imperialism . The attitude of a country toward such agents is in a sense a measure of its good faith . Great Britain , which failed to punish General Dyer and permitted the scandal of his reward by public subscription , can throw no stones at the French in Syria . The United States , whose promises to the world were flouted by the Anglo-French division of the Near East must be equally restrained . The French can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the occupation of Hayti which cost the inhabitants of the island 3000 lives ; and that they went into an ecstasy over the bombardment of Vera Cruz which as an international episode is on a par with the bombardment of Corfu by Mussolini . IF engineers want to keep the high position in pub- lie esteem they now enjoy , they will take great pains to avoid appearing as special pleaders for the powerful private interests who are frequent employers . It is an engineer 's professional duty to discover and deal with engineering facts , not to put the weight of his authority behind interests which may be hostile to the public good . These observations are prompted by the resolution of the American Engineering Council to investigate Governor Pinchot 's Giant Power report , at a meeting where a speaker characterized giant power as the greatest economic fallacy of the age . It will be remembered that the report showed the desirability of " giant power " developed for public service , as opposed to " superpower " developed with an eye solely on the gains of private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the utilities would attempt to discredit it . itri partial engineering study of the report is highly desirable ; and partisan criticism of it should be given due consideration . But it would be unfortunate for engineers and public alike if the study of the American Engineering Council should turn out to be partisan criticism masquerading as impartial study . There are well grounded suspicions that this will be the case . In order to allay them , the Council should take care that all shades of opinion , combined with adequate engineering skill , are rep " - resented on its investigating committee .                     