@@493326

' THE NEW weak , they are brown and they are Oriental . There seems to be only one sufficient explanation for the violence of the British ultimatum . The Tory lead ? ers have or think they have reason to fear for the supremacy of the white race in those Oriental coun ? tries which have been brought under British do ? minion . They see indications of dangerous unrest among many of the Asiatic and African peoples and an increasing disposition to resent and throw off the European yoke . The considerate and less dictator ? ial attitude which the whites have recently assumed in their transactions with Orientals has appar ? ently only encouraged insubordination and intensi ? fied the difficulty of transacting business and carry ? ing on government . The British government decid ? ed consequently to seize the opportunity afforded by the assassination of a British general to reassert the white man 's right and determination to rule . Its ultimatum is probably the first explosion of a sus ? tained and deliberate attempt to revive the prestige of the British Empire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably right in believing that a policy of conciliating Oriental peoples which in ? cludes the surrender of power to the natives will in ? crease rather than diminish the difficulties of the white man 's government . In the long run there is only way by which the British can assure them ? selves of continued obedience to their ultimatums and commands . They will have to make perfectly clear that they have the disposition and power to overcome resistance . The half measures with which they are now experimenting probably will not work . In the end the Egyptians and the Indians , like the Irish , will either govern themselves or they will be governed by British officials , supported ultimately by British troops . There are many years of conflict ahead and much agitation , hatred and suffering be ? fore the British will reconcile themselves to the con ? clusion that they can not manage to win the consent of the populations of Egypt and India to ultimate British supremacy . In the mean time the existence of the British , French and Italian colonial empires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pugnacious state of mind and a belief in the neces ? sity and the righteousness of dictatorial government over brown , black or yellow peoples yvhich will con ? stitute probably ' the gravest of all obstacles to a pacific organization of international relations . The British Empire in particular will suffer under the strain . A renewed attempt to assert British prestige in the Orient will mean augmented military and naval expenditures . The British garrisons will have to be increased , and the budget weighted with the cost of such projects as the Singapore base . The white man 's burden will become more burdensome than it was before the war , and the particular white men who have to carry it will find their energies and resources depleted and in the end insufficient . Ori ? entals are not in a hurry . They will continue to sub ? mit if necessary , to agitate if possible , and unfortu ? nately now and then to use assassination as a REPUBLIC December 10,1924 , weapon . They can better afford to wait a few gen ? erations than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Empire . The Twilight of the Classics C education is a sun that is setting . ? .. ? 4 That is the plain fact . It may rise again . No one can say , of course , what renaissance may or may not take place a millennium from now . But at the present moment the illumination of classical learn ? ing has dimmed to a murky twilight . A man who can read either Latin or Greek with sufficient ease to permit of general browsing without a dictionary is a rarity even in the most cultivated circles ? even , indeed , among university professors . The classical languages still persist in the curricula of schools and colleges and their elections remain more or less con ? stant . Their very longevity affords an excellent sub ? ject for examination by those anthropologists who specialize in social vestiges and the inertia of estab ? lished institutions . But the substance of classical education is by no means measured by courses and elections . Apply this simple rule : how many high school seniors are able to read either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ num ? ber can read French or German ? The answer is , none . HOW many college seniors can read Latin as easily , and do read it as copiously , as every senior of average scholarship can read at least one modern language ? About one in a hundred . The courses remain : that is a fact of interest to sociologists ; the learning has gone ; that is the condition which edu ? cators have to face . This discrepancy between fact and fiction in clas ? sical education has not unnaturally been the subject of considerable alarm among teachers of all shades of opinion far many years . Many and anxious are the investigations that have been conducted into the parlous state of classical teaching , by what it is caused and how it can be eliminated . Monographs and dissertations without end have been composed dealing , with the advantages to be gained from the study ( no one ventures to say the mastery ) of Latin or Greek . The most ingenious devices of the edu ? cational psychologists have been applied , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All that statistics can do has been tried repeatedly . The last and most extensive of all these surveys has just been concluded and its results issued in the form of three hundred pages of General Report . This survey has been conducted by the American Classical League , a national body representing all the leading classical associations of the country , ' en ? dowed by the General Education Board , and actu ? ally prosecuted by an Advisory Committee under the chairmanship of Dean West , of Princeton , as ? sisted by eight co-operating Regional Committees . These auspices , without mention of the formidable Est of assisting agencies outside the ranks of the December 10 , 1924 THE NEW Classical League , lend this classical investigation the prestige of finality : it is , by every presumption , the best the classical profession has to offer . But it is not very much . A critic versed in Latin might quote a certain not unfamiliar line from Horace upon the ratio of the mountain to the mouse . The report finds that the classics are holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It finds that the students registered in classical courses do slightly better than their fellows in all their work , and ad ? mits that they represent the most literate section of the population anyhow . It finds that the scores made in Latin and Greek examinations are the high ? est on record , but suggests no question of the stand ? ards of grading . It finds also that classical teachers everywhere are deeply uneasy over the quality of the work they are doing , and recommends that they introduce special drills designed to obtain for stu ? dents the precise benefits supposed to accrue from classical study ? familiarity with classical civiliza ? tion , acquaintance with English derivatives from classical languages , and the like . In short , the confines of the classical investigation are rather narrow ones . The reason is not hard to find . It is a survey not of American education gen ? erally but of the study and teaching of the classics , especially Latin , in secondary schools . It has been conducted not by those responsible for the school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These limitations automatically exclude all the real ? ly important aspects of the situation . What our schools are they are chiefly because of conditions outside the schoolhouse , matters not subject to the discretion of the schoolmaster . To understand and control an educational condition so general that it affects the whole teaching profession one most step outside that profession and its jurisdiction and in ? quire what has altered in civilization at large to modify the basic functions of the school . This sounds like a tremendous task , but in reality it need not be particularly difficult . In the case of the clas ? sics it is particularly easy . If the committee of the Classical League has done nothing of the sort the reason is not the difficulty of the task but the pecu ? liar psychological limitations of the professional mind . The sanctions which regulate the schools , then , do not originate within the schoolhouse ; the peda ? gogue receives them from the civilization in which his work , his life , the lives of all his pupils , their ' future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their aunts , are cast . Inall Ameri ? can schools the study of the English language is ab ? solutely basic throughout the entire school course . This 4 not due to the fiat of autonomous school boards . The motive behind the emphasis is the spirit of nationalism itself , the animus of national , English-speaking solidarity . The pressure upon each individual pupil to master English is not the disciplinary force nor the salubrious influence for good of a chance teacher here and there . On the contrary , every social motive conspires to make the mastery of English desirable quite apart from the opinion of any teacher whatsoever . Very well ; so much then for English . What of Latin ? First of all it is necessary to note that Latin.has never stood in parity with Eng ? lish in our economy . Latin has never been the vernacular of the American people . At the time of its widest diffusion it touched only the small minority of the learned . At that time , during the first century of colonial history , Latin was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) world as a medium of composition . The New Re ? public , had it been founded in 1614 , would certainly have been conducted in part at least in Latin . At such a time all the learned professions as well as the very slightest " pretense to intellectual emi ? nence " postulated a thorough reading knowledge of the Latin language . Greek was somewhat less im ? portant : divines had need of Greek because of the New Testament ; scholars because of Greek phil ? osophy and literature . But Greek was not actually in contemporary circulation , as Latin was . One could keep abreast of current political discussion without it , though not without Latin . The sanc ? tions behind the study of Latin and Greek , there ? fore , in the earliest American schools were too ob ? vious to require justification . But this condition , which determined the char ? acter of the learning of those Puritan divines who were the first American scholars and teachers , was already passing away in Colonial times . By the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America was commencing to be built , learned disputation in the Latin language had prac ? tically disappeared . But the classical tradition re ? mained . For an explanation of the survival of clas ? sical learning beyond its contemporary usefulness it is not necessary to rely simply on the general theory of institutional survival . The facts of this specific case are obvious . Latin , and to a less extent Greek , had been but recently the actual tools of a certain social class . A thousand years earlier that class would have been limited to the clergy ; the social upheavals of the centuries just elapsed , however , had brought literacy , even Latin literacy , to the whole class of gentlemen . This made all the differ ? ence . Latinity , in the eighteenth century , marked its possessor as a gentleman ? not necessarily as a clergyman . Inevitably , therefore , its possession was desirable as a mark of social caste . This cycle of causes and effects is most clearly observed in British life , where classes are more dis ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was possible for a man to embark upon a political career upon the basis of his proficiency in Greek . H. H. Asquith laid the foundation of his career at Oxford , as a classical prodigy and the favorite pupil of Benjamin Jowett . Gladstone was conspicuous in a highly ornamental parliament for the breadth and accuracy of his classical lore . But 58 TILE NEW this correlation does not mean that a mastery of Greek produces at once in the breast of the scholar the qualities of statesmanship . Throughout the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries the British Par ? liament was a distinctly clubby affair . The social prestige attaching but recently to the letters M. P. derives not from the political rank of Parliamentary membership but its exclusiveness . Government , in England , has been the business of gentlemen , One hears of " old whip families " and " old tory fans-Wes " which have not missed a cabinet member for some generations . Among the members of such families both Greek and political preferment have been the marks of authenticity . The classical pres ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are two phases of the same phenomenon . Those cultivated critics of recent Parliaments who deplore the passing of the fine classical flavor of Parliamentary debate must not be understood as derogating merely the political acumen of the dis ? cussion ; the real object of their scorn is its vulgar ? ity . Common miners have taken seats as colleagues of the landed aristocracy . Where social discriminations such as these pre ? vail there is , indeed , a definite ' motive for classical study . The motive has changed since the time when a student of international affairs must needs know Latin to read the writings of the Dutch Van Groot . Ile must now possess a classical lore as the ac ? cepted decoration of the authentically cultivated man . But this motive , through the last century very strong in England , has never prevailed widely in the United States . The predominance of the pioneer has been too strong for the less blatant traditions of rooted gentility . And now that American life is reaching a stability upon which the assumption of European manners would he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the continent , crowded out by the new virility of the Labor party . To he sure , there are in America some few hardy aristocrats , led perhaps by Paul Elmer More , who see the possibility of a classicized aristocracy in the United States . But whatever their prestige among dyed-in-the-Charles conservatives , their influence upon the country at large is precisely nil . American society is not reading Euripides at Palm Beach nor quoting Aeschylus at the Lake Placid Country Club . The best bred youth of Tulsa , Oklahoma , no less than that of Montclair , New Jersey , registers for Latin because its fathers did , just as it joins Kappa Beta Phi because its fathers did . One has just as much educational significance as the other . A certain national fraternity sings in all its chapter houses : And when our sons to college go , college go , Well /cook them squarely in the eye , in the eye , And say to them the only Greek you have to know is three letters of the Greek alphabet . This , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in twentieth century America . // That strange uneasiness which classical instructors feel about the results of their endeavors is due not to deficiencies in their material nor to any weakness of intellect in their profession , but to a general con ? dition over which they have no control . No one outside the classical profession ? not even the other teachers ? expects American youth to master the classical languages . Every school child knows this . Furthermore , every teacher of the classics knows it . The very fact that his defense of his subject , once the prerequisite to common education , has now de ? generated into a vague muttering about English de ? rivatives is a sufficient self-revelation . The facts are too notorious for discussion . That is why the classical profession excludes them . Money.and Votes EVERYONE is tired of election post-mortems . The winners are well content to accept victory without examining its causes too closely ; the losers are nursing their bruises indifferent to the details of the catastrophe . Yet there are some phases of the Republican victory on which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on campaign ex ? penditures , of which Senator Borah is chairman , still exists . We believe it is highly desirable that it should meet at the earliest moment and continue its study of the amounts spent by the various parties in the campaign and particularly by the Republicans . The hearings in Chicago and Washington prior to the election were confined almost entirely to the funds secured by the Republican National Commit ? tee . These funds , raised in the various states , were in part redistributed to those states ; and it is gener ? ally assumed that they represent almost the total expediture . Final figures are not available , but the National Committee 's total collections will prove not much in excess of four million dollars , about half the expenditure made to elect Ilarding in 1920 . But there were other campaign funds which did not pass through the hands of the National Com ? mittee at all . There were state , county and city collections , of the aggregate total of which no one has any accurate idea . To collect all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , be an enormously difficult task , and one not to be justified unless there were good basis for a belief that some of these funds had been improperly contributed or expended . It should be comparatively easy , however , to make inquiry in those states and cities where the party 's activities are known to have been concentrated . If the Republican managers are as guiltless of all wrong-doing as they asseverate , they aught to be the first to welcome the opportunity to have their innocence publicly established . Another reason for turning the searchlight on the sources and amounts of contributions to the Repub ? lican war chest is the valuable revelation there con ? tained as to an important current in our social hi*                     