@@486146

I F nations at Christmas time should take stock of their best gifts , America would thank whatever-gods she worships for the courage of her political prisoners . In the stifling air of diplomatic bargaining and the compromises of everyday life the faith of men who chose prison rather than betray the right " to know , to utter , and to argue freely according to conscience " stirs like a cleansing wind . Let Americans read Mr. Doran 's letter ( published in our correspondence columns ) and rejoice that 147 men in Federal penitentiaries and scores of others in State prisons have resisted the weight of oppression and the lure of qualified freedom in order to hold fast those things which they have believed . But let no American rejoice that five of those prisoners have been kept for months in solitary confinement and that all of them are treated as society treats her common felons and ought to treat no living soul . It is rumored that Debs will shortly be released . No such belated and partial amnesty can take the stain from America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political prisoners still in jail is not a Christmas when the most optimistic can believe that mankind has found the road to peace . IME R. HUGHES 'S naval ratio need take no account of the needs or desires of oppressed peoples. , The conscripted blacks of French Senegambia , the Haitian and Dominican victims of American atrocities , the Korean patriots , the vast populations of India  --  these peoples do not threaten the balance of power between their masters with competitive building of battleships . Nevertheless , the desire for world peace which ignores theM is as lacking in intelligence as it is in idealism . These reflections acquire point from Gandhi 's recent declaration in India : Lord Reading must understand that the Non-Cooperators are at war with the Government . We are challenging the Government 's might , because its activities are evil . We want to overthrow the Government and compel its submission to the people 's will . Free life is impossible under the present Government . We will have to stagger humanity even as South Africa and Ireland did  --  with this exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not that of our opponents . The declaration against the use of violence comes from a man who has seen his own son and many of his most distinguished comrades imprisoned . But in the face of wholesale repression the Non-Cooperation Movement is still strong in its adherence to non-violence . The empty streets which greeted the Prince of Wales in Allahabad were more effective than riots . Whether humanity is capable of the effective resistance Gandhi plans is yet to be proved , but the effort he has already made is more significant for world peace thamall the jockeying of the diplomats at Washington . S trillion rubles  --  that is the current value in Russian paper money of the congressional appropriation of $20 , - 000,000 for purchase of grain for relief in Russia ; at least it was a few days ago  --  today it may be less or more . It sounds stupendous ; wisely distributed  --  we hope that Mr. Hoover will allocate part of it to the Quakers , and to the Near East Relief for its work in the soviet republics of the Caucasus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufferers over the hungry winter . But estimates of the need call for at least $50,000,000 ? and the other funds available make up very little of the deficit . There is still bitter need for individual giving . Cynics may say that the appropriation passed Congress chiefly because it meant $20,000,000 worth of relief to the farmers of the Middle West who can not market their crops ; that is true , but we can only rejoice that a work of charity relieves twice , here and again in Russia . Moreover , the fact that the Middle West is beginning to discover how closely its prosperity is intertwined with Europe is a hopeful augury at a time when the powers that be seem so set on discouraging belief in international cooperation . International bankers who know their business tell us that the world will not recover from its present depression without some sort of international economic conference but that European and Wall Street bankers are so distrusted that the initiative must come from the Middle West . Perhaps Russian relief may be the first step toward that kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contribution to such a conference . A GRICULTURAL distress is producing the usual symptoms at Washington . The Senate and House Joint Commission of Agricultural Inquiry , after months of hearings , has submitted the first section of its report , embodying innocuous recommendations on cooperation , credit , market= ing , and statistical work , and demanding lower freight rates . Quite different in temper were the discussions of the monetary conference which recently assembled in Washington at the call of Senator Ladd of North Dakota . The conference , containing many veterans of earlier fiscal wars , was fiercely critical of the Federal Reserve Board . Senator Ladd , in his address before the conference , printed in full in the Congressional Record of December 15 , estimated the losses of the farmers during the past three years at the staggering figure of $38,000,000,000 ; and these losses he charged directly to the inflation and subsequent deflation policy of the Board . He has therefore introduced a bill ( S. 2604 ) taking away from the banks all power of issuing money , and vesting that power in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume of money issued in accordance with the price level of necessities . Senator Ladd 's flat proposal to cut loose from the gold standard has at least the merit of facing sxisting facts , however unsound it may be from the standpoint of orthodox economic opinion ; and one need not accept his monetary scheme at all in order to - recognize the service he performs in calling attention to one of the underlying causes of the farmer 's present plight . A wise statesmanship will give something more than pious recommendations to an agriculture suffering from fundamental ills in respect to credit , marketing , and land policy . C OALITION government in Great Britain is guilty of many faults , but it has undoubtedly made it easier for Lloyd George to carry through his Irish negotiations and to win from Parliament an overwhelming indorsement of the Anglo-Irish treaty . How great were the concessions embodied in the treaty was made apparent by Lord Carson 's bitter denunciation . In spite of Carson , of the die-hards , and of the recurrence of disorder in Belfast , there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even if she votes herself out , economic advantages will soon bring her back to the Ireland to which she belongs . Irish opposition to the treaty was to be expected in a body elected to assert absolute independence . It has been dignified in expression and its existence is a wholesome factor for the future of Irish politics . Nevertheless , we earnestly hope that the treaty will be ratified by the Dail . It does not give everything for which Ireland fought . But beyond the great fact that its acceptance will bring immediate peace there are three definite facts to be considered : ( 1 ) Such military and naval concessions as the treaty contains probably would be extorted by Great Britain in time of crisis even if Ireland were completely independent ; ( 2 ) it will be easier to win Irish unity under the treaty than if Ireland were completely independent ; ( 3 ) an independent Irish Republic might be isolated to a degree that the Irish Free State is not . Canada , Australia , and South Africa contain millions of Irishmen . Let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India and in Egypt the imperialism from which she herself has so recently suffered . With their aid she will have a corrective influence upon imperial politics which would be denied her as a small independent state . Finally , Ireland might do well to observe that the experience of Canada shows that acceptance of a Dominion status does not " put bounds to the forward march of a nation . " Canadian precedent refutes Irish fear of the power of the Governor General . No foreign communication can pass through his hands which has not first been through the Canadian state department . D IPLOMATS are not the only people who profess to accept , in principle what they flout in practice . The Railway Labor Board has recently given an excellent illustration of that amiable pastime by ruling that " eight consecutive hours shall constitute a day 's work " for maintenance-of-way men , but they shall not receive pay at the rate of " time and a half for overtime " until after ten hours ' , work . Of course the basic eight-hour day is almost meaningless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The eight-hour day was originally fixed by a national agreement during Federal operation of the railroads . It brought treatment of the maintenance-of-way men in line with that which the transportation workers obtained by the Adamson law . The New York Globe points the moral when it says : " Labor is allowed to keep little it has not force to defend . " S O far as the railroads are concerned it is evident that what is sauce for the workers ' goose is by no means sauce for the bosses ' gander . When the workers threatened a strike , the Railway Labor Board lost no time in denouncing them and calling on public opinion to make that denunciation effective . But when it was suspected that at last , after months of defiance of its order , the Board was about to issue a formal statement denouncing the Pennsylvania Railroad , that corporation 's attorneys promptly obtained a temporary injunction from Judge Landis in Chicago forbidding the publication of the statement on the ground that it would hurt the road in public opinion ! In their application the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulate the manner of collective bargaining . But while Judge Landis was thus obliging a great corporation , judges of the Federal Circuit Court in the same city were condemning some of the most drastic features of Judge A. B. Anderson 's injunction against the coal miners  --  to which The Nation has previously called attention  --  and sending it back for modification . State courts also were playing a mixed part in the fight for freedom . New York 's highest court was upholding a city ordinance in Mt . Vernon which if sustained by the United States Supreme Court will enable any reactionary mayor to nullify the guaranties of free speech and free assemblage  --  unless the unpopular group has the money to hire a hall and the luck to find one . California 's Supreme Court was upholding a criminal syndicalism law which makes it a crime even to belong to such an organization as the I. W. W. In New Mexico , however , the Supreme Court found the language of the State sedition act so extreme as to make it unconstitutional . Our joy would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might escape the court 's condemnation and be equally opposed to the spirit of freedom . F IRST Hylan in New York ; then Curley in Boston . Why this reversion to the primitive ward politician on the part of two great Eastern cities in electing their mayors ? Curley , like Hylan , had held the office before , and in common with him had proved a tragedy as an administrator , a farce as a city head . Nominally , Boston chooses its mayor without regard to political affiliations , on a non-party ticket . Practically , Curley had the support of the local Democratic machine while John R. Murphy , his principal rival , had the indorsement of the Good Government Association . District Attorney Pelletier , against whom charges are pending , withdrew before the election and thus threw important strength to Curley . Murphy had made an excellent record as fire commissioner , and in every way was better fitted to be mayor than Curley . Yet Curley , opposed by every daily newspaper in Boston except one , was elected . The result in New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good government , " of superficial reform , has lost its potency . The movement in this direction was in a large measure the result of Theodore Roosevelt 's political evangelism and for twenty years it has been the goal of the " better element " in our cities . The progressives now demand something more radical than " good government , " while the fear that the masses have always had that " reform " or " business " administration means a curtailment of their liberties has been intensified in our Eastern cities by prohibition , with its ample loopholes for the rich and its close mesh for the poor . Hylan and Curley are proof , on the one hand , of the survival of popular rule and , on the other , of its impotence when devoid of adequate leadership and based on an archaic system of representation . The hope of the future lies in labor initiative and representation based on industry instead of the obsolete geographic unit . W HAT wise folks have been discussing for a long time the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers has done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so as to be masters of credit and not servants of the lords of credit . Their cooperative bank in Cleveland , Ohio , has recently ended a successful first year . It has paid-up stock of $1,000,000 , of which 51 per cent was subscribed officially by the Brotherhood and 49 per cent by various individual members . Profits on stock are limited to a maximum of 10 per cent . Net earnings over this amount are paid as an extra dividend to depositors in its savings fund account in addition to the regular 4 per cent interest on savings . In its first year the bank acquired resources of $10,000,000 . Besides increasing its surplus , it was able to pay a special depositors ' dividend of one per cent . The bank is growing in popularity as a depository for trade-union funds as well as for the savings of individuals . It has tended to keep up the rate of interest paid to depositors by other Cleveland savings banks and has introduced the pleasant innovation of computing interest from the date of deposit to the date of withdrawal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . May its success continue and prove contagious ! W E have heard much from time to time of the lack of a free press in Russia , and we have believed some of it , but from an account we have just read by a corre- spondent of the United Press in Moscow we learn that the press in Russia is as free as air . You ca n't even pay for it . The Government owns seven hundred papers  --  all free . If by any chance you manage to dodge the various Iszvestias and Pravdas which are passed out to you at your lodging or on a street corner , you are even yet not safe , for the news of the day is posted on prominent bulletin boards in every city . Nor will a state of comfortable illiteracy protect you . Towri criers read the news bulletins aloud in the villages and , more appalling still , gigantic amplifying horns in the pub- lic squares of Moscow roar out the editorial sentiments of the Government . The article fails to state whether the ex- ploits of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on street signs . We hope so . News is all right and the Government 's editorials doubtless tell almost the whole truth about the nefarious schemes of the capitalist Powers , but news is not news without some nonsense . O " Windy " Linde , he of the waving black hair and the 1.3 gold-headed cane , who once tried to borrow money of and claim friendship with every radical in New York , has joined forces with Dr. Paul B. Altendorf , he of the fabu-lous German-Mexican army that was to invade these United States , and with William J. Burns , the super-Sherlock Holmes of the Woolworth Building and Washington , to solve the Wall Street mystery . It was a gr-r-rand story while it lasted  --  the stool-pigeon with the gold-headed cane and the German spy-hero secretly concocting a 10,000 word code confession in Warsaw , far from the newspaper reporters who sometimes ask embarrassing questions , the story released in brass-band style , giving ample time for all concerned to dis-appear  --  thus releasing the New York police from the neces-sity of making any arrests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week-end waiting for the details , but sure , with all the details missing , that the mystery was solved . Why not  --  with the scenario that Linde had implicated 300 radi-cals , had acted on " Moscow 's orders , " and that $30,000 had been paid for the crime ? But somehow even the New York Times grew suspicious on the second day of suspense , and the World was openly skeptical from the start . V ISCOUNT MORLEY , moving the address in the House of Lords on the occasion of the King 's recent speech concerning Ireland , had first to take the oath because he has sat so little with the Lords since his elevation to the peerage ; his seat , indeed , has scarcely known him since 1914 , when he resigned from the Cabinet as a protest against the international bungling to which he would not be a party . His reappearance meant something more than the return of an 83-year-old veteran to English public life . With John Morley comes back that type of character which is the great glory of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glory . English stubbornness has had more praise than it deserves ; English intelligence , a rarer quality in the islands , has had less . Yet a powerful strain of intelligence comes down from Bacon , through Herbert of Cherbury , Locke , Hume , Bentham , Matthew Arnold , Mill , Leslie Stephen , to be continued in Shaw and Morley through the incredible madness of the war . Like almost all these men Morley has learned something from the world outside of England : he rendered one of his most important services by his books on Diderot , Voltaire , and Rousseau . He wrote and acted , however , on more native matters with the freedom of intelligence which Englishmen ordinarily have to learn in France or go without . T HE winning of this year 's Prix Goncourt by a Negro is a literary event of remarkable interest . Had the book of M. Rene Marin been crowned by the Academie Frangaise one might suspect it of being a piece of harmless , correct , and conventional work . Its selection by the Academie Goncourt makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more exacting French sense , a subtle and superior artist . Preliminary reports describe his novel " Batouala " as an unvarnished account of African orgies and rites and superstitions . M. Marin has , however , guarded against the possible imputation of maligning his people by a strong negrophile introduction in which he denounces the atrocities and wrongs of colonial administrations in Africa . This fact is more remarkable as M. Marin is a native of Martinique in the French West Indies , and is a French civil servant stationed at Lake Chad in the heart of the French Sudan .                     