@@467984

THE greatest of all popular mys- just now , particularly in these circles which are self-de-scribed as intellectual , is the Mystery of Calvin Coolidge . You can insure for any dinner party an animated conversation , not to say a brisk fight , by persuading your guests to discuss two questions : What is the truth about the Coolidge character ? And , assuming that the President is the sort of person he seems to be , on what possible basis can one explain the great popularity of a person so deficient in the characteristics supposed to be essential to the political hero ? He is extraordinarily popular . After visiting in recent months a number of cities in all parts of the Middle West and East and talking with hundreds of persons from all walks of life , I can testify ( as does every other political observer who has had the same experience ) that President Coolidge is one of the two best-liked occupants of the White House in a generation . While the admiration for him is of a different variety ? and comparisons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admired and trusted as was Roosevelt , if not more so . That puts him in a category which contains at the highest estimate not more than four or five other names in our whole history . The election of 1924 is now universally admitted to have been , not a Republican victory but a Coolidge triumph . Indeed , the national party machine , with the odor of oil still clinging to it , was undoubtedly more a liabilitythan an asset to the President . There were other factors in the victory ; but certainly these influences would have been ineffective to produce the result which followed were it not for the fact that Mr. Coolidge was ( or was believed by them to be ) exactly the sort of person whom the great mass of the voters like , respect , and want to vote for . Yet see the paradox : this national hero possesses just the qualities which , a few years ago , one would have selected as being sure to make popularity impossible . He is a meager , sour-faced , unimpressive man , wholly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any of the normal sports and recreations by which one usually demonstrates that he is a good fellow . Spending the summer at White Court , the only amusements he could think of were sitting on the porch , standing on the lawn , or taking one of his grim , compulsory exercise-walks . He does not dance , swim , motor , or play golf , tennis , or any other game ; he rides only an electric gymnasium horse . If " personal magnetism " were indicated by a bump on the head , Mr. Coolidge would have a hollow there . He is as incapable of the ordinary politician 's lavish friendliness , which embraces all corners like a subway turnstile , as he is of throwing a double back-somersault in the air . And still the country seems not only willing but overflowingly eager to toss its cap in the air and cry huzza ! where surely huzza was never cried before . This attitude is a fairly recent development . It is an extremely well-ventilated secret among Republican politicians that in the plans for the 1924 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Harding in August , 1923 , Calvin Coolidge was counted out . Harding , of course , would have been re . nominated : such action has come to be virtually compulsory in the case of any President not grotesquely and openly unfit ; but the party leaders did not feel that Coolidge had done sufficiently well as Vice-President to be made again even the tail of the ticket . The improvement in the Coolidge fortunes has taken place in a little more than two years , and both in extent and rapidity is almost without parallel in our history . It can not be attributed to a record of achievement in office . The only real success of the administration during this period was the Dawes plan , and the Dawes plan was first put forward as a purely unofficial effort of an unofficial group . Not until its ( political ) success was assured did it become one of the achievements of the Coolidge regime . Of the dozen major recommendations the President has made to Congress not one has been carried out . He has been defeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court , the Senate investigation of the Treasury Department , the Warren nomination , the reorganization of the government bureaus , the repeal of tax publicity , the sale of Muscle Shoals , railway consolidation , and the anti-lynching bill . He has been beaten actually , though not technically , on the retention of Daugherty and Denby , on the calling of another conference on armaments , and the sale of the government-owned merchant marine . This list , to be sure , sounds more impressive than it is . Mr. Coolidge is not the first President to advocate numerous proposals which are never carried out . But when you can set alongside the defeats hardly anything in the way of accomplishment except the Dawes plan and a continued reduction of the cost of government from its wartime peak , the fact that he is still the popular idol does indeed become remarkable . There is some danger in the very fact of occupying such a pedestal as is now his . Demos is notoriously fickle toward its heroes , and " the bigger they are the harder they fall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain extent bound up with Republican promises to the country at large of continued prosperity . If hard times should come . along ? and it is perfectly possible , of course , that they will ? some of these pre-election promises may fly home to roost most unpleasantly on the White House roof . These , however , are the normal political dangers which must be taken as they come . The general situation remains as stated ; and the riddle continues to puzzle many a political observer . Before I seek to answer this riddle it is only fair that I should set forth my own view of the personality behind the enigma . There is , then , in my opinion , no " mystery " of Calvin Coolidge . After rather exceptional opportunities for close personal observation , beginning when he was Governor of Massachusetts and continuing through his service as Vice-President and President , I am convinced that he is just what he seems to be . There are always those who see Machiavellian shrewdness behind every countenance which possesses immobility ; and these insist on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all " poker faces . " They are wrong . As a general rule , he speaks what he thinks , and all of it . To be sure , he can keep a secret ; but nine times out of ten if he is silent it is not the stillness of the crouching tiger , but that of a man who ca n't , at the moment , think of anything which seems to him worth saying . It is only fair to add that the attribution of this non-existent guile is no fault of the President . To some extent press agents have helped to paint a distorted picture of him ; but he himself never pretends to any qualities he does not possess . Mostly , those who are deceived on this point are self-deceived . People are always eager to see a President larger than life-size , and never was this more true than to-day , when everyone wants to have all the ills which afflict us solved by " government , " and preferably by the federal authorities . Not unnaturally , then , they exaggerate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may , within the bounds of reason , be supposed to possess . The heart of his character , in my judgment , is modesty . He is to a singular degree without pride in himself , his achievements and ideas . To be sure , this modesty ? of the deep-rooted sort which , according to the authorities , must be acquired in early infancy if at ail ? is now in the process of being " watered down . " Its owner is holding the job better calculated to give one a swelled head than almost any other in the world . But the shyness is still there , still the salient feature of his personality . Modesty , the psychologists say , is merely inverted egotism . Its possessor really thinks as well of himself , or even better , than do the rank and file ; but because of an ineradicable and fundamental psychological quirk , he shrinks from ever putting his own self-esteem to the test . This seems to me true of Calvin Coolidge to a conspicuous degree . There is no reason to doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person . No man ever was more completely without delusions of grandeur or more willing to listen patiently to advice from those who have his confidence . Like others with his temperament , he , of course , does not take this advice unless he is completely convinced that it is sound ; also , like them , he has no hesitation in relying on his own mental processes in deciding whether that is the case or not . He is shrewd ; and that is one quality which he not only possesses but knows very well that he possesses . Shrewdness , of course , is nothing else than the ability to survey immediate situations in an intensely practical , realistic fashion , neither being deceived as to other men 's motives nor permitting one 's own wish to be father to the thought . Mr. Coolidge is never guilty of the latter . If anything , he is too realistic , too pessimistic , in his first instinctive expectation about anything in which he is himself interested . Almost invariably one finds that this attitude of mind is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think it is so in this case . One who is accustomed to look at men and their behavior in an unprejudiced , unemotional way is likely to feel that the major developments in life are more or less the result of chance . Therefore he will drift with the main current , however vigorously he may paddle from time to time in order to avoid or enter this or that eddy . I realize that to some such an interpretation may sound ridiculous , applied to a man who was President of the United States at the age of fifty-one , and before that had climbed with an unvarying record of success through one political post after another , from the lowest to the highest : village councilman , solicitor , clerk of courts , mayor , state senator , president of slate senate , Lieutenant-Governor , Governor , Vice-President , President . That sounds , does it not , like a career implacably planned and ruthlessly executed ? Yet I am sure that it was nothing of the sort . Once given the selection of politics as a career @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is an almost compulsory road to preferment for a struggling young lawyer in a country town ) and given the further admitted fact that he was able to deliver the sort of goods that people in general like , I am convinced that every successive step in his career was no more than following the path of least resistance ? invariably doing the expected , normal , obvious next thing . He wants to do " the right thing " ; and he has in general no doubt at all that he knows what the right thing is . It is what your friends expect of you ; what New Englanders have always done under similar circumstances ; what advice , custom , tradition , the law provide . One of the most important elements in the creation of the great Coolidge myth has been his silence . From time to time , in the presence of those with whom he feels particularly at ease , he indulges in a burst of nothing less than garrulity ; but these loquacious spells are rare . Usually he is as completely without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all . That fact alone would mark him as extraordinary in America , one of the most talkative nations on earth . This trait is particularly puzzling to the newspapermen who come in closest contact with him and who write what the country reads about him , they being almost invariably expert and incessant conversationalists . It would he asking too much to expect them to refrain from magnifying his silence into the wisdom of the Sphinx , even though a more sensible explanation , as I have already suggested , is that when he has nothing to say , which is a large share of all the time , be says nothing . Calvin Coolidge 's mind is tenacious , as his character is stubborn ; but he is somewhat slow in grasping the intricacies of a new situation . This accounts for the fact which so hugely impresses those who talk to him in order to urge upon him a course of action : that he listens to you for hall an hour without saying a word and dismisses you with no hint of what he intends to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the necessary reticence of the Chief Executive ; but it is also in part a shrewd recognition of his temperamental incapacity to make the lightning decisions ( right or wrong ) so characteristic of , for instance , a Roosevelt . On that trip to Chicago , during which , because of a brilliant decision of the White House publicity experts , hedid not use a special train , the dining-car conductor approached Mr. Coolidge at breakfast and , with the officious , official politeness of his kind , asked " Is the coffee all right , Mr. President ? " Whereupon the President replied with an inquiry of his own , " What did you think was the matter with it ? " Ire was not , I am sure , trying to be funny , His inquiry was made in good faith because his mind did not move rapidly enough to grasp , in a second or two , the fact that the conductor did n't really mean it , that he knew the coffee was marvelously good and was merely going through a formula which is supposed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you . " There is little foundation in fact for the frequent admiring comments on his sense of humor . He has , it is true , a thin and intermittent vein of brief , ironic statement which seems funny to those who have his own temperament . Sometimes he is credited , as is every public man , with being funny when he has no such intention , and many apocryphal anecdotes about him are in circulation ; a stock of Coolidge stories is as indispensable to the raconteur as a string of Ford jokes once was . The President is by no means incapable of appreciating other man 's humor of the quiet , Yankee brand ; but he is hardly ever able to create it . Slowness of mind such as his is of course no discredit to anyone who has it . The quality of man 's intellectual processes has no necessary relation to their speed . But it does help , for the reason I have already given , to explain some things about him which have aided to erect the Coolidge Myth . His modesty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Coolidge 's maintaining far longer than most men a point of view which can only be described as unsophisticated . Having been reared , not only in Vermont and in a small town where poverty or near-poverty is the well-nigh universal lot , but in a home which was monastic in its elimination of " frills , " to this day , frills do not come naturally to him . His passion for economy is genuine , innate , and compelling . In Northampton , it will be remembered , he lived in one-half of a two-family house at a rent of thirty dollars a month . As Lieutenant-Governor of Massachusetts , be occupied one room in a Boston hotel . After he had been elected Governor , a friend came to him and pointed out that it was hardly proper for the head of that great commonwealth to live in one room . Next day the same friend was calling on him in the hotel , and Mr. Coolidge , with as dose to an air of triumph as he ever gets , made an announcement . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed that a locked door in the partition had been unlocked . " I 've got two rooms now , " he said . The qualities I have enumerated have as their natural corollary another which is characteristic of the President . It is a dislike of making decisions . Where a Roosevelt likes the rough-and-tumble mental exercise of finding a way out of things , going over several possible e , : airses of action in his mind and picking the best , a Coolidge finds the task of making decisions one to be approached with great reluctance , and avoided whenever possible . This trait is by no means as detrimental in one holding an important executive job of any sort ? and particularly the Presidency of the United States ? as is often supposed . Everyone knows that many difficult questions , if you procrastinate long enough in regard to them , have a habit of solving themselves , and about as satisfactorily as when settled out of hand . Also , the dislike of making decisions leads you to rely upon the advice of others ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enabled to draw upon resources of experience and wisdom which even a superman could not encompass in his own being . In this matter Mr. Coolidge seems to do either very well or very badly . In VOL . CLII. ? No. 907. - 4his relations with his cabinet ( most of the members of which were forced upon him , having been members of the Harding regime ) he has trusted and depended upon them just about in the order they would take if they could be subjected to some really effective test of intelligence and character . On the other hand , he takes the political advice of Senator Butler who , though efficient in business , is an inveterate , colossal blunderer in politics . He allows a Sheffield to lead him into a bog , as everyone now admits , on Mexican policy . He seeks to secure the nomination for Attorney-General of a man as hopelessly incapable of being confirmed as Charles B. Warren . These errors of judgment are less important , however , than the general fact that he thinks , always and instinctively , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trait displays itself in the form of a desire to discuss " personalities " of a thoroughly unimportant variety . I remember once being at lunch with a United States Senator in the pleasant restaurant reserved for those gentlemen and their guests , when the Vice-President ? as he then was drifted in alone , and accepted an invitation to sit at our table . The conversation was desultory for some minutes until the Senator happened to mention that a party of Congressional junketeers had returned after a long cruise on a United States battleship , on one of those tours which are supposed to gather information which the salons will find valuable , but are usually mere joy rides at government expense . Immediately Mr. Coolidge 's interest was aroused and he asked questions in a rapid , fluent fashion quite at variance with the popular picture of him as less talkative than a morose clam with lockjaw . How had the Congressmen liked their trip ? Who went and which of them had his wife along ? How did they find life on the battleship in the tropics ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on . The change from our previous theme ? we had been agreeing in a half-hearted way about the flavor , nutriment , and reliability of the Senate restaurant bean soup ? was positively startling . I recall another occasion , while Mr. Coolidge was still Governor of Massachusetts , when I interviewed him , on behalf of a newspaper , in regard to immigration . As I asked him my questions he would tilt his head back , holding his long , thin Yankee stogie at the angle of an anti-aircraft gun , and think . He remained silent so long ? in one case two minutes by my wrist watch ? that several times I felt he could not have heard my question and must be waiting for me to go on ; though when I tried to do so , an impatient sideways twist of the head showed that this was wrong and that he did not wish to be interrupted . When he finally replied invariably he quoted the experience of someone , or some group of them , whom he knew . If I were asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Calvin Coolidge in a few words , I should say that he is honest , simple , modest , rather lacking in humor , slow in his reactions , stubborn , shrewd , inclined to follow the advice of those whom he trusts , and to trust a few men implicitly , disinclined to make decisions , legalistic in temperament ? by which I mean that he looks for precedents and when he finds one clings to it as to a solid rock in an uncertain and shifting world ? authoritarian , and withal entirely well-meaning , trying sincerely , within the framework of his genuine conservatism , to do as well as possible for all classes and for the Republic as a whole . To answer the question , what is he like ? is not of course to solve the riddle of his popularity . Why is it that in his case qualities which in another man are a political liability become a political asset ? Why this hero-worship with a brand-new sort of hero ? Iv There are several points in the answer , which need to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by stating the indisputable fact that Coolidge has to some degree been " sold " to the nation , as the advertising men say , and by advertising men 's methods . Never before have so many avenues for publicity existed and certainly never have any of them been used so skillfully . The radio , which was coming into being in the previous campaign of 19. ' 20 , was utilized by the Republicans in 1924 to an enormous extent with great success . The national committee spent far larger sums than did the Democrats in " renting time on the air " ; the La Follette group , not having the funds , spent almost nothing for this purpose . Moreover , most of the broadcasting stations are owned by important business men ; and since most important business men are Republicans , the party propaganda got more than its fair proportion of time in the ordinary run of things . Calvin Coolidge 's speeches have been heard by at least ten times as many people as have heard any other man who ever lived . IIe happens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the air skillfully reasoned and worded arguments ; but even if he had not , the mere fact of having heard him would seem to hundreds of thousands of his fellow countrymen to constitute a link between themselves and the White House and a powerful reason for a vote in his favor . There were also at the disposal of 11r . Coolidge and his highly competent expert advisers all the other and more familiar media ? newspapers , magazines , movies . All of these were used to " put him over " exactly as though he were a new breakfast food or fountain pen . In this effort , for reasons I shall describe in a moment , the Republican National Committee had the whole-hearted aid of the editors , film producers , etc. , to an extent which was likewise without any parallel in our history . Another reason for his popularity which must not be overlooked is the fart that his character is utterly unlike that of either of his predecessors in office . Democracies are perennially fickle ; but to this general changeability must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has undergone a revulsion of feeling . Mr. Wilson , rightly or wrongly , had become identified with the expression of a lofty idealism which seemed painfully unreal when placed beside the facts of the post-war world . Mr. Harding had represented in turn the apotheosis of the Good Fellow ? easygoing , friendly , confiding , well meaning . Even that not inconsiderable section of the population which was inclined to belittle the seriousness of the oil scandals and to overlook the doings of the Ohio Gang 's members had come around to the view that there are qualities more desirable in a President than good fellowship . Coming immediately after this era of easy-going joviality , Mr. Coolidge 's precision , restraint , silence seemed to many of his fellow-countrymen as refreshing as a cold draught of lemonade to a palate sickened with too much sweet . V Another important element in his popularity has to do with his conservatism and its accompaniment of inertia . Such characteristics are peculiarly well suited to catch the popular imagination in America in this post-war era . The United States was profoundly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years regarding the real meaning of the war to all the participants except ourselves . Americans have long been doubtful of the ability of our diplomats to cope with the supposedly more sophisticated , better-trained , and perhaps less strictly honorable gentlemen who represent the European powers . The spiritual exhaustion which was to be expected after such an emotional debauch as we went through during the war was accelerated by a distinct feeling that we had been " played for a bunch of suckers , " used to pull the English and French chestnuts out of the fire . In such a mood the people turned with relief and confidence toward a man who clearly would never in his life do anything rash , and in particular , would take no steps toward " entangling foreign alliances " without being sure the country was altogether behind him . Again , many commentators on public affairs have , I think , overlooked the great sympathy Mr. Coolidge has accumulated among people who feel that he has , since August , 1923 , been confronted by a hard and big job for which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unlike that in which one sees a substitute musician suddenly called upon to give a concert , unprepared : you applaud not so much the performance as the pluck with which it is undertaken . We have in America an inveterate sentimental attachment for the underdog or anyone who seems to be appearing in that role : Jack gets all our cheers and we have only hisses for his giants ; we prefer our princesses to be Cinderellas . While Mr. Coolidge never has sought in the slightest degree to capitalize any such sentiment as this , there is no doubt that the feeling exists and works powerfully in his favor . To the common man he seems , quite correctly , to be in many ways just a common man himself . He photographs in the movies as well as possible , from this point of view : that is , he looks acutely miserable , self-conscious , and ashamed . Every man who has felt that way when facing the photographer 's lens has a fellow-feeling at once . A few months ago the news reel caught the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a member of a citizens ' training camp . The boy stepped forward and saluted his father smartly . The latter , obviously not knowing what the dickens is the etiquette when the President meets a corporal who is also his son , hesitated , looked unhappy , and finally took off his hat ! No one could see the episode without feeling sorry for the central figure ; politically , to have forty million people view it on the screen was worth at least three of those major victories over Congress which are so hard to obtain . On my recent tour of observation it was startling to note how often people spoke in praise of the Coolidges because they have never owned an automobile of their own . It was useless for me to point out that the friendly critic himself owned a car or perhaps half a dozen . " That has nothing to do with it , " was the answer which , in those or similar words , was invariably returned . " It 's a fine thing for the President to set an example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , it seems to me , of enormous significance . It is no secret at all that a large majority of all the people in this country who are , say , forty years of age or over , believe the inhabitants of these United States are rapidly sliding down hill toward perdition . They base this dismal view on a number of things : the prevalence of drinking , the wildness of youth , the crime wave , the women 's costumes , and the mad search for easy living and pleasure , which is demonstrated in such things as multiplying golf clubs , and the annual rush to Florida . To them , Calvin Coolidge seems , and I think quite correctly , to represent old-fashioned Americanism in a world which appears bent on getting rid of its Puritan tradition as soon and completely as possible . Their feeling is not so definite as a hope that he will " do anything " about it ; but they do take comfort in thinking that at any rate he agrees with them in disapproving of the sort of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economical streak is also widely popular . At first sight this seems a paradox , since the typical American psychology is anything but penurious . For many years the dominant philosophy in this country has advised , not that you live within your income , but that you make your income stretch to meet your desires . " Do n't knock ? boost , " says the typical American wail motto , meaning thereby as well , " do n't save , spend ; do n't be careful , be lavish . " Yet Coolidge , the national hero , is about as far as possible from being a booster . The reason is to be found in the rapidly changing character of our thinking , which in turn is influenced by our economic status . Until about 1890 , this country was dominated by the frontier , with its masses of vacant land so vast that a hundred years ago even the leading authorities thought it would be ten centuries before it would all be occupied . To-day , the frontier is gone ; we have passed the peak of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a decided general opinion that a population of one hundred and ten millions is about as many as we ought to have . Our riotous youth of squandering with reckless hand is over . National middle age is upon us ; we begin to look forward with an anxious eye to the time when we shall need to count the pennies as carefully as any European . This new frame of mind is responsible for immigration restriction ; for the general endorsement of conservation except in a few western states where some individuals , for personal reasons , still maintain the old looting doctrine ; and it has much to do also with the erection of the Nordic myth and with the spiritual success of the Ku Klux Klan . People look back wistfully on the glories that are past and assume that they were due , not to the resources of a rich and empty continent , but to the fact that these happened to be enjoyed by people mainly of one general racial stock , and one religion . Finally , and perhaps of greatest significance , comes the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's personal success . Not only in America but throughout the world , intelligence is to-day at a discount as compared to what is vaguely described as " character " or " good intentions " ? by which is generally meant , acceptance of the status quo as being the best of all possible worlds . The war profoundly disturbed the mental equilibrium of mankind ; and a ! - ways when we are , or believe ourselves to be , in danger , we resist change . There is a general feeling that intellect ? " alone " ? is likely to lead men into sympathy with . " Bolshevism " ? a word which covers any sort of radical proposal for altering the social order . Not all of mankind , to be sure , embraces this view ; but there is a marked tendency for people to divide into two camps , radical and conservative , both equally disinclined to tolerate the various compromise positions of liberalism which , throughout the Occident , have played such an important part in the political history of the past century . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority for conser vatism , and here again the war has been chiefly responsible . We have emerged from the conflict the one wealthy nation in a poverty-stricken world , a world which is both envious of our wealth and eager to share in it if any way can be found for doing so . Like a rich old gentleman walking through the slums at midnight , Uncle Sam is strongly inclined to keep going straight ahead and not loiter along any of the alluring by-paths of experiment ? social , economic , or political , national or international ? which once excited his interest . For such a mood Calvin Coolidge is the ideal protagonist . The country believes , with more certainty than the facts warrant , that it is safe with him . And safety is our dominant national ideal .                     