@@430920

OT long ago a reviewer for one of the weeklypapers criticized an author for being too much of a gentleman . His book , a collection of literary essays , was interesting enough , but it suffered from a certain lack of sympathy . The author , to use the reviewer 's own words , " was a gentleman first and a literary critic second . " The article went on to expatiate upon the fundamental incompatibility of the two species and finally concluded by warning the " gentleman " that he must either mend his ways or resign all aspirations to literary distinction . The tone of the reviewer was so confident that for a moment we hardly ventured to question his reasoning . Indeed if he had not protested so much we would willingly have let him have his way . Perhaps it was the extra ounce of conviction that aroused our suspicions instead of stunning us into acquiescence . It occurred to us that , after all , the Temple of the Muses should be open to all worshipers , without regard to race , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbitrary sign , " Gentlemen not Admitted " , blazoned above the door ? Was it an inevitable symbol of the times ? Nobody likes a perpetual loser , and for the last hundred years the gentleman has been losing all along the line . Democracy , if it has not actually hustled him out of politics , has made him step lively to keep up with the crowd . Not content with this success it appears that democracy is now bent on hounding him out of the broad domain of literature whose gallant walks have refreshed his spirit for so many hundred years . It is not the purpose of this essay to play the cynic or to lament a lost cause . No doubt it is true , as Talleyrand says , that those who did not live before 1789 can never know what society really means , but in any case , what we have lost was an exotic flower that must 723 inevitably have withered in a new environment . Without speculating further on the delicate perfection of the good old days , let us examine the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the appreciation and understanding of literature is concerned . Obviously we must consider the gentleman at his best . The most hardened Tory would not maintain that a foxhunting squire was ipso facto a judge of literature . Nor is the possession of evening clothes an infallible guide to critical acumen . Tennyson once grumbled that Browning would die in a dress suit , and if the unmitigated atmosphere of the drawing-room is injurious to the poet it is not likely to be healthy for the critic . The ! point would hardly be worth making were it not that a taste for society and the race-track is so often mistaken for the essential attributes of a gentleman . Such qualities , of course , are entirely irrelevant . Let us grapple with the issue as it is , not as it appears to the prejudiced and the class-conscious . Does the gentlemanly instinct of reticence , taste , decorum , whatever we choose to call it , tend to falsify the literary judgment ? " Literature , " says Cardinal Newman in one of his glorious passages , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is multiform and versatile : it persuades instead of convincing , it seduces , it carries captive ; it appeals to the sense of honor , or to the imagination , or to the stimulus of curiosity ; it makes its way by means of gaiety , satire , romance , the beautiful , the pleasurable . " What can the gentleman oppose to such all-compelling variety ? We admit at once ? nothing . He who undertakes to condemn whatever may not conform to his private code of morality must be prepared to jettison an invaluable cargo of masterpieces . A sinless literature in a sinful world is on the face of it inconceivable . To the best of our knowledge it is the fanatic , a very different creature from the gentleman , who judges literature by purely ethical standards . To withhold Rabelais from the public libraries , because a few small boys delight in extracting his pornographic plums , would be as fatuous as it is to legislate against alcoholic liquors because a few men choose to make beasts of themselves . Literature and law are alike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is the peculiar merit of the gentleman that , far from imposing his own standards upon literature , he contrives to keep himself  |p724  out of the way . " Men are forever vulgar , " says Ruskin , " precisely in proportion as they are incapable of sympathy . " The adjective " genteel " has unfortunately warped the true meaning of gentleman . An air of finicky refinement fits the imitation well enough , but the genuine article instinctively recoils from shams . Sympathy , freedom from callousness , the ability to sense a situation , ? these are the qualities that mark the gentleman , and these , we maintain , are also qualities that distinguish the best literary criticism . In theory , at least , we believe that everybody , radical and conservative alike , will admit the overwhelming importance of sympathy . It is the dearth of this one quality that keeps the body of literary criticism so slight . Hack writers who flit gracefully from politics to sport , and from sport to literature , succeed temporarily in making us accept such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run posterity will disown these interlopers . From the practical point of view , however , insistence on sympathy involves us at once in a host of difficulties . If it is to mean more than mere lazy tolerance , sympathy necessitates intense imaginative effort . Marius the Epicurean , for instance , could only have been written by a scholar who brought the whole weight of his intellect to bear upon the beauties of paganism . Matthew Arnold 's Essays in Criticism represent , aside from anything else , a fine departure from the narrowly insular attitude of his contemporaries towards the literature of the Continent . Both critics no doubt have their limitations . Walter Pater 's passion for beauty , Arnold 's insistence on the saving grace of culture , neither of them covers the whole field of literary endeavor . In a word , Pater and Arnold were human beings and not demigods . But will any irresponsible reviewer have the effrontery to maintain that they were hampered by being gentlemen ? Whatever virtue they possessed as critics was due to the disciplined yet sympathetic intellect which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gentleman of education . Sympathy , even though it be founded on a rock-bed of wide reading , never of itself made a literary critic . The quality of sensitiveness , which we have referred to already as the absence of callousness , is at least equally important . Mr. Chesterton 's delightful remark on the electric light signs of Broadway will perhaps illustrate our meaning . " What a wonderful sight , " he is reported to  |p725  have said , " for those who ca n't read . " This constant awareness of vulgarity or beauty , of the genuine or the artificial , can hardly be deliberately acquired . It is the critical sixth sense without which the soundest judgment may go astray . The novelist may thrive without it , the poet often becomes tongue-tied because of it , but for the man who aspires to qualify as a critic it remains the one inevitable prerequisite . Sensitiveness , whether we like it or not , cuts both ways , ? towards pain and towards pleasure . Once we adopt the armor of indifference , a perfectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the two extremes are automatically eliminated . It is one of nature 's most inexorable laws that one can not become oblivious to the ugly without at the same time losing a feeling for the beautiful . The dreadful effects of callousness are nowhere better illustrated than in the pages of that popular favorite , the etiquette book . The man of the world may dismiss these handbooks on good form as being frankly ridiculous . He may even find them mildly amusing . The picture of the twentieth century bourgeois gentilhomme struggling to ape the manners of Fifth Avenue possesses an undoubted elemental humor , which further attracts the Pharisee by titillating his sense of social superiority . The critic , however , is not so easily entertained . Beneath the unconscious satire he recognizes the essential beastliness of these travesties on society . If the younger generation is going to be brought up to consider the niceties of table decoration as the criterion of good manners , then indeed it is time to join the chorus of croaking pessimists in their lament over the degeneracy of the times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and here again the critic and the gentleman march side by side . At their best they have yet another quality in common . We have called it intuition , the ability to sense a situation . Walter de la Mare has divided the poetic imagination into two distinct kinds , " the one divines , the other discovers . The one knows that beauty is truth , the other proves that truth is beauty . " We do not wish to make exaggerated claims for the critic , but we maintain that there are moments when he approaches the poet in his faculty for divination . It is perhaps more usual to consider criticism as a rigidly intellectual process , as something entirely removed from the fine frenzy of the poet . If we are prepared to accept a  |p726  relentlessly scientific conception of criticism then indeed our theory of intuition falls to pieces . Criticism can never be more than partially scientific . When every item of information has been collected , when every ambiguous passage has been unraveled , the critic still has the bulk of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not constitute criticism any more than a knowledge of chess automatically makes a man a military genius . Something must happen before the chess champion can hope to follow in the footsteps of Marshal Foch . He must have learned , among other things , that the science of war involves more than the calculation of chances and the cool exercise of reason . So , too , literary criticism refuses to be confined to the dispassionate method of the laboratory . Creation is after all the driving force behind every act , and the critic must feel the goad no less than the poet or the musician . Otherwise he will fall into the German error of making books instead of writing them . What is it that galvanizes the dry bones of scholarship into the living creature we call criticism ? What is it that distinguishes the erudite papers of the Modern Language Association from Francis Thompson 's essay on Shelley ? More than anything else we believe it to be the quality of intuition , ? the quality that divines , that wings its way to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It may well be asked why we assume that the gentleman possesses this rare quality in common with the critic . For the moment , we must content ourselves with a glittering generality . The gentleman 's view of life is more panoramic than that of the man in the market place . Whatever his handicap in the study of literature , he is blessed with one tremendous advantage . He looks upon literature as his own patrimony , not as a private garden of which he must ask the key of some college professor . Books are not a pleasant refuge to which he betakes himself in moments of despair , they are the inseparable companions which are forever supplementing his own narrow experience . Now this business of intuition , of which we have made so much , is not as supernatural as it seems . The man who correlates his reading and his observation will soon be credited by his friends with extraordinary powers of divination . When asked to explain a certain opinion he may merely shrug his shoulders . Nevertheless we trust him as we do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his reasons  |p727  for a rather unusual diagnosis , replied abruptly , " No reasons , merely a clinical hunch . " But to the men who know him that clinical hunch is enough . Having done full justice and perhaps more than justice to the gentleman 's qualifications for criticism , let us return to the original charge made against him : that he is constitutionally incapable of understanding genius . What rapport can there ever be between the artist , with his impossible table manners and his still more impossible emotionalism , and the impeccable , closelipped , self-contained apostle of good form . We have deliberately chosen the two extremes , and yet we do not believe that even between these two understanding is hopelessly inconceivable . It may well be that the gentleman shudders on his first plunge into Bohemia . The first time that Andrew Lang met Stevenson he took an instinctive dislike to him . One glance told him that Stevenson was an affected aesthete , but eventually they became the best of friends . Supposing they had never met after the first unfavorable encounter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why should it be taken for granted that the gentleman can not appreciate a work of art without admiring the character of the artist ? As long as we are embarking upon the troubled waters of art and morality we may as well make for a storm centre at once . Is it possible for the gentleman to approach the subject of Oscar Wilde dispassionately ? Here , if anywhere , his standards of decency might be expected to deaden his literary sympathy , but again we suspect the difficulty of being more apparent than real . Nothing can obscure the shimmering brilliancy of Lady Windermere 's Fan , and nothing can atone for the degenerate taint in Oscar Wilde . It is not the gentleman who finds it necessary to rummage old newspaper files for accounts of the trial on the plea that he is making a comprehensive study of Wilde 's plays . The gentleman takes the best and ignores the worst without pretending that the worst can in some way be palliated on the vague score of genius . And now let us forget the gentleman , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the ancien regime , but as the incarnation of rarefied common-sense . Though genius chafes at his criticism , is he not usually right after all ? There are certain  |p728  avenues to literature which your man of common-sense will not tolerate . One of them is the approach via illegitimate children , Just at present literary criticism is suffering from what the French call fureur de 1'inedit . By all means let us have the documents on Wordsworth 's French daughter , but preserve us from those sentimentalists who look for her influence in every line of his poetry . Instead of assuming that scraps of unpublished matter are necessarily interesting , it is well to remember that the assumption lies just the other way . The homage paid to unpublished documents is one of the diseases of modern scholarship . This year being the hundredth anniversary of Byron 's death it is perhaps worth suggesting a nice piece of entirely useless research . There has so far been no authoritative list of the women he seduced in Venice during the year 1816-1817 . Such information can be of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will probably be hailed in some quarters as a distinct contribution to Byroniana . No doubt common-sense can be reduced to absurdity like any other virtue . We have tried to vindicate it from the attacks of its opponents because , at the moment , the champions of the bizarre are more than usually loud-mouthed . God forbid that we should live in a society so standardized that eccentricity dare not show its head . There will always be a need in a democracy for splendid saints and splendid sinners . Whatever the form of government , mankind keeps its interest in " the dangerous edge of things " . It is well that eccentrics should flout the dictates of common-sense , but they must not invoke the very deity they have defied . Garibaldi would have raised few recruits if he had based his appeal on the promise of a bonus when the Austrians were defeated . " Let those , " he said , " who wish to continue the War against the stranger come with me . I offer neither pay nor quarters nor provisions , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and death . " The man who can sound that note without being theatrical is not often met with in . So it is with literature . Genius always leaves havoc in its wake . The value of sound literary criticism lies in its ability to recognize impostors . It does not tolerate national prejudices , it is not concerned with capital or labor . Above all , it abhors that miserable class-consciousness that seeks to confine genius to one stratum of society ,  |p729                      