@@488296

F OREIGN visitors in England are struck by the contrast between the apparent prosperity as attested by the lavish expenditure of all classes upon comforts , luxuries , and amusements , and the discouraging reports of manufactures and commerce issuing from trade and official sources . How is it possible for a people carrying a dead weight of a million and a quarter unemployed workers over a period of some five years to indulge in such expensive ways of life ? It is not as if we lay in the trough of an ordinary trade depression from which we had reasonable expectations of an early emergence . The pretense that we are on the highway to fu11 economic recovery on a pre-war level , put forward by optimistic politicians and business men from time to time , is now abandoned by almost all our prophets . The adverse trade balance of 1926 and the poor recovery of last year was , of course , imputed largely to the deflation of prices subsequent to our return to the gold standard in 1925 , and the effects of the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the worst effects of these events have passed away , is a source of deep discouragement . Our burden of unemployed is nearly a quarter of a million heavier than a year ago , and the trade still done in many staple industries is unprofitable , and shows no signs of early improvement . Moreover , the industries thus A. HOBSON languishing are those great staple metal and textile industries which were throughout our manufacturing career our chief source of strength for purposes of foreign trade and home employment , together with coal mining , the basis of our whole machine industry . Nearly one-half of the unemployment in the recent returns is attributed to coal , engineering , shipbuilding , iron and steel , while cotton and wool and pottery figure heavily in the account . Though prices and wages are lower in these competitive export trades than in the " sheltered " occupations that cater for a purely national market , they do not enable us to maintain the profitable and expansive markets which we held up to 1921 . The disastrous situation in the coal fields , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarter of a million men , only presents in an exaggerated form the wider problem that confronts us , a great maldistribution of labor forces , due partly to temporary war and post-war requirements , partly to the new distribution of production and of markets throughout the industrial world accelerated by post-war policies . The truth is , of course , that even before the war Britain 's supremacy , so long held in the world markets for textile and metal goods , was being successfully challenged by Germany , the United States , and in Asia by Japan . Our backwardness in the development of electric energy for , industry , and the growing use of oil for transport and for industrial fuel , together with the working out of many of our best and most available coal seams , were contributing to weaken our position in the heavy industries . Nevertheless , if a good peace had been made , with economic sanity in its wake , the rapid resumption and normal expansion of trade relations would have let us down much more slowly . But the bad finances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reacted injuriously on our foreign markets . Many of the countries which formerly purchased our metals and textiles have set up for themselves , intrenched behind high tariff walls . It is not so much that other exporting countries are outcompeting us , though in some branches of trade this is the case . The important fact is that foreign trade in the aggregate has not shown any adequate expansion . The proportion of British exports to world exports remains about where it was in 1913 , that is to say about 13 or 14 per cent . But the values of this export trade have not increased commensurately with the rise in wholesale prices , so that it must be concluded that there is some shrinkage in the physical volume of this trade . But leaving foreign trade for the moment and turning to the true index of economic success , the physical volume of our material production , this past year shows no appreciable change . Though the current volume stands at a somewhat higher figure than in recent years , it has not kept full pace with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Professor Pigou 's " Memorandum " of a year ago indicated , that there is a slight fall of real income per head of the population , as compared with 1913 . What then of the " prosperity " which , as I said , was so apparent to the foreign visitor ? Can it be real ? In a sense , yes . There are a number of new trades in which large incomes have been made , and some established trades that have shown profitable expansion . Among the former the most conspicuous are the electrical trades , motor cars , artificial silk , and chemicals , among the latter the drink trade and tobacco , in spite of the high taxation which should , but does not , deter their consumption . The national expenditure upon alcoholic drinks about keeps pace with the enlargement of the money income , though so large a part of the price is absorbed by the public revenue that the annual consumption of alcohol per head is appreciably reduced . The tobacco trade flourishes exceedingly , enlarged by the new demand from women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Important changes have been taking place in the distribution of the national income . On the whole , they have been favorable to labor . It is generally admitted that there has been a small increase in average real earnings , in spite of the decline in income per head of the population . This gain has virtually been absorbed by women workers ( more numerous and better paid ) and by wage-rises of unskilled labor . The majority of skilled workers are probably receiving about the same real wages as in 1913 . Moreover , it must not be forgotten that a general reduction of working hours has taken place , in spite of the unwillingness of our Government to commit itself to the international convention . Add to this that a large portion of the working-class income is derived from war pensions , old-age pensions , unemployed benefits , and poor-law allowances . Finally , there is a marked advance in the profits of distributive trade , especially in its retail branch . This is registered in the expanded margin between wholesale and retail prices which war conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they did after the collapse of the post-war boom , retailers did not lower their prices proportionately . Partly by local agreements , partly because they were aware that most consumers had got accustomed to high prices and did not know better , the ordinary shopkeeper kept up his prices or lowered them slowly , with the result that in recent years he has been making profits far exceeding the pre-war limits . In many of the food shops and drapery stores quite considerable fortunes have been made . Official investigators into the retail cost of certain foods and coal have been baffled by the secrecy and intricacy of the bookkeeping ; but no doubts exist that the retail bourgeoisie all over the country has been doing very well . This apparent prosperity is witness of this less in a measure to the fact that out of a national real income not appreciably greater than in 1913 a smaller proportion is saved , i.e. , put into new capital goods . The two chief changes in distribution of the national income , viz. , the larger share taken by the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to the wage-earners , reduce the rate of saving and proportionately increase the rate of spending . For the great bulk of the saving is normally achieved by businesses placing undistributed profits to reserves , and by well-to-do individuals investing their surplus incomes . Both these sources are now curtailed and their losses are certainly not compensated by any large increases of working-class savings . Whether this reduced rate of saving is detrimental to the recovery of British industry depends upon the view taken as to the relation between spending and saving . Holding , as I do , that the normal tendency in Britain has been toward over-saving ( i.e. , an attempt to increase capital at a faster rate than the demand for fresh commodities requires ) , I can not regard as evil a change in distribution which at once enlarges state expenditure and working-class expenditure , though involving a diminished rate of national saving . There is no ground for believing that our depressed trades are suffering from any want of capital . Unemployed labor is confronted by unemployed machinery and plant , and working capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which can show there is a profitable sale for the goods which their unemployed capital and labor could produce . Some of our economists , among them Mr. Keynes , appear to hold that we are investing too much of our annual savings abroad , too little at home , and would like to see some restrictions upon foreign investments . Now , though there is no doubt a great deal of social waste in unregulated capitalism , this evil is even more prevalent in home investments than in foreign . Would it be a good thing for us to stop the flow of British capital into the development of Argentina or pf Russia , in order to stimulate further expansion of the cinema trade or greyhound courses ? There is a strong trend of public opinion in England favorable to some public control over the flow of new productive capital , which finds interesting expression in the recently published Liberal Industrial Report . But that control should not force new capital into home employments irrespective of the claims of foreign fields of investment . Such a policy would be fatal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past , is dependent for her main supplies of foods and raw materials upon other countries , many of them requiring foreign capital for their development and exploitation . It is perhaps reasonable to expect that , if a distribution of income favorable to the workers should be obtained , by a union of public policy and trade-union action , the demands for home consumption will so expand as to require a larger proportion of our new capital for home industries . But it will continue to be advantageous for us to do our share in developing those backward countries upon which we depend . None of the schemes for stimulating British agriculture can go far toward diminishing our reliance upon foreign foods . Nor is it likely that emigration on Empire lines or otherwise can dispose of any considerable part of what appears to be our surplus population . Though birth control is operating on our population so as to bring it to a standstill at no distant time , we must remain a country dependent , for vital needs upon the large purchase of foreign goods . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we continue to pay our way in the world , so as to maintain our large population upon the higher level which civilization demands ? " Our net excess of imports of goods and bullion over exports last year was ? 392,000,000 and can not be put lower for the current year . How , then , did we pay our way last year and add to our capital account abroad a sum estimated at ? 96,000,000 ? The ? 488,000,000 required for this operation are thus accounted for : Estimated net income from overseas investmeats ? 270,000,000 Estimated net national shipping income 140,000,000 Estimated receipts from short interest and commissions 63,000,000 From other sources . 15,000,000 ? 488,000,000 Assuming that no fresh cataclysm of war or revolution breaks upon the world , our widespread investments should not fail us . More precarious perhaps are our important contributions from shipping and banking . For the rising mercantile marine of America and other countries may contest and diminish our supremacy in the carrying trade , while any large loss in our carrying trade would also bring a shrinkage in our banking receipts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wonder that foresighted business men and politicians are concerned at the huge and growing gap between our imports and exports of goods . If we are to live safely in the future , we must , they urge , increase our export trade or reduce our import trade , or do both . And just here we enter several fields of bitter controversy . If we are to retain and expand our foreign markets in the heavy industries and textiles , we must reduce our cost of production to the lower level of our foreign competitors , and the simplest and most effective way of doing this is to cut wages . So we find great ironmasters , like Sir Hugh Bell , supported by academic economists , urging the immediate reduction of wages in those sheltered trades , such as railways and the public services , where real wages have risen considerably above the pre-war level . These wage reductions , lowering the costs of transport and relieving taxation , would , they argue , enable the unsheltered trades to bring down their costs with comparatively small wage-cuts to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compete for foreign markets on equal terms with continental rivals . The advocates of this policy usually express regret for wage reduction but assert its necessity as a condition of trade survival and progress . We can not otherwise , they say , compete with the lower costs of Germany or Belgium , or the mass production of great protected countries like America . British trade unionism is , of course , up in arms against this proposal , denying that wage-cuts are the right methods of reducing costs . Other more intelligent labor leaders recognize that lower costs are needed , but insist that they should be obtained by better organization and improved technique . Socialists argue that the needed " rationalization " and economics of salesmanship can only be effected safely by public ownership and administration . But many of them are ready to admit that such sudden wholesale socialization is impracticable , and they are prepared for an interim policy of cooperation with employers . But a real advance along this line of cooperation and rationalization necessarily means standardization , regulation of output and of prices by suspension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that strong trades , in command of some key position , will not blackmail weaker trades by high charges or take it out of the ultimate consumer ? In a word , are we in for an era of large uncontrolled cartels , each taking out of the total pool of wealth what its own strength enables it to get , and distributing it in high profits and high wages to its own capitalists and workers ? This would be in effect the substitution of another sort of industrial war for the present class war . It would not be industrial peace . This seems so obvious that even so cautious a body of men as that which undertook the recent Liberal Industrial Inquiry found it necessary to back their plan for rationalization and cartellization by some shadowy schemes of public control . But the difficulties of the situation are well illustrated by the failure of the attempt to get the depressed spinning trade of Lancashire to enter an effective combination . Individualism and secrecy are so deeply set in our industrial traditions that it is difficult to expel them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This difficulty is linked with a slowness to appreciate the importance of scientific research and financial reconstruction upon modern lines , on the part of our older business men . This brings me to my final point . The conservative business man sees only one way of salvation in our present predicament , that is a protective tariff . He calls it " safeguarding " because he gibes at a plain challenge to our free-trade policy . Primarily he desires to keep out foreign goods of his particular kind from the British market . But , as he recognizes that other trades have other markets to safeguard , as a politician he favors a general tariff , at any rate for manufactured and semi-manufactured goods . The remnants of our war-tariff , with the McKenna safeguarding duties , gradually extended over a large number of minor articles furnish an effective " thin end of the wedge , " with which full-fledged protectionists hope to destroy free trade . The experience of several general elections during the past twenty-five years has made them shy of entering another avowed battle against free trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an industry as iron and steel could not fail to raise once more the whole issue . It is probable that no clear authoritative lead will be given , but that each conservative candidate in the critical elections of next June will be free to place safeguarding in the forefront of his appeal . The real struggle is between the creative forces of science and industry , reorganizing British industry along lines of higher efficiency with a more equitable distribution of the fruits of industry , and a belated and calamitous attempt to buttress up obsolete and obsolescent trade methods by the costly artifice of tariffs .                     