@@488312

T HE best there is to say of the pow-wow in Washington between President Coolidge and the State Governors in regard to prohibition is that the meeting and its recommendations will soon be forgotten . It was a fine exhibition of unctuous claptrap which apparently satisfied nobody except the official stenographers who were paid for reporting it by the word . Governor Pinchot of Pennsylvania , who fathered the whole movement , says it got nowhere ; Governors Parker of Louisiana , Ritchie of Maryland , and Smith of New York think it got too far ; and Governor Blaine of Wisconsin asserts that the only result was to boost Governor Pinchot as a Republican Presidential candidate . Even these mild estimates give an exaggerated importance to the meeting . The speeches and resolutions reek with " cooperate , " " coordinate , " and other words whose use we discovered during the war when we were trying- to express in a high-sounding way something we did n't in the least understand or mean . Mr. Coolidge himself was not a little muddled about the duties of States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in general States have a direct duty to enforce Federal laws , he announced a doctrine not hitherto accepted . If he referred to the " concurrent power " to enforce prohibition which is specifically given to the States by the Eighteenth Amendment , he forgot that the fun of that has been destroyed by the Supreme Court 's ruling that no higher alcoholic content can be fixed than in the Volstead law . The fact is that in prohibition the United States is undertaking a great radical experiment . Successful enforcement will come only if eventually the law commends itself not to a large minority or a small majority but to an overwhelming proportion of our citizens . In the meanwhile we are in for rather a nasty time of it . T HAT staunch old democrat , President Masaryk , of Czecho-Slovakia , must have twinged when he read the comparisons in the Paris press between his visit to the French capital and that of the Czar of Russia some years ago which sealed an alliance that began with a loan and ended in a war . For he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he is too experienced in the ways of diplomacy not to know and regret the possible implications of his and his country 's action . Henceforth , apparently , the French army of more than 600,000 men , the French-trained Polish army of 400,000 men , and the French-trained Czech army of 300,000 men will form one military unit . We shall soon see published in the League of Nations Treaty Series , as the Covenant of the League requires , the text of some nocuous " defensive " treaty ; but the accompanying military treaty will be styled " agreement " or " convention , " and kept secret . As a matter of fact this new treaty marks the completion of another chapter in the development of a system of alliances which makes Central Europe virtually ' a prov7 ince of France . That empire of Mitteleuropa of which pan-Germans dreamed during the war has been realized  --  but by Germany 's ancient enemy . A N intricate network of post-war alliances binding the new nations of Central Europe to each other and to France perpetuates the hates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loans to follow France . Political , commercial , and military treaties between France and Poland , signed during Marshal Pilsudski 's visit to Paris in February , 1921 , gave the signal for the " Little Entente ! Czecho-Slovakia and Jugoslavia and Rumania , moved by a common fear of mutilated Hungary , signed military agreements in June and July of 1921 ; Rumania and Poland made an agreement directed against Russia at the same time ; and before the end of the year Czecho-Slovakia and Poland composed their disagreements . ezecho-Slovakia moved toward including ruined Austria in her orbit in December , 1921 , but Austria 's subsequent adoption as a ward of the League has left her out of any scheme of alliances . Poland sought , just before the Genoa Conference of 1922 , to sweep the Baltic states into the Polish military system , but they resisted . Meanwhile a series of loans and , commercial agreements has cemented the dependence of . Poland , Czecho-Slovakia , and Rumania upon France . Jugo- , slavia 's future remains uncertain ; she may settle her dif. - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or ' , follow the easier path of French domination . In any case an enormously powerful . military system has been estab- ? lished in Europe , and GeimAnyi " facing g'imptiont sees an alliance of enemies reaching greedy heaftkflietifpnit , dvery side . Outside the si:ystWi.:Ith-ydqzon ; it power ? Sedlet Russia ; and toward it too " Pbindard , i 's ; niVv ; extCtiagir , feelers . ? ! " . C ONTINUING unemployment brings in England , as everywhere , talk of money inflation as a remedy . Even the Conservative Spectator and so sound , a financier as Reginald McKenna , former Chancellor of the Exchequer , seem to be flirting with the thought ; and less cautious thinkers are boldly proposing that the government issue paper currency to the value of a hundred million pounds , and use it to put the unemployed to work . It is an alluring prospect  --  it all sounds so beautifully simple . Print money and pay your debts  --  the harassed statesman need not even - resort to taxation to meet the obligations of his government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , burdened with the American debt which must be paid in gold , the prospect of a debased currency has obvious drawbacks . But there are always some men who , like Hugo Stinnes , can find means to profit by a falling currency , and such speculators will always find hungry crowds ready to accept any glistering hope . It remains true that , as Francis W. Hirst once put it , No more severe reflection could be passed upon the moral and political capacity of the human species than this : Five thousand years after the invention of writing , three thousand after the invention of money , and ( nearly ) five hundred since the invention of printing , governments all over the world are employing the third invention for the purpose of debasing the second ; thereby robbing millions of innocent individuals of their property on a scale so extensive that previous public confiscations of private property through the adulteration of money . . . seem pigmy frauds in comparison with the present vast inundation of counterfeit paper money . F RANCE naturally is watching the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French note circulation  --  it is actually a trifle lower today than in 1920 ? has been the chief argument of those who have sought to bolster the waning credit of the franc . The utter financial failure of the Ruhr invasion has not yet had its due reflection in the market rating of the French unit of currency . Note circulation has been kept low by resorting to internal loans and other camouflaged forms of inflation , but these have their limits . Further issue of paper money would under present circumstances seriously damage the credit of the government at home  --  although some politician-financiers such as M. Loucheur are already advo-i eating inflation  --  for it would involve an open parliamentary vote raising the legal limit of note issue beyond the present 41 billion francs . If , however , the canny financiers of Great Britain should take the lead , the task of the French politician in explaining such a policy to the people would be enormously simplified . Inflation gives a temporary relief , even though the after-effects be harsh  --  and after the elections next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . T HE folly and futility of preparedness were never better illustrated than in the storm raised by Britain 's proposal to build a great naval base at Singapore . Before the first load of cement had been dumped the old , old story began again . Holland feels menaced  --  the Dutch East Indies seem threatened .  - -  The ' . Dukil , - G6Vernment , which feels the neeti. : . ot.ecAO#1y , . o keenly that it is reducing civil emploiees ! : s-alaries 10 per cont ; 41fOoses an enormous naval budget to . biz lgit a Wse ? lat , : 111Qurii Priok as a defense againatt:SimAirbfre. : frii ; Philippines are also near ; andwhen our Congress reassembles there will not be wanting Senators and Representatives to plead for scrapping the Washington treaties and building a base in the Sulu Archipelago or on Palawan Island , even if the British proposal should fall through . Japan , in the long run , will never let such a fort go unmatched , though earthquakes and Washington treaties enforce a present prohibition . The Singapore plan has done more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return of a dozen Wei-hai-weis , even if faithfully executed , could wipe out  --  and the Englishmen who like Ramsay MacDonald are fighting it are , even from an imperial point of view , the true patriots . T O all those who are losing sleep over the influence and position of the Ku Klux Klan we suggest a look at the American Legion . Three and four years ago the Legion , with its lawless attacks upon individuals , its campaign against our foreign population , and ' its effort to dictate the policies of public officials , occupied much the same position on the first pages of the newspapers that the Klan does today . But the Legion did not succeed in holding its position and neither will the Klan . Today the Legion has almost completely abandoned its former violent and offensive tactics , and at its recent national ' convention it passed a resolution aimed at the Klan ( though not by name ) which sounded much like censure of the Legion 's old self . In regard to a soldiers ' bonus , too , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time in the Legion 's history there was an organized opposition in the national convention to the usual resolution in favor of the bonus , which for a time deadlocked proceedings . If even the Legion , which has been the mainspring of bonus propaganda , now finds itself divided on the issue , what justification is there for the plan to put a bonus bill through the forthcoming session of Congress ? We agree with the Legion that care of the disabled is the nation 's first duty ; and we think it has no other financial obligation toward the ex-service men of the World War . H OW the shortage of homes in New York City had torn down the constructive efforts of a quarter of a century toward protecting the health and comfort of tenants was described by Frank Mann , the Tenement House Commissioner , when he appeared before the State Commission on Housing . Mr. Mann frankly admitted that the requirements of the tenement-house law were not enforced unless his department believed there was a fire hazard . Only four apartments out of 1,000 are vacant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same situation as in 1920 when the emergency rent laws were enacted . To enforce the tenement-house law would be to put some 30,000 persons on the streets without expectation of finding new homes . " If we consider it is a case where no danger of fire exists , we do n't prosecute , " he said , " on the ground that there are times , and these are the times , when a public official charged with enforcing a certain duty must close one eye and sometimes both . " Obviously the emergency rent laws of 1920 should be continued , but that meets only part of the need . As the New York Evening World puts it : Increasing sense of social and State obligation has steadily sought to mitigate the harsher workings of economic law in crowded cities . The present rent laws in this State , with the exception of the tax-exemption law , are only the restrictive part of the program urged when they were passed . The constructive part of that program proposed State aid for housing . If private initiative fails to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ initiative must take a hand , as it has in other countries . I N a period when labor newspapers are finding it hard to live , it is pleasant to observe that labor banks multiply and grow fat . New York City already has two and is about to add a third . The first of the trio , the Amalgamated Bank of New York , only six months old , increased its depositors from 800 in the middle of April to 5,613 on October 14 , while its total resources expanded in the same period from 8747,000 to 82,514,000 . The progress of the Federation Bank , sponsored by the New York State Federation of Labor and the Central Trades and Labor Council of New York City , has also been rapid . All of which promises well for the forthcoming International Union Bank of the International Ladies ' Garment Workers , the opening of which is now definitely set for December 1 . It may be objected that while there is a clientele in New York City for one or two labor banks , there will not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creating new business , not in taking it away from other banks . The creation of new banking services and the gathering in of new groups of customers among people of moderate and small means are open fields for labor banks . THERE is frank amazement in Great Britain over the fuss Americans are making over the visit of Mr. Lloyd George . The British newspapers can not understand why his visit is attracting such attention , is receiving so much publicity . But for America Mr. Lloyd George personifies , as does no other individual , the epic of the World War ; and that holocaust still has much more romance for the people of the United States than for those that had more of it and learned to understand it better . Besides that , America can hardly fail to respond to its first direct contact with so vital and keen a personality . There seems to be another consideration too . For the British Mr. Lloyd George is only an ex-premier ; shorn of power , he is shorn of interest . In America  --  never much concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a public official on the basis of his reputation . Something similar happened when , after the last presidential campaign , James M. Cox visited England . Here he was regarded as a spent bullet , and Americans could not fathom why he was received abroad with virtually official honors or how his words could be taken so seriously . As runner-up in the presidential contest , Mr. Cox was apparently rated as the second most important political personage in the United States . Which reminds us that a Buenos Aires- newspaper once gravely described the official position of William Jennings Bryan as " ex-Presidential candidate of the United States . " IN these days of almost universal folly and insufficiency .1 in politics it gives one a glad jump of surprise to read of one region which is reputed to have a model governor and an almost ideal government . One 's surprise is greater because the region in question is in a country whose national government has all but collapsed . The region is the province of Shansi , China , and the man is General Yen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Shansi when only thirty years old and has been on the job for eleven years . Although a graduate of a military school , his first act was to propose a general disbandment of troops , setting an example by reducing his own soldiery ' from 50,000 to 20,000 men . Nevertheless , according to a correspondent of the Manchester Guardian , banditry is virtually unknown in Shansi and it is the one province of China that has effectively put down the opium traffic . Nor is General Yen asleep in constructive measures . He has built roads , has started a forestry school and a scheme of reforestation , and has introduced sheep from Australia with a view ? to breeding a strain suitable to the Shansi hillsides . All of which sounds too good to be true  --  and maybe it is . Anyhow it is so far away that it can have no unhappy influence on our own politicians , and as most of our critics  --  a few of whom are also our readers  --  say we ought to publish more that is optimistic , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to believe it . OST of the spectators of the Zev-Papyrus race seem to have missed its most novel and spirited aspect . We came near missing it ourselves , for we saw the race at second hand through the columns of a New York Sunday newspaper , whose account began on the first page but , before getting fairly warmed up , skipped not only to another page but to another section  --  one which we had already read and thrown away . Eventually we recovered the missing section and thus the threads of the plot . The officials of the Jockey Club , not satisfied with the gate receipts from 45,000 spectators , sought to sell the exclusive privilege of making motion pictures to a single company . The first company approached declined to be held up in any such manner , saying that the race was a public spectacle and the company would get pictures of it anyway . Two other firms took the same position ; a fourth accepted the offer , paying , it is said , 850,000 . The outsiders then arranged to instal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's nest " in a handy tree , and arranged for airplane pictures from above . But just before Zev and Papyrus lined up before the starter 's gate , the photographers with the concession put in position some huge mirrors and sent up a screen of smoke to spoil the plans of their rivals . The outsiders say they got their pictures just the same and some " close-ups " besides , the latter made by two actresses in the grandstand who carried small motion-picture cameras camouflaged as hand-bags . We hope so . 1 ANADA , it is reported , plans to shoot two thousand bison this year , because her protected herd has grown so large that it runs the risk of starving on its range . Tanganyika Territory  --  n ? e German East Africa  --  finds lions and leopards such a pest that it puts a ' bounty on their scalps , as we do on the skins of rats and other petty rodents . In the first half of this year rewards were paid for ' the destruction of 300 lions and 800 leopards  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natives . From India we hear that snake-bites cost 20,000 human lives in a single year , while tigers killed 1,603 , leopards 509 , and crocodiles 255 . A collector has just arrived in New York from Australia with 58 camels rounded up 800 miles from a railroad in the Australian desert , whither they had fled from civilization  --  all our present-day camels are the offspring of domesticated stock ; except possibly in Siberia the wild camel became extinct in pre-scientific days . After all , despite the water-power companies and the missionaries and mandaters , there are still great open spaces , utter wilderness , in the world .                     