@@486496

Pr HAT COLONEL MITCHELL would be found guilty was predictable when his court martial assembled . If there had been any doubt , some of the utterances of members of the court would have made their prejudice plain . But prejudiced or not , they could find no other verdict . Colonel Mitchell was technically guilty , and the court had , moreover , to stand by the service and the War Department . To render any other verdict would call for a bench of moral heroes such as can not be found in any army . The system simply had to be sustained . As for the sentence , it is obviously inadequate . Colonel Mitchell should have been dismissed if guilty of untruthfulness in accusing the War and Navy departments of treasonable negligence and of needlessly sacrificing human lives . But that would have made him a martyr , which the War Department did not want . Moreover , if Colonel Mitchell were dismissed he could tour the country denouncing both the depat Lments . Now , if he accepts the sentence , he will still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if he speaks again . Under the circumstances it would not be surprising if he should resign . We hope he will and keep the fires of criticism alight . The final blow to Colonel Mitchell 's case was the publication of two official statements  --  first , the report of the Morrow board whitewashing the Air Service , then the letter from former Secretary Weeks to President Coolidge attacking Mitchell 's record . The inadequacy of the Morrow report is described in an article by Mr. Scaife on another page of this issue . The irony of Secretary Weeks 's criticism is also revealed in that article through a fragment of correspondence whichshows the Secretary of War intervening with the Department of Justice in behalf of an aircraft company accused of defrauding the government . S ECRETARY KELLOGG 'S DEFENSE of his course in the Saklatvala and Karolyi cases before the Council of Foreign Relations in New York City was marked by much passion and self-righteousness . He insisted that the law was right , that he believed in it , and that to protect America from people whose opinions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protect free speech and the other liberties which he reminded us took hundreds of years to win . He and his critics have precisely the same end ; they differ only as to methods ! Nothing could , in our judgment , display more clearly the mental confusion of our Secretary of State . Of course , in the case of the Karolyis they are not communists , nor anarchists , nor even socialists , and Mr. Kellogg is careful not to quote any of their alleged views . He takes refuge behind that clause of the law which makes it unnecessary for the Secretary to state why anybody is excluded . So the American public is left in the dark as to what terrible things about the Karolyis our consular and diplomatic agents abroad have confided to the State Department . The best comment on this passionate outburst of Mr. Kellogg we take from the New York World : That inquisitive child the American Public is at it again . " Ma , " it pipes . " Yes , dear , " says Mother Kellogg . " Ma , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country ? " " Because , " answers Mother Kellogg . " But , Ma , what law is there that keeps her out ? " " It may be this law ; it may be that law . Children should n't ask questions . " " But , Ma , do n't you have to prove something to me ? " " No , dear , I do n't . That is quite enough for you to know . " " But , Ma , is n't it any of my business ? And if it is n't what is ? " " Never mind . Now toddle off to bed . And do n't ask questions . Mother knows best . " H OW MUCH LONGER is the idea going to prevail that the President is a leader ? The receipt of the invi-tation to join the preparatory disarmament conference at Geneva threw him into a flutter . He had announced in speech after speech that he would join any such confer-ence and welcome it . When the opportunity came Mr. Kellogg was sent flying to Senator Borah and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the brave leader was for leaving the whole matter to Congress ; then it was decided to accept , and to put up to Congress the question whether it would appropriate money for the necessary expense . Then it was suddenly declared in the press that the Presi-dent had decided that it was useless for America to attend a land disarmament conference because we had nothing to disarm ! On another page of this issue Frank Kent sets forth how the President and his fidus Achates , Mr. Butler , have stultified themselves in the matter of Senator La Follette . As for the threatened punishment to be visited                     