@@493378

freedom of the employer-employee relationship , in contrast with " freedom of contract , " " freedom of association " and " equality of opportunity " for education , self-advancement , and participation in social ' duties and responsibilities ? The company alleges that the contract with the company union assures it the " cooperation " of the employees in the interest of public service , meaning , apparently , that it is a protection against strikes . The unions show , in reply , that strikes have been more frequent under the contract with the Brotherhood than under previous relationships with the Amalgamated Association . They show that , under the constitution of the Amalgamated , a strike may not be called unless the employer refuses to arbitrate . They further show that genuine group cooperation between a union and a management can not take place unless the men 's organization is independent and so free either to cooperate or not to cooperate , and that under these conditions cooperation has extended to a degree undreamed of by the Interborough , as with the Baltimore and Ohio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dragooned subservience , but a joint effort , educational in essence , to give better service , on a basis of mutuality . The affidavits on the subject of union-management cooperation alone would constitute a textbook on this development of industrial relations . There is a presumption that " yellow-dog " contracts , of the general type involved in this case , are not bona-fide attempts to bring about harmoni-. ous relationships on the basis of agreement , but are drawn with the purpose of securing the aid of the courts in controversies with labor . Any contract should be mainly self-enforcing through the interest of the parties , and should depend as little as possible on intervention of the police power . This is particularly true of collective labor contracts directly involving thousands of individuals . Should the courts , in the public interest , assume the burden which anti-union employers seek to put upon them in this respect ? Should they place their prestige squarely in the path of the development of the historic labor movement , which is a response to much the same conditions , using much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this case the company union has been combined with the individual contract in an effort to circumvent genuine unionism , the hollowness of both is shown in the clearest of lights . It is significant that a bitterly anti-union employer should seize with one hand what is supposed to be a new form of collective bargaining , and with the other what is an attempt to enforce the antithetical individual bargain , and strive to weld them into a monstrous whole . It is significant that the extreme form of both which is the product should so obviously impose industrial servitude on the workers . The occasion furnishes the opportunity for a broad ' defense of unionism in well-nigh all of its aspects , and for a new consideration of the status of the worker . If the law is to allow him scope for real freedom , real opportunity , real responsibility , it will have to look behind the phrases which origi , , nated in a day of simpler relationship , untangle the web of logical deceit woven by skillful attorneys in the interest of reactionary employers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern social needs . It is fortunate that the case is being presented in such a way as to allow the courts to do this . If they seize the opportunity , a bench mark will have been set in the law for a firmer status of labor and a broader opportunity , to seek its fulfillment . Socratic Liberalism HE discussion between the New Republic and its readers as to the meaning and mission of liberalism continues to provoke such lively and varied responses from them that we are tempted , even at the risk of boring the unconvinced or the over-convinced , to continue it . The batch of letters which we publish elsewhere carries the argument a step further . They are provocative , but , unlike many of the previous letters , they are also sYrn ; pathetic . They provide a tempting opportunity or feeling our way in their company toward a better understanding of what it should and should not mean to be a liberal . One of these correspondents , Mr. Henry Carey , proposes , for instance , to define a liberal as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attendance on evidence . His definition questions the title to the name of liberal of many workers in the vineyard of the Lord who are supposed to earn it by zealously , promoting some particular program of political reform or social betterment . The proposed test would consider not the nature of their beliefs or the . public purposes which they were trying to aecool ; plish , but the quality of their mental processes . If their prepossession with their own ideas or plans closed their minds to the recognition of new insights and facts , they should cease to be classified as lib-erals . The opposite of liberalism is not conservat ' ism in politics and social economy . It is of ness or inertia of thought and complacency f It is desirable to dissociate liberalism , as 1 ' 11- ' Carey has done , from a zealous but uninq-uissPiitirvi ; devotion to particular formulas and programs . li 's proposed definition looks in a better direction , in that it would require of liberals a mental discipline whicm , would save them from many subjective delusions an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ilt9 own . It assumes that liberalism is a matter excni ? sively of intellectual activity . There are ma.0 , people who are perfectly willing to discard or I-al " ' ti their beliefs or their projects in the light of facts but whose corrected judgments and well behave plans lack the emotional energy to get themselves realized . In a world which is accustomed to giving reality to a formula or a project by proclaiming its truth in the arena of opinion , by fighting for it against all corners and by winning a victory on its behalf , a mental discipline which emphasizes persistent inquiry and revision of judgment may seem to lack power . Life is primarily a matter of action . Human beings must follow certain patterns of behavior in order to live . In so far as they are civilized , they depend less on instinct , habit and custom , and seek for trustworthy understanding as a guide to action . But even the most civilized and liberated communities can not dispose of trustworthy knowledge in relation to some of the most indispensable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their own ultimate welfare and the welfare of sodety , their verifiable knowledge does not furnish them with the assurance which devoted and heroic action requires . Their noblest and most salutary enterprises are emasculated if they persist in being inquisitive about the worth of what they are doing . Their aspirations cry for some immediate and whole-souled effort at realization . If they ignore this call , they feel shabby and disloyal . Yet if they answer it , they have to act with only a flickering torch of knowledge to illuminate their path . In order to reassure themselves , they pretend to a knowledge which they do not possess , and for the same reason they have to ' disqualify , ignore or suppress anybody who " wants to know " how far their Pretended knowledge is trustworthy . In such cases the very absence of reasonable assurance is , of course , the sufficient excuse for cultivating unreasonable emotional assurance . The Communist , the Fascist or the die-hard is tither a fanatic or a failure . To meet this objection the inquisitive liberal will , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He but sacrifice his curiosity to blind zeal or passion , tnnt passion , as so many religious teachers have testi-'led , is not necessarily blind . He may inquire , consequently , whether his search for salutary truth is not capable of generating as much zeal in a properly prepared mind as the cause of the revolution now does in the mind of the Communist . In pur- suing this inquiry , he will need to consider with some circumspection why liberals , as compared to more single-track minds , may fail to generate a sufficient less emotional drive . May not the failure be traceable , les- ? to some incompatibility between an unscrupulous Inquisitiveness and a passionate fixation of the will , than to the limitation of the proposed theories or Projects liberals have usually tried to verify or realize ? These theories were themselves arbitrary and accidental . Their authors could generate emotional assurance only as the result of their willful assertkn ? The characteristic liberal experiments have concerned the operation of certain plans for the bet- rr government of society , beginning with laisseztaire and going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects as social insurance . These plans were , however , themselves questionable . Entirely different plans might have been as well worth trying . The zeal which they aroused was generated , not by any necessary association between them and the effort to liberate mankind through increasing understanding , but by the extent of the abuses which they were intended to eradicate and by the violence of the opposition . On the other hand , the liberals who propose to be unscrupulously inquisitive are acting upon an hypothesis which they at least can not question . Their curiosity itself is tantamount to faith , and takes on the dignity of an essential affirmation . By acting on it they will , if it works , recruit a kind of understanding and experience which will differ fundamentally from any possible experience of the way in which democracy or social insurance works . Instead of staking their hopes of human liberation upon an increasing knowledge of the operation of arbitrary political and social projects , these new-style liberals would experiment with their own ability to live at once dangerously , inquisitively and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there was no reasonable escape from such an experiment . An increased understanding of themselves , obtained by a significant experiment , had become a condition of their increased knowledge of nature and society . Critics of liberalism who consider thorough-going intellectual curiosity incompatible with emotional energy are proposing a theory about the relation between the intelligence and the will which may or may not be true , but which can only be tested by action on that assumption . The only way also to vindicate the opposite belief in the possible liberating effect of thorough-going curiosity is to behave as if it were true . The liberal , in spite of any faith which he may have in creative intelligence , is obliged , like all animals , to act first , and his actions are , in most instances , a matter of animal and social necessity or economy , but , by always acting as an inquirer , he affirms an inevitable association between action and inquiry , between life and consciousness . At the same time , he denies in effect the reality of an alleged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Like previous liberals , he is , of course , the protagonist of freedom . But the liberation which he is vindicating is no longer primarily political or civil : it is personal . Few , however , even of the thoroughly inquisitive liberals have divined that , if they are to undertake the work of liberating mankind , they must occupy themselves more consciously with the work of self-liberation . Those who do realize it usually appeal , as Mr. Edward C. Wilson does in another column , to education for a remedy . This is all very well , but it is somewhat misleading . Modern education is , to be sure , gradually concentrating on the problem of individual liberation , but , quite properly , it is preoccupied with the problems of childhood and 15 7 THE NEW youth , and it is not paying much attention as yet to the problem of adult education , which is what we are concerned with here . Nor is it sufficiently understood that adult education is self-education and is , after a fashion , religious education . Until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Christian Churches . They performed the work with some success during the period of puritan conflict , but they have been slipping for the last two hundred and fifty years , and at present they are slipping fast . Laymen , equipped with an essentially non-Christian culture , are taking hold of adult education and are depriving the clergy of their historic function . The Christian Churches , both fundamentalist and modernist , look helplessly on . The fundamentalists purchase certitude by unenlightenment , and the modernists are satisfied with a kind of enlightenment which shares the traditional faults of lay liberalism . It is eclectic and reformist , but the eclecticism lacks integrity and the reformism an outlook toward self-liberation and a method of attaining it . According to another of our correspondents , Mr. Read Bain , the only faith which can integrate the lives of realistic liberals and serve , consequently , as the starting point of adult education , is faith in the method of science . Those who agree with him will have to ask what , in this connection , is the method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to obtain the trustworthy self-knowledge without which the effort at self-liberation will continue to be the most tragic of all human comedies ? Is not the very essence of scientific method the elimination of the personal equation ? And how can a liberal who is seeking self-fulfillment by a revival of the old Pythagorean , Socratic and puritan search for self-knowledge eliminate the personal equation ? If he did succeed in his work of purgation , he certainly would be emptying out the baby with the bath . But if he refuses to try , what becomes of his scientific objectivity ? His self-knowledge would either omit himself or he would vitiate it by the self-delusions which flourish so luxuriantly in the soil of human self-consciousness . The alternative looks hopeless , but , like other ugly alternatives , it must be grasped rather than avoided . Suppose that a liberal , dedicated to the work of self-liberation , refused to abandon the hope that by a methodical scientific search he could discover some trustworthy knowledge about himself . According to his own lights , of course , he would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of himself which he carries around with him in transacting the ordinary business of life . Since he himself is the only being with access to his own mind , he would have to substitute for these delusions an insight into himself which could be obtained only from self-inspection , but if this self-observation were to bear any relation to scientific method , it would have to be extremely censorious . The observer would have to confine his observations // to his psycho-physical organism as a mechanism of behavior , whose responses were automatically eletermined , as in the case of an animal , by a combination of external and internal conditions . He would separate , that is , his psycho-physical mechanism from himself in order to observe it objectively . He would disidentify himself from it , while at the same time forcing upon himself , so far as he could , an awareness of its actual processes . By splitting his personality in this way , he would be doing some- , thing to himself analogous to what science has , during the last three hundred years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great deal about the world by tentatively disentangling it from God and by observing it as a mechanism which did not need a God to explain its behavior . May not the individual who is possessed by scientific curiosity to learn something trustworthy about himself give reality to his quest by assuming for the moment that he does not need a God of self in the car of his personality in order to explain his behavior ? A liberal who answers the foregoing question in the affirmative may be carried by the impulse of his own inquiry a good deal further . Men have learned how to control natural processes and have enormously increased their power over their surround : ings by supposing nature to be a mechanism . 11 they can increase their knowledge of themselves by supposing for purposes of observation their Per " sonalities to be a mechanism of behavior , may they not by some consequent improvement in the technique of living , based upon this improved selt knowledge , substantially increase their own self-control ? In the case of nature , the final result of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself but to indicate ways con : patible with science of finally synthesizing God With nature . So the hypothetical separation by the individual of himself as an observer from the accl " dents and the compulsions of his actualized person ; ality , and his systematic effort to be aware of hog this personality behaves , may prove to be the indls ' pensable route to liberated and reunited conscious ' ness of self .                     