@@299783

THE CHILDREN - Edith Wharton - Appleton ( $2.50 ) . <P> The Story . They were seven ; all ages , all colors of hair and temperament , all genetically termed " the Wheater Children . " To sort them out , Martin Boyne , bachelor , 46 , by chance their fellow traveler , required many whispered conferences with Nurse Scopy of the iron hand and grey cotton glove . This worthy soul scoffed at his belief that Judith Wheater was the baby 's mother-no indeed , Judy was a child herself , for all her motherly ways . Baby Chipstone was her own brother , and her parents ' chief bone of contention . Then there were the 12-year-old twins-Terry , a wise boy who longed wistfully for school or a tutor , and beautiful Blanca , a jealous little snob who recognized cruelly last year 's Callot model , this year 's Chanel . The rest were the " steps " ( stepchildren ) - Zinnie , orange-haired little devil with a fiery temperament and exaggerated acquisitive instinct ; Beechy and Bun , Italian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acrobatics , the other toward hysterics . <P> Such were the seven who had sworn " on Scopy 's book " ( an ancient " Cyclopedia of Nursery Remedies " ) that never again would they allow themselves to be separated and parcelled out to their various undeserving parents . For of parents there were almost as many as children : The Wheaters sponsored Judy , the twins , and after divorce and remarriage , Chipstone , badge of truce . In an intervening marriage to a gaudy cinema star Mr. Wheater begat Zinnie , while Mrs. Wheater retaliated with a decadent Italian prince , and adopted Beechy and Bun , offspring of his earlier alliance with a circus acrobat . When the Wheaters remarried ( each other ) , cinema actress and Italian prince found further unsuitable spouses , all of whom harassed Judy with threats to carry off the " steps . " Judy countered by kidnapping her brood , complete with nurses , to the Dolomites where Bachelor Martin was wooing a suave and lovely widow of the old school . Navely Judy demanded Martin 's championship versus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with her . He thereupon escapes to Africa ; she and her brood , un-championed , lapse into their hectic scattered existence at smart European hotels , in the feverish wake of this parent or that . <P> The Significance . With sure instinct for phenomena of " high society " Mrs. Wharton discerns a newish problem-the sad lot which falls to children of selfish modern parents , divorced . Whether it is a sadder lot than falls to children of selfish modern parents , undivorced , is not the question ; and fortunately all question is subordinated to the acute analyses of scatter-brained complications of parents , quarrels among sophisticated children , well-bred war between their middle-aged bachelor guardian and the widow of his choice . Falling short of greatness , The Children is an eminently entertaining tragi-comedy of the times . Sinners will ignore , pharisees gloat upon a moral which is happily remote from the common reader .                     