@@493317

A Journal of Opinion The Week T HE outlook for the World Court plan in the Senate is dark . The apparently unequivocal support of the President does not carry weight with Senator Borah , now in the strategic position of the Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee . Senator Borah , although declaring his fires adherence to the World Court principle , regards it as vital that the World Court should be divorced from the League of Nations . To effect such a divorce , he points out , would take time . There will be , however , very little time available in the present session after the appropriation bills have been disposed of , and Senator Borah believes that agricultural legislation has prior claim to consideration . It does not require prophetic foresight to predict what will happen to the World Court measure . It will be put over to the next regular session , when a prolonged struggle will be carried on between those who , like Borah , want a World Court divorced from the League , which no other nation at present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denatured , probably , by still further reservations . In the meantime . President Coolidge will continue to preach cooperation with Europe for peace , a coop-eration which in fact will be limited to the opening of the American money market to European borrowers . IN most respects . President Coolidge 's Republicanism belongs to the McKinley era , and in general to the old **26;27;TOOLONG tradition , but in relation to one important matter he is affiliated with the school of Jefferson and Jackson rather than that of Hamilton , Henry Clay and their followers . The Federalists , the Whigs and the Republicans have tended to favor liberal appropriations for public improvements , and they were not disposed in general to be suspicious or parsimonious in passing on the expenditures of the government . It was a Republican , Thomas B. Reed , who , when a Republican Congress was reproached with appropriating a billion dollars , replied that the United States was a billion dollar country . The answer was typical of a certain exuberance , generosity and extravagance which has usually characterized the financial policy of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Jeffersonian and Jacksonian shibboleth of setting up a presumption against any increased or novel expenditure by the government , but we doubt very much whether in this respect he represents the spirit of his party . Of course taxation has pressed much more heavily on the rich since 1917 , but as soon as the super income tax rates are further lowered , as they will be in 1925 , the people who manage the Republican party will be less interested in " economy " and in diminished governmental expenditure than they are now . They are used to spending money freely and even wastefully themselves . It will be a wrench to the habit of mind , created by their extravagant expenditures upon everything which they themselves desire , to remain loyal to Mr. Coolidge 's mystic passion for frugality . THE existing extravagance in American public expenditures is merely a reflection of extravagance in American private and personal finance ; and in spite of Mr. Coolidge 's best efforts the American government will never become even respectably thrifty until the budgets of American private businesses and family expenditures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most royally wasteful people in the world . That is , they are the richest and , as Mr. Coolidge proudly affirms , the happiest of all peoples . They are wasting their prodigious material resources . They are vatting human life . They are spending an amount of money on comforts and luxuries winch can only be justified if they have inexhaustible fortunes to live upon . They are saddling business every year with an increasing load of fixed obligations which are easily carried so long as business expands , but which will be disastrous when , if ever , the limit is reached . They arc extravagant , that is , because they think they can afford to he ; and they will continue to be extravagant both in public and private expenditure until their supply of natural resources runs down , and they have to depend for their prosperity more on their own labor rather than the bounty of nature . WHEN the President vetoed last spring the bill which it the remuneration of postal employes , , he accounted for his action by reasons derived chiefly from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afford the increase , but intimated that , if the revenue of the post-office department could he increased this objection might disappear . Recently the post-office has investigated its revenues and expenditures in order to " provide the basis for an intelligent consideration by Con , gress and the President of all questions related to the adequacy or inadequacy of postal rates . " The results of this investigation are striking enough to be called sensational , and , so far as concerns the future policy of the department in adjusting rates , entirely derisive . It shows that the only remunerative branches of the business of the post-office are those of first class mail and postal savings . The government snakes a profit of over $80.000,000 on the first clots mail and over $45,000.000 on postal savings . On the other hand it Imes almost 07 5 , - 000,000 on second class mail , $16.000.000 on third class and approximately $10,000.000 rads on its money order and registering services . THE lesson of these figures seems clear enough . What the report indicates in effect is that the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost all the people in the United States ) $80,000,000 more for the service than the service costs , and then uses this surplus chiefly for the purpose of subsidizing those special services from which a comparatively few people benefit . If Congress and the President propose to increase postal revenues in order to obtain the money needed to raise the remuneration of the postal employes to the level which private business pays for similar services , they have every reason to accomplish their purpose by a substantial increase in the rates for second and third class mail , for registering letters and for transmitting money through the post office . At present the government is taking ; at least $68,000,000 which in justice belongs to its employes and handing it to the few million people who use the second and third class mailing privileges . The gov-ernment , thus is , can not afford to pay its postal employes the salaries to which they are entitled , but it can afford to make a present of an aggregate of $110,000,000 to the private interests who profit from the special services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a clear case for increasing the rates for second and third class mail and for charging an increased fee for registering letters and parcels and transmitting money . Above all there is a clear case for increasing the rates on second class mail . This service costs the government about $106,000,000 for which it obtains in return from the beneficiaries about $31,000,000 . Thus the government subsidizes the newspaper and periodical publishing industry to the tone of $75,000,000 a year . This industry is carried on like any other industry , in order to make profits . The periodicals which it publishes are almost all enthusiastically in favor of Mr. Coolidge 's policy of " rigid economy " in governmental expenditures and consider government subsidies to private business , particularly to the farmers , utterly deplorable . Now that the post office department has revealed the extent to which the government subsidizes their operations and increases their profits , at the expense of the postal employes , and the people generally , they will , we hope , cooperate with Congress and the President in increasing the rates for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during Mr. Taft 's administration , the newspapers and magazines assumed , we are sorry to say , a different attitude . They bitterly and successfully opposed the increase , but ' We trust that they will approach the matter now with a livelier sense of public respon- sibility . Let us wait and see . HOW serious the Red plot in France really was we have no means of judging . No doubt the Communists were perniciously active . They always are . It is possible that they redoubled their activities , as they appear to have done in England on the eve of the elections , with a view to embarrassing the moderately socialistic government of M. Herriot , involved in a struggle with the Clericals . Communists the world over hold to the doctrine that moderate socialists , reforming democrats are their worst foes , to be downed by fair means or foul . It is uncertain whether the International at Moscow had anything to do with this flare-up in France , just as it is uncertain whether it had anything to do with the stirrings in England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall into a position in which it is hound to he suspected as the instigator of disorders wherever they may arise . It has gloried in this position and assumed credit for disorders in which its part was infinitesimal . WHILE we believe that the dangers of Communist propaganda are invariably , purposely overrated by reactionaries and even liberals , we can not regard the activity of the propagandists without impatience bordering on disgust . Communism has its ideal experiment station in Russia . It has absolute control over an immense , practically self-sufficing empire . For several years it has been left undisturbed by foreign powers . It is tolerated in international trade . Surely its first job is to begin to deliver the goods . What traveler , returned from Russia , reports any brilliant achievement in any field , intellectual , artistic , educational , technical ? What official report of the Soviet government paints an alluring picture of life under the new order ? It may be said that Russia is at a disadvantage because she is unable to raise a foreign loan , but this would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be to admit the paramount significance of capital as an agent of production . Either the Communistic regime should make good on its own resources or admit that the system is a pure experiment , worth watching but not worth emulating until time has proved its worth or worthlessness . In the meantime the Soviet government ought to invite the COM . munists of other lands either to migrate to Russia and help in the real work of constructing a Communist state , or to hold their peace until Russia can furnish them something to talk about . THE German elections exhibit a popular drift directly the contrary of that of last spring . Then the movement was toward the extremes , the Communists and the Monarchists . Now it is toward the Center . The moderate republican parties , if they can agree on a program , will have no difficulty in organizing a government . This change in the political complexion of the country may be explained partly by the more decent spirit toward Germany evinced by France under Herriot , partly by a better realization of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was widely believed that Germany had the arms and trained men to put up a brave fight . Now it is generally realized that Germany could not supply 200,000 men with the essentials of warfare for a longer period than two weeks . The consequence is that the Socialists , the most pacific of the German parties , have been the heaviest gainers in the election and will command an increased influence in the goveltiment . THE realization of the futility of resistance was sufficient reason for the rejection of the Monarchists . It was not sufficient reason for the decline of the Communists . If the mood of the electorate had been prevailingly one of despair the Communists would have increased their strength . The present atenosphere of Germany is far from one of rosy hope , but it is by no means one of despair . The Dawes plan is now in operation , and the Germans have discovered that it is not being administered by ruthless fools bent on extracting the last mark from Germany at whatever cost . The redundant railway personnel is not being recklessly thrown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being exerted for higher taxation ; on the contrary , the German government now for the first time is able to reduce taxes without setting the wolves of the Allied press yelping for German blood . Employment is better than it has been since the mark was stabilized , and the outlook for a tolerable winter ? though barely tolerable ? is good . Some steps have been taken toward the evacuation of the Ruhr , and nothing has yet happened to indicate that France will go back on her promise to complete the evacuation by next August . Such considerations worked heavily for the moderate parties in the election . And the result shows clearly that if Germany is decently treated , the Republic will stand .                     