@@486007

Pr HAT COLONEL MITCHELL would be found guilty was predictable when his court martial assembled . If there had been any doubt , some of the utterances of members of the court would have made their prejudice plain . But prejudiced or not , they could find no other verdict . Colonel Mitchell was technically guilty , and the court had , moreover , to stand by the service and the War Department . To render any other verdict would call for a bench of moral heroes such as can not be found in any army . The system simply had to be sustained . As for the sentence , it is obviously inadequate . Colonel Mitchell should have been dismissed if guilty of untruthfulness in accusing the War and Navy departments of treasonable negligence and of needlessly sacrificing human lives . But that would have made him a martyr , which the War Department did not want . Moreover , if Colonel Mitchell were dismissed he could tour the country denouncing both the depat Lments . Now , if he accepts the sentence , he will still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if he speaks again . Under the circumstances it would not be surprising if he should resign . We hope he will and keep the fires of criticism alight . The final blow to Colonel Mitchell 's case was the publication of two official statements  --  first , the report of the Morrow board whitewashing the Air Service , then the letter from former Secretary Weeks to President Coolidge attacking Mitchell 's record . The inadequacy of the Morrow report is described in an article by Mr. Scaife on another page of this issue . The irony of Secretary Weeks 's criticism is also revealed in that article through a fragment of correspondence whichshows the Secretary of War intervening with the Department of Justice in behalf of an aircraft company accused of defrauding the government . S ECRETARY KELLOGG 'S DEFENSE of his course in the Saklatvala and Karolyi cases before the Council of Foreign Relations in New York City was marked by much passion and self-righteousness . He insisted that the law was right , that he believed in it , and that to protect America from people whose opinions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protect free speech and the other liberties which he reminded us took hundreds of years to win . He and his critics have precisely the same end ; they differ only as to methods ! Nothing could , in our judgment , display more clearly the mental confusion of our Secretary of State . Of course , in the case of the Karolyis they are not communists , nor anarchists , nor even socialists , and Mr. Kellogg is careful not to quote any of their alleged views . He takes refuge behind that clause of the law which makes it unnecessary for the Secretary to state why anybody is excluded . So the American public is left in the dark as to what terrible things about the Karolyis our consular and diplomatic agents abroad have confided to the State Department . The best comment on this passionate outburst of Mr. Kellogg we take from the New York World : That inquisitive child the American Public is at it again . " Ma , " it pipes . " Yes , dear , " says Mother Kellogg . " Ma , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country ? " " Because , " answers Mother Kellogg . " But , Ma , what law is there that keeps her out ? " " It may be this law ; it may be that law . Children should n't ask questions . " " But , Ma , do n't you have to prove something to me ? " " No , dear , I do n't . That is quite enough for you to know . " " But , Ma , is n't it any of my business ? And if it is n't what is ? " " Never mind . Now toddle off to bed . And do n't ask questions . Mother knows best . " H OW MUCH LONGER is the idea going to prevail that the President is a leader ? The receipt of the invi-tation to join the preparatory disarmament conference at Geneva threw him into a flutter . He had announced in speech after speech that he would join any such confer-ence and welcome it . When the opportunity came Mr. Kellogg was sent flying to Senator Borah and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the brave leader was for leaving the whole matter to Congress ; then it was decided to accept , and to put up to Congress the question whether it would appropriate money for the necessary expense . Then it was suddenly declared in the press that the Presi-dent had decided that it was useless for America to attend a land disarmament conference because we had nothing to disarm ! On another page of this issue Frank Kent sets forth how the President and his fidus Achates , Mr. Butler , have stultified themselves in the matter of Senator La Follette . As for the threatened punishment to be visited upon Mr. Lewis of the Miners ' Union for his " impudent " letter to the President and the threat to ask Congress to take away the right to strike from men in essential industries , not one word has been heard  --  precisely as we prophesied in our issue of December 9 . Yet both of these things were heralded in the pro-Coolidge press as certain to come ; the President was boiling with indignation ! As for the World Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the proposal goes through it will not be because of any leadership or any utterance of the President . That timid , shrinking violet must now decide what to do with twenty recommendations sent to him by the Tariff Commission . It is a safe bet that he will run from them or defer action just as long as he possibly can . B UT POLITICS the President can play . For months past the tipster services from Washington had been announcing that in response to an " overwhelming demand " from the South the President was going to appoint a Southern member of the Interstate Commerce Commission . This fact was mysteriously coupled with the nomination of Thomas F. Woodlock to the same commission , with the prophecy that this would result in Mr. Woodlock 's confirmation by the Senate , which refused to confirm him last spring . The prophecy has come true . A Southerner , Richard B. Taylor of Mobile , was nominated for a place on the Interstate Commerce Commission , and simultaneously the name of Mr. Woodlock was sent back to the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this is a straight-out deal to obtain the confirmation of Mr. Woodlock by Southern Democratic votes . It will be interesting to watch the outcome . Mr. Wood-lock is entirely unfitted , by reason of past associations , for a place on the commission . The progressive Republicans refused to accept him last spring . The simple question now is whether the President has bought enough Democratic votes . If the nomination goes through there will be no denying the deal and the fact that the Democratic Party has sunk one degree lower in the scale of political decency . TS PROFESSIONAL RIGHTEOUSNESS PROFITABLE ? 1 Here comes John W. Davis , Leaguer and regretter for " backward America , " and professes deep indignation that the Government should venture to assail the legality and morality of the notorious Chemical Foundation trans- action , by which the magnates of the chemical industry , conniving with A. Mitchell Palmer and Francis P. Garvan , Alien Property custodians , transferred from government custodianship to themselves nearly 5,000 German patents , worth many millions , for a paltry $50 each  --  all this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show in the United States Supreme Court that the custodian could not sell to a dummy corporation , ' of which he was president , that he was still a trustee notwithstanding his power of sale and therefore was bound to obtain fair prices , that the sales committee of distinguished names was a smoke-screen for perpetrating a giant conspiracy to appropriate private property , and that not only the private owners but also the United States Government has been robbed of valuable property . The Chemical Foundation , smoke-screen for the dye magnates , alleges in effect that to make these charges is to question the integrity of distinguished names , and that in any event President Wilson , who actually was permitted to know little about the matter , and Frank L. Polk , his alter ego , had the power , if they saw fit , thus to give away this valuable private property . To sustain the deal the lower courts were impelled to hold that the statute gave the custodian the power to confiscate the property , a conclusion which we believe to be false . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being spent by the Chemical Foundation ( really the chemical industry ) , worshipers of the god of property , to sustain one of the most disreputable spoliations of private property ever recorded . Thus does war and its aftermath deprave private and public morality . At no other time could responsible people fail to see that the mere effort to defend or palliate so brazen a transaction is a disgrace to every one connected with it . But it is interesting to find that those who defend it are among the great uplifters , Leaguers and World Courters , and advocates of rostrum righteousness generally wherever the chance offers . How many of them profess to be shocked by the Soviet Government and oppose its recognition because it confiscated private property ! How many of them serve on committees to study the crime wave ! Ex-Attorney General Stone , in attacking the Chemical Foundation scheme in the Circuit Court of Appeals , said that " it will be a dark day for this republic when public officials , charged with public duties and " responsibilities , can do the acts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who claim under them . " If the scheme is sustained by the Supreme Court , which we hesitate to believe , it would seem to be fitting to open the jails and let out the mere undergraduate " pikers . " They would be only tyros in the art . And yet John W. Davis actually takes a brief for this conspiracy to defraud and tries to conceal the issue by declaring that it is an attempt to besmirch the name of Woodrow Wilson ! T HE DISCREDITING OF POINCARE , as well as the reputation of Archibald Cary Coolidge of Foreign Affairs for editorial fairness , is advanced by the publication in the January issue of an incisive reply to Poincare 's self-administered dash of whitewash in the October number in regard to the origins of the World War . Ex-Chancellor Wilhelm Marx buries Poincare under cumulative proof of the overt guilt of the latter in conjunction with Izvolski . Poincare 's chief excuse  --  an allegation of the spurious nature of the Russian documents  --  is demolished by citing Sazonov 's recent admission of their authenticity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1900 to 1914 , while the superiority of the Entente in armaments is statistically demonstrated . Particular stress is laid upon the collusion between Izvolski and Poincare , covering such points as Izvolski 's diplomatic failures up to 1912 in his plans to secure the Straits for Russia ; his preliminary negotiations with Poincare ; the latter 's grant of a free hand in the Balkans to Russia ; the corruption of the French press by Russian money ; the recall ' of the pacific Georges Louis from St. Petersburg and his replacement by the belligerent Delcasse and Paleologue ; the French loans to Russia from 1912-1914 with the condition that the money would be used to increase the size of the Russian army and navy and to build more railroads to the German frontier ; and the Franco-Russian war aims , formulated in 1914 or earlier , which involved the dismemberment of Germany and the destruction of her economic power . Dr. Marx also points out the Serbian responsibility for the murder of Franz Ferdinand ; the belligerent attitude of Poincare on his St. Petersburg visit , with his grant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the actual precipitation of hostilities by the Russian general mobilization on July 30 . We believe that the distinguished retailers of the mythology of 1914-18 will be more wary henceforth . W E OF THE CONSERVATIVE PARTY have no idea , no knowledge , of another war , but we of the Conservative Party believe that if another crisis should arise which might threaten our country  --  which we do not expect  --  this country should not send troops out of Canada without the people being consulted . " Thus Arthur Meighan , leader of the Conservative opposition in the Canadian Parliament . As if to call additional attention to so remarkable a statement he later repeated it in the Bagot constituency in Quebec before a French audience . The statement is being accepted by the bulk of the Canadian press as meaning that Canada will not go into another war an behalf of the mother country until not only the Canadian Parliament has been consulted but the people themselves have spoken in a referendum . This is a remarkable change of face as well as an inspiring step forward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a speech at Taranto in which he denounced the then government of Canada for not having immediately replied to Great Britain 's query whether Canada would stand by in the event of trouble with Turkey with the message : " Ready , aye , ready ; we stand by you . " He was then aghast at the idea that the Canadians should determine for themselves whether they would or would not go along with England in a given case . His change of position must be taken at its face value , because there is no special political reason or emergency to make him take so radical a stand . Moreover , he is probably to be the Premier of Canada in 1926 . Thus , he promises to do what Woodrow Wilson declared was impossible in 1917 ? to use the democratic method of finding out whether the people of a country wish to go to war before condemning their sons to death and disablement . M R. HOOVER has told the Society of Mechanical En- gineers that America spends ten times as much for cosmetics in- a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very well , he- says , to glorify America for its progress in applied science and general industrial development , but the backbone of that development  --  research in pure science  --  is lamentably weak . " Instead of leading all other countries in the advancement of scientific knowledge , the United States occupies a position far in the rear of the majority of European nations . " He cites the - work of Maxwell on Hertzian waves , of Becquerel on radio activity , of Einstein as examples of pure science carried on with no incentive except a divine curiosity but often resulting-in applications of the highest practical importance . Radio , for instance , would have been unthinkable without Maxwell 's work . We second Mr. Hoover 's plea with all possible emphasis and only wish that charity might have begun at home . In Mr. Hoover 's Department of Commerce , especially in the Bureau of Standards , pure research has had a hard time of it in competition with commercial problems and direct aid and comfort to industry . The Bureau Of Foreign and Domestic Commerce is Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Bureau of Standards . App-ropriations for research , we are told , have not been warmly recommended . And morale is not helped when new scientificdiscoveries appear more in connection with the Secretary 's name than with that of the scientist who made the discovery . If Mr. Hoover is in earnest  --  and we believe that he is  --  let him lead the way by giving all possible support to that devoted group of scientists who call him chief . T HE DEATH OF FRANK MUNSEY is especially interesting because of his ownership of two New York dailies , the Sun and the Telegram , . In journalism he was essentially a dealer in dailies . An ardent Progressive in the Bull Moose campaign , one of the two men who induced Roosevelt to bolt from the Republican Party by promises of money and support , Mr. Munsey was normally extremely conservative and was responsible for the production of newspapers whose editorial opinions were of little or no value , while they themselves were dull . At Mr. Munsey 's door must be laid , too , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sun , which should have survived and could have had they fallen into other hands . Mr. Munsey , himself , was an extraordinarily successful merchant ; the owner of the Mohican grocery and meat stores , he kept them to standards of efficiency and scientific management which were unsurpassed . His early struggle to establish himself in the magazine field of New York showed that he was possessed of extraordinary courage , tenacity , and determination to succeed . The struggle he made after arriving in New York , as an unknown lad from Maine with but forty dollars in his pocket , deserved success , and no one could begrudge him the power that he achieved . But when he entered the newspaper field he did not help at all the cause of American journalism . His death without immediate heirs makes possible the establishment of another daily like the old Evening Post  --  if there are those who care about having one . I N CALIFORNIA , where the plums are as big as apples and the apples as big as grapefruit and the grapefruit as big as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is not unexpected that there should be an extraordinary number of geniuses . Thus one is not surprised to hear that 1,000 phenomenally gifted children have been discovered in that land of plenty who are to be educated in a super-university surrounded , presumably , by other geniuses as instructors in an attempt to " give genius a chance , " to provide for it a course of instruction in an atmosphere uncorrupted by the mediocre children who fill our public schools . Only one thing is needed to start the university going , and that is a mere $5,000,000 , which in California is doubtless swept up by every bank charwoman twice a day and thrown into the waste-basket . Probably by the time these lines are written five times $5,000,000 will have been assembled and the university will be well under way . California is like that . And when the little geniuses are all educated and go out to conquer a waiting world , unlike other hopeful university graduates , they will really do sr ' mething big , something big enough even to be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selling sewing machines or life insurance or even real estate ; they will not become bond salesmen or school teachers . They will be different , because they are California 's biggest and best product . If there are any unkind Easterners to point out that California genius may be all right , but that California fruit has more looks than taste , away with them . They do not deserve to be uplifted or helped by educated genius and probably they will not be .                     