@@493124

HISTORY may or may not tell us that we never learn anything by what history tells us ; yet a tabulation of little portents here and there about the world offers at least the outlines of a case for the timorous belief that the world has learned a little from the madness of 1914-1918 . Not much , perhaps ; but considering the mood of the years im ? mediately after the peace broke out , as they used to say in Central Europe , anything at all is to be prayerfully welcomed as miraculous . England and the United States , which by all his ? torical precedents should be loud in protestations of mutual friendship and esteem and should be silent but energetic in arming and in aligning combinations against each other , are instead sitting down to ? gether to face the differences between them and try to compose them . The effort may fail , but that it should be made at all , and in that spirit , is some ? thing new in international relations , and already the fact of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One wonders whether similar efforts in the years before 1914 might not have changed the psychology which made the war inevitable . In Europe , there is the astonishing success of a German war book which mordantly , though artis ? tically , deflates the romance of war , which has not a word of detraction of the enemy , which treats of conventional patriotism as a lapse from sanity . In Germany itself it has been not only a success but a sensation , despite the efforts of the militarists to keep the glory of arms burnished , and the sense of national humiliation whipped up for revanche . The Nationalists , it is true , are counter-attacking with a campaign of vilification against the book as treason and against Remarque , the author , as a pacifist , liar and befouler of his own nest , but what is more sig ? nificant is that they felt obliged to do so . Fiva years ago it is probable that only a Communist or extreme left-wing Social Democratic publishing house would have brought the book out and few would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a synonym for German , the book is a best seller and , more surprisingly , in France also ? five years after Poincare 's Sunday sermons on the Ruhr and the French scientists ' refusal to meet in scientific con ? ventions with German scientists ! " Journey 's End , " an English war play , is ac ? claimed in Germany . Like " All Quiet on the West ? ern Front , " it is without any abuse of the enemy . There is only one reference to the Germans , and that is favorable . There has been a marked re ? crudescence of war literature and in all of it pa ? triotism is subordinated , glory gently derided and the enemy pictured as a helpless victim like one 's own people . It is this sense of the enemy 's human ? ness , this sense that all the little obscure people on both sides were alike in being sacrificed to folly not of their own making , that is working into European consciousness . And that also is unprecedented , only ten years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? member what northern children were taught about the South and southern children about the North a full generation after the Civil War . Rarely if ever before have war passions so soon grown cold . More than anti-war pacts , more than arbitration treaties and disarmament conferences , this gives ground for hope . It is not too robust a hope . No doubt the machinery of propaganda , skillfully di ? rected by men who knew its purpose , could quickly drive the masses ? led by the educated classes ? into line for war again , but it would not be quite so easy , as before . The machinery would have to be more cunningly contrived and more subtly managed . Measured by the rate of human progress for two thousand years , this is gain enough for ten .                     