@@163885

In the days when U. S. journalism was young and yellow , newspapermen often quarreled violently and in public . One editor would refer to his colleague as " that scurrile cur , that . . . slander-monger Drennelthorpe , of the Courier Gazette . . . whereupon Mr. Drennelthorpe would visit the writer with a bowie knife and a hickory cudgel . Every reporter was trained to use a shotgun , and in most composing rooms a portrait of Andrew Jackson looked down with sombre eyes upon a neat rack of buggy-whips . Newspaper men still quarrel . Most of them do so with a certain reticence . Respecting the dignity of their differences , they wage their wars out of sight . But last week the public was astounded to find , in a famed tabloid sheet , a reversion to the vilest of tactics of journalism-a gratuitous insult hurled at an honored newspaper builder , a sickly slur cast at a courageous weekly . Don C. Seitz , long business manager of the New York World , was the victim . The Outlook was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scribbler of editorials for the New York Daily News . Mr. Seitz recently resigned his post with the World and the Evening World . He contributed an article to the Outlook . The editor of that publication , in a column called " Contributors ' Gallery , " thus summarized the importance of Mr. Seitz 's position J " Don C. Seitz was for 25 years business manager of the New York World . Probably there is no man in American journalism that has as broad an experience as a journalist and as wide an acquaintance among newspaper men . He knows at first hand all phases of American life ; he has , too , a historical background against which to view the present scene in its proper proportion . " Now the News writer , looking for some item on which he could compose an editorial that would entertain the chicle-chewing rag , tag and bobtail , happened upon Mr. Seitz 's article , and the Outlook 's comment upon Mr. Seitz . He noted with joy that Mr. Seitz had offered criticism on some of the more unfortunate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Herald and High Defender . Ha ! here was dragon 's meat indeed . Class prejudice could be stirred up like a muddy puddle . Ignorant and penurious people could be made to feel that they had a grievance . They could be made to hate the " highbrow " Outlook , to distrust the " capitalist " New York World , to scorn Mr. Seitz . The News push-pen jammed a piece of copy-paper in his typewriter , wrote as follows :                     