@@493280

Individuality Equality and Superiority N article entitled Mediocrity and Individuality pointed out that the current recep- tion of the results of mental testing proves the extent to which we are given to judging and treating individuals not as individuals but as creatures of a class , a quantitative class which covers up truly individualized traits . Our mechanical , industrialized civilization is concerned with averages , with percents . The mental habit which reflects this social scene subordinates education and Social arrangements to stratifications based on averaged gross inferiorities and superiorities . We accept standards of judging individuals which are based on the qualities of mind and character which Win under existing social conditions conspicuous success . The " inferior " is the one who is n't calculated to " get on " in a society such as now exists . " Equals " are those who belong to a class formed by like chances of attaining recognition , position and wealth in present society . This intellectual acceptance of standards for ' valuing individuals of a society which every candid mind admits to be lopsided and disordered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superiority and equality . What do these Words mean ? Professors have one measure of llperior ability ; captains of industry another . ( l ) ne class esteems aptitude for learning academic subjects ; the other class appraises in terms of Pnver in execution . Suppose that investigators and artists were so socially dominant that they Were effectively articulate . Should we not then eniploy , quite other standards of measurement ? At Present superior races are superior on the basis ? I their own conspicuous achievements . Inferior rcea are inferior because their successes lie in c ifferent directions , though possibly more artistic and civilized than our own . Superiority and inferiority are meaningless words taken by themselves . They refer to some specific outcome . No one should use the words until he has asked himself and is ready to tell ? thers : Superior and inferior in what ? Is a stu- dent inferior for purposes of reciting lessons , of tting into a school administration , of influencing t ? , roPanions , of " student activities " or what ? Is an adult superior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intrigue , in being a wise parent or- ( ) ? d neighbor , as a homemaleer , a chauffeur or a zzurarian , a congenial companion , a confidence man , n investigator Of higher mathematics , an expert accountant , a tractable worker or a revolutionist , in writing acceptable movie scenarios or in research in the laboratory ? There are as many modes of superiority and inferiority as there are consequences to be attained and works to be accomplished . And until society becomes static new modes of activity are continually developing , each of which permits and exacts its own specific inferiorities and superiorities . There is doubtless some degree of correlation between traits which promote superiority in more than one direction . But the idea of abstract , universal superiority and inferiority is an absurdity . The current loose use of these conceptions suggests overcompensation on the part of those who assume that they belong to a superior class . It appears like an attempt to escape from the limitations and incapacities which we all know , subconsciously at least , that we possess . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less , phase of superiority is inevitably conspicuous . Castes are ranks or grades of superiority ; within each caste the hierarchical order of higher and lower is repeated . The endeavor to discover abstract degrees of mental superiority which fit for " leadership " in the abstract is evidence of the hold upon us still exercised by feudal arrangements . Our new feudalism of the industrial life which ranks from the great financier through the captain of industry down to the unskilled laborer , revives and reenforces the feudal disposition to ignore individual capacity displayed in free or individualized pursuits . Sometimes in theory we conceive of every form of useful activity as on a level with every other as long as it really marks the performance of needed service . In these moments we also recognize in idea at least that there are an infinite number of forms of significant action . But these ideas are usually restricted to religiously accented moments . When it comes to " practical " matters , the very person who in his religious moods asserts the uniqueness of individuality and of opportunity for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and esteemed occupations and is content to grade persons in a quantitative comparative scale . It was once supposed , at least by some , that the purpose of education , along with equipping students with some indispensable tools , was to discover and release individualized capacities so that they might make their own way with whatever of social change is involved in their operation . But now we welcome a procedure which under the title of science sinks the individual in a numerical class ; judges him with reference to capacity to fit into a limited number of vocations ranked according to present business standards ; assigns him to a predestined niche and thereby does whatever education can do to perpetuate the present order . The motto concerning genuinely individual distinctions is that of the tank corps . " Treat ' em rough " ? except as they give promise of success in this or that established social classification . Otherwise , the person might grow up to be a conscientious objector or a social innovator , or be inclined to demand social recognition for activity in free scientific inquiry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The irony of the situation is that this course is usually taken in the name of aristocraey , even of intellectual aristocracy , and as part of an attack upon the tendencies of democracy to ignore individuality . It may be that the word democracy has become so intimately associated with a particular political order , that of general suffrage and elective officials , which does not work very satisfactorily , that it is impossible to recover its basic moral and ideal meaning . But the meaning remains whatever name is given it . It denotes faith in individuality , in uniquely distinctive qualities 1 in each normal human being ; faith in corresponding unique modes of activity that create new ends , with willing acceptance of the modifications of the established order entailed by the release of individualized capacities . Democracy in this sense denotes , one may say , aristocracy carried to its limit . It is a claim that every human being as an individual may be the best for some particular purpose and hence be the most fitted to rule , to lead , in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classifications is the enemy alike of true aristocracy and true democracy . It is because our professed aristocrats surrender so gladly to the habit of quantitative or comparative classifications that it is easy to detect snobbery of greater or less refinement beneath their professed desire for a regime of distinction . For only the individual is ultimately distinctive ; the rest is a matter of common qualities differing merely in degree . Even in the crudest pioneer democracy there was something more distinctive , more aristocratic , than in that smoothed-off communal worship of qualities belonging to certain classes which is characteristic of present day critics of democracy . The most ardent of the early advocates of equality never fell into the stupidity of alleging that all persons are qualitatively alike . Rousseau was one of the first to insist upon natural differences , pyschological and physical . It was his pro found conviction of the intensity and scope of these differences which made him so insistent upon polit ? ical , legal and , within certain limits , economic equality . Otherwise some form of native superior energy would result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their nat ural deficiencies , while corrupting those of superior ability by giving them an artificial mastery of others and a cruel , contemptuous disregard for their welfare . In our own earlier history , John Adams is perhaps the chief proponent of the unavoidable neces sity of recognizing the aristocratic principle in politics because of inequality of natural endowments . But Adams was a realist . He did not assume that superiority of gifts meant intellectual superiority or that aristocracy in practice means the rule of the mentally and morally superior . He saw that the native superiorities which were bound in any political system to find outlet and to warp institu ? tions to their ends are of indefinitely many kinds ? power , power to command and influence the action of others , being their only common divisor , In his own realistic words : " Any aristocrat is any man who can command two votes , one besides his own . " And this superior influence may be due , he points out , to virtue , talent or intrigue and cle ? bauchery ; to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goodfellowship or fraud , violence and treachery , to deism or atheism . Powerful i8 as powerful does . Adams never fell into that mealy-mouthed sentimentalism of contemporary de ' fenders of aristocracy who assume that native superiorities are all in the direction of talent an " virtue , and inferiorities all in the opposite directiou , Thomas Jefferson is associated with the demo ' cratic school . But he writes to John Adams : " i agree with you that there is a natural aristocracY among men . . . . The natural aristocracy of virtue and talents is the most precious gift of nature . That government is best which provides the most effectively for selection of these natural aristocrats into the offices of government . " And he proceed : to state that the differences between Adams and , himself concern the means which are best calculat ' ed to secure this result . Adams thought that sonic express and definite institution was necessarY1 Jefferson thought that such explicit recogniti ? 11 would encourage the " tinsel " aristocracy of wealtb and birth at the expense of natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and need no artificial protection against the feebleness of the poor . Both agreed that equality is moral , a matter of justice socially secured , fl ? t of physical or psychological endowment . No intelligent defender of democratic equalit t has ever believed anything else . Today he is 11 ? as sure as men were a century ago that any legal and political system can of itself prevent the untoward working of native differences of power . He sees very clearly that a regime of economic anarchy like the present overstimulates many of the least desirable forms of superior native power , and that the result overrides the legal and political bulwarks of moral equality . In consequence he sees that moral equality can not be conceived on the basis of legal , political and . economic arrangements . For all of these are bound to be classificatory ; to be concerned with uniformities and statistical averages . Moral equality means incommensurability , the inapplicability of common and quantitative standards . It.means intrinsic qualities Which require unique opportunities and differential manifestation ; superiority in finding a specific Work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ilion to a class of competitors , which is bound to result in putting a premium on mastery of others . Our best , almost our only , models of this kind of activity are found in art and science . There are indeed minor poets and painters and musicians . But the real standard of art is not comparative , but qualitative . Art is not greater and less , it is good or bad , sincere or spurious . Not many intellectual workers are called to be Aristotles or Newtons or Pasteurs or Einsteins . But every honest piece of inquiry is distinctive , individual-'zed ; it has its own incommensurable quality and Performs its own unique service . Upon reflection , however , it is apparent that there is something academic in confining the models ( If moral equality to art and intellectual pursuits . Direct personal relationships , the affections and services of human companionship are its most Widespread and available manifestations . The snobbery of the snobbish , who call themselves aristocrats , is nowhere as evident as in their neglect of the superior gifts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No contact of this human sort is replaceable ; with reference to it all are equal because all are incommensurable , infinite . Democracy will not be democracy until education makes it its chief concern to release distinctive aptitudes in art , thought and companionship . At present the intellectual obstacle in the way is the habit of classification and quantitative comparisons . Our Pseudo-aristocrats with their flourishing of abstract and uniform superiority and inferiority are now the main defendants of a concept of classes which t.i'peans only the mass divided into smaller portions . the democrat with his faith in moral equality ? is the b representative of aristocracy made universal . equality is that of distinction made universal .                     