@@487224

M R. PENTY 'S purpose in writing this book is to counteract the distorted notions associated with the materialist interpretation of history and to furnish a historical background for guild socialism . A summary of his main propositions therefore is essential to a judgment upon his work . Early Mediterranean societies were organized on a communist base ; the early Church continued the communist tradition of . the Apostles , Christian teaching preserved for centuries the communal land ownership of the barbarian tribes that overran Western Europe ; it was the communistic spirit of Christianity that gave rise to the guilds ; governments are made necessary by the anti-social character of a minority ; the serf in the middle ages was ordinarily not exploited but gave his labor in return for protection by the lord ; the medieval king was very popular and the divine right idea was an invention of James I ; the medieval empire preserved the peace of Europe for centuries ; Roman law fell like a foul curse upon the medieval society of brotherhood and plenty and introduced the pursuit of individual interests ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fostered the spirit of science and learning ; Wycliffe was a religious pervert bent on saving his own soul ; the Protestant Reformation was really a grand triumph for landlordism and capitalism ; the French Revolution shows that democracy will arrive when it knows how to choose " the right ideas " ; radicalism and parliamentarism are colossal failures ; modern administration is centralized to the point of collapse ; but the remedy for our ills is at hand : it is a return to medievalism . In the middle ages men had peace , security , just prices , fair wages , and joy in their labor ; the church protected the people ; and the kingdom of heaven was so near that one could almost hear the voices of the choir . In all this there is little that is new . Mr. Chesterton and many Catholic writers have been dinning it in our ears for a generation or more . What is the meaning of it ? To the present reviewer the answer is plain : Men will have their Utopias , their eternal systems . The idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and peace , love and bitterness , all evolving together in terrible fascination is painful to contemplate . Catholics have their Utopia in the past when the Pope 's authority was undisputed in Western Europe . Engels , the high priest of scientific socialism , has his Utopia in the great day of the proletarian revolution when " man , at last the master of his ownform of social organization , becomes at the same time the lord over nature , his own master , free . " In addition to having a passion for Utopias , men have a tendency to react against whatever is , or is said . It is undoubtedly true that Protestant historians have either maligned the middle ages or emphasized the darkest aspects of that period ; but when that is admitted there is no reason for rushing to the other extreme . Anyone who honestly tries to clear his mind of unworthy motives and to approach the past in the spirit of humbleness , who reads the documents that have come down to us , rather than professional Catholic or Protestant historians , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of vast extent and vast changes ) was crowded with wars , pestilence , strife , cruelty , and credulity , all mixed in with beautiful sacrifice , lofty concepts of life and conduct , sincere strivings after truth and perfection . Of course , anyone who has leisure and reads Latin can readily run through historical literature and find citations for any kind of a picture he wishes to draw . It is not a very difficult exercise in either learning or ingenuity . It is far easier than to attempt to see the middle ages as a whole and fairly . It is also easy to show that we are not likely to pitch into Utopia through Marxism or Sidney Webb 's bureaucracy . But when it comes to proving that in an age of steam , electricity , and world economy , we can cure our ills by returning to the localism of community guilds , that is quite another matter . Moreover , if it were possible to get back that blessed Utopia of the middle ages , what proof have we that wicked men , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? The present reviewer is not a theologian , but he is moved to inquire why it was that the benign Providence who had things well in hand through so many centuries yielded his realm to the Devil on the day that Martin Luther nailed his theses to the door . Is it possible that God is not omnipotent after all ? Moreover , why do Italy and Spain , still good Catholic countries , have so many of the industrial ills associated with the landlordism and capitalism which triumphed in Protestant countries ? How are we to get village communities and guilds back again after three centuries of individualism have rooted up their very foundations ? Is not the case hopeless for poor America , since we never had any village communities and medieval guilds ? Perhaps Mr. Penty will do us the favor of answering these questions in his next book . CHARLES A. BEARD The Genius for Banality The Americanization of Edward Bok . Charles Scribner 's Sons . M R. BOK , like Xenophon , Julius Caesar , and Henry Adams , writes about the adventure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is often unlike his predecessors in autobiography . For instance , his educational processes and those of Henry Adams have very little in common indeed . To Henry Adams " success " seemed hal.dly probable and certainly was not to be expected ; while Mr. Bok with unfailing naivete and assurance found the way " so much simpler . . . than the avoidance , " that from the beginning he had no doubts . Mr. Bok 's accomplishment is simply staggering from whatever point of view it may be judged . Being forced by poverty at home to give up his regular schooling at thirteen , he undertook his own education in connection with his work as office boy for the Western Union Telegraph Company . With complete faith in the amiable disposition of the great , and a certain canny recognition of the value of their autographs , he bombarded prominent men and women all over the country with an explanation of his schemes for self-education and a request that they advise him from the accumulation of their experience . Cheek like this is allied to genius . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few protested . Mark Twain explained that writing was his trade and that a man took no pleasure in exercising his trade as a pastime . " It would never be fair to ask a doctor for one of his corpses to remember him by . " The Bok autograph collection became famous , and incidentally worth a great deal of money . In fact , all Mr. Bok 's ventures proved golden . He planned and introduced the present form of theater program , that bored women might have something to read between the acts ; he began and edited the Brooklyn Magazine , afterwards the American and then the Cosmopolitan ; he started the Bok Syndicate Press with a weekly letter by Henry Ward Beecher ; he conceived the idea of a " Woman 's Page " in the newspapers , and after obtaining material from a great many well-known women writers supplied such a page through his syndicate ; he introduced to the papers a weekly letter of literary gossip , known later as " Bok 's Literary Leaves " ; having passed through his apprenticeship in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later to the Scribners , he was placed in charge of the advertising department of Scribner 's Magazine and the Presbyterian Review . The symposiums which he conducted through his newspaper syndicate on such questions as " Shourd America have a Westminster Cathedral " ? and " Should clergymen smoke " ? early showed his understanding of the mental appetite of the great public . In 1889 Mr. Bok became editor of the Ladies ' Home Journal , and his biography for the next thirty years is the history of that magazine . A list of the more important features indicate clearly enough the nature of Mr. Bok 's editorship : Side Talks with Girls ; Heart to Heart Talks ; a correspondence service with readers which totaled nearly a million letters yearly ; free musical education and free college scholarships to boys and girls for getting subscriptions ; a Mothers and Babies department which advised over forty thousand mothers and brought up eighty thousand babies to the age of two years ; Unknown Wives of Well-Known Men ; Clever Daughters of Clever Men ( meat here for the humorous paragraphers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aware ) ; novels by Howells and Kip-ling ; a new method of featuring material by " running over into the back " of the number ; history in sugar-coated pills in such articles as When Jenny Lind Sang in Castle Garden , When Henry Ward Beecher Sold Slaves in Plymouth Pulpit ( Beecher looms very large on Mr. Bok 's horizon ) , When an Actress was Lady of the White House ; Ladies ' Home Journal houses , for which thousands of plans were sold ; gardens ; interior decoration taught by taking the public inside of One Hundred Homes ; art education by means of masterpieces of which the most popular were The Hanging of the Crane and Home-Making Hearts ; the decoration of Pullman cars ; Dirty Cities  --  a " cleanup campaign " by means of photographs ; Men , an anonymous department which , as Mr. Bok reveals for the first time , Theodore Roosevelt edited ; women 's clubs , an attempt to change their interests from the " cultural " to the civic ; suffrage , opposed by the Ladies ' Home Journal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give to the only question that seemed to him of importance in connection with the matter : " Was the ballot something which in its demonstrated value or in its potentiality , would serve the best interests of American womanhood " ; a campaign for greater frankness within " the home " in regard to " the mystery of life " ? on account of which the paper lost seventy-five thousand subscribers ; music , beginning with Sousa 's marches , printed for the public , and a musical question-andanswer department conducted by Josef Hofman ; war work features of all sorts , with Mr. Hoover as guide , philosopher , and friend . The last number of the Ladies ' Home Journal under Mr. Bok 's full editorial control was that of October , 1919 . It oversold a printed edition of two million copies and carried between its covers over a million dollars worth of advertising . On September 22 he relinquished his editorship . Mr. Bok 's explanation of his success is simply that " a man gets in this world about what he works for , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely to do all that one could do , a little more than one was asked or expected to do , and immediately one 's head rose above the crowd and one was in the employer 's eye . " In his editorial practice he regularly observedwhat he had found to be the true psychology of the American public : it " always wants something a little better than it asks for " ; and while consulting its taste and interests he generally anticipated them . He catered to " the intelligent American woman rather than to the intellectual type , " and it was to satisfy her fondness for the " personal type " of literature that he developed the sort of article by which the Ladies ' Home Journal is best known : Jane Addams 's My Fifteen Years at Hull House , Helen Keller 's Story of My Life , Lyman Abbott 's My Fifty Years as a Minister , Gene Stratton Porter 's What I Have Done with Birds , Mrs. Beecher 's Mr. Beecher as I Knew Him . Instinct , the manly substitute for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have been responsible for most of his decisions , from his attitude toward the " care and feeding of infants " to the championship of Hofman as a musician , though Mr. Bok himself " lacked musical knowledge . " This is an extraordinary array . In all the account of it there is not one gleam of intellectual speculation , not one sign that Mr. Bok ever heard of the world of ideas , or that he understood any passions stronger than sentimentalism . His criticism of the America in which he lived and which he seems to have understood so well , is always merely trivial . He had a genius that made him an amazing journalist . It was not , as certain of his admirers have lately said , a genius for simplicity . It was the more profitable genius for banality . I. B. From the Spanish Hispanic Anthology . Poems Translated from the Spanish by English and North American Poets . Collected and Arranged by Thomas Walsh . Hispanic Notes and Monographs . G. P. Putnam 's Sons . N EVER has Spanish poetry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Mr. Walsh now does it . During a decade after the campaigns of Wellington in Spain and Portugal , English poets and translators like Thomas Rood , J. G. Lockhart , and Sir John Bowring , following the lead which Robert Southey had given them with a volume of travels in 1797 , eagerly exploited the ballad literature of the Peninsula ; later on in the century James Kennedy and F. J. Vingut supplemented such work in the older fields with versions of the modern romantic poets ; and in recent years we have been reminded not infrequently that poetry thrives among all peoples in the two hemispheres who use Spanish . But not until Mr. Walsh 's painstaking anthology has there existed anything like an adequate survey and repository . Mr. Walsh 's 800 pages , containing , along with bibliographical notes , translations by 39 hands of selections from 180 poets dating all the way from the unknown author of the " Cid " to Munoz Marin , who was born in Porto Rico in 1898 , make up at once a valuable work of reference and an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these pages also are intended to compose " a spontaneous tribute of affectionate admiration to the contemporaneous Spanish poet  --  both Peninsular and American ? from his English-speaking brethren of the north . " The volume recognizes no geographical bounds , bringing matter from South and Central America , Mexico , Cuba , and Porto Rico as well as from Mother Spain . Since Spanish-American literature is a comparatively modern growth , the nineteenth and twentieth centuries here bulk very large  --  indeed , claim a whole second half of the space . The first half is pretty exclusively devoted to the hundred fertile years from 1550 to 1650 , although the Middle Ages , with  --  for instance  --  their inimitable Juan Ruiz , Archpriest of Hita , are decently represented . Mr. Walsh shares a more or less current distrust of the eighteenth century , with the result that a bare dozen pages are assigned to that stretch . Such discriminations , proverbially defended as the privilege of the anthologist , may often and truly be the annoyance of the reader . It might more legitimately be objected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has had to set too many forth with single sonnets ; more pieces by fewer poets might have rendered tedium less possible . But the quarrels in general are few to pick . One out of a thousand translated poems ever lives . A few fragments of Ovid in Shakespeare , of Euripides in Milton , of Lucretius and Horace in Dryden , of Virgil in Tennyson , have health and beauty ; but domesticated verse on the whole persists as a mass of dried specimens . Mr. Walsh has done everything possible to avoid dryness . It probably was impossible to modify the format of the Peninsular Series , which has much of the museum about it ; it was desirable to work for spirit and variety among the translators , and Mr. Walsh has succeeded admirably at that . Longfellow , Bryant , Ticknor , Lockhart , Southey , Alice Stone Blackwell , Arthur Symons , Roderick Gill , Muna Lee , Edmund Gosse , and John Masefield make excellent company for Mr. Walsh himself , who , shouldering enthusiastically the greater part of the burden , has produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. The Adorable Apostate Seven Men . By Max Beerbohm . Alfred A. Knopf . T HE best proof that the experimenters of the yawning Yellow Nineties were after all nothing much but sentimentalists is to be found in the tired , wan hues their writings and pictures wear today . They wore them in the nineties , too , of course , but then such colors were in the mode , and fashions always seem normal enough when they are the fashion . If the Aesthetes of that day marched upon the hordes of dullness in ranks that were not exactly serried , still they presented a good front on several sides . They had poets and dramatists and novelists and painters and illustrators and printers  --  and , of course , claqueurs in competent profusion . They added some dozens of new specimens to the fauna and flora inhabiting the British imagination . The trouble is that the specimens almost all gradually expired , being sensitive , and had eventually to be stuffed or pressed . Max Beerbohm , who in " Seven Men " appears as a genial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wisest scribes . Did he not with a gesture of mortality publish " The Works of Max Beerbohm " in-one lithe volume at the age of twenty-four  --  to follow it with another knowingly named " More " only two years later ? Did he not write " Zuleika Dobson " and parodies and caricatures without parallel or equal ? He belonged . And now he is cheerfully giving away the secrets of the Aesthetes with a fine broad grin . Of course , he was always satirist to the movement , if not of the movement , and , of course , he here speaks of types rather than of persons . But all the same this is apostacy and revelation . For instance , consider Enoch Soames , the dim diabolist , who wrote " Negations . " Max met him , in " Seven Men , " and later bought his book . " Was there , I wondered , any substance at all ? It did not occur to me : suppose Enoch Soames was a fool ! Up cropped a rival hypothesis : suppose I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the doubt . " This is the very gist of the period . So many young men thought of the rival hypothesis in connection with so many other young men , only to give the other young men the benefit of the doubt . Soames believed in himself enough to sell himself to the Devil for a chance to invade posterity and find out what it thought of him . It thought he was an imaginary character invented by Max Beerbohm  --  which he was  --  and straightway Soames went broken-hearted to his purchaser . He did not know that his chance for surviving was better , thanks to Max , than most of his diabolist rivals had . Neither could posterity unaided have done what Max has done for Hilary Maltby , author of " Ariel in Mayfair , " and Stephen Braxton , author of " A Faun on the Cotswolds , " those different geniuses who divided the world of taste for a time , bitter rivals , and then found themselves upon the publication of their second books united in a remarkably identical kind of failure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As to the others of these seven men , who count up to but six if you leave their historian out , James Pethel subsists upon the thrill of taking chances ; A. V. Laider can not distinguish between what he has experienced and what he has imagined ; and " Savonarola " Brown spends patient , stupid years upon a masterpiece which Max has written for him in a way to expose the nakedness of dull writers as cruelly as it was ever done . Pope and Swift knew no more about the Art of Sinking in Poetry than Max Beerbohm knows . He understands it in other languages than the language of the nineties . This is what brings him so lucidly up to date , no matter what extinct creatures he exhibits . C. V. D. Books in Brief T HE picturesque and romantic war correspondent of popular tradition exists still in the person of Frederick Villiers , whose " Days of Glory " ( Doran ) is now published . The book is prefaced by an enthusiastic salute to the old veteran by Philip Gibbs , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and uses it as an illustration in contrasting the old-time war correspondent with the new type produced by the World War . The adventures of Frederick Villiers carry one back with a bound to memories of Torpenhow and the war-hungry correspondents in " The Light That Failed " ? men to whom the spectacle of a world at peace was positively nauseating . The crackle of musketry in some remote corner of the globe heralding a new war was the only stimulus powerful enough to relieve their boredom . Villiers  --  not to push him into this Kipling atmosphere of sublimated sadism  --  represents the type of the old-guard war correspondent at its best . The sketches in " Days of Glory " have no special artistic merit . They look very old fashioned beside the modern methods of Nevinson and Nash . In character they are topographical , anecdotal , documentary . There is no doubt that they possess a certain historical significance in view of the fact that they portray the early phases of the war which were unrecorded by the British military authorities . They reveal many details @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scenes which were never captured by the camera . These scenes changed afterwards when new weapons were introduced , and when the intensity of gun-fire altered the look of many landscapes . Villiers pictured in detail such temporary devices as the curtain loopholes in the trenches and the bottle-trails through the woods . One of the best pictures in the book depicts two soldiers in a rain-soaked wood at night following the wine and beer bottles strung as guides from the trees . FAR in retreat from our literary foreground of acrid re- search and cynical psychoanalysis , a foreground which the most modern man alive must find hot and tiresome now or then , the essays of Kirby Flower Smith which have been collected under the title " Martial , the Epigrammatist , and Other Essays " ( Johns Hopkins Press ) will give definite , substantial pleasure to a small and quiet audience . There is nothing revolutionary in these pieces on Martial and Ovid and Propertius , nothing which everyone will have to read ; but there is a truly Augustan tone , by no means old-fashioned , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the technique is the best that literary criticism knows  --  narrative . The simpler facts about three Roman poets are sensibly and affectionately brought together , as Dryden in his day brought together the facts about Plutarch , Lucian , Polybins , and Virgil , with the result that the three poets live again and demand to be read . The accomplished translations in fourteeners which are copiously interspersed through the Ovid and the Propertius make one sorry that Professor Smith did not leave a version of the whole Metamorphoses , and of the better ancient elegies . A WORK five times as long as Professor Smith 's , a work immensely learned , impatient , and controversial , is " Lucilius and Horace : A Study in the Classical Theory of Imitation " ( University of Wisconsin ) by Professor George Converse Fiske . From an elaborately methodical study of Horace 's indebtedness as a satirist to Lucilius and the Scipionic circle , and in turn of the indebtedness of that circle to the Greeks , Professor Fiske proceeds with a general plea for the classical idea of imitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of verbal imitation , but in that of generous rivalry " ? damning as he goes the itch for originality which he says is modern and romantic ( and traces to Rousseau ) , and leaning rather heavily , as one might have supposed , on the heavier portions of Irving Babbitt . It is conceivable that he speaks the truth , but it is certain that he speaks it , like Professor Babbitt , without effect . Like Professor Babbitt , he will inform a few critics and historians of literature , but he will pique and inspire no poets . A scholar may return to the past if he likes , but he will take no one with him unless his enthusiasm at least equals that of his contemporaries who live in the present . " THE Americans are earnest serious people , even the private soldiers , who have nothing of the devil-may-care lightheartedness of our men . They . . . are as keen as mustard , but still very serious and quiet about it all . They are in truth Crusaders . " So , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lieutenant-Colonel Charles a Court Repington , master London war-journalist , in the fascinating diary which he publishes now as " The First World War : 1914-1918 " ( Houghton Mifflin , 2 vols . ) . Two years ago we should have been pleased with such words ; today we are a little bothered and ashamed . Now , when every week brings surer evidence even to the man on the street that Europe 's motives in the war were complicated , we are mortified to remember how simple ours were . We arrived in France in 1917 rigid with righteousness against the enemy and pliable with the propaganda of those who had maneuvered to become our friends . We were willing babes in the world 's worst woods . How much undergrowth was there of major and minor intrigue , of gossip , chaff , recrimination , wit , stupidity , ambitiousness , and guile , Colonel Repington 's diary discloses as not many documents henceforth are likely to do . Being allowed and encouraged , as a military expert who was no less important to the Government than he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Observer , and the Morning Post , to go everywhere and to see everybody , he sooner or later breakfasted , lunched , dined , sat , walked , motored , jested , condoled with most of the important people in England and France who had anything to do with policy or command . All thought aside of the dead millions who pack the blacker portions of the picture , the bright spot of Westminster and Mayfair which he paints is endlessly engaging . As a diarist he is intimate and unaffected and racy and explicit like Pepys , and he is almost as disconcertingly complete ; he claims to have omitted some names and events , but those must be few . Incidentally , he named the war The First World War " in order to prevent the millennium folk from forgetting that the history of the world was the history of war . " A REVOLUTIONARY poem that has sold two million copies in Russia since 1918 demands notice from Europe and America . Alexander Blok 's " The Twelve , " translated by Babette Deutsch and Abraham Yarmolinsky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite as obscure and whirling as the blizzard which blows for its setting . The translators have furnished elaborate marginal notes to explain the poet 's transitions , but at the best his piece is fitful . The Twelve are twelve Red Guards who push through a Petrograd snowstorm , angry , blind , " unblessed , uncaring , ripe for death and daring , pitying none , " snarling at the bourgeois curs who stand hungry on the corners , shooting Kerensky renegades from their sleighs , until they find themselves led by a thirteenth figure , Christ  --  not the painted Savior of the Church , but a being bearing red , a divinely ruthless man " in mist-white roses garlanded . " The allegory may be worth much or little ; these frequent flashes of poetry are worth a good deal . A SAFRONI-MIDDLETON in his " South Sea Foam " ( Doran ) has somehow failed in a laudable attempt to blend the recklessness of Louis Becke and the romance of Herman Melville ; has failed to fuse his representations of coral reefs washed by the lazy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fronds lit by the tropical moon , of the mournful droning of wailing native song , of slumbering eyes , of breasts and limbs glistening in the trembling half-radiance of the dusk , of crumpled flowers in the tossing hair of amorous island maidens . The terror and ecstasy of that weird realm of youth , its myths and glories , the epic of its fading races , the sense of uneasiness and unreality one feels in it , the intoxication of matchless cruelty , and the obsession of consuming sexuality that seem forever to possess the souls who roam its wastes  --  these Mr. Safroni-Middleton has not achieved . Fae-Fae the mad princess , Soogy the elfin singer , Fanga the lovely Will-o ' - the- wisp , each put one back for an all too brief moment into a wondrous lost paradise of romance . But one does n't stay put . The jerky transitions , the Bowdlerized legends , the tantalizing sequels that the author " ca n't tell , " the dialect never heard on land or sea , the author 's occasional verse , his irritating trick of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next chapter , " the other horrid stigmata of the travel pot pourri of fifty years ago , contrive to trip the reader up time after time just as the magic joy of life is beckoning him farther into fairyland . C ERTAIN of the season 's elaborately illustrated books for children have a physical aspect which makes small allowance for the size and strength of their public . For instance , a handsome collection of the " Old French Fairy Tales " ( Penn ) of the Countess de Segur , richly illustrated by Virginia Sterrett , has been issued as a folio volume weighing nearly four pounds . Decidedly the younger readers of this great book must assume the traditional posture on the hearth rug , chin propped on hands and feet in air . Oscar Wilde 's " The Happy Prince and Other Tales " ( Brentano 's ) . appears in a new holiday dress , with the familiar illustrations by Charles Robinson which recall Arthur Rackham both in color and manner . Arthur Ransome follows up his " Russian Fairy Tales , " one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rhymed version of ? " Aladdin " ( Brentano 's ) . The verse is smooth and spirited and the narrative full of the circumstance that enthrals readers of five or six years  --  and older . Mr. Mackenzie 's very decorative illustrations add greatly to the desirability of the book , but the fact that they are loosely attached to separate sheets dooms them under children 's uncertain fingers . In the Wyeth " Robinson Crusoe " ( Cosmopolitan ) we meet again one of the oldest and best of friends , with pleasant pictures by N. C. Wyeth . The illustrations which are meant to be the chief features of all of these volumes will appeal rather to grown-ups or larger children than to the smaller ones . They are too rich in detail , too decorative , to hold the attention of the ages under seven or eight which like better a simple outline or merely a silhouette . T WO of the most interesting of the books called forth by the Pilgrim Tercentenary are reprints : John A. Goodwin 's " The Pilgrim Republic " ( Houghton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which still remains a substantial authority , solidly grounded in the sources and yet popular in style ; and William Bradford 's " History of the Plymouth Settlement " ( Dutton ) , which has been rendered into modern English by Harold Paget , with the inevitable loss of the Pilgrim quaintness and the large Elizabethan rhythms of the original , and yet with a gain in simplicity and order which may serve to bring this memorable book to the audience it can never cease to deserve .                     