@@467254

FIFTEEN years ago thoughtful Chinese woke to a realization of how the opium cancer had eaten into their vitals . The use of the drug had spread with truly appalling rapidity . The Chinese people were using seventy times as much as they had used in 1800 . Annually twenty-two thousand tons of opi um were absorbed , most of it converted into thick smoke and inhaled by a legion of smokers estimated to number at least twenty-five millions . In the poppy-growing provinces a shocking proportion of the adults were addicted to the habit . In the cities of Szechuan half the men and a fifth of the women smoked . In Kansu three men out of four were devotees of the pipe . Districts were to be found in which practically the whole adult population had given themselves up to the seduction and were sinking into a state of indescribable lethargy , misery , and degradation . Realizing that unless the people speedily renounced the vice that was undermining its manhood there was no hope for China among the nations , the Empress Dowager issued , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gun in the most extensive warfare on a destructive private habit that the world has ever known . In 1910 I traveled for months through the far interior of China and on every hand met evidences of the resolute fight to stamp out the production of opium . In many districts where the poppy had been the staple crop , like corn in Kansas or cotton in Alabama , not a poppy field was to he seen . As a result , the local price of opium was from two to ten times that of the year before , while food was moreplentiful and cheap than it had been for years . As week after week I traversed the scene . of conflicts , often fierce and sometimes bloody , between the officials supported by the reformers and patriots , and the poppy growers , traders , and denkeepers supported feebly by the slaves of the pipe , I reflected , " Is any vice coiling itself about us whites as opium coiled itself about the Chinese ? " As in a flash I saw that alcohol is to our people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience had established that there are private drug habits society dares not let alone . For a very long time the hand of government had been withheld in China , and if any principle of self-limitation lurked in the opium vice it ought to have declared itself long before . But , as a matter of fact , opium smoking did not confine itself to fools and weaklings . It did not consume the chaff and leave the wheat . Like a gangrene , it ate deeper and deeper into the social body , spreading from weak tissue to sound , until the very existence of the Chinese race was at stake . Moral suasion had not availed to arrest the progress of the gangrene . It had been found necessary to resort to heroic treatment ? i.e. , to make opium inaccessible . Might not our gangrene , despite the growth of temperance sentiment , go on eating into us until we made alcoholic beverages inaccessible ? Thus China 's experience with the juice of the poppy converted me to prohibition . The " dry " movement in this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already beaten to its knees by a half-century of temperance agitation . What happened among us was that a part of American society turned away from liquor while the rest became wetter and wetter . The army of drinkers which survived the temperance simoom of the ' forties and ' fifties of the last century had been reenforced by millions of immigrants ? Irish and Germans and Slays ? many of whom , owing to their relatively high earnings in this country , found themselves able for the first time to indulge freely in alcoholic pleasures . Another momentous thing happened ? a profound change in the system , for supplying drink . The catering of liquor became commercialized . It came to be a " big business " intent on profits ? always more profits . From being shrinking and apologetic , it became brazen and aggressive . It no longer pleaded humbly for leave to assuage existing thirsts . In order to " promote business " it deliberately and methodically set itself to create new thirsts . It advertised , gave away samples , subsidized convivial organizations , encouraged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saloons in new places , and brought them into close partnership with the great social plagues , gambling and prostitution . In olden time alcoholic beverages were no more " pushed " than hen 's eggs are " pushed . " But as production and distribution were centralized , the business grew more capitalistic and the saloon keeper came to be the brewer 's man , systematic efforts were made to " shove " liquor , especially beer . Between 1880 and 1907 the annual per capita consumption of all liquors in this etnintry rose from ten gallons to nearly twenty-three gallons ! Far , then , from being a gratuitous stroke at a dying social custom , prohibition was an urgent social-defense measure forced by greedy liquor interests which were so shortsighted that they would not leave nondrinkers alone . Continually they plotted to tempt the public into a larger consumption . Theirambition seemed to be to convert the rising generation of males into peripatetic tanks . A long and variegated experience with attempts to regulate the liquor traffic showed that it was incapable of being made decent and law-abiding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or protests . Always it was secretly digging under or insolently breaking over any bounds the community set to it . So , not out of a sour resentment of other people 's pleasures , but out of hitter experience with an unmitigated social evil grew the sentiment for destroying it , " root and branch . " When parents and other earnest people realized that here was a sinister thing doing its utmost to ensnare our boys and ravel out the fabric of sound principles and good resolutions which home and school and church had been at such pains to weave into the soul of youth , they hardened their hearts and struck it down . Certain unforeseen developments have caused prohibition to triumph sooner than one had a right to expect . In the early crusade against alcoholism what was deplored was the intemperate use of intoxicants . The " temperate " user was the model . Later , total abstinence was urged , on the ground that the moderate drinker sets a bad example to the weak and , moreover , runs the risk of being overpowered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But thirty years ago evidence began to pour out of European physiological and psychological laboratories that even in small quantities alcohol is an upsetter and deranger of the functions of the mind as well as of the body . The sense of release and augmented power that comes with a glass or two was proven a cheat and a delusion . To his horror , that darling of the early moralists , the moderate drinker , was pulled from his pedestal and pilloried as an ignorant self-poisoner . Then the development of industry Caine to help the besiegers of the fort of folly . The traveling public began to be nervous about the drinker at the engine throttle , the telegraph key , the switchboard . The factory system supplanted the handicrafts , and a new class , the employers , came to realize bow drink plays havoc with production . As workers became machine tenders the damage from the liquor habit in impairment of efficiency and in injury to delicate and costly machinery became ever more unmistakable . More and more employers came to look upon prohibition as a laborefficiency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement which brought the liquor interests to grief , despite their millions for propaganda . The World War was the crowning disaster to John Barleycorn . In the interest of military efficiency and as a foodconservation measure all the belligerent governments set clamps on liquor . This staging of drink as an economic drain and the foe of national strength has been an illuminating object lesson to thoughtless millions . In the face of the whole world King Gambrinus has been shamed and set at naught , so that the outlawing of the drink traffic by the governments , as already the opium traffic has been outlawed , appears to be only a question of time . Broadly seen , prohibition is the device of the young northern peoples to overcome their constitutional handicap in competing with the older and soberer races . It seems as if all varieties of men at their first contact with intoxicants literally go crazy over them . In vinous exaltation the primitive races especially find the most glorious experience of life . To supply a tribe of Eskimos or Australian blacks with plenty of strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The infatuation of the American Indian for " fire water " has been proverbial . The affinity of the indigenous population of Mexico for pulque and mescal is notorious . All down the Andean uplift the natives are gradually destroying themselves with ehicha and pisco . The " unconquerable " Araucanians were in the end bowled over by the product of diStilleries planted among them for that very purpose . The worst alcoholism in the world to-day is among the Chilean masses , who are more than half Indian . Once a people has easy access to what an Irish poet , who sang a thousand years ago , called " the heavenly dew , " it begins to undergo alcoholic selection . " Those to whom the delights of intoxication are irresistible sooner or later drink themselves to death or , at any rate , - leave a weakened progeny which quickly perish . Conversely , the sober survive and they transmit to their posterity their distaste for vinous exhilaration . Some of the Mediterranean peoples have known the vine for four or five thousand years , so that long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " blood of the grape " eliminated themselves . Sooner or later their intemperate stocks ran out , the result being that the sobriety of these peoples is the marvel of the later arrivals at the banquet of civilization . Alcoholic selection no doubt set in among the nomad Israelites with their settlement in the Promised Land . It was sure to come when every man dwelt " under his own vine and fig tree . " Naturally , therefore , the Old Testament abounds in warnings against wine , but not the New Testament , for by then the Jews had become the liquorproof people which we find them to-day . The early Greek lawgivers struck at drunkenness with a severity we have never touched . Alexander 's Greeks were so bibulous that in one of the winedrinking matches which he encouraged thirty-six contestants died from overdrinking . Yet in a few centuries alcoholics were nearly extinct among the Hellenes , while the modern Greeks arc models of sobriety . Having never been exposed to the test of the flowing bowl , the early Teutons were terrible wassailers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them as the force of arms . " But in the course of the Dark Ages the monasteries spread the cultivation of the vine over the slopes of southern Germany , so that all through the Middle Ages their furious drinkers were quaffing themselves to destruction . This is why to-day the Germans occupy in respect to alenholism a middle place between northern and southern peoples . An analysis of 2,075 charity cases in our cities showed that drink as the cause of poverty occurs but hall as often among the German cases as among the Irish , and two thirds as often as among native American eases . Among the foreign born in our jails and prisons only one German in twenty-two was committed for intoxication as against one out of three Irish , one out of five Scotch , and one out of eight Scandinavians . How amazing is the contrast between races in their constitutional craving to be " lit up " comes out very clearly in the records of the charity hospitals of New York . Liquor is responsible for more than a fifth of the cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a quarter of the native Americans treated , in a third of the Irish patients , and in two fifths of the native born of Irish fathers . On the other hand , one out of sixty Italian patients , one out of seventy Magyar patients , one out of eighty Polish patients , and one out of a hundred Hebrew patients is in the hospital on account of inebriety ! Or take the sons of the " land of the vine . " The proportion of Italian charity cases chargeable to drink is only a sixth of that for foreign-born eases and a seventh of that for cases among native Americans . Alcoholism is found among the Italians in the charity hospitals from a tenth to a twentieth as often as among north-European patients in the same institutions . From the hygienic point of view it is a great pity that the people of this country are overwhelmingly of northern extraction . It is certain that there would be no liquor problem here , ergo no prohibition , if sober Neapolitans had landed on Plymouth Rock , if abstinent Portuguese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wallaehians had planted themselves in Pennsylvania instead of thirsty Germans and Scotch-Irish , if coffee-sipping Turks had peopled the West instead of bibulous Hibernians and Scandinavians . Had we Americans only the antialeoholie inheritance of Cretans , Syrians , and Armenians , we might dispense with " restrictions on personal liberty . " But , being what we are , there are open to us just two solutions of the drink problem . Stoically , we may submit ourselves to alcoholic selection ? a process in our case made trebly devastating by the modern cheapness of manufacture of alcoholic beverages and the facilities for keeping them at every man 's elbow as result of the hurricane of temptation the uncurbed liquor interests would let loose upon us . With aching hearts we may tolerate the wrecking of perhaps half a million homes in the same period . We may steel ourselves while myriads of , wives and mothers have their lives poisoned by worry lest some of their dear ones fall a prey to the insidious drug . Well , the reward for consistently keeping our hands off the agent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we should have passed the peak of our suffering and by the year 2100 A.D. our descendants might be as constitutionally resistant to alcoholic beguilement as are the Portuguese today ! The alternative to this dismal prospect is prohibition ? i.e. , wringing the neck of the liquor business so that our unfortunate temptables , no longer teased and baited and snared for the sake of the profit to be extracted from their weakness for alcohol , will be left free to pursue the normal interests of life . What social effects ? other than the lessening of crime and pauperism , which arc too obvious to be worth discussingmay be anticipated from the banishment of strong drink ? For one thing , it is bound to improve the position of women , especially in the lower levels of society . Liquor has been the great enemy of the abstinent sex . No thoughtful woman finds anything captivating in a drinking song or takes " John Barleycorn " as a joke . Usually deep potations let loose the satyr in man and put attractive women at the mercy of lust coupled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , will lose one of her means of making infatuated males submit to her blood-sucking , but decent women , who have to trust their brains and character to command from the more muscular sex the respect to which they feel entitled , know that their moral and intellectual merits are never at greater discount than in the eyes of intoxicated men . If we succeed in making an end of toping there will be one stone the less in the way of Cupid 's car . Machine industry and certain other economic developments , by opening to the weaker sex countless opportunities of self-support , have relieved capable young women of the economic necessity of marriage . Working girls now scoff at taking husbands " for the sake of a meal ticket , " and are more inclined to consider whether life with the wooer opens a prospect of happiness . With the spread of this critical attitude toward marriage no doubt there mast be a growing number of young women who remain single rather than tie themselves to a man whose drinking habits arouse their distrust . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may look for in social customs ought to promote matrimony by increasing the number of eligible young men and diminishing the risks of the selfsupporting girl who marries . In prohibition the home scores a signal triumph . It is a matter of common knowledge that among the masses in Europe the sexes have never gone asunder in their pastimes to the extent that they have in our wageearningpopulation . Among us the taboo on woman 's sharing of vinous delights ( which came to be considered the exclusive prerogative of the male ) set up as counter-attraction to the home the male drinking resort , in which , unlike the German biergarten and the English " public house , " a decent woman was never to be seen . Thereupon began a silent but determined duel between the American wife , seeking to retain the companionship of her mate and have his co-operation in rearing their children , and the keeper of the male resort on the lookout for profitable patrons . The wife lured her husband , and later her sons , with the comforts and charms of home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trimmed lamp , games , books , music , and the society of good women . The saloon keeper lured with bright , lights , the shining bar , the brass rail , glistening glass , huge mirrors , sensual paintings , privacy for " a quiet game , " and ( sometimes ) the society of loose women . The duel went on with varying fortunes . It turned out that in most eases the American women of the " middle " class had the time , means , and ingenuity to create for their men a domestic environment which possessed greater attractiveness than the male drinking resort . Among wage earners , however , overcrowding , poverty , and want of knowledge too often thwarted the wife 's pathetic endeavor to tempt her man to spend his time and money in the home rather than in the saloon . Now , happily , prohibition comes to the assistance of this much-enduring woman and opens to her the means to build a home which will give her and her daughters an opportunity to exert a refining influence upon the coarser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Richmond : " Hundreds of men are taking the pay envelope home now and spending their evenings there , men who had not done so before in twenty years . Without doubt , one of the first things that drinking men do when the saloon is no longer open to them is to move back into their homes , and then to move themselves and their families into better homes . " In Denver , the gas company found that under prohibition , in spite of the shutting down of the saloons , its business steadily increased because more gas was being used in the homes . When one wearies of the home it is now not the male resort ? pool room , men 's club , coffeehouse , or other " substitute for the saloon " ? that is likely to he visited , but rather some recreation place which men and women , parents and children , can enjoy together . It will be the park , the " zoo , " the soda fountain , the motion-film theater , or the social center . With the ending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alcohol the members of the family are encouraged to have more of their pleasures in common . Not only is there prospect of women enjoying greater consideration and influence with men , but with prohibition a vista of hope is opened for multitudes of hapless children . Since their security lies primarily in their unconscious appeal to the tender instinct and to the sense of obligation , children suffer the most from the drinking habits of the breadwinner . Liquor soon blunts the parental sense of obligation , while , by setting aside ordinary everyday inhibitions , it opens a freer course to the instincts . This unbridling of the primitive self seems to favor the more elemental instincts , such as pugnacity , lust , and selfassertion . In general , the man under the influence of liquor tramples brutally upon the rights and claims of his children . Occasionally a man is actually more generous and tender in his cups than when sober , but the rule is the other way . Now that , on top of free public education and the banning of child labor , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money which should feed and clothe the wage earner 's children , we may look for a generation of young people practically all of whom will have had their chance . Those in whom the glass is wedded to good fellowship and good fellowship is wedded to the glass will have trouble in finding new means of bridging the gulf that has resulted . Still , substitute thawers will be found , for nobody has ever pretended that , on the whole , abstainers are less sympathetic and brotherly , more self-centered and shut up within themselves , than drinkers . If it requires potations to set up a genial current of feeling , how hedged and lonesome must be the Roumanian , the Arab , the Gypsy , the Syrian ! And , on the other hand , what a loving expansive wight the Russian , the Norwegian , the Scot must have been half a century ago , before the desiccation of northern Europe began ! The fact is , whatever social custom bids men do together in token of friendliness will presently become charged with significance and set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To " get next , " Near-Easterners drink coffee , while Far-Easterners drink tea . Our ancestors hit upon the custom of touching glasses and swallowing beverages of high alcoholic content . There is no reason to suppose that sipping " soft " drinks together , or smoking together , or playing backgammon together might not serve equally well as symbol of amity . Then , too , much of the crude , maudlin gregariousness that comes after the third glass is a temporary , deceptive thing ? fools ' gold . You ca n't build anything on it . Is there any continuing good work ? Red Cross or Belgian relief , or the reclamation of the " down and out " ? which has relied on the social feeling evoked by alcoholic drink ? The wine cup has played a part in relieving ennui , banishing care , and helping men forget their troubles . Many of long-established habits will therefore be hard put to it to open fresh sources of solace and inspiration . Still , such sources will be found , let no one doubt it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liquor , and one hears more young people singing of an evening in a Kansas town than one hears in the lands of the vine . In the eighteenth century much hard toping went on among American college students . The custom has passed away , but in its place have sprung up many varieties of " high jinks " unknown to the college of olden times , " rushes " and " hops , " " song fests " and " circuses , " athletic " meets " and football " rallies . " With wassail or without , the spirit of youth will sparkle and foam . In all previous wars it has been considered inevitable that men removed from home and exposed to the frightful boredom of barracks and camp and trenches should drink in order to brighten a black existence . One of the most glowing chapters in the history of the World War will be the story of the successful efforts to provide for the social recreation of our soldiers overseas and in the training camps . A really marvelous ingenuity and insight into human nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our soldiers at home and abroad with recreation which will banish tedium and outpull the allurements of vice . It is not too much to say that the problem of satisfying the social instinct of segregated men without the aid of intoxicants has been solved and ? we may be proud of the fact ? solved by Americans ! That the closing of the saloon will go a long way toward purifying politics nobody will deny . The wholesale use of free drinks to sway the electorate is one of the blackest chapters in the history of political democracy . The defenders of governing dynasties and classes love to point to the role of liquor in the elections which register the will of the " sovereign people . " Long before any other curb was imposed on the liquor sellers , the American commonwealths closed the saloons on election day in order to prevent scandalous scenes of orgy and riot about the polling booths . Money will continue to be used illegitimately in politics , and under prohibition men will befound who will sell their votes . Rut it is safe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they will never again be sold at such bargain prices as in the days when no limit was imposed on the role of liquor in politics . Since it has been the element with the fewest wholesome pleasures and recreations , the wage earners rather than the business men , the professional men , or the leisure class , which has been hardest hit by alcoholism . we may anticipate that the banishing of strong drink will result in accelerating the economic and political advance of labor . The free drinkers among the wage earners have furnished few resolute or intelligent fighters for the workingmen 's cause . They have been so many weak spots in labor 's phalanx . In a dry society it will be harder to fuddle and befool the worker into voting for policies which are inthc interest ofanother class and against the advancement of his own class . One of the great surprises of Soviet Russia has been that it has not dissolved in chaos . Contrary to what we expected , the " man-on-horseback " has not taken charge and the Russians do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not result in anarchy leading to a military dictatorship is largely owing to the heavy hand the leaders /aid on liquor . Warned by the scenes of demoralization which followed access of the Red Guard to the wine cellars of the Winter Palace , the ' commissars went about to destroy the numerous hidden stocks stored for the refreshment of the Petrograd well-to-do . In December , 1917 , I beheld sights which would have cheered the heart of the royal author of the proverb , " Wine is a mocker . " I saw men in wrecked wine cellars wading up to their ankles in the ruddy liquid and the snow of a street stained rich red where fire hose was draining the contents of the cellars into the sewers . Here , perhaps , is the secret of why the Russian proletarian revolution has not followed the course which history led us to expect .                     