@@490088

The White House Rumor WHILE three eminent psychoanalysts and a select committee of the American Institute for Psychological Research , expressly commissioned by THE NEW YORKER , are formulating their report on " Rumors , Their Cause and Cure , if Any , " this gazette will open up the subject in a preliminary way with a terse history of National Rumor No. 1 of the current time . This is the story that the stork is drooping its wings above the White House . It has been in circulation for about two months and has spread throughout the country . It is still going full tilt and a thousand persons this very day doubtless were let in on the whispered secret that " Yes , the Coolidges are going to have a baby . This Summer . That is why Mrs. Goodhue ( Mrs. Coolidge 's mother ) is staying T at the White House , and why the presidential family is leaving Washington early this Summer to go to the place they have taken at Swampscott . " While this robust progress continues for the moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is true because the rumor is n't . Which , of course , ( as will be more fully set forth in the expert reports ) is no valid reason for killing off a rumor . But in this instance Ted Clark , the personal secretary of the President , has brought the word straight from the White House that the report is unfounded . That word is bound to filter about and slay a certain number of the brisk spreaders of the contrary news . It is all over Washington , for instance , already and it is seeping about in New York . In Washington not to know that there is not to be a White House baby is to mark one as hopelessly behindhand on the spot news as two weeks ago not to have had knowledge that there was to be a new White House baby . Of course , the Clark denial will not slay all of the rumor circulators , but it will somewhat stay the impetuous sweep of their advance . Only time , which fulfills so many requirements , will bring the perfect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been published  --  twice . Previously he had been besieged and besought for an authentic word or tip . But he said nothing . At times , Clark can be as silent as his boss . He refused to confirm or deny . Anybody knows what the effect of that was bound to be . For rumoring purposes it confirmed . Three weeks ago Mr. Hearst 's Washington Herald , in a society note , printed the intimation of an arrival of the stork " in the very highest official circles . " That caused a flurry among the Washington newspapermen . Their home offices had been wiring for the facts . In the home offices forehanded editors began getting up " ' A ' copy " on previous White House babies , and the like , in readiness for use when the Coolidge story should break . It broke last week , when the majestic but entertaining Chicago Tribune and its diverting offspring , the Daily News of New York , printed an announcement of the expected arrival . Then Mr. Clark unsealed his lips to the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ send out a confidential memorandum to editors saying that the published accounts were without foundation . This the obliging and quasi-official A.P . has done . How the rumor started nobody knows . The ablest reporters in Washington , New York , New Haven and Hartford , Atchison , Topeka and Santa F ? wrought diligently to trace the thing , but small success rewarded their toil . Besides blaming the ladies they have accomplished next to nothing . They say the story started in  --  to invent a phrase  --  the highest social circles of the capital . And the tremendous personal popularity of Mrs. Coolidge with all ranks gave it wings and wings and wings . While disillusionment may not come to some of our outlying sections for some time , the job has been done as far as Washington is concerned . There is an element of pathos in that part of it . Because Washington , most of all , needs a good , stimulating rumor to make life supportable . AVING paid tribute to the diligent , if empty , I efforts of the reporters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the tabloid Washington Daily News was during the long spell of uncertainty . Last year Washington went through a similar period in which Mrs. Longworth was the central figure . Was it true ? Was it true ? It seemed as if everybody had asked everybody else , but nobody had " The a rs. of 1925 " asked Alice Longworth . So this young reporter , who would n't have known Mrs. Longworth if she had walked into his office , called her up on the telephone and asked her . " It certainly is true , " she said . THIS ' it is well known , is an age of specialization . There are , thus , specialists in Long Island guest rooms . " What , " a client recently asked of a prominent architect , with whom he was going over plans for his new Syosset home , " would you suggest in the way of guest rooms ? " The architect is a conservative person , who earns great fees by reason of the unqualified faith his clients put in him . " Well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more radical architects build wings for the guest rooms and arrange for railroad sidings to he alongside them . However , I 've been in the profession for thirty years and I do n't think you can do better than banging shutters , defective plumbing and electric light sockets that are in the wrong places where they 're not burned out . If you 've got an early train Monday morning , your guests will catch it , I give you my word . " Mystery in Gramercy Park AMONG those who will be , to say the least , pleased when there is published a complete roster of the true pals and intimates of Gerald Chapman , currently an exhibit for a Hartford , Conn. , holiday , is Mr. Rob-ert E. Sherwood , editor of Life . Perhaps , muses Mr. Sherwood , the flat-footed gentlemen who for ten months have shadowed him and who are even now engaged in reluctantly pretending that they have at last been convinced that he is not Chapman 's New York confederate and agent , will then once and for all go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be remembered , for a time made a hobby of escaping from the Federal Penitentiary in Atlanta . In a hospital in Athens , Georgia , recuperating from one of these escapes , Chapman made the acquaintance of a nurse who was in many ways of great help to him . ( One of the ways was to help him in a supplementary escape , which carried him all the way until he was recently apprehended in Muncie , Indiana . ) In return for her generous courtesies , Chapman informed her that if ever she desired to get in touch with him again , she had but to write to him care of Robert E. Sherwood , Players ' Club , New York . When , soon thereafter , Mr. Chapman went his way , the nurse was bit by hit induced to tell all , including the New York address Chapman had given her . Detectives , as every one knows , are a shrewd lot and so they did not , as might have been expected , approach the only Robert E. Sherwood who was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sherwood , of Life  --  and ask him what it was all about . Instead , they devoted the ensuing ten months to shadowing him . A merry chase , one assumes , he led them , and it would be interesting indeed to get their impressions of the cold winter nights they spent on storm-swept corners while Sherwood was hard at work in the town 's parlors playing parchesi or making ink-pot out of point in some hard-fought match at anagrams or merrily supplying his unprotected queen of spades to an unfortunate friend in some dollar a point game of hearts . A F TER ten months the detectives succumbed . A Perhaps their expense accounts were becoming too high . Perhaps they were detailed to an investigation of the possible complicity of President Coolidge in the Wall Street bomb explosion . At all events , they approached Sherwood , acquainted him with their weird facts , and were , of course , immediately convinced of the absurdity of the manner in which they had spent ten months of their lives . The Players ' Club is in Gramercy Park @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from it for some time . And so the authorities have decided that through some confederate , some one who could gain access to its letter boxes , Chapman has been receiving mail addressed to him care of its members . Nevertheless , human nature being what it is , a lot of people are having what they call fun by calling Sherwood up and asking for the real inside facts of the Becker case and who killed Nan Patterson . A Marquise at Home GLORIA SWANSON is back with her titled husband , the Marquis de is Falaise dc la Coudraie . A day or so after her arrival , she journeyed over to the Famous Players ' Astoria studio , accompanied , of course , by the marquis . The reception was a touching one . Attracted by advance announcements , a large crowd had gathered in front of the studio . The whole studio force was assembled on the steps and four policemen struggled to keep a lane open for Gloria 's car . Suddenly the cry went up , " Here she is ! " The crowd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might and main , and a smart foreign car slipped up to the steps . Out stepped a dapper chap . " The marquis ? " gasped the assembled stenographers in one breath . News cameras clicked . Cheers shook the studio . Bushels of confetti were tossed into midair . When the air cleared it developed that the dapper chap was James R. Quirk , editor of Photoplay . When Gloria and the marquis did appear a few seconds later , it was an anti-climax . Still , it was prettily done . The marquis looked pleasantly democratic , Gloria burst into tears and everyone cheered all over again . The marquis is tall , smartly garbed and speaks excellent English . There is , as was inevitable , a little story of the trip over from Paris . Gloria and the marquis had been pursued daily by curious passengers and finally the star decided to grace a ship 's concert . Ranged alongside were some friends of the old lady in Dubuque . Gloria 's nose tilted a bit in midair . The marquis leaned close to his stellar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he said . ATMOSPHERE restaurants , which for some time have just managed to survive , are becoming a boomerang to the people who served as the inspiration for them . The other night at the Samarkand , the most recent and most Russian of our restaurants , further atmosphere was lent by a party which included the Princess Matchabelli and Princess Ghika . The room was heavy with incense , and Slav musicians were strumming on strange exotic instruments . And still the proprietor was not content . He had yet another touch , one that is reserved for occasions extraordinaires . He ordered that the place be saturated with orange flower water , and the waiter , impressed with the importance of the occasion , became a little too literal in the neighborhood of the distinguished guests . Princess Matchabelli is lamenting , if princesses lament , the ruination of a first class order of fish . Mr. Dempsey and the Chess Game NOW that the Horse Show is fast passing into the pages of Barnes 's High School History of the United States , Society never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavyweight championship prize fight . If things were done as they were in older and fairer times , some Ward McAllister of the moment would introduce Mr. William Harrison Dempsey , known under the 11077L de Luxe of jack , whenever he appeared in a ring for combat or for gain . Unfortunately , the question of Mr. Dempsey 's appearance this Summer is still a vexed one . It may he that the heated spell will furnish nothing more exciting than some new systems of bidding . This is not Mr. Dempsey 's fault . He would oblige most willingly and furnish Society with a fair share of thrills , in return for his customary fee of half a million dollars for such services . But various matters at the moment forbid his exhibiting his lithe form and awesome scowl for the edification of ladies of our better families and the discouragement of his opponent , logically  --  since he means the most money  --  M. Harry Wills . Mr. Dempsey is nothing more nor less than the victim of a stalemate arrived at by conflicting financial and political powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wills have promised to attract gate receipts of one and one-half millions , when , as , and if they meet in contest . The amount of stake is so large that a long duel has been fought for the privilege of participating in the profits , which will be enormous , even after the gladiators have collected their fees . First , some years back , Mr. Rickard seemed to have everything arranged for this match . He had Mr. Dempsey 's signature to a contract . He had a large bowl in Jersey City , ample in size for the accommodation of one and one-half millions worth of spectators . But the political situation in that State forbade a fight between a negro and a fair-skinned brother . S 0 Mr. Rickard cast about for a site in New York large enough for the holding of this great attraction and convenient enough for week-end parties to run down from Newport and Bar Harbor for the occasion . The genial Tex found himself out-manoeuvered here , for persons with strong , if subtle , political strength calmly appropriated the boxing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives . This situation continued until there was a change in the political complexion of the legislature at Albany . Thereupon , persons of his political persuasion being in power , Mr. Rickard was able to acquire control of one baseball stadium for boxing this Summer . He seemed at last to have triumphed . Nothing completely remained but to print the tickets for the Dempsey-Wills match and wait for the deluge of letters from our front families , piteously appealing for reservations . So the condition remained for about twenty-four hours . Then there was a sudden and unexpected shift in the make-up of the State Boxing Commission , which had not changed political complexion for some time . So soon thereafter as was legal , that body announced that Mr. Dempsey was suspended from appearing in this State and everything was right back where it started . So Society can have no reunion at a D e m p s e y-Wills match this Summer , unless the conflicting interests conclude a peace ; or , unless ? happy thought ) ? a third party gains political control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profits to be gathered by promoting a million and one-half dollars worth of boxing match . BROADCAST your bread upon the air and it shall return buttered . So , at least , believe the sponsors of a Forty-fourth Street supper club . Business being what it some-limes is in supper clubs , the gentry behind the club decided to enliven a Sabbath evening and gain some free advertising betimes by broadcasting a special program . Some of Broadway 's singers-at-leisure were recruited hastily and the waiters were instructed to clash their calloused palms feverishly at the conclusion of each number . These thunders of applause were heard by many , but by none so interested as the propritors of rival supper clubs , who dispatched couriers to investigate whence this enormous and presumably spendthrift clientele . The spies , acting the roles of good scouts , each ordered elaborately . Their contributions constituted most of the evening 's receipts , but they made it a profitable evening at that . MR . STATLER , every one knows , has issued an ultimatum on the amounts to tip , and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has enrolled under the banner . All , that is , except one brave New Yorker , who has his own original way of circumventing the new evil . When he comes into one of the last-word hostelries on Park Avenue and finds the unctious official bowing him out because there are only reserved tables to be had , he does not slip his hand into his trouser pocket for a crinkly bill . Instead , he marches out to the telephone in the foyer , calls up the proprietor and makes official complaint . How many captains and generals he has been the cause of discharging he does not know , and how many dinners he has gone without rather than surrender can not be ascertained . But for him , at least , there is never a reserved table in Mayfair or beyond . ANY study of the spread of early religions is bound to he associated with wonder at the mechanism that made it possible for the doctrines of Mohammed and Christ to spread so rapidly . Yet there is a mani-festation in New York to-day of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet touched , and that is a most vital force in the lives it has touched . And from the observation of one observer it has touched diverse circles , indeed . The head of the movement is A. E. Orage , a disciple of Gurdjielf , who took New York by storm last year . Orage has classes in which he intensifies the soul for $10 a month . The afore-mentioned observer has come across his influence at breakfast in Chicago and at a class in Orange , New Jersey . There was , too , a class at the home of a well known author and a luncheon class led by an editor of repute . At the most unusual places and times he hears of this curious infiltration . A little dancing teacher in Greenwich Village says she is taking a course at $lo a month that she may learn enough of the movement and vibration of fife to impart the something that she feels within her .                     