@@467103

POLITICS is perpetual warfare between two influences ? a desire on the part of the individual in it to render a maximum of good with a minimum of personal sacrifice and expenditure of one 's own money and effort , and a desire on the part of the same individual to obtain a maximum of personal prestige and vainglory with a minimum of regard for public funds and public needs . Having said which , the writer hastens to add that the aberrations of politics are confined to no single political party of this or preceding generations . Modern methods may be more subtle because procasses of deception are nowadays more complex , but fundamentally the art of ' ooling the people part of the time goes m from one administration to another , ' romlone term of office to another , while he public intermittently learns its lesson tnd swaps its horses . Greatest among the flaws of democracy nowadays is the lack of courage f the elected or appointed official . It is declining standard . Mere recollection f the Clays and the Websters and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adamses and the Hamiltons F yesteryears only accentuates the his ) rical fact that valor is as rare in the olitical world as altruism is in the corntercial world . To watch affairs at the seat of govern.ent in Washington from year to year id then occasionally to make a trip Toss country where an abiding faith in Le legislators rises with innocent reverwe to meet you is to touch elbows with e tragedy of modern political life . ople elect and people defeat , people aise and people condemn , people de , te and work themselves into a fuming VoL . CXL. ? No. 836. - 27rage on the pros and eons of a political personality who all too often is neither worth the salary he gets ? were the enterprise reckoned in purely commercial values ? nor deserving the profound prestige bestowed upon him . Instances without number accumulate from month to month and year to year of the debauchery of public office . Graft , that ugly word which no longer takes the crude form of money , but whose equivalent in social position , future business connections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or two on the political ladder itself , is so deeply imbedded in our system of to-day as to be invisible to the community at large . Ambition must not be confused with political strategy or political evasion of responsibility . How far an individual is privileged to withhold his neck from the noose that means political suicide , and how far he is obliged to accept political extinction so that a righteous cause may triumph or a great wrong be prevented , is an ethical question answered in individual eases only by a judicial balancing of the advantages to society in the one or the other course of action . Too often an uncompromising and stubborn insistence on a single point of view , when a more flexible person might have passed the issue by as too inconsequential on which to risk one 's whole career , has nipped in the bud an otherwise useful personality on the road to fame . In our own day the most conspicuous illustration of the dilemma just mentioned was the resignation from the Wilson Cabinet of Lindley M. Garrison , Secretary of War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opportunity for Mr. Garrison ? had he compromised with the President and stayed in office ? would have been politically tremendous . Imagine the kind of Secretary of War that Mr. Garrison would have made with a real war to be secretary of . Imagine his dynamic force in the War Department as big armies were being mobilized or big questions of purchase and supply had to be resolved . And what might the American people have bestowed upon him in the way of reward if Mr. Garrison had stood out as the organizing genius of our war machinery ? especially in these days when the clamor is for a business man to become President of the United Slates ? Yet , knowing Mr. Garrison as I do , all the temptations of presidential opportunity would not have swerved him in the least . He would have stuck his head in the political noose again just as he did , insisting upon his point no matter what the reward ahead . He thought only of the cause lie was arguing ? national preparedness . And if Mr. Wilson did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on that subject , the distinguished Secretary of War failed to see any reason for staying a moment longer at the Cabinet table . Other members of this and other Cabinets have compromised , have yielded , have set aside their personal views ? not necessarily because they regarded it as expedient to do so in order to forward their political opportunities , but because they deemed themselves advisers of the President and no more obliged to kick up a fuss if the President differed with them than a general counsel or lawyer does if his client is disinclined to accept his advice . Some Cabinet officers argue that until we have Cabinet government and Cabinet responsibility , the sole obligation rests upon the President ; his Cabinet is merely a body of individual advisers serving the man who gave them their jobs . So , strictly speaking , the cases of political courage in a President 's Cabinetwill differ from the instances in which officials actually elected by the people ? as a President of the United States seeking a second term or members of the Senate and House looking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the game of politics . And what happens in Washington is repeated on a smaller scale with governors and would-be-governors in state legislatures or with mayors or would-bemayors in city councils and municipal bodies . The principle is the same . This is why our best citizenry is not found in public life . The processes are too objectionable , the road ton much beset with toll-gates where the individual must pay tribute intermittently to the demands of selfishness . Nowhere , however , is the whole business disclosed as completely to the naked eye as in the national capital . Watching the political behavior of Democrats anc Republicans , Progressives and Insu ? gents , Independents , and the varioin factions of the big parties no matte : what their nomenclature , many years o study in Washington reveal inevitabb tendencies on the chart of political cour age that mark , indeed , the ebb and Lim of the tides of democratic progress itself Sometimes the waves of reform corn irresistibly forward , only to break on th shoals of political expediency . Some times they eddy merely and leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ernmental stream . Sometimes , thong rarely , they make deep chasms and ci : for themselves canons where runs th whirlpool ? interesting because distim tive , but not always effective . Many men have come to Congress , n doubt , flushed with their success at tl polls and determined to make their can paign speeches mean something . Mar have sat as novices in the House 4 Senate and studied what seemed to the an atmosphere of indifference , a lais8e faire , **25;528;TOOLONG kind an altitude written in the faces of tl lounging , half-sleepy , half-bored Sen tors or Representatives who have serve long terms in Congress . Among the things which the new member discovers , in addition to his way about the confusing corridors of the Capitol , is that a man can absent himself from the sessions of Congress and nobody will be the wiser , provided he can " pair " his vote with an opponent or provided he can stay within hearing distance of the gongs and bells , which ring in all the adjacent buildings where members of Congress may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Senate or House whenever a vote is to be taken . And the new member learns the ropes quickly . To him is pointed out the half-dozen or more members who are always present at all sessions , looking out for the rest and playing watch-dog while the majority betake themselves to other pursuits , sometimes to the ball-game in the spring , sometimes to other cities to make speeches , sometimes to their own districts to mend political fences , but more often to their own offices in the Senate And House office-buildings where the nember of Congress spends his time answering letters or meeting constituents . Unquestionably the average Congressnan finds little relief from intrusions upon his time . But he is himself to ) lame . For , as a rule , he encourages it vhen he is home . " Come to see me in Vashington any time ? III take you round , " is his promise to scores as lie ays good-by at home . As the vast maority never come to Washington , the . romise is the essence of cordiality and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mixture of revernee and awe that the consequent effect almost the same as an invitation by oyalty abroad . But to satisfy the incidental desires of hose constituents , not a few of whom that their votes should be recomensed by snug jobs , the member of ! ongress spends more of his time on rivate affairs than on public business . Would you not have him answer his Lail ? Must he not acknowledge the let ! rs of his constituents ? Certainly , butif his constituents heard that he was the busiest kind of a man , and that he had to spend all of his time in attending the daily sessions , and that he was even too busy to answer letters beyond a formal acknowledgment , so busy , in fact , earning his salary and serving his constituency that lie hoped the people from his home town would excuse him because he might miss an opportunity to serve them if he were diverted for a single day  - -  that sort of answer might be the truth , as no doubt it often is , but , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the average member of the Senate or House is scarcely sworn in when he begins thinking of re-election . And the " boys back home " must be kept satisfied . If it is n't writing nice letters whenever Tom Jones and Mrs. Jones have a baby , it 's a note of congratulation on Bill Jones 's wedding or condolence on somebody else 's death . Not . infrequently , too , it is something more serious than any of the preceding distractions ? a troublesome letter from the head of the chamber of commerce , saying that the business folks are piqued because they feel the rival town of Bugsborough was given a bigger post-office or a government shipyard or a cantonment or some other government contract that might have brought revenue to the city . The conception which so many business men seem to have of the duties of their representatives in Congress is partly responsible for the low plane on which so much of our politics is conducted . The notion prevails in many cities that it is the sole duty of a Senator or Representative to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Executive favors that mean financial advantage to their respective cities or to bludgeon the Secretary of War or Secretary of the Treasury , or other officials who have money to spend for various projects , into giving the same to the congressional district or state from which the aforesaid individual was elected . Let the state be a vineyard where wine-growers dwell , let it be a community where guns and rifles are made , let it be a section where shipbuilding is the chief industry or a part of the country where farmers constitute 100 per cent . of the electorate ? and you can always tell what the Senators or Representatives from those particular sections will do when a vote is taken on any bill affecting prohibition of the liquor traffic , government manufacture of war material as against private competition , ship-buildin , or agriculture . " Sectional interests " are what they have been called with a certain sense of legitimacy involved in the use of that term . Nobody begrudges the expression by a man from a wine-growing state of the viewpoint of the wine-growers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to present to the Senate or the House all the petitions and statements of his constituents on any subject on which they might desire expression . Nor would there be any just cause for criticism if a man from a winegrowing state sided with great numbers of his constituents who declared that their property was being confiscated by pending legislation . That would not be political cowardice . But when the legislators themselves are known to have absolutely no sympathy with the constituents in question , - when they tell you so privately and tell their party leaders the same thing , when they beg of the party chieftains an opportunity to make a fuss in the Senate and House , with the proviso that the harsh words leveled at one 's own party will be forgiven because , you know , the local situation demands harsh words in order to show how vigorously one fought , how tenaciously one clung to the viewpoint of one 's constituents only to be outvoted , unfortunately , on the last count by an unsympathetic majority ? then the word " cowardice " is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who receive constituents from home , listen to their plaint , and frankly say : " I 'm sorry I do not agree with you . I ca n't make your fight ? I do n't believe you are right . Defeat me if you will at thenext election , but I care more for my convictions than I do for re-election . " Men like these are rare , but they exist . I like to mention two in particular who typify the foregoing point of view ? Senators Oscar Underwood , of Alabama , Democrat , and Knute Nelson , of Minnesota , Republican . They see the national , not the sectional , interest as paramount , and support the sectional issue only when it coincides with the national good . Unhappily , it is the other kind of Senator and Representative who predominates nowadays . How often have correspondents stood on that greencarpeted corridor that flanks the Senate Chamber and watched a-distinguishedlooking member of the Senate and said to each other , " What a fine United States Senator he would make ? if he were only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gets in the system of the Senator or Representative who wants re-election or political promotion , and it poisons his whole service . 11 he is not smiling affably to one set of constituents who want him to vote aye he is tactfully paving the way for the opposite vote when confronted by an other group of constituents . He is nude cided which way to jump chiefly because he is weighing the respective values o the political support of each . Or he i absorbed in dire plots upon the politica life of his chief rival , caring little fo the merit of his opponent 's achieve ments , and even less for the effec of his clenupciation on this or tha phase of a controversy which a wearie country would like to see solved . Nc the demands of the occasion are inct vidual , not collective . And so the mor key-wrenches are thrown into the nu ehinery with indiscriminate zeal , bloel ing here , pushing there , destroying ti work of disinterested , unselfish eitizel who have put their energies behind man a reform which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' entangled with personal vicissitudes an political personalities . The would-be candidate for the Presidency is in a class by himself . He must needs prove his originality , his distinctiveness ; he must depart from the beaten paths of affirmation and exhibit a capacity for violent negation . To have something to catch the public eye he must demonstrate his peculiar fitness to govern where there has been misgovernment . So the first premise is to establish the fact of misgovernment , and then , with a plethora of promises sufficiently general to pledge correction and revision of almost anything that has been cited as needing change , the candidate stalks forth by implicit or explicit statement as the single individual inspired to do the job ! Painfully do many men in the Senate and House tolerate the political somersaults of their colleagues and the stageplay that goes with political candidacies . But the sycophants who look forward themselves to possible appointments under a new President are often to blame . They flatter and praise and swell many a political head that was never ambitious for a crown . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want to be President , aside from a curious desire , perhaps , to become something that less than thirty men have been in the past century and a half . I have often wondered what some of the would-be candidates must think as they retire to the privacy of their homes at night and survey themselves in the mirrors that reflect only themselves and not the crowd before whom , in politics , posing might be pardoned . I have wondered if these men really see themselves ruling a nation of one hundred millions of people , if they honestly are convinced they are the messiahs of the political age . Something more than egotism must drive a man to the point where he really believes he is the individual capable of managing the complex affairs of the American people . I am onvinced that most of the men who lave been successful in winning the Presidency have had something besidesa great passion to serve the people ? they have had their capacity so well demonstrated that they were but the instruments of the parties that nominated them . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but fundamentally they had proved their worth . Fortunately , neither political party has ever rewarded at its national conventions the wobbling , shifty , spineless , and I - please - all type of politician . Whatever , for instance , may have been the verdict of the country as to the fitness of William Jennings Bryan for the Presidency , he showed his own party that he was no political coward . He kicked over the traces again and again , and blazed away for the reforms he thought paramount . It is hardly necessary to advert to the political audacity of Grover Cleveland or the splendid courage of Theodore Roosevelt . Was n't it the recollection of the way Charles Evans Hughes defied the bosses in New York State that caused a political party to take him from the bench to become a candidate for the Presidency ? And was n't the record of Woodrow Wilson in New Jersey in his uncompromising struggle with a debased political organization in his own party responsible for the welling up of the forces that cony gelled his nomination at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignored in Congress , where , instead of boldly striking out for the public good , irrespective of party label or party strings , the individual is too apt to seek distinction by the superiority of his invectives of criticism against a rival candidate or party . It is because the people are so busy attending to their own business every day and so ready to leave the public business to the men they have elected without checking up as carefully on a public servant as they would a private employee , that the people are fooled so much of the time . They are unfamiliar with the tricks by which the politicians pull the proverbial wool over the eyes of their constituents . Palpable among the offenses which members of the House of Representatives commit is the practice of inserting in The Congressional Record speeches that are never delivered orally , but are printed by common consent as an " extension of remarks . " The original remarks comprise a perfunctory request ? usually granted ? for permission to have one 's long speech printed in The Record . Copies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout congressional districts as an evidence of the zeal with which Mr. Congressman is representing the " folks back home . " But these are trivial compared withthe instances upon instances when , as a sop to their constituents , speeches have been made , have actually been delivered to empty seats because everybody knew that the whole thing was intended for " home consumption " and bore no outward or inward evidence of sincerity . Why not expose them ? Why does n't the press do it ? or why does n't the other Senator , if he happens to be of the opposite political party ? But the newspapers are too often sponsors in the first place of the man in question : they have proposed him , supported him , and defended him , and perhaps elected him . To attack their own candidate might he deemed inconsistent . Some independent newspapers do it ? the party organs rarely , and , if they do , the reason is sometimes to be found in a personal squabble or the ingratitude of the elected official who has failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributed originally to his political success . Then why not the men in the opposite party ? Ah , they , too , want to make use of the same tactics . That peculiar term , " senatorial courtesy , " usually makes it inadvisable for one Senator to attack his colleague , no matter to which political party he belongs . They do not run against each other , the election of one is never in the same year as the other . Examples of political cowardice are so numerous that one has but to examine Vor .. CXL. ? No. 836. - 30the vote on any large issue in recent years to behold the clubs that have been held over the timid heads of members of Congress . First and foremost has been the hyphen . Long before anybody dreamed that war was coming to Europe , the Irish-American societies cracked the whip , or the manipulators of ItalianAmerican votes , or the organizers of the foreign-born , in conjunction with many editors of foreign-language newspapers reaching millions of new citizens , exacted their toll . Conspicuous among the cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ famous controversy over the repeal of the Panama Canal tolls in 1913 , when it was Irish-American policy to oppose all measures that granted anything to the English or might serve to make an entente between the United States and Britain . One may sympathize with the desperation of the Irish in America who felt so aggrieved at Britain 's neglect of the Emerald Isle as to go any lengths to wreak vengeance . But the fact remains that members of Congress who had large numbers of Irish voters in their districts felt the pinch and hesitated ; and many of them voted against the proposal for no other reason than a fear of what the IrishAmericans might do to their particular candidacies in the next election . Not all of the men in Congress who had Irish voters in their districts took that view . Many deliberately risked political fortunes to stand by their convictions . But the pitiful number who confessed to their colleagues that they could not do otherwise than vote against the tolls repeal was all too obvious . Sheer fear , not conviction , swayed them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the European war and preceding our own entry into the conflict , the influence of the German-American societies was plainly exhibited in the hails of Congress . By one subterfuge of another , by one subtlety or another , the fires that had been kindled before against everything British were fanner anew . It was not for the most part that Germany had any large body of friends ? but England had a traditionally antagonistic group of opponents . Later on those who represented states where the German population was numerous came out in the open and argued for embargoes on war munitions that were being exported to the Allies . What did these men care for the merits of the embargo or the effect which a stoppage of war exports to the Allies might mean in a great struggle against autocracy ? Their own re-elections , their own political careers , hung in the balance . They did not dare always to be outspokenly proGerman . They took refuge in " neutrality " policies that meant nothing more than aid and comfort to the Central Powers , whose sea-power was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allies and therefore unable to maintain any commerce on the seas . Notable exceptions there were . The late Senator Paul Rusting , of Wisconsin , took up the cudgels against the German sympathizers in his state , notwithstanding the fact that he was quite sure they could form a coalition with his own political opponents and defeat him for re-election . But he was fearless . And , while on the subject of Wisconsin , examine the notorious case of Senator La Follette . Nothing illustrates more clearly , perhaps , the theme of this article than the experience of the senior Senator from Wisconsin . Nobody could justly call La Follette a political coward . His record of aggressiveness , first as Governor and then as an insurgent Senator , is too well known . And when lie decided to introduce embargo resolutions and to denounce the war , people who knew La Follette well understood that , while he might be giving aid and comfort to the German sympathizers , he was fundamentally anti-war and primarily a pacifist who would be just as vehement in his denunciation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1r . La Follette made several speeches , ! specially one at St. Paul , that drew theire of the state of Minnesota and caused the Senate of the United States formally to take cognizance of charges of disloyalty made against him . Feeling in the Senate was bitter . This was largely because public opinion seemed intolerant of La Follette 's views . Members of Congress passed by the senior Senator from Wisconsin without nodding . He was for a time literally and figuratively ostracized . Republicans as well as Democrats looked upon him as an outcast . Then came the November elections of 1918 and Congress was politically overturned . The Republicans secured control of the Senate by the narrow margin of two votes . In organizing their committees the Republicans needed every vote they could get . Brother La Follette held the balance of power . Soon it was to be observed that the Senate committee investigating charges of alleged disloyalty dismissed those charges and absolved the senior Senator from Wisconsin . Soon he was received back into the fold ? not exactly received as a prodigal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again , even to the extent of a ride down Pennsylvania Avenue in Brother Penrose 's big red automobile . Far he it from any one to suggest that Senator La Follette was misguided in his course during the war or that he was indiscreet . Certainly his views on the war have not changed . Nor arc his views on the peace treaty or the subject of profiteers or excess profits or things like that any different now . He is still La Follette . But , assuming on the other hand that his colleagues were right in their scorn for his war views , assuming that they were administering punishment for his supposed lack of patriotism in hours of national crisis , nothing less than political timidity and a fear of consequences led to the burying of the hatchet and the return of the Wisconsin Senator to the Senate with the slate clean . Thus do political affections fluctuate . Opponents become friends overnight in sight of the common enemy . Principles go to rack and ruin where votes and personal preferment are involved . It is easy to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is sometimes not to he blamed for misreading the activity of a minority in his district who agitate a question with seeming popularity . Too often the mass of voters remain indifferent , inarticulate , and impassive . They are then as much responsible as the misdirected member of Congress . He perceives only the voices that are loudest , which are not always the wisest . He may at times be honestly striving to interpret his duty in the light of his own knowledge of a subject and what he believes must be the wishes of his people . But suddenly an organization linked with , another organization , or affiliated with still another society , begins sending letters and telegrams . Petitions begin pouring in . Sometimes the Senators or Representatives recognize organized propaganda and smilingly ignore the same . Too many times , however , they not only recognize , but obey . There are , to be sure , two theories of representative government . One is that the representative shall express by his vote the opinions and convictions which he himself holds irrespective of whether or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people in his constituency . The other is that a representative shall act as a medium of transmission , giving expression by his vote not to his own ideas or thoughts , but the wishes and desires of the people in his district . Obviously , the second of these two would he the more desirable if there were some practicable system of determining the wishes of the body politic , if , indeed , every question could be submitted , for instance , to a referendum or vote . But representative government in its essence is delegated government . The people elect their representatives as agents or trustees to transact for them the business to which they individually and collectively are not able to give analytical thought or careful study . They placetheir trust in the elected official whose individual or party program gives them , theoretically at least , an inkling of the direction which his action will take if he is elected . Should he prove faithless to his trust , unmindful of his campaign pledges , and generally out of tune with the desires of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instances he can be recalled , as tinder the parliamentary system in England . But the recall does not apply to our Congress , and the most that can be said of our system is that the people take a two years ' risk on members of the House of Representatives and a two or four years ' or six years ' risk on the members of the Senate , depending upon the time that must elapse between the vote on a vital issue and the subsequent general election . But at bottom neither the technical safeguards involved in a system of recall nor the fact that the people can always fail to re-elect if they so desire brings relief from the obnoxious practices and schemes of polities . What is most needed is character . Better men , honest men with a geimine public spirit , must make government a vocation . For the flexibility or inflexibility of our political system is secondary . First and foremost the people must make it evident as often as they can that they vehemently disapprove of spineless , self - centered , egotistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the timid official as well as the audacious boss . But that is not . all . They must assist and stimulate the few who , in setting out on a public career , strike out boldly in opposition to the party politicians . Individuals may reveal human weaknesses when elected ? they may prove cowardly or incapable . But the flaws of it all fall squarely on the body politic itself For if we nominate inefficient men and make our selections out of a group now of whom , irrespective of party , is fitt &; for the complex tasks of government , we have only the great mass of indifferent passive , non-voting citizens to hok guilty .                     