@@468641

ALTHOUGH geographically remote , and a little too near the Arctic Circle to afford a genial clime , Finland in some aspects might seem almost homelike to traveling Americans . The breakfast coffee is good , the women are entirely emancipated , and the country has voted itself bone dry . Five northern countries of Europe , Sweden , Norway , Russia , autonomous Iceland , and Finland , bravely embarked on the prohibition experiment after the World War , but the first four soon abandoned the extreme policy and substituted systems of State control . Finland , however , adheres stoutly to complete prohibition , thus constituting herself before all Europe a shining example or an awful warning , depending on the point of view . To the Blue Cross Society , the International Order of Good Templars , the World 's W.C.T.U. , the International Bureau Against Alcoholism , the European Committee of the World 's Prohibition League , and other organizations devoted to the ideal of a total-abstinence world , Finland is the prize exhibit , the symbol of hope , the lode star in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finland is probably the main reason why the prohibition movement in Europe , once flourishing . has now halted , not to say collapsed , at least as practical politics . Liquor reform is part of party programs in many countries , but in none will statesmen or responsible reformers admit that prohibition is contemplated even as an ultimate end . In England , Norway , Sweden , Belgium , and the Baltic States they tell you that it is Finland , not the United States , which has discredited dry propaganda . America is too far away , the reports are too conflicting . But Finland is a neighbor . What goes on there can be seen and understood . And the general conclusion is : " We can manage with a few drunkards , but a nation of law-breakers we can not afford . " I could not take literally the phrase , " a nation of law-breakers , " as applied to Finland , because I knew , from previous visits , the almost religious devotion to law and order which prevailed , and I knew also how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dry regime . It began in 1865 , when Finland put a stop to home distillation of spirits , then regarded by the peasants as a legitimate adjunct to the raising of potatoes . About that time temperance societies sprang up all over the country and , perhaps to supply a real social and recreational need , became part of the activities of every rural church . Within a few years almost a third of the Grand Duchy had gone dry by local option , and by 1914 approximately eighty-five per cent of the entire population were living in districts where the sale and distribution of intoxicants were strictly forbidden . In the cities modified Gotheuberg system was established , no such thing as a saloon or an open bar being permitted . Liquor with meals could be obtained in hotels , restaurants , and cafes , and it was possible to buy for home consumption limited quantities in Government-controlled stores . It is true that upper-class Finland , well-to-do Swedish Finns and Finnish city dwellers and estate owners , had much the same drinking habits as other Europeans . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dinner the men drank small glasses of schnapps or vodka . It was not good form for women to indulge in these fiery liquors , a little beer or sherry being their favorite ap ? ritzf . As for the working-class Finns , mostly farmers , they could get very little to drink even if they wanted it . When they went to town they could visit the cafes ; but since at the stores it was not possible to buy less than two liters at a time , the farmers and villagers ordinarily bought only for special occasions , betrothal parties , weddings , anniversaries , and big family reunions . Finns drank spirits when they drank at all , but in the years immediately preceding the War it was their boast that they lived in the soberest country in Europe . The claim was amply justified , for the annual per capita consumption of alcohol was only 1.4 liters , which compares favorably with Sweden 's 7.21 liters , and Great Britain and Ireland 's 1.96 gallons of spirits alone , to say nothing of their per capita consumption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gallons . Small wonder , therefore , that when the first prohibition bill was introduced in 1907 it passed the Diet with hardly a dissenting vote . The bill was not approved by the Senate or by the Tzar , but in 1909 it was again introduced and passed . This bill also failed of ratification , but it was held in abeyance , and after the Russian Revolution was presented to the Kerensky Government , which promptly approved it . In 1919 Finland emerged as an independent State , with prohibition a part of its Government program . The law went into effect with every external condition favoring its success . Finland is a small , compact country with a homogeneous population , the Swedish Finns constituting less than one-tenth of the total . Unlike America , Finland has no immigrant aliens to whom the national ideal is obscure and who with easy consciences turn to bootlegging as a rapid means of wealth . The native Finns are nearly all farmers and are content to toil hard and expect few pleasures . Illiteracy is unknown , and even on remote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public affairs . Women and the pastors of the State Church , the Lutheran , exert a very strong influence in the religious and social life of the country . Finland is , in fact , a very paradise for women . They enter freely into all trades , businesses , and professions , and occupy every kind of elective and appointive office except the pulpit and the judge 's bench . They have voted and sat in the Diet since 1906 . In such a country , it seemed to me , prohibition had a better chance than in the United States , and when I revisited it in the Spring of 1929 I hoped , in spite of what I had heard on the outside , to find the law respected except by an irresponsible minority . If prohibition , with everything in its favor , had failed in Finland I determined to find out why it had failed . Twenty-four hours was long enough to convince me that the noble experiment which we , misquoting Mr. Hoover , have learned to call it , was a failure , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew the reason why . I ate my first dinner in HelsingforsHelsinki , the Finns call it ? in a popular but not particularly fashionable restaurant . As usual in climates where large quantities of food must be eaten , the meal began with hors d'oeuvre . In Finland this expresses itself in little finger-sized sandwiches , the open-faced variety with no covering slice of bread . Over an inviting display of tiny sand- , wiehes spread with anchovies , sardines , ; , salt and smoked fish , ham and bacon , cheese , hard-boiled eggs with mayonl naise , highly seasoned cold meats in aspic , the hardy Finlanders work up an appetite for the substantial soup , meat , vegetable and sweet courses of their dinner . Such meals have to be washed down with something , and in the present era the waiter offers you a choice of mineral water or beer , the vapid one per cent beer allowed by law . I chose Vichy , but I noticed that most of the diners preferred beer . At least the tables were strewn with familiar brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near-beer came in a variety of colors . At the table next my own the women 's beer glowed in their glasses with a rich ruby hue , like claret or burgundy , while that of the men was as white as gin . The men filled their glasses half full of this liquid , adding plenty of soda water . Glancing around curiously , I saw the same phenomenon repeated at other tables near-by . Finally two men who came in late consumed with their sandwiches , and without any soda water , a large bottle of something which closely resembled sauterne . However , the bottle had a serviette pinned around its middle , so I could not be sure . The next day I referred the matter to an old friend , an official of the Helsingfors Chamber of Commerce , who smiled cynically and said that everything came in beer bottles these days that did n't come in teapots , but as for the large bottle , he doubted if in that particular restaurant one could get sauterne . Claret , of course , one could get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was probably ninety-six . " Ninety-six ? " " Our national drink since prohibition , " was the reply . " As a matter of ! fact it is simply pure spirits . We call it ninety-six for short . " " Not the stuff you used to drink before dinner ? " I asked incredulously . " Oh , no . Before the War the strongest spirits permitted were only eighty-three per cent pure alcohol . This concentrated stuff is what Germany and Poland supplies us with , the chief stock in trade of our trokari , our bootleggers , as you call them . Oh , I do n't mean that we get nothing else at all . You are dining with the Blanks to-night , and so am I. They will give us the correct thing , I assure you . " They did . We had sherry with the hors d'oeuvre , white wine with the fish , claret with the roast , and afterwards with our coffee liqueurs and Swedish punch . Over coffee and liqueurs my friends talked freely about their prohibition . Indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , all conversation gets around sooner or later to prohibition . Unblushingly we flouters of our countries ' law compared notes as to quality and prices current in our respective cities , the advantage being decidedly with Helsingfors . The Finns do not drink synthetic gin , ersatz whiskey , home-manufactured cordials , raw wine fermented in slum cellars , or ginger ale , red pepper , and charged water masquerading as champagne , because the real thing comes in as regularly as of old , at prices no higher than changed conditions warrant . Such standard brands of Scotch whiskey as White Horse , Dewars , and Black and White , which in London retail for twelve shillings sixpence , sell in Helsingfors for thirteen shillings , 83.25 . Bordeaux and Burgundy cost about a third more than in Paris , while a fairly good champagne may be had for six or seven dollars . These are top prices and represent the expense and hazard of delivering small lots at the door . Local bootleggers and enterprising private buyers who bargain with ships lying outside the twelve-mile limit get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a dollar and a half a bottle for whiskey , cognac , or the ubiquitous ninety-six . Naturally , all prices advance as liquor travels into the interior of the country , especially in winter , and in the far north , I was told , a liter of alcohol sometimes brings as much as five hundred Finmarks , about 812.50 . The almost prohibitive price of ninety-six ? the peasant 's only drink ? has led , in remote districts , to a revival of the home distilling of potato brandy , but precisely to what extent can not be known . Little or no vodka reaches the peasant from Russia for the reason that Finland maintains along the border a very vigilant frontier guard , a branch of the regular army . Finland is taking no chances on the bootlegging of Communist agitators . Against the bootlegging of liquor by sea , the army and the customs officials arc alike helpless . Nature herself is against them , for in the wealth of small and mostly uninhabited islands which strew the waters of the Gulf of Finland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has provided a smuggler 's perfect paradise . In a boundary line of a thousand kilometers extending from northwestern Finland to Viborg , in southeastern Finland , there are at least thirty thousand of these islands . They form the most secure of refuges , especially when the seas freeze over in midwinter . In fact , for five months in the year those seas are so full of floating ice that revenue cutters can hardly visit the islands at all . In winter also the daylight hours are very short , and the darkness is another advantage to the busy trolcari . Liquor ships anchor as near shore as the ice allows , and small motor boats receive the cargoes , which are either stowed away on the islands or carried immediately to the land on sledges . Most liquor comes from Germany and Poland , Kiel and Danzig being the principal ports of departure . An even nearer neighbor , Esthonia , used to be a leading exporter , but competition drove her out , and now her bootleggers make a good living buying at wholesale , smuggling their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat under retail prices to their own countrymen . A considerable population of native Finns operate in regular liaison with the liquor ships . A large proportion of the Swedish-Finns , farmers of the southeastern coast , and the Aaland Islands , it is said , have practically abandoned farming and fishing for the vastly more lucrative liquor trade . The Aaland Islands , lying between Sweden and Finland , came near furnishing an excuse for war between the two countries in 1921 . Had the Aalands been allotted to Sweden , the inhabitants would now be under the very rational Bratt system of liquor control ; but Finland got the islands , and the Aafanders were brought under the blessings of prohibition . Their territory is happily placed for handling the high-class trade in Scotch whiskey and wines from England ; and it is not surprising that their people took advantage of the situation . II Most of these facts I learned , not from the enemies but the friends of prohibition . The most optimistic prohibitionists admit that " Finland is not so actually dry as it theoretically is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it could be . Relatively high figures for drunkenness prove , for instance , that intoxication is quite general . " I quote from a pamphlet , The Prohibition Situation in Finland , written by Mr. Vihtori Karpio , Secretary of the Prohibition League of Finland , and translated into English for distribution to foreigners . Mr. Karpio adds hopefully that the customs authorities , at any rate , seize annually about 500,000 or 600,000 liters of spirits and a smaller quantity of other liquors . The customs authorities , as a matter of fact , do a great deal better than that . Beginning in 1920 , when they confiscated 98,000 liters of contraband , and extending through 1928 , when close to one million liters were captured , the authorities have been most commendably busy trying to enforce the law . The figures quoted were furnished by Mr. W. Lindgren , Chief of the Statistical Office of the Customs Bureau in Helsingfors , who states that in addition to the alcohol conGovernment , and every Parliament since 1919 have loyally supported the prohibition law and have done everything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for lawbreaking have been made as severe as the Finnish penal code allows , although these punishments would , in some of our States , seem rather mild . Thus no Finn has been sentenced to the penitentiary for life for the mere possession of a pint of gin , nor have many Finns been pursued and murdered by enforcement officers on the bare suspicion that they were transporting ninety-six . Parliament has not in any year appropriated fantastic sums to suppress smuggling , but in 1925 they did effect with ten Baltic States what is known as the Treaty of Helsingfors , under which the twelve-mile limit was agreed to , and also the right of Finnish revenue officers to board and search suspicious vessels flying the flags of the treaty States . The only apparent result of the Helsingfors Treaty , however , is that the rum runners from Germany and Poland ? both of which countries are parties to the agreement ? no longer fly their own flags . Instead they display the flags of Brazil , Peru , Turkey , and even of that conspicuous maritime power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Finland , as it was in Sweden and Norway , and as it has proved in the United States , and for the same reason . Enforcement against the will of a large minority of the people is impossible . The Finnish law , it is true , was passed with the consent of a large majority of the people , but that was in 1917 , twelve years ago . Clearly a radical change in public opinion has occurred , for at the present time those same people are buying , at prices far above pre-war rates , nearly twice as much liquor as they consumed twelve years ago , or even twenty-two years ago , when the first prohibition law was passed . What has caused this change ? The answer to that question involves not only Finland , but the whole history of Europe and America since July , 1915 ; fifteen years of revolutionary changes such as no single generation ever witnessed before . No one under thirty really knows what the world was like before 1914 . A whole population has grown up who can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new psychology , a new conception of life , very different from the old , manifests itself . What the older generation of Finns remember most vividly is that they and their fathers before them had to fight constantly to preserve their national life . For over a hundred years this had been the case . After a long struggle , in the course of which free speech was forbidden , newspapers suppressed , and domiciliary visits and arbitrary arrests instituted , the Tzar , in 1905 , suspended the Constitution and announced that he would in future govern Finland without the aid of the Diet . The answer to this was a general strike , not only of industrial workers but of every man , woman , and child in the country . Every business from the banks to the smallest shop closed its doors . The schools closed . Gas and electric light , and even city water works were shut down . Aside from feeding their animals the farmers stopped work . For five days and nights not a fire burned , not a wheel turned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ship its dock . Most important of all , not a penny accrued to the Imperial treasury . Nicholas surrendered and the Constitution of Finland was restored . The victory was only temporary , as the Finns well knew , but they took advantage of the respite to become more modern , more advanced than ever . The Constitution was altered to provide for a two-chamber Parliament , instead of the cumbersome and archaic Four Estates . The lower House was elected by popular vote of all men and women twenty-four years of age , while the upper House , the Senate , became an appointive body , with members chosen for life by the Tzar and removable only on very grave charges . This was the Finland which , in 1907 , elated with a new sense of power , passed the first prohibition law . Universal suffrage and the rise to political importance of the peasants had given a great impetus to Socialism , and under its influence , perhaps also in emulation of Mr. Lloyd George in England , the Diet passed a good many idealistic measures , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some designed as an earnest of the aspirations of a democratic and a humanitarian people . The prohibition bill was one of these . It was a fine gesture , and it pleased the peasants in their church temperance societies . Nobody in the Diet seriously opposed the bill , because it was well understood that neither the Senate nor the Tzar would sanction it . When the bill came up again in 1909 it was met with debate and a divided vote , but it passed by a substantial majority , only to be disapproved once more by the Tzar . Prohibition finally came to Finland in 1917 , under circumstances wholly abnormal and unrepresentative . Almost as soon as Russia mobilized in the War the Tzar issued his prohibition proclamation , but it can not he said that it was very well carried out anywhere . It could not be carried out in Finland because the War brought into the country great numbers of Russian soldiers and Russian workmen to build and operate with the help of skilled Finnish workers munitions factories and other war enterprises . Most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sober and Iaw-abiding Finns was most demoralizing . Everything combined to strengthen the determination of the upper-class Finns to demand complete separation from the Empire as soon as peace was declared . The first Russian Revolution , in February , 1917 , stimulated their hopes , and one of the first things they asked of the Provisional Government was withdrawal of the Russian soldiers and workmen , and ratification of their prohibition law , in order that sobriety might be restored to their own working people . The visionary Kerensky , at first Minister of Justice , later Premier , was ready enough to ratify a prohibition law or any other Socialistic legislation proposed by the Diet , but he was in no mind to let a Socialistic province secede from the empire he hoped to rule . He did not withdraw the Russian soldiers , and lie resisted with all his weak might the growing sentiment for Finnish independence . Finally he arbitrarily dissolved the Diet and ordered a new election . Very shortly after the November elections ra.me the Bolshevist coup d'etat , the flight of Kerensky , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finns than autocracy had ever been . In December , 1917 , the Diet issued the Finnish Declaration of Independence , and named as first President of Finland , a leader in the conservative Old Finnish Party , P. E. Svinhufvud . But now a new horror arose . The Bolshevist madness which had seized the Russians in Finland communicated itself to the Finnish workmen and , acting under orders from Petrograd , these men united to force a general strike and establish a soviet form of government . Socialists all over the country joined the movement , and in January , 1918 , a reign of terror began which plunged the country into chaos and civil war . Starting in the north , the red hordes swept down to meet the insurrectionists of the south , murdering , looting , burning farms and villages as they advanced , until they surrounded and captured Helsiugfors . This is not the place to tell the story of those terrible months , the heroic resistance of an unarmed people , and of their final deliverance by the two thousand young men who in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So exhausted was Finland from this experience that it was a full year before the Diet met in full strength again and the Republic in its present form was established . Of the six political parties in the new Parliament , the Social Democrats and the Agrarians , representing the peasants , held a clear majority over all the others . This majority reaffirmed the prohibition law declaring that practically all the rural population desired it , and that , therefore , enforcement was assured in advance . Two elements in the community the radical reformers forgot ? the large minority who bitterly resented prohibition , and the almost equally large group who wanted it for everybody except themselves . Another element they could not include , because it was not yet apparent -- the new generation . The young Finlander under thirty has not the same enthusiasm for any reform as his fathers had because he hardly remembers the long struggle against Russian oppression . he hardly even remembers the World War or the red insurrection . The Finland he lives in bears little resemblance to the distracted land of his fathers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ semi-oriental Empire , but a thriving nation among the nations of Europe . Farming may be this young man 's lot , but not a tiny holding separated from its nearest neighbor by miles of forest and wild lakes . There used to be a proverb about those isolated farms : " The world will come to an end when one Finn can hear another Finn 's door slam . " The Finnish boy of to-day does not lead any such existence , at least not all his life . Finland has a regular army now , and every young man has to serve his time in it . This means that even a farmer lad has a year or two of travel around the country and an opportunity to see something of town life . He mingles with strangers and from them acquires sophistication if not polish . The older generation learned most of what they knew and believed from the common school and the village pastor . The new generation learns from the moving-picture theater with its news reels and dramas of opulent life , the radio , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s with their dancing floors and American jazz bands . Thus the young Finlander , while he may remain a good Lutheran , no longer regards a church temperance society as an ideal form of recreation . Towards prohibition his attitude seems to be neutral and indifferent . He knows that as often as he takes a drink he breaks the law , but as far back as he remembers the law has always been evaded . That 's the worst of it . He is used to breaking the law and seeing others do it . It seems the normal thing to do . Iv This is the most disquieting aspect of the prohibition situation , and the Government know it . But they do n't know what to do about it . They do not even know to what extent the enforcement laws have failed . In 1922 a Government Commission was appointed to inquire into the whole matter , and in August , 1928 , the commission made its final report . As usual in such cases , the information is exhaustive and the findings are inconclusive . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in every year since 1919 . Arrests for drunkenness had increased from 11,475 in 1919 to nearly 54,000 in 1925 ; penalties for other violations , sale , transportation , storing , manufacturing of liquor , from 10,408 in 1920 to 21,836 in 1925 . From more than nine thousand questionnaires sent out to police authorities , pastors , judges , chairmen of communal and industrial organizations , public-school teachers , associations of farmers , trade unions , Salvation Army officials , etc. , it was learned that these conditions obtained throughout the country , although the towns and coast districts of the south recorded the greater number of arrests . Evasions of the law were noticed particularly among young people , farmers , and women of the industrial centers . Drunkenness was commoner among youths than among older people . Criminality , particularly murder , violence , and robbery , had increased , and the general health level had been somewhat lowered by increased records of chronic drunkenness , delirium cases , and alcoholic insanity . A still more rapid increase of accidents caused by intoxication was noted . Subsidies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all was the extreme youth of most of the persons involved in alcoholic cases , and the general disrespect for law which these young persons displayed . Yet the Commission made no recommendations as to a future policy in regard to the prohibition law . Mr. Kovero , Chairman of the Commission , however , presented an independent report , in which he strongly criticized the " scientifically cautious " tone of the official report , and Mr. Serlachius , another member , also made an independent statement , in which he said that the social consequences and the harm done by drinking raw spirits in coffee cups in caf ? s and restaurants , the whole degrading custom of secret and illegal indulgence in alcohol , were more important than the mere quantity consumed . " Reports of judges , and of all police authorities show that laws , courts , oaths , and all institutions that preserve order , are losing their prestige in Finland , " concluded this statement . " The misuse of medical prescriptions has turned out to be an unprecedented scandal . " Mr. Serlachius @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , be changed for the better by any laws or set of laws . " Apparently we have a long , hard way before us , before we reach the condition of temperance existing before the War . It is certain that if prohibition is abandoned our statistics of crime will , at least for the next few years , show more alarming figures than now . We can not believe that the thousands of people who now make a good living by illegal alcohol traffic will return to honest work . The transition to any new system will prove very difficult , but the situation will grow worse if the change is delayed . Is it possible to make theprohibition law more effective ? All attempts have hitherto lessened the moral prestige of the law . The application of the law disregards the moral standards of the criminal law in general . " The widest publicity was given these reports , and in the conservative press there was a general denunciation of the law and a demand for a popular referendum on the subject . But nothing has resulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the near future , since the majority parties in Parliament continue to support the law . The Agrarian and Social Democratic Parties , holding respectively 52 and 60 seats , have a clear majority of 44 over the three parties of the right , and in any vote on prohibition they would have the support of the twenty Communist deputies . What may be the opinion of any of these radical deputies is not known , because they are not allowed to voice individual opinions , but must vote as their parties in caucus dictate . Only in the conservative and liberal Swedish , National Unionist and National Progressive Parties are members allowed to vote as individuals , and in the main they are in favor of a revision of the law , and a substitution or adaptation of the Swedish system of control . Yet even these deputies fear that the country is not at present sufficiently informed to warrant a referendum . The peasants read only the radical newspapers and these , naturally , tend to minimize the failure of the law . Farmers and villagers know that enforcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a belief that it succeeds elsewhere . Individuals know that they break the law , but they hope that other people observe it . Because " prohibition is a good thing for the country . " Shortly before I left Finland I went to an after-theater supper at one of the principal restaurants of Helsingfors . The guests were six in number , including one of the leaders in Parliament of the Social Democrats . We had claret in beer bottles and Swedish punch in coffee cups , and under the mellowing influences of food and wine , the political leader confided in me that prohibition was like religion , a very good thing for the masses . An educated man might be an agnostic and remain a good citizen , an upright and moral man . But take away religion from the people , and what happened ? Well , look at Russia . Look at the Finnish trade unionists , skeptics and Communists almost to a man . It was the same with liquor . You could n't trust the masses to drink moderately or to refrain from violence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their knives . Did I ever see a Finnish gentleman , or an American for that matter , who carried a gun or a. knife ? I told him that I was strongly in favor of sobriety , even for gentlemen , and if any system of control promised better success than a prohibition law I was willing to see it tried . " Any retreat from prohibition , " said my Socialist friend , " would be a moral retreat , and any political party that advocated it in this country would commit suicide . Look at the National Progressives . They tried to get a bill for a referendum through Parliament , and a year or two ago their general conference proposed some kind of a liquor-control measure . What was the result ? Why they lost seven seats in the elections of 1927 . The fathers and mothers of Finland are not going to stand for any legislation or any system of liquor control that gives their children opportunity to drink in restaurants and dance halls . " " Their children , " I observed , " seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system . " He paused to fill his coffee cup with fiery Swedish punch . " Those young fools , " he exclaimed . " They drink because they think it 's smart . They 'll know more when they 're older . They 'll bring their children up good prohibitionists , you 'll see . " I think I said , at the beginning of this article , that there was much in Finland to make an American traveler feel at home .                     