@@468343

JOHN WESLEY 'S inclusive declaration that " the world is my parish " is well matched by the prophets of Communism . " The world is round , " Karl Marx once wrote to Engels , " and , therefore , the workmen 's revolution for its victory must encircle the entire globe . " Communism , perhaps more aggressively than either Christianity or Mohammedanism , is a missionary faith . " We are revolutionists from head to foot , " Trotsky declares . " We were always revolutionists ; we are to-day ; and we shall remain that to the end . " Which means , specifically , that the Soviets , despite their adjustment to the hard facts of a capitalistic world , are content only when they are making proselytes and organizing them for the violent achievement of the Communist millennium . Although ostensibly occupied with trade or crops or the niceties of diplomatic procedure , the heart of the good Communist is in none of these things . The Soviet agent may be concerned in many laudable undertakings ; but it is safe to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outbreaks of whatever sort that may produce them . However his credentials read , he is , first of all , a missionary . Communism 's actual program of foreign missions is set up and administered through the Third International . The Government of Soviet Russia is distinct from the principles and plans of the Third International in much the same way that any particular national administration in the United States is distinct from the Declaration of Independence , the Bill of Rights , and the various permanent agencies which have been set up to give them force ? with this difference , that those who constitute the administration in Soviet Russia are pledged , through the International , to foist their government , by fair means or foul , upon all mankind . The Union of Socialist Soviet Republics is , at present , confined to Russia ; but its constitution is designed to make quick place for any state , in any part of the world , which can be brought into the Communist fellowship . We aim , said Lenin , at the union " of all nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " To this end the unmodified creed of the Soviets in their relation to the non-Communized world at large declares , among other things , that : " The present is the period of destruction and crushing of the capitalistic system of the whole world . . . . " The world situation demands immediate and as perfect as possible relations between the different groups of the revolutionary proletariat and a complete alliance of all the countries in which the revolution has already succeeded . " The most important method is the mass action of the proletariat , including armed struggle against the Government power of the capitalists . " This , officially , is the missionary platform of the Third International . Every member of the party , inside the Russian Government and out , is pledged to it . Its special emissaries ? trained evangelists they are ? go forth , their orthodoxy tested , to carry the Marxian gospel unto the uttermost ends of the earth . From rather wide observation , I am convinced that , as between Communists and Christians , the former have undertaken their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , certain initial advantages in the missionary strategy of the Communists . For one thing , they are united . There are factions within the party , but there is only one party . Trotsky and Zinoviev , Stalin and Radek may fight most bitterly within the councils of the Central Executive Committee in Moscow ; but there is no conflict in the creed that the agents of Communism preach to the world . Whether they speak to African miners , Malay plantation hands , or to mobs of Chinese coolies , their language is always the same ; with the same denouncement of things as they are , the same battle-cry for the struggle to change them , the same promises of triumph , and the whole topped off with the same pieture of a world-wide , under-dog millennium . There is no confusion of form , of sect , or of doctrine . But with all this unity of purpose , there is an amazing variability of activity . Among Christians there are specific institutions to be served , ecclesiastical interests to be maintained , denominational prestige to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these limitations . He joins whomever and whatever is going his way or , at least , is headed enough in his way to appear to be open to persuasion . At Tashkent University , a Communist school of missions in Central Asia where the Soviets are said to turn out each year a large class of Asiatics , a graduation charge is given to each student : " Proceed into Asia ! Ally yourself with every movement of whatever sort that is subversive of the established order . Foster the Revolution ! " Any thread of unrest , industrial , political , social , or intellectual , is quickly picked out by the Communist missionary in the hope that it can be woven into the fabric of World Revolution . Then , too , the Communist is unhampered by color bars . When the Christian missionary preaches race equality , the whole history of white world domination rises up to confound his message . The Soviet finds it less difficult to he taken at face value . If his audience is uninformed , as it usually is , he can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , her participation in innumerable strikes and uprisings , her aggressive support for the struggles of backward peoples . Moscow , moreover , provides friendly shelter for outlawed trouble-makers and the defeated sponsors of innumerable lost causes from every corner of the world . When Semaung , the ingenious Malay who instigated last year 's uprising in the Dutch East Indies , was expelled from Java , he found that fetes and parades and general acclaim awaited him in the Soviet capital . When Fcng Yu-hsien , China 's Christian General , was badly beaten by General Chang Tso-ling , he journeyed to Moscow where a hero 's welcome , free advice , and succor of a more practical sort aided his recuperation . Even the United States has representation in Russia 's colony of outcasts . For the members of this colony there are no Jim Crow cars and no Exclusion Laws . Color lines are never drawn . And the report of their experiences at the hands of their Soviet hosts goes out to the ends of the earth to enhance the prestige of the spokesmen for Communism and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communist missionary is at an advantage because he concerns himself only with proletarians . For the maladies that afflict them he is a specialist . He diagnoses , exhorts , and prescribes ? always in the exact fashion most likely to please the patient . His task , in this , is not complex . The most pressing affliction of the world 's proletariat is their inadequate supply of the things necessary to life : food and clothing and shelter . The Communist does not evade this issue . Rather , it is the sort of issue he seeks . His panacea is simple and to the point . Since the working classes do not possess , he proposes to organize them to take by force from the possessing bourgeoisie . The vogue of the Communist in many places , particularly through the non-white world , is a product , in considerable measure , of the apparent simplicity and forthrightness of his approach to this critical question of economic survival . When the Christian faces this question he has no easy solution to offer . There is no quick panacea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial education ? and scant material out of which to stir the masses . Moral and spiritual considerations , which the Christian is impelled to urge , are of even Tess immediate significance . This whole gospel of development and ultimate reward is an easy mark for the Communist . He assails it as mere evasion or , more often , as proof that the Christian , having sold out to the capitalists , is enlisted to prevent the rise of the proletariat . His attacks , moreover , are having a salutary effect . It is no longer possible , when men are starving , for Christianity to concern itself exclusively with their souls . The Communist has helped , quite contrary , doubtless , to his own desires , to make room ? small room ? in the Christian missionary enterprise , for the question of economic redemption . With these advantages of tactics and of program the Communist has made a place for himself in the non-white world much larger than appears in the observable results of his labors . I have followed his trail from Johannesburg to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his credit . It is reflected in innumerable eddies in the currents of life that are sweeping through Africa and Asia . But it is more significant than surface disturbances ; for the Communist has brought the exploited classes of the world of color to the threshold of articulate expression . I visited , one day , the headquarters of a native labor union in one of the great industrial centers of Africa . Native labor ? in keeping with the prevalent white program of repression ? was forbidden to organize . This policy , as usual , did not prevent organization , but kept it out of sight . The union maintained mobile offices , which I had some difficulty in finding . The president , at the time of my visit , was in temporary exile ; but the union secretary was very much on hand . He explained , at some length , the history and remarkable grow th of the organization . Then , to make the story concrete , he piled on his desk half a dozen volumes of the Membership Register . " Here , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are the material out of which we are making a negro dictatorship . The whites have had their day in this part of the world . We know the best that we can expect from 6 them . Every new name in this register speeds the time when , by force of arms and of boycott , we will begin to do for ourselves what your race has refused to do for us . " The source of the inspiration for this movement is not far to seek . The daily paper of the organization calls upon negro Africa to follow " the outstanding example of the unexampled victorious Russian workers who have overthrown the tyrannical imperialist capitalist regime of Russia and have established in its place a Workers ' Republic , who can now decide their own destiny and mold the future according to their own desires . . . . We believe that within ourselves lives the unrealized power to achieve what the Russian workers did , and not wait on any savior or power from below or on high to aid us , but to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arm of labor -- -A Universal Commune , where the tyrant shall never be known ' . " III It is not in Africa , however , but in Asia that the world game of the Soviets is being most aggressively played . Lenin gave it scriptural sanction with the declaration that " when the Russian proletarian movement at its maximum succeeds in effecting a junction with the populations of Asia , the world revolution and its corollary , a universal Soviet republic , may be considered as secured . " As early as 1919 an Oriental Section of the Commissariat for Foreign Affairs was set up in Moscow . A famous Orientalist , Vosnesenski by name , presided over it . The disorders of that year in Russia did not prevent the convening , at Tashkent , of a Soviet sponsored conference with the declared purpose of fostering whatever Communist or Pan-Islamic movements seemed likely to disrupt Central Asia . A second and similar gathering met a year later in Samarkand . Unrest had its exponents on hand from every corner of the East . Here was organized the Union of Liberation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be found in anti-European outbreaks all the way from Morocco to Peking . Later in 1920 , after the Third International had placed its seal upon the enterprise , a PanOriental Congress assembled in Baku . This gathering easily eclipsed those that had preceded it . Some two thousand delegates were in attendance . They represented thirty-seven different nationalities . They were intent upon one purpose : the speedy ousting of the white man from the East . The Soviets , represented officially by Zinoviev and Radek , were alert to lend their aid and counsel . Under Moscow 's extended wing a sort , of Soviet-at-large was established in Baku to spread propaganda and to speed action through the Orient . Included in this Soviet were a Propaganda Division , intrusted with various tasks including the publication , in many Oriental languages , of a newspaper , People of the East ; an Administrative and Executive Division ; and a Division of Instruction . At Baku Moscow first openly endorsed a specific program for the Communistic evangelization of Asia . That the program has produced results , of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the heels of last winter 's miniature revolution . It was only the execution , not the plan , which was in miniature . The plan called for spontaneous uprisings throughout Java and Sumatra , the routing of the Dutch authorities and the establishment in their place of a Malay-Moslem dictatorship under the aegis of Moscow . But arrangements went awry . There were uprisings , but they were sporadic rather than spontaneous . The people , save in one section of Sumatra , showed no particular interest in the affair . And the shock troops of the revolt , carefully tutored by Malays whose technic had been learned in Russia , were easily defeated . When I reached Batavia the ringleaders ? among them the Malay , Semaung , who had been acclaimed and instructed by the Soviets ? had been rounded up and were awaiting shipment to a district especially reserved for them in Dutch New Guinea . The agency of Russia in the Dutch East Indies was the P.K.I. , the Association of Indonesian Communists , with its auxiliary , the notorious D.O. , " Organization of Death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they had " the courage of the deed . " An elaborate system of Communist cells was set up , in the best Soviet fashion , throughout the centers of Java and southern Sumatra . Preliminary trials of strength were made in numerous strikes that took place during 1925 and 1926 . A revolutionary army was in process of formation , with smuggled arms and ammunition at its disposal . Discovery by the Dutch Secret Service of the scheme for revolt precipitated an uprising before the preparations for it were complete . But the " Indonesian Revolution , " none the less , is one of the most outstanding of Russia 's recent missionary successes . The Soviet press hailed the revolt with all the exaggerated enthusiasm to which it is addicted . A red tide was pictured coming up from the South Seas toward the mainland of Asia . Not defeat , but " a shift of plan " was offered as an explanation for the fact that a proletarian dictatorship was not , finally , set up in the islands . Whatever they failed to accomplish in the Dutch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia for those whose task it is to maintain the zeal of the rank and file Communists for their world enterprise . But there has been other fresh material , in considerable amount , from many quarters of the East . I was in Kyoto , the ancient capital of Japan , during the trial last spring of thirty-eight students drawn from the leading universities of the country and charged with fostering a Communist plot against the government . Some fifteen years ago , in the Imperial University in Tokio , a liberal student movement , the Shin Jin Kai ? New Man Society ? was organized . The original organization was mild enough . But after the War and the Russian Revolution an aggressive left wing appeared which broke off eventually and established the Students ' Union for the Study of Social Science . Local unions were set up in student centers throughout the country . The name of the union , evidently , was merely . ? an academic designation for a rapidly expanding Communistic organization , whose purpose was not so much to debate the merits of Communism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a proletarian dictatorship might come . Despite the great seriousness with which the trial was conducted , there appeared to be no immediate threat in this undergraduate enterprise to the stability of the Japanese Empire . But it was a missionary triumph that the Soviets had been able , so successfully , to invade the guarded precincts of Japan 's Imperial Universities . It is in China , however , that the Soviets have played for the largest stakes and with the greatest success . None of the conventional diplomatic achievements of Tchitcherin and the Russian Foreign Office can rank , in recent Soviet history , with the " triumphs " of the Third International in China . In fact , it was Tchitcherin , the present Soviet Commissar for Foreign Affairs , who first called to the Chinese to unite with Russia : " For our success is your success . Our defeat is your defeat . . . Long live the union of the Russian and Chinese proletariat . " This was in 1918 . Subsequent developments were designed to establish Russian influence wherever possible with whatever faction China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviets abrogated the old concessions , surrendered extra-territoriality , negotiated new treaties , bilateral and based on equality of treatment . To cap it all off with a touch of sentiment , they sent to Peking , not a minister of the rank maintained by the other Powers , but a fullfledged ambassador . The treaty concessions , it must he said , proved to have little relation to Russia 's real purposes in China . The Soviets were aware , in those early days of Joffe and Karakhan , that the Allies would never consent to a return of the old privileges to Russia . They were shrewd enough to realize how much propaganda could be gained by voluntary instead of forced relinquishments . They have made capital of that difference ever since . But there were other moves in Russia 's China game . The Russian diplomatic representatives in Peking ? in their joint capacity as government officials and representatives of the Third International ? soon realized that the task of converting China must be carried through by Chinese . A group of young Chinese , therefore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took a short course in world revolt and hurried back to China . Other reeruits were enrolled in their places in the Moscow schools . Some of these returning graduates were sent south to ally themselves with Doctor Sun Yat Sen , whose government was in a perilous state and whose Kuomingtang party was frail and dwindling . They took with them a new spirit , a technic for revolutionary organization , and funds . They acted upon Moscow 's orders and , to make their work more effective , joined the Kuomingtang . With their aid the nationalist movement became renascent . But it was a hard bargain to which Doctor Sun was driven . For when the Soviets finally sent Michael Borodin to Canton to follow and advance the fortunes of the nationalists , it soon became apparent that Russia was concerned for the success of Chinese nationalism only in so far as it could be made to contribute to the Communists ' revolutionary enterprise . The most effective instrument for this contribution Borodin found to be the nationalist labor unions . With a communized labor organization he promised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he very nearly made good . Wherever the Kuomingtang advanced , mushroom labor unions , organized by Borodin 's agents , sprang into life . Their contribution to the nationalist cause was great ; but their ultimate purposes were Russian . The literature of the unions is a sufficiently clear indication of that fact . I give here , for example , the translation of several sections of a " Declaration on the Celebration of the Third Year of the Death of Lenin . " It should be noted that the poster , printed in Chinese for circulation by Chinese unions , does not once refer to Doctor Sun Yat Sen or to the fact that the Kuomingtang is , essentially , an agency for the realization of Chinese nationalism . It reads : Lenin , the father of all the farmers and workers of the world and the savior of all nations under oppression , died on this day three years ago . At the height of the anti-imperialistic movement our celebration of his death has great significance . Though he physically died , his spirit and his doctrine will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death the fight against imperialism has never ceased and is everincreasing in its wrath so that the root of imperialism is somewhat wavering . This shows the triumph of Lenin 's doctrine ... . The Kuomin revolution must be carried on the basis of Lenin 's doctrine and methods . We must follow his directions in order to render our fight against imperialism successful . Revolutionary brethren , we need not mourn too much in celebration of Lenin 's death , but we should fight on , on and on in accordance with his doctrine . Let us join in saying aloud : Long live the spirit of Lenin ; follow his doctrine ; accept his revolutionary principles ; accept his principles with regard to farmers ; long live Leninism ; Chinese people saved forever ; success for the World Revolution . Among the Chinese Communists , who have never represented more than a minority in the Kuomingtang , the reliance upon Russia is unquestioned . Comrade Tan Peng Siang , member of the Chinese section of the Third International , declared last year that " the real Chinese revolution began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and was able to extend a helping hand to all oppressed nationalities . . . . All our victories are due to the help that we have received from the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics , and it is with your help that we shall sweep all imperialists into the sea . " During the past few months a moderate group of Chinese nationalist leaders have united against the control which the Soviets sought to establish in exchange for Russian aid . But that development does not obscure ; it only confirms the fact that Russia 's activities in China , far from being the product of unselfish devotion to the interests of " oppressed nationalities , " are the result of a determination to make those interests contribute to her own world program . IV Russia 's missionary enterprise , of course , is not designed exclusively for ensnaring the non-white world , In Western Europe its operation is less apparent only because it is forced to be more subtle . Owing to a real economic dependence upon Europe , Communist evangelists when they travel westward are obliged to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia 's customers is bad business ? even for the international ? and despite the . generous measure of unrest which has prevailed in certain European nations since the War , they have retained a basis of political stability unknown to the East , and which the most desperate exertions of the Soviets have been unable to destroy . Thus , the trail of the reds in Europe is made apparent only by chance or as a result of extra-legal ? at least extra-conventional ? methods such as Great Britain employed in the Arcos raid . France , in particular , has had to deal with a widespread , underground Soviet campaign . Ever since , in 1919 , Manuilsky went to France as head of a Red Cross Mission to aid Russian troops interned there , Soviet diplomatic agents have appeared to take a considerable share in advancing the plans of the International in that country . Recent investigations trace a considerable measure of the French difficulty in the Riff to the machinations of Moscow . Few international celebrations are allowed to occur in Paris without aggressive interference from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of Russia has directed itself against Rakovsky , the Soviet Ambassador at Paris . Rakovsky , it appears , in an undiplomatic moment , signed an appeal to the workingmen of all nations to rise against their governments on behalf of the proletarian government of Russia . The French , politically at any rate , are not easily startled . But the spectacle ofthe Russian Ambassador assuming the role of anti-French propagandist was a bit unusual . Relations between the two nations will hardly be severed but it is significant that Rakovsky has been recalled . An interesting sidelight to this incident bears upon the relation of Russian diplomacy to Russian revolutionary propaganda . Rakovsky is a member of the Trotsky party and has stood , with Trotsky , for a relentless prosecution of the extreme program of the International . As an Ambassador , of course , his concerns , ostensibly , were with matters of political convention , of tall hats , frock coats , and teas , As a Communist , however , his devotion to the underground campaign to overthrow the government to which he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet-inspired unrest might be greatly extended . It should he made plain , however , that with Communist evangelists scattered to the ends of the earth , Communism , none the less , is not an issue . It is not , in fact , an issue even in Soviet Russia . For a few idyllic days of chaos , following the Revolution in 1917 , Communistic practices were attempted in Moscow and in Leningrad . But the cost of such a Utopia proved too great , and counters and cash were restored . Furthermore , it was soon made plain that any overnight attempt to establish Communism did serious violence to the whole system of Marxian orthodoxy . The revolution which Karl Marx advocated was not to usher in Communism , but the dictatorship of the proletariat . The dictatorship of the proletariat was an interim period of development , during which the bourgeois class was to be got rid of and the proletariat trained to carry on the tasks and to assume the authority of the bourgeoisie . Once the dictatorship of the proletariat was established , the workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in some measure , of the goods of the owning classes . But Cornmunism , itself , is an ideal state which must wait for its establishment till the proletariat is prepared and the bourgeoisie eliminated . The first step , therefore , is that of revolution . Until those who now own are dispossessed those who have nothing can not be endowed . That , at any rate , is the Soviet line of reasoning . And it never deviates . The Communist , in theory , is committed to a system for the economic redemption of society . Many of the principles upon which , theoretically , that system is to be built find sanction in New Testament Christianity . There is more than a casual similarity between the eventual goal of the Communist and the earthly Kingdom which Jesus was concerned to establish . If the first devotion of the Communist were to the principles of his gospel , or to the state for which he professes to be struggling , some common ground might be discovered on which to work with him . It is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communist is most fundamentally committed . His first loyalty , on the basis of which the present-day world is obliged to deal with him , is to a certain mechanics of procedure . His place in the history of this period will be less that of a sponsor of those who are oppressed than of an advocate of a single means for their relief . The issue which he raises is not that of economic justice and of social equality , but of violence as the method by which to realize those ideals . When I met Michael Borodin in Hankow he was busily engaged in explaining to all journalists within reach that Russia was not in China to establish Communism . At great length he pointed out to me that the Chinese are wholly unfitted for any such economic theory . On the basis of that unreadiness , he sought to explain away any sieister implications which I might have found in I the Sino-Russian alliance , and to establish the case for Soviet unselfishness . I accepted his statement that he was not concerned with Communism . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be those of a disinterested champion of Chinese nationalism . What he , as a rather admirable spokesman for Moscow , is concerned with , is world revolution . To bring that to pass is a large enough order for one lifetime . Communism he can well afford to leave to his children or his children 's children . Borodin and his fellow party members in Russia , in fact , are notably tolerant toward those who spend their energies attacking Communism . Their bitterest hatred is reserved for so-called " liberals " in various countries who are committed to the same fundamental ideals but to a different method for their realization . The British Labor Party , in particular , is anathema . Its leaders are said to " lick the boots of generals stained with workingmen 's blood " and to fear " like fire the armed struggle which alone can decide the question . " This antipathy , of course , does not arise out of any fundamental opposition in the British Labor Party to the ideal social order for which the Soviets profess to be striving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working for an order of society of the same general sort , is using constitutional methods rather than those of revolution . V It is here that the issue is drawn between Communism and Christianity . Throughout the non-white world the Christian missionary rather than the capitalist , is the most frequent object of red attack . There is , I believe , more than an incidental significance in this . The missionary has repeatedly proved his friendship for those movements towards social and racial justice in behalf of which the Communist declares himself to be enlisted . It is a frequent assertion , in certain circles , that Christian missions are largely responsible for the nationalist awakening of the East which the Communist desires , so desperately , to aid . If the establishment of righteous principles were the Communist 's first concern , he would long ago have found a close ally in the representatives of Christianity . But since his first concern is for a revolutionary procedure , his animosity is kindled against the missionary who professes faith in methods of a different sort . There is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Soviets attack the missionary . Communism faces no other competition so serious as that provided by the enterprise of Christian missions . In theory , at any rate , both the Christian and the Communist missionary are committed to a way of Iife and , as its goal , to an ideal state of society . Both profess the uniqueness of their separate panaceas , and endeavor with evangelical zeal to make them operative throughout the entire world . It is fundamental to the Christian 's faith , however , that this social redemption must be compounded out of love ; and even more fundamental to the faith of the Communist that it can only come through class hatred and violence . The Communist , doubtless , has practiced his faith with greater consistency , but the tenets of the two creeds are equally clear . The conflict between them is certain to continue as long as there are either Communists or Christians to take them seriously . The Communist , however , has forced the issue . His activities are not curbed by the practice of tolerance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the present . Whatever adjustments may be forced upon him in Russia , where the dictatorship of the proletariat is already established , his missionary activities indicate that for the world at large , where the revolution is yet to be accomplished , his faith is uncompromising . Eventually , of course , those who champion the Christian gospel may realize the challenge with which the Communists confront them . Just at present that realization waits upon a more fundamental understanding of the world plan of the Soviets . Only lack of such understanding can account for the fact that the very group among Christians of the West that stands most positively against international and inter-racial conflict is most pronounced in its friendliness toward Russia where war is regarded as an inescapable and a welcome cure-all . Public opinion has so advanced in many nations that it is necessary to set forth elaborate apologies for the use of force . Such apologies in Russia , however , would be looked upon as treason and the apologists regarded as enemies of the revolution in much the same way that the Soviets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The inculcation of militarism in Russia begins in the lowest grades of the government schools and is carried , in thoroughgoing fashion , throughout the entire nation . No other event arouses such wild enthusiasm as a demonstration on behalf of the military . The fact that old names have been changed ; that this is the People 's Army ; that airplanes and gunboats are built , in part , by public subscription is significant only as an indication that militarism , more than in most countries , is an expression of the will of the people . But the system involves the same elements that have brought about its condemnation in other parts of the world . Hatred and violence are no more salutary as Soviet weapons than they have proved to be in the hands of other peoples . Their persistent employment , however , is the first rule in Russia 's world game . To this generation it is not of importance that they are considered the implements for fashioning a more perfect social order . The immediate issue which the Communists have raised is not that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eventual establishment . Our dealings with them need to be governed , first of all , by that fact . In the end , of course , it may appear , even to those whom the Soviets number as their converts , that violence , however well adapted to usher in the Kingdom of Satan , furnishes few materials out of which the Kingdom of Heaven can be built .                     