@@487236

N OT after-dinner speeches by Arthur James Balfour in America , but the labors of the Anglo-Irish delegates in London , are building the true foundations of an endur- ing friendship between English-speaking peoples . For without a satisfactory solution of the Irish issue , such as , despite Sir James Craig 's incredible obduracy , seems about to be reached , Washington conferees labor in vain . Besides the healing of the Irish wound , dispatches Indicate progress , slower but not the less real , toward healing one of the other outstanding sore spots which threaten the whole life of Europe . It is evident that even France is about to agree to some respite for Germany from the payment of impos-sible reparations . Such a respite may be attended by foolish and in the long run even impossible conditions ; but it is evident that the preliminary requirement for any finan-cial adjustment which will avert a fiscal collapse of catas-trophic proportions is a truce in which passions may cool and reason return to Europe . The outlook is grave enough but in the progress of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the race has saving instincts which are checking its onward rush to self-destruction . 23i MERICA seems to be awakening at last to the reality of the Russian famine . The harsh barrier of mis-information and hate that so long kept American relief out of Russia is breaking down . When factories are burning corn for fuel it would be cruel indeed if American farmers would not give some of their surplus grain for the crying children of the Volga  --  and at last the farmers are respond-ing to the need . The churches , long afraid of Russia , are beginning to echo with appeals for help . Mr. Hoover an-nounces that in addition to food he has shipped in forty carloads of medical and hospital supplies  --  including 80,000 sheets , 60,000 blankets , 15 tons of castor oil , and 25 tons of cod liver oil . The response to the Quaker appeal is growing . And the first American medical unit for service in Russia is being formed at 110 West 40th Street , New York City , to cooperate with the Russian Red Cross , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raising $100,000 in cash and supplies . p OLAND is a good child . She tries to follow the exam- ple of her worthy elders in respect to militarism , imperialism , and reaction . Her latest effort takes the form of an anti-Communist law , modelled after that of her elder sister Jugoslavia . The death penalty is provided for any attempt against the government . Prison terms of 20 years are imposed upon persons involved in " preparation " of such attempts  --  which may mean almost anything . Lest there be any clemency , the law provides that the sentences follow automatically upon the court 's decision as to guilt . Accord-ing to the Berlin correspondent of the New York World the law is worded so elastically that it can be applied to almost anybody and anything not in sympathy with the Govern-ment . It bars from participation in elections any party opposed to the existing regime . Aimed primarily against the Communists , it can also be used against the whole labor movement . Not even the famous anti-Socialist legislation of the Iron Chancellor , nor the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is a wise child that can beat its own parents . Clemenceau 's original plan of a " barbed wire barrier " against Soviet Russia has failed ; now Poland proposes a wall of gallows . A T last a new thing under the sun ! Justice Guy of New York has for the first time in American history granted an injunction to a labor union against an ? employers ' association . The International Ladies ' Garment Workers , through their attorneys , Samuel Untermeyer and Morris Hillquit , contended that the manufacturers ' association was conspiring to induce or compel individual employers to break their agreement with the union and thus was doing it irreparable harm . The facts were clear , the precedents for judicial action in analogous cases where employers sought protection were overwhelming . The injunction was , perhaps , more easily procured because the clothing employers have nothing like the financial power or social prestige of the employers in , let us say , the coal industry , while the workers are well organized and represented by unusually able counsel . The injunction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present struggle and improve the - morale of the workers who have in recent years been made to feel like outlaws in the literal sense of the word . But the real value of justice Guy 's decision is that it may serve to arrest the tendency to use the injunction as a class weapon in the struggle with labor . The bosses may hesitate to employ it if it turns out to be a gun which kicks as far as it shoots . That this hope is not born of pure imagination is proved by the surprising spectacle of theNew York Times among the critics of injunctions . Editorially it quotes with approval Prof. R. F. Hoxie 's advice to labor leaders to avoid the courts on the ground that they lack flexibility of judgment on the basis of existing conditions and it concludes : " Sooner or later government by commission must supplement government by injunction . " But it took an injunction against employers to urge the Times along a road to wisdom which it never explored when outrageous injunctions were issued against the coal miners . B Y @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the present wage scale of $50 a week is maintained for Typographical Union No. 6 of New York . We know of no other important union in the country which has maintained its wage scale in the teeth of the veritable gale of reductions that has swept the country . Furthermore , the arbitration proceedings were marked by a high degree of scientific method . Unions are too often prone to rely on bluster and bluff or back-stairs trading in wage negotiations . In this case the union , aided by technical experts , presented to the arbitrator in open court a mass of concrete evidence not only upon wages in their relation to the cost of living but upon the economic condition of their employers ' business . The budget figures presented by the union evidently proved to the satisfaction of the arbitrator that $50 a week is necessary to maintain a decent American standard of living . As to business conditions , Dr. Elliott stated in his decision that " facts were presented by the union which indicated a wholesome condition in the industry . " This decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throws doubt upon the justice and wisdom of wholesale and indiscriminate wage cutting . Another , encouraging labor victory is the settlement of the strike of the Bayonne oil workers . They proposed and received a 10 per cent  --  as against a 24 per cent  --  wage cut , but they have come out of the struggle with certain definite concessions , increased confidence , and , more important than all , a well-organized union . D URING the period of government control of railroads the shop-workers were organized and obtained some 208 working rules which constituted the so-called national agreements . Soon after the railroads had been returned to their owners the executives , led by Mr. Atterbury of the Pennsylvania , appeared before the Railway Labor Board to argue , ( 1 ) against all national agreements and working rules , and ( 2 ) against each separate rule in particular . After due hearing the Board a few months ago promulgated some 24 rules of basic importance upholding , among other things , the general principle of collective bargaining . Now it has rendered a decision which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or modifies a few on the ground that they laid burdensome and wasteful conditions upon the management of shops . The Board estimates that under its new ruling the railways will save $50,000,000 . This has been generally hailed as a victory for the roads , but is it ? Actually , not only the principles of a national agreement and of collective bargaining have been upheld , but even the great majority of the particular rules under which the shop-workers were protected in their dealings with theiremployers . President Jewell of the union furthermore points out that the estimated saving in labor costs goes far toward undermining the railroad argument as to the necessity of further wage reductions . S TUDENTS of governmental psychology may be interested in learning how The Nation broke into the Atlanta Penitentiary . Thomas Walsh , who had been an Irish political prisoner at Atlanta , brought word from Eugene V. Debs that he was not allowed to see The Nation and certain other papers . In response to our telegraphic inquiry , the warden informed us : Your paper is not circulating in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Department of Justice . We took up the matter with the Attorney-General and on November 28 his assistant , Mabel Walker Willebrandt , wrote us as follows : The warden at the Atlanta Penitentiary has today been instructed to distribute to the inmates of his institution any newspapers permitted to come through the mail , provided there is nothing especially objectionable , in his opinion , in the matter which certain issues may contain . If the Government will keep political prisoners in jail , this establishment of a censorship over , instead of an embargo against , the papers they desire to read , is a step in the right direction . N an article on the convention of the American Legion at i Kansas City , printed in The Nation of November 23 , we allowed a correspondent to say that August F. Seested , general manager of the Kansas City Star , " was for a time barred from his own offices by the alien zoning rule in the midst of the war and was forced to make belated application for naturalization . " The fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German subject , and had long believed himself to be a citizen of this country through the naturalization of his father . Shortly before the United States entered the European War Mr. Seested learned that his father 's naturalization had been defective and thereupon applied for citizenship . This was granted some three months after America 's declaration of war . In the meanwhile Mr. Seested was permitted to go to his office as usual . The Nation is glad to present an accurate statement of the facts and is sorry it did injustice to Mr. Seested . Several readers have expressed their belief that town hoodlums , gamblers , and bootleggers were primarily responsible for the disorder in Kansas City and that the Legion should be judged with the same tolerance that is extended to college students celebrating after a victorious football game . We are glad to print on page 703 a letter from Maude Radford Warren expressive of this point of view . Our critics ignore , however , the vital fact that accounts agree that the police were afraid to make , and did not make , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clubs and fire their revolvers to quell disorder . This indicates what we have pointed out before , that the Legion regards itself , and is too often regarded , as a super-government above the law . Had the Legion 's officers been zealous for its reputation , they would have cooperated with the law-enforcing authorities in preventing excesses . Instead , they ignored them as many times before they have ignored outrages by groups of Legion members on the ground that the acts were " individual " and " unofficial . " T HE Tumulty narrative , winding its slow course along , has an object lesson in it for everybody . For instance , secretaries to literary men may profit from this passage found , we solemnly avow , in the chapter entitled Reservations , devoted to Mr. Wilson 's anguish over the defeat of the treaty in the Senate : I said , by way of trying to strengthen and encourage him at this , one of the critical moments of his life  --  a moment that I knew was one of despair for him : " Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume of your ' History of the American People , ' if it will not tire you . " He graciously gave his assent and I took from under my arm the volume containing an account of the famous John Jay treaty , in the defense of which Alexander Hamilton was stoned while he stood defending it on the steps of the New York City Hall . There was , indeed , a remarkable similarity between the fight over the John Jay treaty and the Versailles treaty . I read an entire chapter of Woodrow Wilson 's " History of the American People . " . . . When I concluded reading this chapter , the President 's comment was : " It is mighty generous of you to compare my disappointment over the treaty with that of Washington 's sic . You have placed me in mighty good company . The style , the grammar , and the italics are all Mr. Secretary Tumulty 's . And the tact , the tact ! S TUDENTS of the University of Havana , Cuba , have thrown a new sidelight upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their protest against the announced intention of the university authorities to confer the degree of Doctor of Laws upon General Leonard Wood and upon General E. H. Crowder . One hundred of them signed a petition of protest , and when steps were taken to discipline them the entire student body rallied to their support . So far as we can learn the university neither disciplined the students nor conferred the degrees . The opposition was directed especially against General Crowder , not so much because he was blamed as because he represented the United States . The students ' point of view is shown in the following paragraph ' from their petition : In the present crisis which this country is undergoing , without the necessary supplies in our schools , with our buildings half completed , our library lacking in books , the public teachers of the interior famished and in debt , our Government insulted and scorned as in Santo Domingo and Haiti , it is an imprudence which stings us to the core to think for a moment that our University is to be lashed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a justification for the numerous intrigues which are being perpetrated to hand over our country to foreigners . T sounds like a fairy-tale  --  the story of Argentina 's re- ception of her immigrants as told in the current Bulletin of the Pan American Union : A hotel with rooms for 6,000 " guests , " a scientific kitchen scrupulously clean in which is prepared plenty of good food , immaculate dormitories for men and women , a whole corridor of bath-rooms with hot and cold water , baths required twice a week , moving pictures of Argentina 's opportunities , hospital service , special maternity wards , and gardens open to the " hotel guests . " Mental , physical , and police certificates are the only requirements for entry ; a government employment bureau finds work for any desiring its assistance ; the government pays his railroad fare to any part of the country in which he may choose to work , keeps his family free of charge at the immigrant hotel until he has a chance to finda place for them , and teaches them industrial arts while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three months and sends them to him upon request , freight prepaid . The immigrant to Argentina who has heard tales of Ellis Island 's hard wooden bunks , thin blankets , joint lavatory for men and women , lack of baths , and sickening food , must wonder what manner of country he has come to , that both wants and welcomes him . pi BDUL BAHA , " Servant of the Glory of God , " son and successor to Baha Ullah , " the Glory of God , " is dead in Haifa , on the coast of Palestine . He was the leader of the Bahaist movement which had its origin in Persia , and for a brief time threatened to disrupt Islam . It is now almost as strong on the shores of Lake Michigan as on those of the Caspian or the Mediterranean . The original Bab was one of the amazing Eastern prophets ; he stirred the world before he was 25 , and was shot publicly in Tabriz in 1850 , before he was 30 . Stranger still in the East was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman , who , too , was killed by order of the Shah . ( The sect in those early days was . militant and did not endure persecution passively . ) The Bab 's first successor was a boy of 20 , whose brother , Baha Ullah , father of Abdul Baha , took from him active leadership . For fifty years the Babists and Bahaists have lived in exile  --  in Bagdad , Cyprus , Constantinople , Adrianople , Acre , Haifa . In his younger days Abdul Baha knew persecution ; in his later days he trod less stormy paths . A few years before the war he toured Europe and America , leaving behind memories of his broad , tolerant spirit , his dignity and kindliness . During the war he was reported to be one of General Allenby 's trusted advisers . His Western devotees write of him in extravagant terms as " the wisest being who ever walked among men " and " the manifestation of cosmic knowledge . " If his own words do not bear out such praise , they reveal a mild @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tolerance unusual in one brought up in the bitter religious hatreds of the Near East . N 0 finer figure survived the war than Lieutenant Colonel Charles W. Whittlesey . Not only was this reserved and thoughtful lawyer a hero of one of the most dramatic pieces of active fighting , but he was also the first of soldiers to speak of forgiveness and reconciliation with the enemy . His devotion to the men of his command and , indeed , to all American soldiers in the great war , outlasted demobilization . He made their sorrows and difficulties his own until at last his courage faltered under the dreadful burden of past memory and present reality and lie took his own life . When John Dos Passos wrote " Three Soldiers " some vexed critics said that his heroes were abnormal types , whose tragic fates were not characteristic of the American army at large . Yet Colonel Whittlesey 's death suggests that the experiences of war and army life even yet continue to exact an inexorable toll of sensitive natures who were acclaimed by their compatriots as heroes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soldiers who waged it do not exist , and never will , but there is too much reason to believe that Colonel Whittlesey 's suicide was but a belated consequence of the suffering which the war brought to some souls while to others it has been bringing a deterioration of moral fiber . Men have computed the loss in life and property of the great war ; they can not compute that deeper spiritual loss which the death of Colonel Whittlesey so tragically illumines.                     