@@493297

Stop the Next War ! 0NCE a nation declares war the position of its pacifist citizens becomes one of exceeding difficulty . Many normally peace-desiring persons believe pacifism in war-time to be the equivalent of disloyalty to country and kind . Whether or not such a form of oft-proclaimed pacifism " as admits an exception to its doctrine in time of war is really deserving of the name , ' few more thoroughgoing and consistent opponents of war will deny that once the nation has embarked on war the pacifist 's sphere of action is seriously restricted . He is put on , the defensive and most of his energies are absorbed in maintaining his personal position . Affirmative action must be limited largely to work of charity and relief : Any other course will be but to court martyrdom . Despite the difficulty of the pacifist 's position once the passions of war have been loosed , pacifism is not a doctrine of quietism and inaction . On the contrary , in times of peace a large portion of America 's most active and influential leaders proclaim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sincerity of such utterances is to be found less in apparently inconsistent deeds during abnormal periods of war than it is in the actual accomplishments , efforts and desires of such individuals during time of peace . For the pacifist it is only in time of peace that his work can be in any substantial degree effective . Western Europe is now passing through a period which makes these tests apply with peculiar force . Governments , ruled by the forms of democracy but in the grip of military men , are pursuing policies which unless changed must eventually lead to open warfare . These policies of armed force will only be abandoned if the pacifists of Europe and America organize the machinery of peace with greater skill and support it with greater vigor , determination , and an overwhelmingly larger body of public opinion than that which supports the mechanism of war . This is not a small task , but its accomplishment so as to replace the ways of violence and killing is the very foundation and soul of the pacifist faith . In the present condition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a point beyond which ordinary men and women , even of pacific inclinations and desires but falling short of religious faith in the effectiveness of non-resistance , will not suffer without fighting . Millions of pacifically inclined German working people have already passed beyond that point in their misery and suffering . They are restrained by lack , of arms and in some measure by memories of the futile suffering of the World War and also by some lingering hope of a peaceful solution through the help of England and America . The lack of arms can be remedied all too quickly , especially if fighting must in any case be chiefly of 6z THE NEW the guerrilla type carried on for years in Ireland . Memories of the sufferings of the war , five years ago are buried beneath the even greater misery , hunger , cold , hopelessness , degradation , and shame of the present . Faith in England and America , disappointed again and again in all but words , will soon be wholly gone as a real and restraining influence . France pushes the bayonet ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time for concealments and pretense is past . Pacifism must now accept the reality of French militarism as it should have faced and grappled with the reality of Prussian militarism before 1914 . France today , her government and foreign policy controlled by the soldiers and extreme nationalists , supported by the large industrialists , and consistently misleading the mass of the people through a subsidized press , pursues a clearcut military policy aiming at the break-up of the German Republic and the permanent subjugation of its richest and most densely peopled sections . For four years thousands of French troops have occupied and harassed the cities and villages of the German Rhineland with its 7,000,000 people . The French government has used the army as an instrument to break down the spirit of , these people and to detach their territory from the Republic ; today the army is supporting and French money is subsidizing a series of " separatist republics " in the hands of social riff-raff and armed thugs . The Ruhr , with its five or more million inhabitants , the French now proclaim they shall hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the German Republic to carry out the terms of the Treaty of Versailles . The official French press has for some time ceased even to pretend that any German government can carry out the terms of the Treaty ; but it insists that the reparations and other clauses must be kept intact for " moral reasons ; " in short , to justify the military oppression and subjection of an ancient enemy . Before the war Germany , exclusive of her colonies , was a nation of 66,000,000 people . The Peace . Treaty , besides taking away from Germany all her colonies , reduced her to approximately 60 , - 000,00o persons . Of this number 35,000,000 are today living in cities or industrial areas dependent upon complicated commercial relationships and international trade for their existence . Half of these industrialized people are unemployed and alY are in misery and ever increasing despair . Their children are starving by slow degrees ; their homes are cold ; their hearts grow ever more bitter . To these working people the German Republic of the Weimar Constitution expressed a faith in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , particularly of President Wilson , and of the armistice terms of all the Allied nations ; it also voiced a hope that a new era free from war and from human killing had finally dawned . For many years // before the war the trade union , cooperative , and working class organizations which form the real base of the German Republic had preached faith in the ideals of international pacifism and justice . But the first opportunity to practise these ideals has brought greater misery to the German people than they ever before experienced . Both the rank and file and the leadership grow daily more doubtful of their faith ; they fear that they have followed false prophets leading towards an idealistic futility , that the Republic is a source of weakness and softness of which other nations will take advantage ; even those who still cling to the faith are driven by the sheer massed weight of misery ever closer to the precipice of war . Today in the Ruhr , and in most of the cities of the Rhineland , hundreds of thousands of children are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streets looking in at store windows in which only French officers and their wives can afford to purchase ; thousands of drab men , women , and children with small wagons or packsacks wait in the cold for hours , frequently gathering in the streets before daylight , for the chance to buy a few potatoes sold slightly below market prices by semi-charitable organizations . Hospitals are without medical supplies . In the richest coal region of Europe homes and buildings are unheated , schools are closed or occupied as barracks by invading troops . Whether the storm will burst sudderily in a gust of sniping and hand-to-hand slaughter ? a Bartholomew 's Eve of sheer desperation ; or whether the people , provided by foreign charity with enough food to sustain life , will eventually resume work under foreign control and , submerged and smouldering with resentment , prepare for the day of the revanche , is perhaps not yet entirely clear . This much is clear : either policy ' will lead to war . The elements of the situation are today still in a state of flux . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which can be altered only by violence and killing . The time to prevent that is now . And the people alone who should labor to prevent it are those pacifists who are ready to act on their faith in the possibility of a solution through other means than force . In England , driven also by the force of economic necessity , these elements are gaining , if they have not already gained , the guiding hand in national policy . But England alone is incapable of handling the forces of French militarism by the ways of peace . With America 's vigorous moral and economic support it might be accomplished . It is to America 's interest and obligation to accomplish this solution , because the misery of millions of plain people in Central Europe is a challenge to Christian charity and human kindness ; because those who suffer most in Europe today are not those responsible for the World War but those weak and poor , aged , sick , and the children ; because with these plain working people America proclaimed she had no quarrel ; because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of charity even on a national scale , and successfully to feed and care for these people is to assume the burdens produced by French militarism and to smooth the path towards the permanent subjection and industrial serfdom of the people ; ' because it is to America 's economic self-interest as an exporter of food-stuffs and manufactured goods to restore her markets in Germany , in all Europe and in England which is in turn dependent for its trade and prosperity on the prosperity and trade of Germany ; because a permanent running sore in the Ruhr and Rhineland must ultimately infect America also , if not by early participation in war at least by the immediate spread of the disease of armament races in the air and under the sea ; because America 's participation in the war and her war propaganda places her under direct moral obligation to the German people ? as well as to those American boys and young men who died in the World War in the faith that their sacrifice was in the cause of the last great war , the war which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or wrong the path which those in America who actively desire peace must follow is clear-cut and definite . An overwhelming preponderance of informed andinsistent public sentiment must be organized to protest against the French military policy . Without such mobilized and alert opinion no American government is likely to act and any action which might be taken without the support of such opinion is likely to be of little effect . With such backing American and British action together may be able to check the French government and demand the following of those policies in regard to reparations and otherwise which will reestablish order and permit the rebuilding of a spirit and of policies under which the nations of Europe may come to live in mutually respectful harmony and friendship . But even though the French military have already gone so far that they will no longer listen to the peaceful protests of governments who oppose their will , even then the deluded French working people and peasants may be awakened against a French governmental policy which has ranged the most powerful of France 's former allies in opposition and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condemnation of the principal peoples of the world . To accomplish this result is the practical task facing pacifists in America today . How they fulfill that task will demonstrate their ability to replace by sheer excess of energy , organizing skill , intelligence , unyielding faith and determination , the system of militarism , violence and war which they abhor .                     