@@493306

Zfie NeW REPUBLIC A Journal of Opinion VOLUME XXXVII NEW YORK , WEDNESDAY , DECEMBER 5 , 1923 NUMBER 470 48 The Week STRESEMANN now takes his place with Cuno and Wirth , as one more German Chancellor who has been overthrown , not because his policies were unwise or his actions indiscreet , but because he was made the scapegoat for the unhappy plight in which his country finds itself . Dr. Heinrich Albert , best known in America as German agent in this country during the early days of the war , now becomes head of a government the powerlessness of which is indicated by the fact that it is from the beginning without a majority in the Reichstag . At best , the new Cabinet will be but a stopgap , a conventional screen for the von Seekt dictatorship . No middle ground government in Germany at present can have any importance , nor long survive , with 20,000,000 of the population in danger of starvation , with the Rhineland and the Ruhr abandoned to the French , with Bavaria dominated by the Monarchists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new already beginning to go in the same direction . The only " policy " which seems possible for Berlin justnow is to seek to stave off the catastrophe a little longer , by temporary measures . FOR the plight ' of Germany , of course , the policy of the Allies , and France in particular , is mainly responsible . The leaders of the German Republic have undoubtedly done unwise things ; but no amount of wisdom and courage on their part could have surmounted the difficulties which have been put in their road . For the present , as the vote of confidence given him last week indicated , there is no hope that Poincare will alter his policy . His concessions to Baldwin on the question of the Crown Prince and the security of the Allied Military Control Commission were patently intended only to help the present British government to remain in power , and to avert if possible the return of Lloyd George . France is committed by no pledges which bind her to modify the general policy she has pursued ever since 1918 . Eventually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her course . She is headed toward bankruptcy , the burden on her taxpayers grows increasingly heavy , and is made worse by the continued issue of tax-exempt securities to meet present needs . Italy has served notice that she will not follow further , Belgium is growing restive , even the Little Entente can not be expected to acquiesce indefinitely in a policy which moves steadily closer to the brink of another general war , for which the small nations are ill-prepared , and which might take from them much or all that they have gained since 1914 . France has elected , to play a desperate game for high stakes . If she loses , she loses all . THE RUHR industrialists , having made the best of a bad bargain , will now proceed to pass along the burden , in so far as they can , to their workmen . By the terms of the settlement an immediate payment to France of a quarter of a billion francs is to be made , to be followed by eighteen percent of the mine output . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cost of the Ruhr occupation , for which purpose a special tax of ten francs a ton is to be levied on coal . For the industrialists , the settlement means that , faced with the ruin of their properties , they have chosen to salvage what they can . For M. Poincare , it means a victory which he can use to good political effect at home . For the Ruhr population , it means a chance to go to work , at a moment when they were confronted by starvation . So much has happened since France occupied the Ruhr eleven months ago that the weary and buffeted public opinion of the world will probably accept the settlement with the relief which marks a brief recession in the temperature of one ill with a raging fever . LLOYD GEORGE is himself again . He won one election on the promise to hang the Kaiser and make Germany pay the cost of the war . It was a trick on the electorate and Lloyd George knew it was nothing more , but it got results . Now he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was bluffed , he maintains , into funding the debt . Under the settlement the British taxpayer is paying the American income tax . This is nonsense , and Lloyd George knows it . He knows that a settlement practically on Baldwin 's terms was essential to the maintenance of friendly relations between Britain and America . If it comes hard on the British taxpayer to raise the annual sums fixed in the agreement , he ought to remember that a good part of the principal of the loan was squandered in backing the Russian counter revolution and sending the Greeks to defeat in Anatolia , and he ought to remember further that while Lloyd George may attack the settlement he has no intention of disturbing it . Lloyd George is simply capitalizing the taxpayer 's grievance for his own benefit . THE confusion and uncertainty of the British election are redoubled by the sudden action of the twin journalistic giants , Lords Rothermere and Beaverbrook . These gentlemen who between them have an almost monopolistic control of the popular press of Great Britain , have not only deserted Mr. Baldwin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desire the country to follow . Lord Beaverbrook wants a ship subsidy , and high tariffs on foodstuffs imported from other sources than the dominions . Lord Rothermere wants a farm bounty of ten dollars an acre . Platform making of this sort by journalists whose sole claim to public consideration is their fat check books which enable them to buy up the newspaper circulation other men 's brains have created , is a new phenomenon and one with disturbing potentialities . SIGNS of decreasing hostility between the two chief factions in Ireland 's civil war have appeared at the moment when , it is interesting to note , anti-Semitism has become a menace serious enough to produce talk of possible pogroms . The numerous Republican prisoners in Free State jails who were participating in hunger strikes have abandoned them , and it is hinted that a general amnesty may be granted by Christmas . The hunger strike is a weapon which has lately lost effectiveness . In practice , it amounts to no more than committing suicide in the enemy 's hands . If he is resolute enough to permit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ device is so familiar that it no longer has much publicity value , it accomplishes little or nothing . In the present instance , the morale of the strikers was injured by two things . The first man to die was buried quietly ( though with full ritual ) inside the prison walls , which prevented an heroic public funeral . Also , it was discovered that Mr. De Valera , the Republican president , was not joining in the hunger strike . He refrained from doing so , it appears , on orders ' from his Cabinet . No doubt their decision to save the captain and let the common soldiers die if necessary was sensible enough ; but tame acquiescence in a policy so canny is sure to injure the Republican leader 's prestige . A. STIFF fight will be waged in the coming Congress over the ratification of the treaty negotiated between the United States and Turkey during the course of the Lausanne conference . A group of American citizens , headed by James W. Gerard , former ambassador to Germany , and including in particular the friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York and launched a campaign against ratification of the treaty on the ground that it is " morally indefensible , humiliating and purposeless , " that it abrogates the capitulations which have been in force since 1832 , forces virtual cessation of the work of American missionaries and educators in Turkey and constitutes a betrayal of our pledges to the Armenians . The Angora government has not kept its promises in the past and there is no reason to assume that it will do so now , according to these critics ; moreover , it is very weak , and likely to fall , even if it is not forced into civil war , as seems probable . Mr. Gerard and his associates maintain that over against all these disadvantages , the treaty sets the solitary argument of protection for the Chester concessions ? of dubious value , and now no longer controlled by Americans . They ask that we should not " compromise our honor in the Near East " by signing a treaty now which will gravely embarrass us in dealing with the government which they think is sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SENATOR CAPPER 'S plan for increasing the estate tax on exempt securities , if constitutional , would be . a step in the right direction . It would not , however , solve the problem completely . As we showed in our last issue , of the estates , filed in 1922 , tax exempt securities represented less than eight percent of all property . This would indicate that the total volume of such securities in estates of $50,000 and over is not more than $7,000,000 , - 000 , less than one quarter of the volume outstanding . Three-quarters of the tax exempt securities would still escape the obligation to contribute to the federal revenues . Besides , if the tax were heavy , men who considered themselves poor risks , would take pains to rid themselves of this kind of investment . The popular criticism of tax exemption rests on the assumption that it adds to the power of accumulation of the rich . If it does , the proper remedy would appear to be an increase in the general estate tax rather than a special levy on such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of decease . THERE are two sides to every question ? even to the question of tax exemption . The principle was adopted in the first place under the assumption that men would pay more for a security yielding a given rate of return if it were non-taxable . Or , what amounts to the same thing , they would buy at par a low rate tax exempt bond , while taxable bonds would have to pay a higher rate . Thus the state issuing tax exempt securities would be relieved of part of the interest charge it would otherwise have to meet . If it lost revenue through tax exemption , it made a corresponding gain through reduction in , the interest charge . And if the bondholder escaped taxes , he suffered a corresponding reduction in income . Few tax reformers are willing to entertain this view even for a moment . Tax exemption is morally wrong , they assert , and there is an end of it . We do not like dogmatism , even on the right side . Therefore we should like to see a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the basis of the facts . If it is such a great privilege for the rich , why do they not avail themselves of it more freely than the estate tax figures indicate ? SHERWOOD ANDERSON 'S Many Marriages has got a London editor into trouble . William Parker Evans , who edits the Sporting Times , was sentenced to serve four months in prison and pay costs of ? 50 " for sending by post indecent print and publishing an obscene libel . " The obscene matter appears to have consisted of extracts from the novel , which the writer of the review , Louis McQuilland , characterized as not even passionate , but cold as a laundry bill . The recorder , in his instructions to the jury , said that literary people lived in a world of their own , and that the jury were there not to protect literary people , but ordinary people who bought such newspapers on the bookstands . According to this , a jury would probably have to protect ordinary people from reading a paper that printed certain extracts from the Bible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was intended for ordinary people seems evident from its title : " The Naked Truth About an American Family . " THE Christian Science Monitor has lately been advocating a plan which was put forward some time ago by Bernard M. Baruch , and endorsed by President Harding on the tour which ended in his death . The proposal is that in the event of war capital should be conscripted just as men are . No one would make any profit out of war operations , and whatever the government needed it would command . The Monitor 's discussion has drawn forth an amazingly frank protest from Mr. Fred I. Kent , vice-president of the Bankers ' Trust Company of New York , who opposes any such plan and wants future wars conducted as in the past , with funds " obtained in a way that will disturb the business life as little as possible . " He implies that the owner of wealth is distinctly less loyal than the common man , when he says that " the conscription of capital always results in capital running to cover in so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital . . . . would naturally do everything in their power to prevent conscription . " " By a judicious combination of taxes and flotation of government securities , " Mr. Kent avers , " governments can raise such funds as they require to carry on war far more effectively than if any system of conscription of capital were developed It is quite a wrong notion to consider that a man who is killed or wounded is any better off because money has been taken away from those who have it MR . KENT , to be sure , is opposing only a straw man of his own creation . No one has suggested that the outbreak of hostilities should be the occasion for a seizure , complete and permanent , of the wealth of the nation . The plan merely provides that all non-military effort in war , the manufacture of munitions and equipment , the transportation and feeding of soldiers , etc. , should be conducted without profit ? in other words , that the civilian who hides at home and contributes to the military effort merely by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the one who risks his life in the trenches for thirty dollars a month . Mr. Kent overlooks the fact that the proposal is not intended merely to to make war efficient but also to make it unpopular . While the degi:ee to which the desire to make money aids in producing war is often overrated , it is of great importance ; and the preservation of peace is made doubly hard as long as it continues to exist . The real belief which ordinarily lies behind such views as Mr. Kent 's is that property has rights which are more sacred to its owners than is his life itself to the individual who has nothing else . Such has always been the point of view of most capitalists and has not infrequently been expressed in legislation . It is the fear that this system of preference will be altered which , whether they know it or not , dominates the opponents of the plan to lessen to some degree the inequality in the burden which war lays on the various classes . ADVOCATES of birth control won a notable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago Circuit Court , granted a petition for mandamus to compel the city authorities to issue a license for a birth control clinic . Of course the case may be taken higher , and there be reversed , or the clinic may be attacked by a criminal prosecution after it has been established . There is still a long fight ahead , as is evident from the argument presented by Chicago 's assistant corporation counsel in opposition , which he backed by quotations from the Bible in favor of unlimited families . But this decision is a strong foothold at any rate , and marks the furthest legal point so far reached by the workers for birth control . THE United States has taken one step toward restoring itself in the eyes of its Latin American neighbors which in recent years have grown distrustful of our policies , and with good reason , because of what we have done in the Caribbean and Central America and by our conduct in such international gatherings as the Pan-American Conference at Santiago , Chile , last March . Our State Department has just announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South American nation mutual commercial treaties providing for " most favored nation " treatment as regards tariffs . The action , to be sure , is the result of business acumen as well as diplomatic amiability . We export to these countries as well as import from them , and they are as able to impose drastic duties as we are . Nevertheless , the State Department 's proposal is fair-minded , and based on justice in that it is offered all the Latin countries alike . WHILE the United States is busy at Ellis Island keeping down its population increase , Frenchmen , with an eye to the future , continue to suggest ways of increasing theirs . Under the present law , children born in France of a French mother and a foreign father have the right to adopt his nationality when they come of age , and are hence exempt from conscription in the French army . Legislation has been started to change this law and so add about 30,000 more available conscripts every year . French women , under another proposed measure , would have the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have lost through foreign marriages . The country which boasts the military domination of the continent at present will , if these bills pass , have converted one more of its potential resources into available form , doubtless - under the theory that every little bit helps . THE theory that your scientists are your true poets nowadays is well maintained by the content of the recent lectures by Dr. Niels Bohr of the University of Copenhagen , who has been in this country expounding his Nobel-prize-winning theories of the structure of the atom . Dr. Bohr reduces all matter to an ultimate basis of electricity by proving the electrical composition of the atoms which make up chemical elements . A normal atom consists of a nucleus or proton , positively charged , about which rotate negatively charged electrons , like planets about the sun . Though he stresses the analogy between atomic organization and the solar system , he also points out that the same laws do not apply to both , since the atom has a sort of elasticity or stability which the solar system lacks . Electrons can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and then return to their former position in a way that planets can not . Our solar system could not be " ionized , " for instance , by the projection of Venus and Saturn into new orbits about Betelgeuse , without sensational dislocations of astral harmony . But the ability of electrons to pass from one proton to another , resulting in net ' positive or negative charges , is the basis of molecular combination and chemical action of light radiation and radioactivity . Such are the peculiarities of the human mind that persons who get excited about Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 's PeterPan-like belief in fairies can read this sort of thing and then , with a yawn , pass on to the sporting news . CONTROLLER CHARLES L. CRAIG of New York City is confronted , as we go to press , by the prospect of spending sixty days in jail , on order of Federal Judge Julius M. Mayer , for contempt of court . The contempt referred to was involved in a letter Mr. Craig wrote to Lewis Nixon , then Public Service Commissioner , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public officials information from original sources about the affairs of the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company , which was bankrupt and operating under a Federal receivership . Mr. Craig 's statement , referred , it appears to Judge Mayer 's failure to appoint him a co-receiver of the company ; but the Judge , characterizing it as a misstatement which " obstructed justice " imposed the jail sentence . Mr. Craig carried the case to the Supreme Court on habeas corpus proceedings , lost , and must now apologize to the Judge , receive a pardon from President Coolidge , or serve his term . We hope he chooses the last-named course . He will survive the sojourn in jail ; and the incident will then be most useful in calling attention to the steadily-growing tendency of the bench to invoke contempt proceedings in order to suppress criticism which to the layman seems to come easily within the limits of legitimate public discussion . An inquiry into the legal aspects has been ordered by President Coolidge , and a Congressional investigation of the whole matter is now promised . The latter will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out clearly that the actions of a Judge are sacrosanct only in so far as is legitimately necessary to facilitate the operations of justice .                     