@@493270

The New REPUBLIC A Journal of Opinion VOLUME XXXIII NEW YORK , WEDNESDAY , DECEMBER 20 , 1922 NUMBER 4/o The Week MUCH the most interesting passage in Mr. Lloyd George 's first contribution to the Sunday edition of the Hearst papers is not his reference to the danger of the permanent military occupation of the Rhineland by France . It is his statement that if France should permanently occupy the Rhineland , its action " would not merely provide an incentive to Germany to renew war but Would justify and dignify the attack by converting it into a war of liberation . " And he warns the . French that in such an event " the sympathies of America and Great Britain will be openly ranged on the side of those who are fighting for national freedom . " As usual the French politicians and press have denounced Mr. Lloyd George for misrepresenting their intentions , but his warning was timely and necessary . The present French government is almost certainly bluffing . It is trying to terrorize both Germany and its former Allies to insure France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The answer to its demands is not to humor them , as so many well-intentioned people insist , but firmly to deny them . France should have been informed long ago that her grievances , considerable as they are , do not justify her in erecting her own title to security into an excuse for an attack on German liberties and upon the peace of Europe . We sincerely trust that the Bonar Law government will follow the advice given by Mr. John Maynard Keynes and unite with generous proposals about reparations and war debts a firm declaration that , if M. Poincare does make good his threats of violence , the British government would " not be content with passive protest but would invite to joint consultation the leading governments of the world . " If the American government could not participate in such a consultation , it should public ? ly and emphatically declare its sympathy with the British revolt against French terrorism . SECRETARY MELLON may be right , financially , in his view that the super-tax ought to be reduced . Every income tax tempts evasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But politically Secretary Mellon is all wrong . The country is not in the least disposed to lighten the burdens of the rich . And that is what reducing the super-tax looks like . That , moreover , is what it is . Secretary Mellon assumes that the rich will be so much less disposed to evade the tax , lawfully or unlawfully , that their aggregate payments to the Treasury will be greater under the lower rates . His argument does not , however , carry conviction . If he had desired to make his plan acceptable to progressive sentiment he should have proposed additional taxes which would reach the same class and offset the relief given by the reduction in the super-tax . Increased inheritance taxes and a restoration of the excess profits tax would be a fair exchange for the higher percent ages of the super-tax . THE difficulty of collecting the income tax offers a needed reminder of the folly of our wartime fiscal legislation . We knew at the time that the cost of modern war is too colossal to be covered by any peace-time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealth as well as man power . We should have distributed the expenses of the war among the property holders on a stiffly graduated scale . The nation would then have had no war debt , and the collective property owners would by this time have made great strides toward disburdening themselves , through savings or liquidation , of the charges assessed upon them . There would have been no problem of evasion once the distribution had been made , since nothing but a bona fide bankruptcy could afford an avenue of escape from the levy . Next time ? if there must be a next time ? we shall assess the war costs directly upon the men who have property . And if the prospect is not pleasing to the propertied classes , they know what they can do about it . They can start right now to be conscientious objectors to war and to all the policies that lead to war . EXEMPTION of any kind of income from taxation is wrong in principle . It works to create a class of income recipients who have no direct concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rise or fall : it is all one to them . In theory , to be sure , they pay for the privilege what it is worth . They accept a smaller income than they might otherwise command . In theory the tax free nobles and clergy of the ancient regime in France had paid for their privileges . Nevertheless those privileges became so onerous in time that they represented one of the chief objects of revolutionary attack . In the United States the tax free privilege presents a vice peculiar to our form of government . The investor buys his tax free privilege from the states ; the loss of revenue falls to the federal government . The case for a constitutional amendment limiting the states ' right to grant tax exemption is a strong one . PRESIDENT HARDING in one of his recent talks with the Washington correspondents went out of his way to defend the long interval which elapses between the election of a new Congress and its first session . He considered it expedient to give the voters and their constituents time to cool oft before providing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action . This defence of the existing law and practice is reminiscent of the kinds of objection to democracy which the political psychologists of the eighteenth century used to flourish . The dangers of democracy rarely arise from a prevailing disposition on the part of the voters to explode in foolish and hot-headed behavior . They arise rather from the disposition of the voters to accept lethargically the many unnecessary but familiar abuses and misfits in. the institutions and public policies of their countries . Mr. Harding 's attitude towards this obvious and reasonable reform seems to be dictated by the momentary exigencies of his own personal policy . He is forcing through the surviving Congress a ship subsidy bill which the next Congress ? which is actually more nearly representative of existing public opinion ? would infallibly reject . It is he who needs to slow down , not the voters and their new representatives . ON December 18th hearings will be held before the Committee on Banking and Currency on a bill which , if it could become a law , would work more effectively toward economic justice and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in decades . We refer to Congressman Goldsborough 's bill " to Stabilize the Purchasing Power of Money . " The method it applies is well known through the works of Professor Irving Fisher . Vary at need the metal content of the " gold dollar " in the reserves on which the currency is based . When prices measured in gold rise , increase the gold in the " dollar " proportion ? ately ; when prices fall , reduce it . By this plan a hundred dollars in currency would command approximately the same volume of the necessities of life , from month to month and from decade to decade . It would establish increased security and definiteness for all financial transactions extending over a , period of time . In buying life insurance , for example , one would know that his dependents would actually secure the purchasing power requisite to decent living . As matters stand now no one can tell what the fluctuations in prices may do to the money benefits he contracts for . Most important of all , the plan would do away with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes in the price level ' Most strikes are called either to force up wages when prices rise , or to resist wages cutting when prices fall . They are the direct product of a defect in our monetary system for which Mr. Golds-borough 's bill offers a radical cure . DEMILITARIZATION of the Dardanelles has a pacific sound , but it is quite possible that a future war lurks in it . Demilitarized or not , the Straits are free to all commercial vessels in peacetime ' The issue concerns only war , and even in war only Russia and the Western naval powers ; Russia defensively and the Western powers offensively. 1f the Straits were effectively closed to war vessels Russia would need no fleet in the Black Sea , nor Would she need to fortify the coast cities . She would be as safe from attack as we are with our command of the approaches to the Gulf of Mexico . If the Straits remain open , any Western naval Power can attack Russia where she is most vulnerable . It goes ' without saying that no government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will endure such a menace indefinitely . Sooner or later the Imperial Russian ambition for the control of the Straits will reassert itself . If the . Allies are sincerely desirous of peace in the Near East they ought to seek a less provocative formula for the disposition of the Straits . UNTIL we have details of the kind that never get on the cables , it will be too early to reach any large conclusions about the capture of Tsingtao and surrounding territory by Chinese bandits just as the Japanese were about to evacuate . The coincidence of foray and impending evacuation is the Point of the affair , and it may not be entirely coincidence . The details may reveal that the bandits had long enjoyed immunity under Japanese protection and that they were equipped with Japanese arms . Two years ago that would have been the inescapable conclusion . Such was the regular Japanese procedure whenever about to evacuate under pressure territory Japan was illegally occupying . Then the government could say that only Japanese troops could maintain order . The apparent change in Japan 's attitude , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusion now . In both places Japan seems to have lived up to her pledges in spirit as well as letter and there may be injustice in imputing sinister motives . THE arms incident in Siberia , however , gives ground for doubt . The Japanese did clear out of Siberia , but just as they were leaving it was disclosed that a large supply of arms , held over from the inter-Allied expedition , had been slipped out of Vladivostok , some going to the White Guards and Japan 's to Chang Tso-lin in Mukden . The latter is Japan 's dummy in Manchuria and has acted before as intermediary between the Japanese military and reactionary Russians in Japanese pay . If there are any of the latter left who have not had their fill of counter-revolutions under Japanese auspices they will have a storehouse from which to draw supplies . In answer to Japanese public indignation , the War Office has made a lame explanation , blaming the wrongful disposal of the arms on a ? nor staff officer , one Major Hara . How a single officer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ munitions undetected was not explained , but , major Hara came forward manfully with a confession , was court-martialed , sentenced to two years ' imprisonment and sentence suspended . This is not the first time that a subordinate officer has consented to act as scapegoat in the name of patriotism , as the Japanese General Staff sees patriotism , and nobody in Japan pretends to be deceived . Coming after the Siberian incident , the Tsingtao bandit raid has all the appearances of a parallel . The Japanese may be evacuating both Shantung and Siberia with reservations . Healthy as are all the latest signs in Japan , it is too early to say more than that while the militarists sit less easily in the saddle they are far from unhorsed . THOSE of us who have declared ourselves friends of the Irish Free State have had this friendship put to a severe test . The execution ? why not call it murder ? ? of O'Connor , McKelvey , Mellowes and Barrett as a reprisal for the murder ? or assassination ? of Deputy Sean Hales shakes one 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation and justification of the killings is bloody and vindictive talk . Terror will be met with terror . The decision was taken " not in anger but after the coldest of cold discussion . " One wonders if the decision was not affected by fear , one sees no reason why this fear should not grow , nor anything to prevent the ratio of four dead men for one dead man being increased . Does the Free State government , because it is . attacked by what Mr. Mulcahy , the Minister of Defence , calls " by the British ? Pierce Butler and the Rule of Reason PRESIDENT HARDING is not himself a stupid man , but in appointing Mr. Pierce Butler an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court , he has perpetrated from his own conservative point of view an extraordinarily stupid mistake . He has jeopardized in the minds of a large and increasing body of his fellow countrymen the good faith of an institution which is for many reasons peculiarly dependent for its sufficient functioning upon general popular confidence . He has jeopardized it so flagrantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation of the mistake . He simply does not and can not understand what has happened and is threatening to happen to the traditional distribution of economic and sectional power in American life . He does not understand how essential a moderate and states ? manlike Supreme Court is to prevent the redistri                     