@@467663

IN the year 1950 what we now call our I coal problem will have passed into history . For Americans of the next generation it will be one with the maze of new problems brought into being by the giant forces of the Industrial Revolution . When through the steam engine and the power loom the elemental energy of coal first poured out into the world it overwhelmed old habits and modes of life , uprooted millions of peasants from the soil and herded them into factories , drove other millions from their ancestral homes to strange new lands across the seas . We are in the preliminary stages of another such technical revolution today . Forces are abroad certain to transform the technical structure of our contemporary civilization , and radically alter our habits and modes of life . As in the eighteenth century , so in the twentieth the new revolution awaits the unchaining of the Firebringer , coal . Even among experts it is the present fashion to attribute our fuel and power difficulties to what they call the overdevelopment of the coal industry . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like explaining hunger by excessive agricultural production . The experts stress the fact that the coal industry is equipped to produce eight hundred million tons annually , although the market has never taken more than some five or six hundred millions , which could easily be mined by some two hundred thousand fewer men than the industry now intermittently employs . This they call the disease of the coal industry which breeds unrest and strikes among the miners , harasses thee operators VoL . CXLVIL ? No. 881. - 77with the problems of a periodically glutted market and subjects the consumers to the penalties of intensely speculative competition in a. basic commodity . But these evils will not be remedied until the technicians grapple with the coal problem as fundamentally one of under-utilization and remove the barriers which now cheek the free flow of the stored energy of coal . To fulfill the legitimate aspirations of the great masses of mankind toward a richer and more abundant life we need a steadily increasing volume of mechanical energy applied to the production of all those things upon which the advance of civilization depends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ odd fact that , with the largest coal deposits in the world , with reserves footing up into the thousands of billions of tons , we yet perennially suffer from fuel and power shortages . Why is this so ? John Maurice Clark of the University of Chicago proposes that we take as a working hypothesis what he calls a non-Euclidean view of certain of the orthodox economic axioms , stand them on their heads and examine them upside down . Take the orthodox proposition : Capital , including machinery , consists of instruments of production utilized by human beings for the production of wealth . Inverted , it becomes : Human beings are instruments of production utilized by machines for the machines ' increase and.biological development . More startling than the heresy itself is the aptness of the inversion to the present state of our coal industry which staggers under the load of a mechanical equipment - inherited from the eighteenth century , an equipment grown gouty and hardened of artery , and utterly incapable of meeting the needs of our contemporary life . The old race of machines , our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are choking the channels of energy whose free flow is the very life of our civilization . Their paralyzing influence is most glaringly manifest along the Atlantic seaboard ? the Finishing Shop of America ? although it is spreading rapidly into the industrial life of the communities dependent upon the coal fields of the Mississippi Valley . Our richest veins of high-rank coal underlie the Appalachian trough , probably the greatest single reservoir of mechanical energy in the world . Out of them have come in sequence cheap power , iron and steel , the rails that bind the United States together , the machines that produce our wealth . Since they were opened population and industrial activity both within and without the trough have enormously increased . In spite of the depletion of some of the best mines , the immediately contiguous industries do not suffer from fuel and power shortages , though their costs of production have increased . But their prosperity depends upon the prosperity of industry outside the trough and upon the increase and prosperity of the consuming population . The Appalachian trough , as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrow passes set definite limits to the number of tracks that can be squeezed through them . Moreover , the demand for coal reaches its peak at the very time when the farmers need cars and engines to get their harvests to market . The result is that year after year , especially when mining is uninterrupted by lockouts or strikes and industry is generally prosperous , the railroads are jammed ; perennially at the time of greatest demand they become a barrier to the essential flow of the heat and mechanical energy of coal . On either side of this barrier , and because of it , the currents of life grow stagnant , the fiber of the body politic becomes an.mmic and flaccid , the pioneering vitality of the nation is balked . In this sense of strangulated accumulation the coal industry is indeed over-developed . But our coal-producing capacity , although it is now far in excess of what our antiquated machines permit us to use , would not . exceed our requirements if we could maintain a consistent rate of industrial and social development . In business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the earth is aroused by our clamor for all the fuel and power he can give us , but the moment he puts forth his full energy the railroad harrier rises , transportation breaks down , industry is alarmed by threatened fuel shortage , business boom turns to business depression , the industrial cycle plunges down from peak to valley , and the discouraged giant sinks back into demoralized sloth . Other elements , of course , enter into the business cycle , but this is not the least of them . So the ruiners become the victims of intermittent employment , the operators swing from feast to famine , and the consumers pay the piper but can not call the tune . For both the miners and the operators service to what should he the steadiest of all industries turns into a , gamble . Everybody comes to play for the boom . The expectation of high prices when the boom is on infests the industry with speculators whose interest in coal is on a par with the bookmaker 's interest in horses . Outside of the monopolistically controlled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steel mills and the larger public utilities , the coal trade has become a crude kind of Monte Carlo . The chances of a lucky hundred-to-one shot lead the speculators not only to risk the cost of the minimum necessary equipment of mines they may never take the trouble to set eyes upon , but also to entice thousands of miners into remote mining camps on the lure of boom prices and wages , although the chances of regular operation match the chance of a lucky draw in a lottery . - During the thirty years prior to 1919 the average number of days worked in the bituminous fields ( bituminous is our industrial fuel , anthracite almost exclusively domestic ) was 215 out of a possible working year of 308 days . Since this was the average , the actual working year for many thousands of millers was necessarily far less . In 1919 the average was 195 days ; in 1921 , only 169 days . Such intermittency largely accounts for the twin phenomena of bankruptcies and profiteering , high-wage scales and low per-annum earnings . It is because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per-diem wage that is often regarded as high in spite of the excessive hazards of their occupation . Their phenomenal endurance as strikers when their wage scale is threatened is due to their knowledge that any cut in the scale would result in less than a bare subsistence for most of them in terms of annual income . There are flourishing and attractive , mining towns , but the typical mining village is drab and desolate beyond belief . In the midst of the richest stores of mechanical energy in the world , energy that should be liberating mankind for the cultivation of the good life , millions of men , women and children struggle in a slough of brutalizing poverty , unable to escape not only because they live remote from all other industries , but also because when their industry slackens all other industries slow down or stop . The endemic speculative fever necessarily leads to the wasteful gutting of the best and most easily worked mines . Shortsighted methods of driving headings and entries into the seams and the generally crude organization of underground work not only limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time which they spend at the face of the coal , but also pat beyond recovery at least one ton for every ton brought to the surface . Forty years ago the mammoth vein at Pittsburghwas thought to be good for at least a hundred years , but the United States Geological Stirvey now warns us that with present methods of mining it will he done for in a single generation . The part of this same vein underlying Georges Creek , once certified as good for one hundred and fifty years , is practically worked out . Since the present commercial value of coal depends largely upon the thickness of the vein and its nearness to the market , the gutting of these best seams means that in spite of the almost limitless reserves spread out over the country as a whole , the amount of coal within economical reach of the market has seriously decreased . Such waste goes on at the mines . But the wastes at the points of consumption , due to the perpetuation of our inherited raw-coal consuming mechanical equipment , are greater still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrated that of every 2,000 pounds of coal mined , 600 pounds are lost in the processes of mining , 31 pounds are consumed in these processes , 95 are used in transportation or lost en route to the boiler room , 446 go up the stack , 102 are lost in radiation and in the ash pit , 650 are lost in converting heat into mechanical energy , and only 76 pounds ? slightly less than four per cent -- -are finally converted into mechanical energy . Values that should be capitalized to improve mining methods and equipment , reduce mining accidents , electrify the railroads , cheapen power in the factory and in the home and so advance industrial efficiency and raise the national standard of life , the old machines squander for their uwn parasitic perpetuation . What are the values so lost and which must be salvaged if we are to overthrow the old race of machines ? Everyone who has used a gas lamp or stove , or has turned an electric switch , has a clue to the answer . Everyone who has seen the great steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or the Keokuk Dam on the Mississippi , or the Roosevelt Dam at the headwaters of the Salt River in the Arizona Desert , or the harnessed waters of California , has some prevision of the technical revolution that is destined not only to put our rivers to work in the economic service of mankind , but also to remove the barriers from the path of coal upon which even after our available hydro-electric energy has been developed the progress of our industrial civilization will continue to depend . For coal is no more simply coal to burn than the food we eat is simply raw grain or cattle or fish . Bituminous coal is electricity , gas , coke , benzol , tar , and their countless derivatives . According to Gilbert and Pogue in their analysis of the Energy Resources of the United States made for the Smithsonian Institution , one short ton of bituminous coal contains 1,500 pounds of smokeless fuel , upward of 10,000 cubic feet of gas , 22 pounds of ammonium sulphate , 21A gallons of benzol , and 9 gallons of tar . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differ greatly in character and the volume of their constituents . But it is approximately true of most coal entering commerce . The primary uses of gas and smokeless fuel are obvious ; but it is not generally realized that more than a thousand by-products of coal , ranging from high explosives to medicines , from dyes to moth balls , from roofing to fertilizers , have established themselves in the world 's markets . Yet the money value of these commodities wasted by our present methods of burning coal , Gilbert and Pogue , taking the market prices of 1915 , figured at a total of two billion dollars a year ? almost a half billion more than the total selling price at the mines of the entire bituminous coal output in 1920 . It was this situation created by our continued adherence to an antiquated mechanical equipment that led the late Franklin K. Lane as Secretary of the Interior to say that , if the war had lasted until 1920 , America , with all her coal and other fuel reserves , would have faced an acute power shortage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and social life must create such a shortage , more slowly than the highkeyed pressure of war , but quite as certainly . He , therefore , prevailed upon Congress to finance a survey of the power resources of the Finishing Shop of America , the region along the Atlantic from Washington to Boston and one hundred and fifty miles inland . The commission charged with this survey worked out a superpower system based primarily - upon the conversion of coal into electricity via the turbine steam engine either at strategic centers in the coal fields or at strategic industrial centers , but integrating steam electricity with hydro-electricity from the dynamos at Niagara and similar generating stations to be built on the Potomac , in the Berkshires , and elsewhere . So rapid has been the progress of invention , that this superpower plan , though hardly three years old , is already in many particulars out of date . It was pivoted upon generating plants already existing or to be established in the principal seaboard towns to which raw coal would have to be carried , apparently on the assumption that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by-product coal industry had not become commercially established on a sufficient scale to make the by-products an important factor in the solution of our power problem . But already the demand for by-product coke crowds the supply , manufactured gas is being piped for long distances under pressure , and the inventions of men like Steinmetz have largely overcome the difficulties thought to be inherent in the economical transmission of heavy currents of electricity . It becomes increasingly clear that the solution of the power problem , both of the great eastern manufacturing region and also of the growing manufacturing region of the middle Mississippi Valley will come principally by way of giant power steam electric plants , designed for by-product recovery , and established at the mines . For throughout these major manufacturing regions coal will always remain the primary source of power ; physical limitations will keep hydro-electricity simply an auxiliary of coal . The total energy requirement of the zone covered by the Lane survey , as calculated by the commission for 1930 , will be thirty-one billion kilowatt-hours , of which at most one-fifth can be supplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very great importance of necessary hydroelectric development . It has been estimated that complete utilization of the available water power of Niagara would yield energy equivalent to the total actually developed by the steam engines of New York State and reduce by millions of tons the present necessary transportation of coal . The future industrial and agricultural development of regions like California , which have little or no coal , will depend very largely upon waterpower electricity and upon the irrigation which the projected hydro-electric dams will make possible . The magnificent enterprise of the Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario is drawing hundreds of municipalities and townships together into a vigorous cooperative commonwealth . But for the thickly populated areas of the United States , both in the Mississippi Valley and in the eastern states , the technical revolution is coining by way of the integration of hydro-electric energy with the vaster energy to be derived from coal . These are not theoretical speculations . The building of the new technical structure has been in process for more than a decade . Already the results obtained from the increasingly scientific production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electric current to the domestic consumer , established when electricity was produced in small experimental plants and was regarded as a luxury , is 10 cents per kilowatt-hour ; many domestic consumers outside of the metropolitan area still pay lq to 14 cents , sometimes more . Recent engineering studies have demonstrated that under the best available conditions steam electricity can be produced at not to exceed two mills per kilowatt-hour , exclusive of fixed charges at the points of delivery . Within the more thickly settled territories this should mean that electricity can be profitably furnished to large industrial consumers at considerably less than one cent , and to domestic consumers at a third to a fourth and less of the present price . While even at this price experts are unanimous in saying that the use of electricity for house heating is economically impractical , for all purposes requiring mechanical motion as well as for cooking its use should become practically universal . Thousands of homes in the mild climate along the Pacific are already being heated by electricity . The substitution of electricity developed at the mines or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population will not only relieve the consumers of endless inconvenience and the devastating cost of raw coal , but will also lift from the railroads what is at present their heaviest burden . It will relieve the railroads in a double sense . For not only does coal constitute one-third of the present freight load of the railroads , but they themselves consume almost a third of the coal annually produced , most of which the steam locomotives carry about on their hacks . Moreover , the steam locomotive appears to have reached the limit of its efficiency as a power plant on rails . Like the rest of our antiquated machine equipment , it maintains its ascendancy by virtue of human inertia . If statistics of actual performance mean anything , it is only a question of time when it will either sap the life of our transportation system or yield to the electric locomotive driven by current from giant-power stations . The electric locomotive carries no coal on its back . It can work twenty hours a day , whereas the limit of the steam engine is eight . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where the steam engine burns not only its brakes but also burns coal to no purpose . During cold weather , which chills the steam engine , the electric locomotive is at its best . The electric locomotive starts and stops more quickly and smoothly than the steam engine and is a more responsive tool in the hands of the engineer . The electrification of a division of the Norfolk and Western , compelled by the recurrent jamming of steam traffic in the bottleneck of the Elkhorn Tunnel , is reported to have increased the average train load and the average train movement by approximately thirty-three per cent , equivalent to the doubling of the track capacity . The comparative costs of steam and electric operation , taken from the performance records of eleven railroads by the Lane superpower commission , show a saving , among other items , of almost ten million tons of coal . But such coal as was used had to be carried by rail from the mines to comparatively small and unco-ordinated generating stations . Had the electricity been developed and distributed from central giant-power stations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater , but an additional load would have been lifted from the railroads . The importance of this relief is obvious , especially when it is remembered that the weight of the coal carried by the railroads exceeds the combined weight of wheat , corn , oats , hay , lumber , steel and iron ore , and that during recent years thousands of tons of foodstuffs have rotted in western agricultural regions for lack of adequate transportation facilities . Electricity developed at giant-power plants at the mines and equipped for byproduct recovery is the key to our liberation not only from the coal problem but also from the dead hand of our inherited machine equipment . But just as coal is more than raw fuel , so our fuel and energy problem is more than a coal problem . I can remember the incredulity with which some twenty years ago I heard Charles M. Manly , then chief assistant to Langley in his flying experiments , tell a group of friends that the abortive flight of the Langley machine had conclusively demonstrated the prac ticability of the heavier-than-air airplane , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of a somewhat lighter and more efficient internal combustion-gas engine . That was the time when the wizardry of Edison had inspired most laymen with the belief that electricity alone could solve the problem of flight as of the automobile . But the event has fulfilled Manly 's prediction . To-day the internal combustion engine has outrivaled both steam and electricity on the highways and farms , and is sole master of the air . Petroleum and the internal combustion engine have been partners in the creation of these new wonders . The rapid development of automobile transportation , while cutting into the earnings of the railroads at some points , has also helped to tide the country over what has steadily threatened to become a disastrous transportation crisis . But this gain has not been without serious evils . The rapid and spectacular rise of the automobile has tended to retard the necessary technical revolution especially on our railroads and has , indeed , retarded the introduction of more economical types of internal combustion engines in the automobiles themselves . We are using our petroleum resources with an almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dynamos will run on forever , while , at our present rate of production , the life of all known pools of petroleum must be measured in a few decades . Oil wells are being shot senselessly , without rhyme or reason except from the point of view of the gold brick stock jobber . Wells have been opened without tank car , pipe line or storage facilities , the oil poured out on the ground with nothing but earth banks to hold it . Instances where oil has been burned at the well to make room for more oil are not unknown . Apart from the fact that petroleum supplies the only known lubricant upon which the wheels of the world can be kept turning , its use as a fuel should be reserved for the internal combustion engine to which it is peculiarly adapted . To burn it as a substitute for coal on locomotive engines is a social and economic . crime . Moreover , with the internal combustion engine , it should be used not as a rival but as an ally of hydroelectricity and coal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wise integration of all our energy resources . But given the full by-product utilization of coal , the integration of steam and hydro-electricity with our other fuel and power resources into a giantpower system , there is always the possibility that the conditions of living for the great common run of mankind may be debased by the new technical revolution as in so many respects they were debased by the Industrial Revolution . One of the committee of engineers who participated in the Lane superpower survey writes that the object of that survey , as he understood it , was the interlinking of the various existing public utilities and private generating plants " solely and entirely for the purpose of reducing the cost of power . " in other words , these engineers were primarily , if not exclusively , concerned with securing cheap power for the further massing of population and industries in the great metropolitan centers . The use of giant power for this purpose would simply intensify the evils which ever since the Industrial Revolution have attended the withdrawal of population from the land and its brutalizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free the flow of coal 's energy while at the same time it made the new race of machines more destructive of the aspirations of mankind toward a civilized life than was the old . Even more than before , human beings might become the instruments of production utilized by machines for the machines ' increase and biological development . If this new tragedy is to be averted , we shall have to reverse the usual process of making the factory our first consideration and focus atten tion upon the farm , the small community , and the home . The new technical revolution will work disastrously unless it makes for decentralization of population and the liberation of individual initiative and invention from the dehumanizing influence of crowded factories where men are mere adjuncts to machines . Pogue and Gilbert , in the study of the Energy Resources of the United States , already cited , make the same observation that the logical point of attack upon the coal problem is the home , " for here lies the greatest weakness in the present system of coal utilization , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of stress , that trouble , whether it be of high price or actual shortage , has the least chance of remedy by industrial enterprise . " To the domestic consumer , coal usually means anthracite coal . The fact that anthracite has a high thermal efficiency and that it is relatively clean has established it as the favorite domestic fuel . But the intrinsic value of anthracite is far less than that of all the better grades of bituminous , because the only commodity value of anthracite is its carbon , while bituminous contains not only a high percentage of carbon , but , as has been pointed out , benzol , tar , gas and ammonia as well . Our anthracite deposits are limited to an area of approximately five hundred square miles in a single section of Pennsylvania . It is a far more costly fuel to mine than bituminous . Even for domestic purposes it is little better than coke , from a thousand to fifteen hundred pounds of which can be derived from every ton of bituminous subjected to the treatment of the byproduct oven . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as inferior to coke from bee-hive ovens which wasted all the ingredients of coal except the carbon . In 19q1 sixty per cent of all metallurgical coke came from by-product ovens . Last year , these ovens produced three-fourths of our entire coke supply and the demand for by-product ovens is steadily increasing . By-product coke is already advocated by the United States Bureau of Mines as a substitute for anthracite in domestic heating . But the probabilities are that even coke and by-product gas , could , like the smaller sizes of anthracite , be most efficiently used for generating electricity at the mines . Such a development of the giant-power system would enable manufacturers in small communities to get necessary power in competition with the large industrial centers ; it would yield cheap power to the farm and urban home ; there is good reason to believe that it might ultimately so cheapen electricity as to make it economically available for domestic heating at least in spring and autumn , if not in the cold winter months . The engineers of the Ontario HydroElectric Power Commission have gone very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven and a half months they maintained a nineroom house in the city of Toronto at a temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit from 6.30 A.M. to 10 P.M. , and slightly lower during the remainder of the twenty-four hours , using electricity only . They found that , with electricity at nine cents per kilowatt-hour , the lowest net domestic rate in Ontario , the cost of heating the house by electricity was $474.30 as compared with $192.00 which would have been the cost of the heating equivalent in anthracite at $16 a ton . The cost of the two fuels would balance , they found , only when the , price of electricity fell to .53 cents per kilowatt-hour and anthracite rose to $23.22 a ton . Moreover , to replace the 900,000 tons of anthracite used in the homes of Toronto would require , 2 , 0 0 , - 000 horse-power , whereas the entire maximum demand of the city for all present power , lighting , and traction purposes is less than 150,000 horsepower . To heat all the homes of the province of Ontario would require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and yet to be ? developed . This does not mean that electricity is barred as an economical domestic fuel . It is only in the coldest months , when it is operated at or near its capacity , that the coal furnace is economically superior . In mild weather , the balance inclines the other way . It is for this reason that the Canadian engineers say that electrical energy may advantageously he used in mild weather with little or no extra cost , and with great gains in comfort and convenience . It is for this reason , too , that in the moderate climate of the Pacific Coast homes without chimneys are rapidly increasing in number . Moreover , all present considerations against electrical heating take no account of the fact that the large-scale storage of electricity is still an unsolved problem . If that problem were solved and the theoretical difficulties to its solution can hardly be greater than those of heavier-than-air flying machines seemed only two decades ago ? the day of year-round electrical heating would be at hand . Meanwhile , it . is well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present coal production , less than one-ninth of the total present capacity of our mines . Bituminous coal is the prime source of our mechanical energy . It is our antiquated method of using bituminous that overburdens our railroads and involves an annual waste in unrecovered by-products which experts measure in billions of dollars . The next great advance in our industrial civilization will come through the largescale conversion of bituminous coal into electricity at the mines . Already the state of Pennsylvania has created a Giant Power Survey Board with this object in view . Its attainment will mean the electrification of our railroads , the wide diffusion of cheap light and power by wire to small indust vial com ? uuities and even to farms . It will mean the - replacement of the old race of machines by.the.progeny of the new technical revolution .                     