@@430945

NOT even a perfect oil burner will give you heating comfort in your home unless it is properly installed and unless the dealer from whom you purchased it stands ready at all times to give you prompt and adequate service . As a home owner , therefore , you are confronted with two equally important problems . You must pick out a good oil burner , and you must make sure that the burner will be properly installed and serviced . Even in these days of highly perfected automobiles , you would hesitate about buying a car from a dealer located so far away that you could not expect to get service if anything went wrong . The car might not give any trouble at all for a long time ; yet you would always have the feeling that even a slight difficulty would be a serious matter just because the dealer was n't within easy reach . And the oil burner should be classed with the automobile as far as service is concerned , although the oil burner actually ranks con siderably higher from the standpoint of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that you must investigate the standing of the dealer as well as the reputation of the oil burner he sells . While there are a number of satisfactory makes of oil burners , your choice may be limited to one or two simply because they happen to be the only ones that are adequately represented in your neighborhood . Sales and service stations for all the popular makes of automobiles are now scattered all over the country in almost every village , but , while the oil burner makers are bending every effort to increase their lists of reliable dealers , there are still sections where there are no dealers at all and others where only one make is represented . Let the salesman explain the merits of the burner he is selling . Get him to go into full details about its operation . He will want to know what kind of a heating plant you have in your home , and before he will quote you a price he undoubtedly will have the company 's heating engineer come around and make a survey of the conditions under which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a list of customers using his burner in your neighborhood . It will be well worth while to talk with as many of them as possible , getting the opinions of actual users of the burner as to its efficiency and reliability . Get a line on the number of service calls each home owner has had to make , and the speed with which the service man appeared on the scene . Find out how long each burner has been in service and , if some of the older burners are in operation at the time you make your call , notice the amount of noise produced as compared with the demonstration burner in the agent 's showroom . Of course the slight rushing noise pro duced by the burning oil will be the same no matter how old the burner is , but a marked increase in the motor noise would indicate either that the motor was wearing rapidly or that the owner had not lubricated it often enough . Question each owner on the subject of economy so that , comparing the size of your house with his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of heating your own home . In questioning oil burner owners about fuel costs , try to get information that covers at least one whole winter season . It is unfair to compare the consumption of oil during October , for instance , with the average amount of coal burned during each month of the previous year , simply because the consumption of fuel in any home starts low in the fall , rises to a peak during the coldest winter months , and then falls off again as spring approaches , . Notice , also , the size and location of the fuel tank in each of the installations . .1 large tank has the advantage of per mitting you to buy your oil in large quanti ties , lessening the chance of running out of fuel during a long cold snap when the roads are blocked with snow . Companies selling oil usually sign contracts in the spring or summer , guaranteeing the price for a year . Naturally , if you have a 1,000 or a 1,500-gallon tank and can take delivery in " tank wagon lots " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because it costs less to deliver these " lots " that do not have to be hand-measured . You may easily save enough by buying in " wagon lots " to save , in three or four years , the excess cost of a large buried tank over a small basement tank . THE fumes produced by burning oil carry the characteristic oily odor regardless of the type of burner , but this smell can not get into your house if the boiler and flue , joints are absolutely tight . A slight leak in the flue between the check draft damper and the chimney will not ordinarily allow coal gas to get into your house when you are burning coal , because the natural draft of the chimney causes air to be drawn into the leaky joint of the flue pipe . The mechanical draft type oil burner forces air into the fire chamber without regard to the , natural draft . Unless there is a strong natural draft developed in your chimney , the forced draft from the burner may overcome the slight vacuum in the flue and create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that explains the need for ab solutely tight flue pipe connections . IT WILL be necessary to make sure that your chimney is in perfect shape and that there are no openings through which gases could get into your home . And if the men who make the installation are competent they will examine the inside of the chimney and make sure that it is not clogged up with soot and ashes which have accumulated from the burning of coal . When properly adjusted , the modern type of oil burner produces a flame that is practically free from smoke or soot , so if you have heard of anyone who has experienced trouble with soot clogging up the chimney , you can be sure that the oil burner was set for too rich a mixture . In other words , the air supply was too  | limited for the amount of oil that was being fed into the combustion chamber . Everyone who has had occasion to regulate the wick on a kerosene lamp or stove knows that , if you turn the wick up too far , smoke will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high exactly parallels the case of an oil burner that is feeding too rich a mixture . The only other possible chance for oil smell is from the actual leakage of oil fuel out of the piping or the burner . The manufacturers take great pains to make the joints in the burner absolutely oil tight , but trouble may occur if the pipe installation is done carelessly or with poor tools . Piping done in a slipshod fashion may hold oil for some time , but is sure to spring a leak sooner or later . AS FOR the electric wiring a good workman will solde and tape the connections so tha no trouble can develop from thi source . The thermostat i part of the electric control cir cuit , and while its installatio consists merely of screwing it to the wall and running wire from it to the control box nea the oil burner , the location o the thermostat is vitally important . The arrangement of the rooms will determine the best position for the thermostat . Because it must be made sensitive to slight changes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the room , it should not be hung where the opening of a door or window will blow cold air directly on it . The result of installing the instrument in such a location would be the frequent starting up of the oil burner unnecessarily . Usually the best place for the thermostat is in the living room as far from the doors and windows as possible . In other homes the temperature may be more uniform in the dining room . Avoid drafty halls and stair landings . Too much noise and vibration occasionally are the result of defective support for the moving parts of the burner . The base on which the blower and motor are mounted should be of solid construction , and the frame of the burner should be bolted tightly on the base . All types of mechanical draft oil burners are fitted with automatic shut-off devices so that the burner will be stopped and the oil supply shut off if anything goes wrong . These devices should be protected to prevent accidental shut-offs if someone unwittingly brushes against the apparatus . Many calls for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the automatic shut-off by a pet dog or cat . INSTRUCTION cards showing how to start up the burner in the fall and the precautions to be observed when turning it off in the spring , with other necessary details about the care of the apparatus and the oiling of the motor , are supplied by the manufacturer . This card should be permanently fastened to the wall near the oil burner . A high grade oil burner correctly installed will insure you heating comfort only when it is backed up by the right kind of service . It is quite true that there are records of oil burners that have operated perfectly for three years or more without any attention from the service man . At the same time it must be remembered that breakdowns are possible with any piece of machinery , no matter how perfectly built . Something may go wrong during a cold snap , when the thermometer is hovering around the zero mark . Getting the burner going again with the least possible delay is imperative at such a time , and service must be obtainable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the need for good service , and make a point of having expert service men available at all times . They also keep a complete stock of spare parts on hand . As a general rule , the reputable oil burner dealer does net attempt to sell or install oil burners in homes located so far from the service station that there will be a doubt about the possibility of quick service . SHE distance between the service station and the oil burner installation that is permissible depends to a large ex tent on local conditions and the equip ment of the service station . If , for in stance , the roads are almost impassable in winter , then it is obvious that the service man is going to have a hard time getting to your house if you are located thirty or forty miles away . Stressing the importance of good service should not by any means convey the impression that oil burners are balky , unreliable pieces of apparatus that require constant attention . That is certainly not true . Mechanical draft oil burners of approved types are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in other lines , but the need for prompt service in the case of the oil burner is emphasized by the important work it performs in giving you continuous heating comfort . And the records of the oil burner serv ice stations show that a great many calls for service are unnecessary . The most frequent call of this type comes from the woman who suddenly discovers that her house is getting cold because the oil burner is not operating . Without making any investigation at all , she phones for the service man , and the latter rushes around to the house on the double-quick only to find that the oil supply tank is empty . ANOTHER call is from the home where a fuse has blown in the electric supply line . Troubles like this obviously can not be blamed on the oil burner , but they do call attention to the fact that the owner of a heating plant operating on liquid fuel will find it worth while to familiarize himself with the more important features of his equipment . Most dealers in oil burners make sales with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be without charge for a certain length of time . But no oil burner is sold without a time limit on the free service agreement , and after that period expires you will be expected to pay a service charge for each visit of the repair man . If a fuse blows out and you call the service man around to fix it , you will have to pay a fixed charge amounting to two or three dollars just to replace a fuse that may not cost more than ten cents . During the period when service is free , you should do your best to become familiar with the simpler troubles that may come up , so that when the free service period expires you will be prepared to take care of all simple matters yourself .  |                     