@@468323

THE National Bank of Commerce in New York has recently published a booklet in which the Bank 's clients are warned against a new enterprise that is being advertised by a " well-known concern . " The enterprise is intended as an aid to salesmanship . For a reasonable fee the promoters offer to place manufacturing corporations and others in touch with a hitherto neglected Hass . The advertisement to which the Bank refers is as follows : OLD MONEY IN NEW HANDS A SERVICE Here 's a service that will interest you , ? that is to say , if you are seeking prospects comprising individuals who have been left cash in amounts from $9,5,000 to millions of dollars . Through this service we give you daily reports of beneficiaries of Wills for Manhattan and the four other boroughs . We give you full names , addresses , and amounts received . The writer of the National Bank of Commerce booklet satirizes the advertised service as evidencing a " unique spirit of enterprise , " and comments on the modern American tendency to accept anything as legitimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in effect , that salesmanship has overstepped the bounds of propriety , and that there is a tendency in certain quarters to claim for business the right of way over life . Are these legitimate charges ? Does modern American business tend to reduce the citizen to the status of a " prospect " ? There have always been certain individuals who push their commercial activities beyond the bounds of taste and who think of people only as consumers . There may be more such individuals now than there used to be . Yet the important question raised by the National Bank of Commerce booklet is this : How far have those who believe in the theory that business has the right of way over life been able to enforce their standards upon the general public ? A fair test of the progress of any movement is the openness with which its sponsors express their ideas ; and it must be admitted that an examination of the business press of the country shows a surprising number of journals which editorially advocate the most arbitrary methods of salesmanship . From a multiplicity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Selling News , offers weekly cash prizes for winning sales ideas , and recently an award was made to Mr. J. L. Crenshaw for this fact-story : I started out on Saturday morning with three appointments with the Torrington Electric Cleaner . The first place I went , there was no one home ; the next , a lady was sick ; the third one postponed the appointment until the following Monday . I was determined I was going to demonstrate that cleaner before I gave up . Turning the corner after the last disappointment , 1 saw a lady shaking a rug out of a second story window . The door leading to her upstairs rooms was open . I went right in and up those stairs without knocking , greeting the lady with the remark , " Well I am here right on time . What room do you wish me to start in ? " She was very much surprised , assuring me that I had the wrong number . But during Some editors recommend fear as a stimulus to salesmanship . In a business journal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Your Salesmen Worry a Bit , " with the subtitle , " It Will Keep Them on Their Toes . " The text of the article is based upon an interview with the very successful district manager of a " sales organization . . . covering the entire country , " and on the subject of inspirational salesmanship the district manager is made to say : The man who goes to work for me does so with his eyes open . I tell each of them very frankly in the beginning : " I am going to assign these three or four counties to you , and I hope you will produce enough business out of it so that I wo n't even have to think about sending anybody else in to help you out . But I warn you right now that whenever you begin to fall down on the job , I am going to come in myself or send one of the other men in to get the business which we must get out of that territory ? and I notify you now that you wo n't get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no matter how many calls you may have made on these prospects without closing them . " Another of my stunts is to twit one man about the good work of another until he is almost sore enough to be ready to fight . . . . A few weeks ago I decided that one of my salesmen had spent quite enough time on a group of large prospects in his territory so I laid may plan to bring him into action . One of the stenographers in the office writes a hand very much like that of another salesman who is this man 's pet aversion . So I had this girl write these six MIMS of prospects on a card and opposite each name she put a date two or three weeks in advance . Then we placed the card in the pigeonhole assigned to his enemy where the salesman could n't help but see it . I was watching him out of the corner of my eye when he visited my office that day and examined the memorandum card in the other man 's box . His face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ memorandum . Then his jaw set and he was strangely silent during the rest of his visit . But in less than a week he sent me signed orders from five of these delayed prospects . One hopes that Mr. Crenshaw 's prizewinning exploit of salesmanship was inspired by no similar fear-inspiring intrigue on the part of his salesmanager . Fear is a weapon to be used only toward slaves ; and Mr. Crenshaw is , one feels sure , a one hundred per cent free American citizen . Yet there are weapons other than fear that may inspire to super-salesmanship . No free man , for example , will willingly lay himself open to ridicule ; and perhaps it was in desperate defense of his natural dignity that Mr. Crenshaw invaded the home of an unoffending householder and attached his electric cleaner . One reads in another journal of country-wide circulation how the management of a prominent corporation recently stimulated the members of its sales force by cleverly planned ridicule . There was a banquet , to which thirty of the corporation 's salesmen were bidden . At one end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and salesmanship records , and at the other end was a small table for the officers of the company . Then , stretching away was the table with thirty places . Place cards corresponded to the names on the chart . The best men sat up next to the officers and the poorest was at the foot . Then the meal was served . The man who ranked Number One was served with oysters , roast turkey , and a most elaborate ice . He had a special waiter placed behind his chair . Salesman Number Two had no oysters . Number Three had soup and roast beef and ice cream . And so it went on . Farther down the table there were plates of vegetable and beef stew , bowls of chili con carne . The man at the far end had a small plate of boiled beans and a couple of crackers , with only water to drink . It was an inexpensive contest , but nevertheless full of real meaning . . . . Toward the conclusion of the meal the four men at the lower end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be renewed for a month so that they might have a chance to work their way up the table and be able to gloat over some other poor chaps eating boiled beans and drinking water . One begins to suspect that Mr. Crenshaw 's peculiar technic of salesmanship was not entirely God-given ; that he possessed originally a mere germ of talent for go-getting , and that this has been nurtured and brought to full flower by astute executives of corporations by which he has been employed . When Mr. Crenshaw saw the providentially open door leading to the upstairs apartment it is likely he had no thought of self , but acted upon impulses that reflected the teachings of a long line of salesmanagers , and the earnest study of journals devoted to the interests of Salesmen Who Want to Grow . One thing we III do know , derinitely . High-powered salesmanship is a modern product and the theory that life exists for the benefit of business has come into being since the turn of the century . In my own business experience I recall a remark made by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems vastly significant . It was in the city of Greenville , South Carolina , where I chanced to have employment as third assistant salesperson with the firm of Snider and Greer , leading merchants of watches , jewelry , and chinaware . In itself the incident was trifling . As a matter of custom one of our great Main Street show windows was always decorated with a display of china soup tureens , teapots , silver-plated tilting ice pitchers , castors , and other popular items of the period ; but also , according to custom , this display was seldom changed , and in the course of time the beauty of the various items became marred by accumulated dust and sometimes , I must confess , by fine-spun cobwebs . On the occasion of which I speak our display had reached a state where action was deemed necessary ; and another young employee and myself offered to return to the store of an evening to effect a change . Captain Greer , a fine and courteous gentleman , touched by our willingness , volunteered to keep us company . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tilted against the store front , was brought inside , and from this temporary throne he lent moral support to our activities . At length the soup tureens and tilting ice pitchers had been removed from the window , cleaned of dust and set upon a table to be distributed upon the store shelving . The question arose as to a new window display . We asked Captain Greer as to his wishes . Then came his observation , so redolent of a civilization which the events of thirty years have all but driven out of America . He looked about the establishment in a harassed manner , endeavoring to decide the question . Finally his glance fell on the impedimenta we had taken out of the window and placed upon the table for redistribution in stock . " You might as well put those things back again like they were , " he said genially . " No one pays attention to what 's in store windows . If people want to buy anything they come in here anyhow , and it is n't good taste to try and make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us pass graciously over the unworthy thought that Captain Greer 's orders may have been dictated by disinclination for energetic action rather than by sheer ethical bias . The significant fact is that his attitude reflected the prevailing spirit of the times . It was considered bad taste in Greenville , South Carolina , and all the other Greenvilles of America , to coerce people into buying one 's merchandise . The Mauve Decade was , indeed , no period for high-powered salesmanship . One hesitates to imagine what might have happened to the ambitious vendor who darted up a private stairway of Greenville to demonstrate his electric cleaner . Even though he survived an angry citizenry , it is certain that no Magazine of Salesmanship would have awarded him a cash prize for his exploit . One hesitates still more to imagine the fate of any corporation organized to sell names and addresses of Greenville widows and orphans who had been left cash in amounts from $25,000 upward . Decidedly , life took precedence over business in Greenville ; yet on the whole both life and business went forward prosperously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ souls , but there was no Chamber of Commerce ; and the Luncheon Club idea was still fifteen years in the future , with its well-worked-out theory of Salesmanship and Service . No journal of business described the methods of corporation executives who inspired their traveling salesmen to superhuman effort through fear or shame . The drummers for New York or Baltimore wholesale houses who came to Greenville did not have to make a " quota . " They put up at the Mansion House , called in a friendly way upon their merchant customers , and accepted with polite thanks any orders that were given them . I assume this sort of salesmanship to have been profitable to their houses , for the same drummers came year after year . In the stores along Main Street retail matters were conducted in similar fashion . In the Snider and Greer emporium there were no rules save the unwritten one that each person who entered was to be treated as a valued guest . If any of us had been detected in trying to sell a client something he did not wish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as such a thing never happened it is impossible to aver this with authority . Greenville in those days had , I regret to state , something of a reputation as a " bad " town . It was the rendezvous and play-city for the adventurous spirits of a number of factory villages and a wide stretch of mountain country , and during my year of residence we averaged almost one shooting serape per week . Yet I think none of these shootings occurred over a matter of business . The nearest approach to commercial crime occurred in a gambling house one Saturday night when two gentlemen engaged in a game of California Jack . The score reached five points each , and on the next hand each gentleman made two points and each claimed the pot . It became then a question as to whether high-game or low-jack carried greater authority . In the ensuing argument the gentleman who had won high-game shot and unfortunately killed his opponent . He was later exonerated by a jury of twelve men , good and true , who doubtless believed high-game really to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , justified . Although this affray bordered on the commercial , all the other shootings that I recall were absolutely free from any taint of venality . A man drew his pistol over affairs of the heart , over family feuds , or sometimes merely to prove himself a devil of a fellow . Life and business were two distinct matters , and life came first . But , surprisingly , business did not suffer under such conditions . It was , in fact , quite the reverse . The drummers who came from New York and Baltimore wholesale houses were ordinarily genial fellows , chosen for ability to hold friendships rather than for cleverness in persuading prospects to sign on the dotted line . One would have a strong imagination indeed to conceive of one of the drummers of the nineties cringing under the threats of his salesmanager or shamefacedly eating beans at the end table on the occasion of a corporation banquet . Yet the absence of highpowered salesmanship had its advantages . As every business man knows , more commercial failures occur through overbuying than any other single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merchants seldom overbought . Wholesale houses rarely lost money through hank7uptcies of their retailercustomers . There was even a sort of left-handed business acumen in Captain Greer 's theory that people must not be temptedinto buying through tooattractive displays in shop windows . We did not excite the public to enter our store , and so there were scarcely any " lookers . " Practically every person who came into the store was a purchaser if we had in stock what he wished . For that reason Snider and Greer required a smaller sales force to vend a certain volume of merchandise than would be the case to-day when two people out of three who enter stores do not buy . Another economy lay in the fact that there was practically no lawbreaking for the sake of money . Is it an exaggeration to suggest that this happy state of affairs obtained in Greenvill e because th ere was little salesmanship pressure and people therefore did not crave the possession of goods to the extent that they would commit crimes to get goods ? Perhaps this is too much to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nineties no Greenville merchant had to go to the expense of insuring his merchandise or his pay roll against theft or hold-up . IV The foregoing fairly represents the country 's composite Main Street of thirty years ago . How does it come that American life has so changed in so short a time ? There has been no such radical change in Europe . If our Mr. Crenshaw were an English salesman , or a French salesman , he would no more think of darting up a strange stairway to demonstrate his electric cleaner than his father would have thought of adopting such a course in Greenville , South Carolina , in the eighteen-nineties . It is , indeed , our recent tendency to confer abnormal rights upon business to which European writers and statesmen allude when they speak of " the menace of Americanization . " Let us see if there may be some peculiarity of American tradition or character by which high-powered salesmanship has developed here , but has not developed in other countries . There is one particular tradition in which we differ pathetic thought at once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wistfully eager to get on in the world , and as an American entitled to his chance at happiness . It did not occur to her , as it would have to one of her European sisters , that Mr. Crenshaw might have chosen the trade of streetcleaner or hod-carrier and still be a reasonably happy man . Moreover in the back of her mind was the conviction , planted by the splendid sayings of eminent men , that no patriotic or religious person should stand in the way of business . It was the lady 's psychological background , one thinks , as much as Mr. Crenshaw 's salesmanship skill , that won him his substantial down payment and his later reward at the hands of Selling News , the journal for Salesmen Who Want to Grow . We have wondered what sales arguments Mr. Crenshaw may have employed while attaching his electric cleaner . As an earnest salesman he doubtless studies the columns of the trade press for constructive suggestions in salesmanship . Did Mr. Crenshaw 's shrewd glance detect a hint of egotism in the lady 's bearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a leading corporation , the National Lead Company , has conducted a series of advertisements in popular American trade journals that give explicit instructions as to the handling of egotistic prospects . Although the National Lead Company 's counsel is primarily for salesmen of paints , yet Mr. Crenshaw could easily apply its principles to the sale of electric cleaners : Flatter him on his standing in the community . Tell him that a man in his position can not afford to neglect the appearance of his house . Take the stand that his neighbors look to him to have a well-painted , attractive home . It is surprising how effective such a line of attack can be . But what if Mr. Crenshaw , upon entering the lady 's apartment , realized that she was not the person to be impressed by appeals to vanity ? No matter . He has learned from influentialjournals that the church is also an effective ally to salesmanship . Perhaps while attaching his electric cleaner Mr. Crenshaw spoke of religious matters . The idea is explained in detail by Mr. Hugo A. Hahn in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of the most negligent things the business man does is not attending church on Sunday . . . . The church is the common meeting ground of all mankind . It is the greatest institution of the community . . . . Suppose that next Saturday you say to Fanner Brown when he comes in , " John , bring the family in to-morrow ; come in about 10:30 A.m . We 'll all go to church , and after church the Missis wants you and the family over to dinner . " . . . Now what would that mean to your business ? It would create the closest feeling between you and the farmer . With this you will gain a confidence which will be so strong that it can not be shaken . You will find that your churches will thrive and throw out the radiant light over the entire community . Along comes a man from a neighboring state to buy a farm-home . The real-estate dealer gets hold of him and starts to work , and what does he say to him ? " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ churches . " Will he buy ? Of course he will , and wo n't even mind paying a few extra dollars for the land . It is to be hoped that Mr. Crenshaw is a strictly one-price salesman and that he did not add a few extra dollars to the price of his electric cleaner in case he employed the methods recommended by the Farm Journal Merchants Supplement , But it may be that Mr. Crenshaw appealed neither to the lady 's amour pro pre nor to her spiritual nature in putting over his sale . He may have resorted to physical violence . Extreme as this may appear , physical violence is considered a legitimate sales approach in certain quarters . Under the title , " How to Make a Dent in the Consumer , " the editor of Printer 's Ink recently lampooned this modern invention of highpowered business . The editor had recently read the report of a speech of the advertising manager of one of the oldest wholesale drug companies . This man said that his company had been offering to the trade a small table @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used to display " specials , " at a point where it will be directly in the path of customers , whose attention will be attracted to the articles upon it when they fall over it , bump into it , kaki ( their shins on it , or otherwise come in contact with it . . . . Impractical as it may seem , the advertising manager declared that these tables were in heavy demand and had been added to the catalogs of other wholesale dniggists . After all , Mr. Crenshaw 's exploit does not seem so wonderful when one comes to know all the efforts that are constantly being made to establish the dictatorship of business . The wonder is that the Magazine of Salesmanship considered it of enough importance to have awarded Mr. Crenshaw a cash prize . V Life was , it must be admitted , a bit more dignified in the days when salesmanship was less glorified . The impression will not down that the selling of merchandise is accomplished at too high a cost when it is necessary to frighten or shame employees , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employ the stimulus of flattery on a country-wide scale . Let us see if these things are good business . During the preparation of this article I interviewed a leading executive of one of the most powerful banking institutions in New York City and in the course of conversation asked : " Do you , in scanning a corporation 's statement with view of making a loan , take into account the corporation 's methods of securing business ? If the corporation , for example , has attained its position through what is termed high-powered selling , would that influence your decision in extending credit ? " I am permitted to quote the banker 's reply verbatim : We go further than merely withholding credit . I might mention the name of a very prominent corporation from which this hank has recently declined to accept an account . Yet the corporation 's financial position is at present absolutely sound . Its debts are not too much for its capital . Its volume of sales has shown an increase from year to year . It is paying substantial dividends . But here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ built its business on extreme high-pressure salesmanship . Each year it has decreed a certain volume of sales far in advance of the previous year and compelled its dealers to dispose of its excess product under every sort of condition . It has forced its salesmen to make public nuisances of themselves . I think I am not unduly critical when I say the corporation has lowered the tone of American life . Some day the corporation will pay for these things . Already it has a healthy competitor that is doing business along lines of reasonable conservatism and making fair progress . The older corporation is in no position to meet competition . It has no organization worthy of the name . Secretly , the people who have done its high-powered work resent the things they have been compelled to do . If eveuts ever begin to turn against it , the corporation 's decline will be sensational . These are the reasons why this bank declined the corporation 's proffered account . If we accept its business now when it is prosperous we can hardly refuse to come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best to stay out of the corporation 's affairs altogether . Admittedly , supersalesmanship makes for a shabby sort of civilization . In the last analysis , moreover , it is not even good for business . Perhaps my old friend Captain John Greer of Greenville spoke more wisely than he knew when he averred that it was poor policy to sell people what they did not want to buy .                     