@@487301

C HINA continues to bleed in recurrent civil wars which are as interminable as they are indecisive . Political chaos , economic distress , and the confusion in foreign minds increase with each succeeding victory . But " victory " leaves the situation unchanged . It brings the vic  --  tor and China nowhere . What is it all about ? More than a year ago , Feng , who is as little " Chris  --  tian " as he is " Bolshevik , " and Yen , the " peace-lord " of Shansi province , accepted offices with the Nanking govern  --  ment . In the same year , they fought that government . Now they have been bribed to a standstill . Chiang Kai-shek , the dictator of Nanking , has paid them handsomely , it is said , to sign a truce . Their war- was one of the most sanguinary episodes in the Chinese internecine struggle . Thousands were killed and wounded . One morning Chiang , the great generalissimo , launched a successful financial attack ; Feng and Yen ran up a white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What Chiang and his German military experts could not accomplish on the field of battle , T. V. Soong , Nanking 's Finance Minister , achieved by a flank banking operation . Nanking had to do it quickly because it is threatened by a new danger from the South where Chang Fa-kwei , whose famous Iron Army conquered South China in the period of Borodin and Galen , has made a sudden dash into the rich Kwangtung province . His objective is Canton . While Chiang grapples with Chang , Feng and Yen may try another offensive . Dispatches from China already speak of that pos  --  sibility . And IF ? it is a big IF ? Chiang defeats the Iron Army , he can not destroy it . It will simply retreat and reorganize . And so it goes . Feng , Yen , and Chang may be bought or beaten into passivity , but they are not eliminated . They continue to rule their districts and to exclude Nan-king 's authority . They can not overthrow Nanking , and Nanking can not overthrow them . Yet every now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tragedy . She can neither be united nor remain peacefully disunited. - China is really a continent divided into countries each gravitating in a different direction and generally toward a center ruled by a foreign Power . This is the secret of her lack of cohesion . South China is an example . The provinces of Kwangtung ( Canton ) , Kwangsi , Fukien , Kiangsi , the lower part of Hunan , and the associated re  --  gions  --  a district counting 80,000,000 inhabitants  --  depend for an economic outlet on Hongkong , a British colony , and are therefore subject to British imperial policy . Hongkong is the key to South China . Large classes of Chinese in the region find their interests identical with those of the British , and consequently oppose centripetal nationalist tendencies . " Canton for the Cantonese " is their motto ; and they draw strength from Chinese clannishness and provincialism . The absence of railway connections between South China and the Yangtze River basin naturally reinforces Hongkong 's hold , and the absence of a port at Canton makes that hold tantamount to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South China goes through Hongkong . The British of that island community control the life of Can  --  ton 's hinterland . In like manner , Yunnan gravitates to another foreign center , to French Indo-China . Its army is modeled after the French . Its arms are mostly French . Its opium is ex  --  ported through French Indo-China . Sometimes the rich province of Kwangtung attracts its merchants , and the weak province of Kwangsi its militarists . Nothing , however , fos  --  ters any interest in a national state . Similarly Manchuria . The northern half is more or less economically interested in the Soviet Union . The southern part is a Japanese sphere of influence . But Mukden cooperates with Nanking only when Nanking does Mukden 's bidding . The business and political ties are with Japan , not with Central China . A parallel situation has developed in Central China . The most recent outburst of civil war involved two groups in that region : Nanking or Chiang Kai-shek , whose foot  --  hold is in the Yangtze River basin , and Feng , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impressed his authority on more than five provinces , and never col  --  lected taxes in more than two ? Chekiang and Anhwei . His position , therefore , is no better than and no different from that of Sun Chuan-fang , a general or tuchun whom he supplanted in 1927 as master of the " Five Provinces " of the Yangtze . Chiang 's orientation is on Shanghai , its Chinese bourgeoisie , and its British imperial might . By intrenching himself along the Shanghai-Nanking line , he loses control of Canton . His arm does not extend - to Szechuan further up the Yangtze . And when he seeks to move on Peking , Japanese forces in Shantung , and the fear of flank and rear attacks from Chinese rivals make the ven  --  ture hazardous . Chiang Kai-shek 's chief rival in Central China is Feng . The provinces of Shensi and Honan , and sometimes the Moslem state of Kansu , have been his hunting ground in recent years . This Yellow River district has developed its own bourgeoisie , which wants freedom from the super-bourgeoisie of Shanghai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usual antipathy to the great city by the sea . Feng therefore wants his own outlet to the ocean through Shantung , where , however , he comes into conflict with Japan and with the Shanghai-Nanking " Five Prov  --  inces . " Or he tries to move down toward the Yangtze and comes into conflict with the British , and again with Nanking . Or he may seek to extend his influence in the direction of Peking . Here , unless he reaches an agreement with the ruler of Shansi  --  now Yen Hsi-shan  --  his rear and flank are exposed ; but if , by means of an accord with Shansi , he captures Peking and Tientsin , as he has done in the past , he arouses the jealousy of the Manchurians and the suspicion of the foreign Powers . Wherever Feng can find air , food , and revenue , he also finds imperialist lines of defense . These either take him into tow or bend and break him temporarily . Exactly the same situation arises when other provincial or " federal " tuchuns strike out on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fnreign interest . The foreign spheres of influence on the periphery of China act as lodestones for her different parts . They pull in various directions . Each section orients itself on some treaty port or foreign colony , and even when two ports are dominated by the same foreign Power , as in the case of Shanghai and Hongkong , their hinterlands refuse to unite . For this reason , China 's unity is a Utopia until treaty ports , unequal treaties , extraterritoriality , and actual economic domination by foreigners along the Chinese seaboard are abolished . Special privileges on the coast make the interior of China an economic vacuum . Few foreigners go where their gunboats can not protect them . But the cancelation of extraterritorial rights would end the period of concentra  --  tion in the maritime regions . China 's mineral wealth re  --  mains unscratched . China continues a closed country be  --  cause unusual conditions in the ports make it attractive to stay there and unattractive to work inland . The treaty ports prevent unification and hinder the establishment of a central government which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China 's littoral , therefore , is over-developed while her vast bulk is under-developed . Pro  --  vincial tuchuns accordingly tend to move from the hinter  --  land , where tax levies yield little , to the coast , where revenue is heavy . And there they succumb to foreign influence . Japan , England , and France have well-defined spheres of influence in China . The United States has none . Amer  --  ica , moreover , disposes of sufficient surplus capital to invest in large quantities in China 's natural wealth , whereas Eng  --  land is interested primarily in trade , and Japan concentratesnn the resources of Manchuria . America gets I. , ess from special rights on the coast , and is in greater need of peace in the interior . Washington consequently favors Chinese unity . Britain , France , and Japan oppose it . They must oppose any movement , be it nationalism , communism , or American imperialism , which threatens to unite China and thereby weaken their regional footholds . But as long as British and Japanese clash with Ameri  --  can interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , can crush the others , efforts to unite the coun  --  try must fail . The Americanization or " Kemmereriza  --  tion ? of China therefore becomes impossible , and without America Chiang Kai-shek or his successors remain mere in  --  cidents in Chinese social development . Alone , the Chinese bourgeoisie is too immature to unite China . And the moment it coalesces with the only foreign Power  --  the United States  --  whose economic interests demand unifica  --  tion , Japan and Britain are antagonized . China is too im  --  portant to them . They can not abdicate to America . ' The great French Revolution and the Turkish national  --  ist revolution produced their Napoleon and Kemal Pasha because they opposed feudalism and foreign coalitions . But Chiang Kai-shek can neither dissociate himself from his landowning supporters nor defy the nations . Without them , he is powerless . With them , he is a tool . In theory and in  --  tention the unifier of China , Chiang is actually another Sun Chuan-fang projected into a more advanced stage of the Chinese revolution . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a few large cities . It is economi  --  cally weak . It can not develop the resources of China single-handed , but it has graduated from the compradore stage and wishes to invest its own capital in business enter  --  prises outside the limits of its treaty ports . Its landowning and trading interests extend beyond the precincts of its immediate metropoles . It is too full-blooded to remain con  --  fined in Shanghai or Hankow or Tientsin . Such an economic class must advocate a strong central government which can maintain order , protect ways of com  --  munication , abolish the likin , and collect customs . It must , since it is too poor itself for the gigantic task of industrial  --  izing and opening up the Chinese continent , seek the coopera  --  tion of a foreign country that frowns on provincial tuchuns , regional economy , and regional governments . That country is the United States . The French revolution enthroned the bourgeoisie , the Turkish revolution the peasantry , the Bolshevik revolution the proletariat . But the Chinese revolution has not given undisputed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The fighting will probably go on until this hap  --  pens , or until temporary exhaustion intervenes . Feng and Yen dominate districts where feudal and petty bourgeois influences are sufficiently powerful to resist the penetration efforts of the Shanghai super-bourgeoisie . If Nanking and Shanghai extended their authority , the de  --  partment store would push the small provincial trader to the wall , the big bank would crush the petty money-lender in the interior , and the likin and its revenue would be taken from inland governors . The feudal barons , moreover , must oppose the bourgeoisie in China as they have opposed it else  --  where throughout history . These interests linked together make a potent combination which Nanking has not been able to overcome . Chang Fa-kwei operates in districts most stirred by peasant revolts . In 1927 he sided with the Left Kuomin  --  tang , and at one time even leaned toward the Communists . Purely Communist military units roam about in his terri  --  tory either independently of him or as his chance allies . Chiang Kai-shek symbolizes the bourgeoisie , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be free to smash a revolutionary tendency . Anti-bourgeois classes in China , in other words , can dispute the rule of the bourgeoisie . Hence the incessant fighting . Because certain foreign Powers know that a vic  --  tory of the bourgeoisie would end their favored position , they hold Nanking in leash . Japan and Britain need a stalemate . Hence the indecisive tug of war . W E should look for no miracles out of Washington and the Hoover conferences with the leaders of American business . At the most the administra  --  tion program is a highly tentative and experimental attempt to restore business confidence and to promote a faster pace of industry wherever acceleration can be achieved without creating new and more serious difficulties . So stated , these steps toward the stabilization of business may appear to be hesitant and ineffectual ; but it is doubtful whether any Supreme Economic Council or Americanized Gosplan could , in the present state of our knowledge , construct a more satis  --  factory program and accomplish much more with it . The root of the problem lies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ causes of business recession and revival ; in discovering what crucial factor or factors account for a slowing down of business on one occasion and for a snappy revival on another . The collapse of the stock market , while it may have hastened things and produced an attitude of extreme caution among both business men and consumers , is probably only one , and perhaps not the most important , factor in the present situation . Acute students ' of the course of business had for some time been predicting a decline in the level of business by the close of 1929 , partly because they anticipated in late 1929 and early 1930 a repetition of the experience of 1924 and 1927 , and partly because the markets for both automobiles and private and commercial ( but not industrial ) housing appeared already to be in or rapidly approaching a state of glut . In other words , it was becoming increasingly difficult to dispose of apartments , office space , single and double houses , and auto  --  mobiles . . It is one thing to describe this condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explain it away . The whole theory , in fact , of saturation points , whether of a single group of industries or of the whole of industry , is still in an elementary state . I venture to say that there is nothing more surprising and inexplicable in the economic history of the United States than the accelerated tempo of American industry since 1922 . Such explanations as there are , are explanations after the fact and not the material for forecast . The most elaborate inquiry yet made into the characteristics of an economic period , the results of which were published in the two volumes of " Recent Economic Changes , " yielded a mass of invaluable material for further analysis but failed to disclose the determining factors in the revival of 1922 and in the persistence of an extraordinary high level of industrial production since . The maintenance of high wages in the face of declining wholesale and retail prices and the resultant rise in the purchasing power of the consumers of the coun  --  try is the most widely accepted reason for our post-war prosperity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ putting the cart before the horse . The effective cause may again be sought in the prevalence of a new type of credit inflation , such as may arise from instalment selling . But here , too , such evidence as we have is incomplete , inconclusive , and contradictory . There may also be sheer physical limits to the growth of a market for a single commodity like the automobile , but no one knows what those limits are . Under the circumstances , the course of action open to any public administration is reasonably clear . It must dis  --  cover available stimuli to business and make arrangements for their prompt and effective application . It can not act like war governments and create a rapidly expanding market for all goods and services by systematic and continuous credit                     