@@493178

ESDAY , DECEMBER 7 , 1921 NUMBER 366 The Week LMOST all the news from Washington about lthe progress from day to day of the Far East ? ern negotiations needs to be accepted with a large dose of scepticism . It is in general untrustworthy , although its untrustworthy character is by no means entirely the fault of the correspondents . They Must have something rather definite to report even though the actual happenings are wholly indefinite and tentative ; and there are , of course , many peo ? ple connected with all the delegations who have ideas and purposes of their own to serve , different from those of their colleagues , who are only too willing to supply news which is more definite than true . This false or partly false news quickly sPreads throughout the whole body of correspon ? dents , who communicate anything they are sup-Posed to learn one to another ; and the next morn ? ing the majority of the Washington dispatches pass on to their readers the more or less erroneous ac- , count of what is supposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next day , but inthe meantime it may have served the purpose of the person who had launched it on its career . In inter ? preting the Washington news the reader should , consequently , refrain from attaching much impor ? tance to the budget of any one or two days . It is only documents , official announcements and re ? ports which are confirmed for many successive days which are entitled to count . Even they usually re ? quire a sophisticated interpretation . UP to the time these lines go to press'nothing very definite and authentic has emerged from the scrim ? mage . The play has started , but it remains obscure to the spectator on the bleachers which of the players is carrying the ball and whether or not he is or is not gaining his distance . In the beginning the Chinese took the initiative ; but they did not hold it for long ; and for a while there was a gen ? eral impression in Washington that the game was up . It looked as if they had allowed the ball @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of winning a success was gravely compromised . But this gloomy view was certainly an exaggeration . The Chinese , it is true , are not strong enough to carry the ball except behind an extremely well-organized and vigorous interference , but they and their supporting interference are not yet broken up and they have not lost the ball . While it remains doubtful how much it will gain , the pro-Chinese party is still aggressive and is still pushing along . IT was the four Root resolutions coming after the ten Chinese principles which created the impression of weakness and loss by the Chinese party . The Chinese principles were general , but if they were adopted they would have obligated the govern ? ments which accepted them to a revision of the worst clauses of the existing treaties and of the most objectionable of the customary practices of foreign governments in China . The Root resolu ? tions , on the other hand , merely repeated the old phrases , except in the case of the fourth , which was ambiguous ; it looked consequently like an attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conference might achieve from being applied to past abuses . This inter ? pretation was natural , but it was only partly cor ? rect . The Root resolutions were not any more final than the Chinese statement of principles . The latter expressed in general the maximum which the friends of China hoped to obtain . The former expressed the minimum which all members of the Conference were ready to concede . The final re ? sult would lie somewhere in between . But the Root resolutions do not supersede the Chinese statement of principles as a basis of discussion . The Chinese principles are being hung on the appropriate hooks provided by the agenda , and they continue to con ? stitute in this form the order of business of the Far Eastern Committee of the Conference . There is a secure hook for all of them except the tenth , which provides for future conferences about the Far East . That proposal does not need any offi ? cial pretext for being ultimately adopted . Either future conferences on the Chinese question will succeed the present conference or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hearst wants war . THE outcome is still in doubt . It is in doubt for one unexceptionable reason . The public and prob ? ably the negotiators have no means of knowing ( 1 ) how firmly the American government will back up the Chinese ( 2 ) how firmly the British govern ? ment will back up the Americans at the expense of offending Japan and ( 3 ) how much the Japan ? ese are willing to yield without breaking up the Conference . The shrewdest and best informed ob ? server can only venture a more or less plausible guess about the result which will follow from the interaction of these three incalculable forces . Re ? cently the friends of China had considered the prospect less- encouraging because the English offi ? cial publicity played up the importance of the Anglo-Japanese alliance , but there is nothing con ? clusive about this symptom . It is still reasonable to anticipate that the Conference will bring into existence a beneficial change in the position of China . The benefit in specific agreements will not amount to as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whatever they are they will be clean bene ? fits . The American government will not purchase them by conditions which will prejudice the future harvesting of a larger crop . In the meantime dur ? ing the course of the negotiations Secretary Hughes is entitled to the confidence of his fellow citizens . He has earned it by his behavior up to date and as each successive crisis arises , he earns it more rather than less . // TAXATION is one matter that is not likely to be laid at rest for long by any action of Congress . When taxes are heavy , as they must be for a gen ? eration , there will necessarily be great discontent among those who think they are unfairly burdened , or that they have the power to roll the burden over to others ' shoulders . Least of all is it to be expected that our recently enacted taxation law will enjoy long life . It is fully satisfactory to nobody . It denies substantial relief both to the lower in ? come classes and the higher ones . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and refused to levy a sales tax , wisely , in our opinion . Senator Penrose has declared that the present is to be re ? garded as merely a temporary measure , and that the question is to be reopened with a view to fixing permanent rates . A new drive for the sales tax is in prospect . It may succeed , but we see no reason why it should . The agricultural bloc remain coherent , and are gaining in self-confidence . By the time the Penrose group of tax reformers have got the tax question well opened up , it is quite possible that the agricultural bloc will have made up their minds that dropping the profits tax was a mistake , and that no opportunity is to be missed for putting it back on the statute book . ONE feature of the tax law which should have re ? ceived general commendation is strangely enough practically ignored by the press . That is the abolition of the tax on transportation , an impost that meant an effective increase in railway rates of five percent on freight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was never anything to be said in favor of such a tax except that it afforded a substantial revenue . In criticism of the tax it was fairly to be urged that it acted to depress traffic , the very economic life of the country , and rested most heavily on those products and localities that are already discriminated against in the traditional structure of railway rates . Transportation taxes are an invention of the robber barons of the Dark Ages . They may properly be applied in time of war , along with similar inventions that are not too obsolete . Peace has no place for them . They are gone , we hope , forever . SENATOR KENYON has introduced a bill which comes at such an emergency and is , as far as it goes , so sensible that one hopes it may soon be used as a beginning for the relief of unemploy ? ment . Senator Kenyon proposes the familiar plan of holding up necessary public works until a time of depression and unemployment . Depart ment heads would be required to make plans for such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold up projected work until the critical mo ? ment of the depression . The secretary of the President 's committee on unemployment estimates that one third of a bad year 's unemployed could be absorbed by so concentrating public work in that year . What would happen to the other two thirds remains to be worked out , and the working out of any adequate scheme will be a long process . THERE is a clear Obligation resting on the gov ? ernment to make satisfactory provision for the men thrown out of employment in consequence of the scrapping of the naval program . Almost all of them can ultimately find places , no doubt , in ordinary industry , which may be expected to thrive and expand with the lifting of taxation burdens and the still heavier burden of international in ? security . But fitting workers into new places is a process that takes time . Before it is completed many of these men will suffer the severest distress , if the government simply abandons them to the mercies of their luck . It is to be borne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to soften the blow to property interests . All ex ? penditures laid out on ships partly completed but not to be finished will be reimbursed ; profits that were fairly to be expected under contracts already let will be granted out of appropriations . The government can not afford to be more tender to ? ward the vested interests of capital than toward those of labor . ONE bill passed by Congress ? and now signed by the President ? was such a small beginning in a vital matter that it seems out of place to thank Congress for doing what was so obviously its duty . We refer to the Sheppard-Towner Maternity bill , which creates a Federal Board of Maternal and Infant Hygiene , and appropriates some two million dollars toward education , with the cooperation of the states , in maternity and child feeding . The bill 's course through Congress was not smooth , its life was often threatened , and it was continually a Prey to our legislators ' patternless capacities for misunderstanding , or a victim of such unintelli ? gence as Senator Reed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organize a board of spinsters to teach mothers how to raise babies . " But finally victory has , gone against those in the balance of whose minds the lives of children weigh less than the fear of " pa ? ternalism . " AS late as June , one will often find in mountain woods an obstinate patch of unmelted frost . And though in general the exaggerated hatred of the German and Austrian in this country has subsided , there are still Americans whose hate is undying , and who are proud of it . Dr. Lorenz has , in gen ? eral , met with a reception the cordiality of which would two years ago have been incredible . A small exception was noted in the case of Philadelphia , where the Medical Club , which honored Dr. Lorenz nineteen years ago , " would have nothing to do with him , " and where a doctor ? whose stature does not justify our naming him ? said : " The man is a Teuton and I shall never again have anything to do with a Teuton . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the history of foolish hatreds , let them . Salvation by Conference CAUTIOUSLY , step by step , but with evident assurance of purpose the administration is unfolding its foreign policy . The President and his Secretary of State propose and are seeking available methods of using the economic power and political prestige , of the United States for the benefit of appeasement and recovery in all parts of the world , but for many reasons they are ob ? liged to go slow . American public opinion is still reluctant to take many risks or to assume many responsibilities abroad , particularly in Europe ; and in certain parts of the world the malady is so unmanageable that at present an outside phy ? sician can do no more than offer pious advice which the patient is too sick to accept . The administra ? tion began with naval disarmament as the imme ? diate object and the Far East as the first subject of its political healing . Navies and China were mat ? ters in which the American people were directly interested and in relation to which American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the President never intended to stop at this point . He has proposed from the beginning , if he were successful in substituting conference for war as an agency of Far Eastern legislation , to extend the method to other problems and regions . He has intended for many months ultimately to call a general conference . But the announcement of this intention on November 23rd , instead of at the end of the present Conference as was origi ? nally intended , is rendered possible by the appear ? ance of one new condition in the complex of in ? ternational politics and it is rendered extremely desirable by the intrusion of another . It is ren ? dered possible by the fact that the administration considers the success , from its point of view , of the present Conference practically assured . It would not dare to launch the new ambitious pro ? ject , if there was any danger of the foundering                     