@@164679

" If there was ever a man , " said Robert Latham Owen , outstanding Democratic " bolter " of last week ( see p. 11 ) , " fitted to be an advance agent of prosperity , it is Herbert Hoover . " The " advance agent " made the first formal public speech of his Nomineehood last week , at San Francisco 's Civic Centre ( city hall ) . He found words " difficult vehicles " for thanking Californians for presenting his name to the G. O. P. He reminisced about early California , before Mayor James Rolph Jr . became a " public institution in San Francisco " and when ( 33 years ago ) young Herbert Hoover hunted a job there . It was a non-political speech , unless the following was politically construed : " The outlook of the world today is for the greatest era of commercial expansion in history . The rest of the world will become better customers . . . . This incoming flood of prosperity , if it be guided aright , will enable you to add @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its people . " The welcoming ceremony , delayed a week because of Mrs. Hoover 's father 's death ( TIME , July 30 ) , was by no means the most exacting part of the Beaver Man 's week . Rising early on San Juan Hill and staying up late , he worked and reworked , in longhand , his speech accepting the nomination . He conferred constantly with visiting politicos and friends - Senator Johnson of California and his manager , Charles L. Neumiller ; Attorney-General Ottinger of New York , who aspires to succeed Governor Smith ; Mrs. Worthington Scranton , dashing National Committeewoman from Pennsylvania ; Louis B. Mayer , politically ambitious cine-man ; Henry S. Pritchett , president of the Carnegie Foundation ; Howard Heinz , Pittsburgh pickle man ; and many another . The night of the Tunney-Heeney fight , the newest of six new radio sets ( sent on approval ) was in operation at the Hoover abode . The end of the week saw the Nominee headed north , for " complete relaxation , " on a 1,000-mile motor trip to the headwaters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cars , went newsgatherers , cameramen , President Ray Lyman Wilbur of Stanford University and several professors ; Allan Hoover ( youngest son ) ; Assistant U. S. Attorney-General William J. ( " Wild Bill " ) Donovan ; Representative John John Quillin Tilson of Connecticut ; George Akerson ( secretary ) ; also fishing rods , flies , the acceptance speech ( for further reworking ) and a batch of " crank " letters . The latter amuse the Nominee . One man begged a new set of false teeth , which reminded the Nominee of a cheerer at the Hoover reception last month in Evanston , Ill. , who lost his " plate " at the height of the excitement and had to scramble for it in full view of all . To avoid ostentation and accidents , the vacation motorcade was strung out in pairs of cars or singly . The five-day itinerary was Palo Alto to Bull Flat in the Eel River Valley ; to Medford , Ore. ; to Hornbrook , Calif. , on the Klamath River ; then back to San Francisco by rail , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spectacular Redwood country the Nominee sat by a camp fire , told stories , smoked a pipe . Cameramen begged for a " shot " of the pipe . " I am sorry , " said the Nominee , " but a pipe is personal to the smoker and I would rather not . " At a stop en route , the Nominee was asked how the roads were . " They 're afflicted with that French                     