@@430864

 | HOUSE hunting as a periodical diversion won its place among the recurrent domestic problems in thousands of American families because it afforded an opportunity to change one 's neighbors and neighborhood , freed one from the embarrassments due to house owning , and temporarily offered the quickest and most effective means of offsetting the advancing cost of living . There came a time , however , when house hunting became a , desperate game with the hunter likely to become the victim . In fact , it proved to be almost as futile as was the effort to keep the family budget inside the safety zone . There were no houses to be had except at exorbitant figures , and the family that had been willing to pay unending tribute for a place in which to live was , in many instances , com- pelled to leave lifetime associations for a residence in a strange city . There was only one way out of the dilemma . That was to build , but alas ! The rise in the cost of construction had long since rivaled the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or so much money that they could afford to take risks tried to build under such conditions . But desperate as was the chance , they have emerged from the great tribulation rich in the possession of a home they can call their own . Rome building in the immediate future wilt be nothing like the adventure it wa when material and construction costs were in the ascendant , but if action is long deferred , the surplus of eager builders is sure to cause as many complications as the shortage of materials did during the war years . Tracing present-day fundamentals , it is easy to see why this is so . The national dwelling shortage at the close of the year was placed at 1,20,000 . In normal times America builds between 350,000 and 400,000 family dwellings each year . In 1919 only 8,000 family dwellings were erected , while 1920 reported even fewer , or 6 , 000 . The net result of this nation-  | wide hesitancy to build during the last two years is that 25,000,000 persons , or approximately one-fourth of the population of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affected by the housing shortage by increased rentals of the quarters they occupy . Each year of procrastination , then , increased the number of those who will have to build , and build soon . For people of finer sensibilities , the quarters offered at a price they can afford to pay are impossible . The Census Bureau informs us that half the population of the United States lives in cities and towns of more than 2500 inhabitants . Aside from the menace to the health and morals of families arising from such overcrowding , the item of fire risk is a conspicuous one . Exactly 15,219 persons were burned to death in 1919 , and 17,641 were seriously injured in fires . Of the dead and injured , the startling total of 82 percent were mothers and children under school age , due largely to the fact that 65 percent of the fires in this country occur in overcrowded dwellings . In addition to the deaths there is a colossal money loss . The Supervisor of the Surveying Department of the National Board of Fire Underwriters states that fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day . In other words , 889 homes in continental United States are destroyed by flames every twenty-four hours . The net result to the individual family of such a continual sapping of home supply with retarded replenishment is in increased rentals ranging from 25 to 150 percent . Profiteering alone is not responsible for these increases . The inexorable law of supply and demand has had a clear field , with the demand increasing and the supply decreasing . In 1890 families in the United States exceeding available dwellings amounted to 10.5 percent . In 1900 the ratio was 12.2 percent ; in 1910 , it was 13.8 percent ; in 1920 , it was 23 percent . Originating with Federal intervention during the war , construction of all kinds has been progressively depressed and discouraged by transportation failures and manipulation , fuel control by public and private interests , labor difficulties , diversion of credit to refunding purposes , and the issuances of vast quantities of tax-free securities that vigorously competed with first mortgage investments on improved realty . These are the basic factors which have contributed to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Commercial interests , following a will o ' the wisp in the form of a vision of worldwide trade , were first to avail themselves of the advantage of lowered restrictions upon building construction immediately following the signing of the Armistice . The lure of millions of returning soldiers eager to step out of their uniforms into mufti temporarily upset the usual evenheaded balance of American business men . During war-time , clothing , textile , furniture , and food manufacturers had no opportunity to lay up reserves , so at the first opportunity they bid against their competitors for available help and raw material , and finally against themselves in their desire to obtain first option on available building materials with which to enlarge their factories . When construction work started , these manufacturing interests sought speed in construction first . They had to begin quantity production faster than ever before , but to their consternation , for the first time in their lives they went out into the building material market and found that they could not buy brick , cement , lime , or steel in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the schedules they specified . With the customary tendency of American business men to overcome obstructions at any cost , they adopted the Government 's speed-insuring , war-winning tactics of paying for building construction on a speed schedule , or a basis of insuring fixed profit to the building contractor over and above the amount the finished building might cost . This so-called " cost-plus " system of construction quickly absorbed the meager supplies of building materials left in the manufacturers ' yards after the Federal authorities had for two years drained all the stock on hand , and in addition curtailed building material production to 40 percent of normal , and then allotted fuel in such insufficient quantities as to permit operation of their plants at only 25 percent of average annual production . Under such conditions of supply and demand the modest dwelling builder , coming into the market for the first and probably the only time in his life to buy material and building equipment , in the face of competition like that had only one recourse-to withdraw ? which he did with great alacrity . He found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power of only 39.6 cents . But in the meantime the prospective home builder @#  | became more and more exasperated by the rising rent item in his family budget . He became absolutely determined to build a home cf his own . And also the manufacturer , thwarted in his efforts to buy building materials and enlarge his factory to keep up with the demands of his trade for quantity production , was forced , also , to withdraw from the building market and turn his limited factory capacity from quantity to quality production and charge the market accordingly . Up went the cost of living to everybody , incidentally bringing the prospective home builder another raise in rental for the temporary premises he occupied . During the long days of waiting for construction costs and living costs to drop , the prospective home builder has had plenty of opportunity to read . He has been told that while the United States has been involved in a war about every quarter-century , these wars have been exclusively combats in defense of the home , yet the percentage of home owners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to U. S. Labor Department statistics , 20 percent of the people live under the rental system . Competent authorities state that in 1890 , 52 percent of Americans lived under the rental system . In 1910. rent payers represented ; 8 percent of the country 's population , while today probably 64 percent are abiding in leased quarters . It has been a matter of official observation that the rent payer loses not only the increment resulting from increasing land values and urban and suburban development , but what is still more important , he suffers the loss to himself and to his family of that intangible , but nevertheless , intrinsic value of long-established neighborhood friendships . He never knows the feeling of peace and security , so restful to the business man , of having a permanent abiding place in this shifting world . He misses the thousand joys of homekeeping that he can only read about in books , while his braver neighbors are going out and getting them for themselves . Furthermore he can not count on leaving to his children the safest investment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change or loss ? a piece of ground and a habitation thereon . A home is a guaranty of solid standing . Often the deciding question asked by those who rate trade or commercial risks is whether a man owns his own home . Any one can rent , but the proprietorship in a home best measures the individual 's talent for thrift . There is a clearing opportunity today for prospective home builders to start their longdeferred building enterprises with profit . The progression of rent raises , they realize , must continue until the nation cad catch up with the demand for homes . The prospective home builder is concerned mostly with the question as to whether the cost of building is coming down to within the range of his pocketbook . It is now possible to answer this question in the affirmative for the  | first time since 1916 . Furthermore , the economic fundamentals that guide the course of events in the construction market are developing in his favor , providing they can count on his prompt acceptance . The first thing that comes to the prospective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices . There has been wide conflict of opinion regarding the effect building material price advances have had in chilling national construction enterprise , but while building material prices have risen far , they have also fallen far since autumn of last year . The opening of the 1921 spring building movement finds a reduction in the price of nearly all basic building commodities . Yellow pine , in home-building dimensions , early in the year was within to percent of what it was in the wholesale-market prior to the war era . It is futile , in the face of higher freight rates , still lofty wage scales for common and skilled building material , manufacturing and construction labor , heavy war-time depreciation and depletion charges and nation-wide under-supply , to expect the complete deletion of that differential of to percent for several years . Therefore , basic building lumber prices may be safely considered as being at bottom . Common brick manufacturers , at the opening of the current building year , had barely half a billion brick on hand . This is wholly inadequate to meet the needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , much less a national housing emergency . By June there will be practically a cement famine 1 throughout the land if early-year indications run true to form . Yet with these conditions of undersupply in basic building commodities , prices have been reduced since last autumn 49 percent , covering nearly all items in the list , from architectural terra-cotta to zinc . There will be those who will require of the building material manufacturer and dealer their " pound of flesh , " but it will avail them little , if anything , because prices now being quoted to prospective builders , before the market satiates its hunger for orders , will not long remain low if , spurred by constant rent advances and overcrowding , a liberal percentage of harassed rent payers come promptly into the building market to acquire a home of their own . The era of investigation and inquiry into causes of price levels will spur public opinion to demand a closer margin between the price levels in the wholesale market and those quoted to prospective home builders . This conclusion is reached upon careful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered in 1921 and the spring of 1922 . Coming Construction Business It seems apparent at this time that the major movement of building in commodities in 1921 and early in 1922 will be toward the comparatively small-volume purchasers in large numbers instead of toward a few largequantity purchasers as has been the case during the last two years . This characteristic of the market of the immediate future is already greatly facilitating the stabilization of material prices . The hope of the building material producer for a continuation of big-order business was dimmed when early in the year it became apparent that the railroads with their $2,000,000,000 worth of potential equipment orders would be out of the market pending a clearer demonstration of their ability to achieve their contemplated earnings under the terms of their agreement with the Government when it released its control over the country 's transportation systems . It is , therefore , plainly a matter of expediency that building material manufacturers should make . their prices as attractive as their costs will permit to the small-quantity purchasers , the 1,250,000 prospective home builders in the U. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose hopes have been so long deferred with reference to building a home is the attitude of the building craftsmen he will employ to assemble the material he is thus able to buy .  | There are two sides to this problem , both of which it is well for the prospective home builder to contemplate in hoping for a lowering cost of erection of the home he would build . The cost of living has receded . On January 8th , the cost of living compared with even date in January , 7920 , was as 202.896 is to 292.790 . Some hold that this means lower wages for labor . There are those also , who hold that since the signing of the Armistice immigration has been having a lowering effect upon the cost of building labor , or labor employed in the production of basic building materials . The facts do not justify this conclusion . During 7920 emigration so far cut down the total of immigration : that there probably would not remain more than 50,000 able-bodied men immigrants scattered throughout the country . Union labor has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skilled plasterers , carpenters , masons , roofers , plumbers , and tin and steam fitters each year removed from the scaffold by death , disease , or permanent injury . Certainly during the war years , when many of the junior craftsmen there abroad in the service of the flag , little was learned in the mastery of their respective trades , and since the war there has been such scanty opportunity for these potential artisans to learn their trade that many have sought positions in other lines . Do Not Delay Too Long It is this factor which makes it inexpedient to wait too long for the pre-war building cost levels to arrive . Thirteen years elapsed after the Civil War before the prices of building materials finally found their ante-war levels . and in the light of present prospective demand and the probable continued scarcity of wheelbarrow and skilled labor in the building trades . i it is not well to defer actual building construction work in the stubborn pursuit of a phantom in the form of cheaper labor or cheaper materials resulting from oversupply . Indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with growing demand for skilled and unskilled artisans , labor may once more reach the peak of power in the later days of acute demand . If labor should again find itself in a position where it can dictate wage scales and hours of work , it is easy to imagine a return of the higher cost of building material production and of building erection . Acute demand for housing alone will probably not be sufficient to bring about such a condition , but if the latter half of 1921 and the spring of 1922 develop a demand for railroad improvement which calls for the identical material that enters into the construction of homes , and commercial building again comeinto the market for building material supplies on a large-order basis , the procrastinating home builder may experience some of the problems that characterized the readjustment years of 2979 and 1920 . The question of financing a home building project next will arise . One of the major influences for the retardation of home building or , in fact , construction of any sort , in 1920 was the necessity for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order has since passed . In counterbalancing position stand the most able leaders in public life espousing the cause of the home builder . even to the extent of recommending to the Congress of the United States the passage of a ' nn : authorizing the investment of one-half of tall the savings deposits of member banks in the Federal Reserve System in first mortgages on first-class improved real estate . The homes americans buy or build must not be barracks or stilted houses made by the mile and sold by the foot , but homes , modest residences or palatial , as they please or can afford , financed and erected by their own thrift and enterprise , at a cost within the limits of their purse . 4 It seems but yesterday that Columbia upraised her hand and signaled to construction work " Stop . " Today she signals " Go ! " Vary Your Menu With Shrimps ( Continued from page 74 ) one egg well ; sift together one and one-third cupfuls of bread flour , one teaspoonful of salt , one-eighth teaspoonful of pepper , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the egg , alternating with three-fourths cupful of milk . Add one and one-half cupfuls of cooked shrimps which have been cleaned . Drop by spoonfuls , having one shrimp in each , into deep fat heated to 360 ? F. Turn often and cook until a golden brown . Drain on crumpled paper and pass hot Sauce Tartare with them . To make this . add to three-fourths cupful of medium-thick white sauce , one-half cupful of mayonnaise dressing and one-half tablespoonful each of chopped pickles , capers , and minced parsley . Olives and chives chopped may also be added . Scalloped Shrimps Use either raw or cooked shrimps , but in either case prepare according to directions . In the bottom of a buttered baking-dish sprinkle a thin layer of dry bread-crumbs . Over this place one-fourth cupful of stewed tomatoes and one-third cupful of canned corn , sprinkle with salt , pepper , and paprika , and dot with one-half tablespoonful of butter . Then lay one-half of a can of shrimps over all . Repeat , using as seasoning for the entire dish one teaspoonful of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pour over two tablespoonfuls of the liquor if canned shrimps are used , and cover with the crumbs remaining from three-fourths cupful . Dot with one tablespoonful of butter and bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven if cooked shrimps were used , and thirty minutes in a moderate oven if raw ones were used . This recipe is intended to serve four people as the main luncheon dish , or six as an entree . One small can of shrimps will yield a scant cupful . This makes an excellent emergency dish , as all the main ingredients should be residents of the emergency shelf . Shrimp Cheese Pudding Clean two cans of shrimps thoroughly . Cut six quarter-inch slices of bread into inch squares ; spread with butter or margarin , using two tablespoonfuls . Place half of the bread in a greased baking-dish , spread over half of the shrimps evenly , sprinkle with three-fourths teaspoonful of salt , one-eighth teaspoonful of pepper , one-fourth teaspoonful of paprika , and one-eighth pound of mild cheese cut fine ; repeat . Beat three eggs , add three cupfuls of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shrimps . Bake about one hour in an oven registering 350 ? F. Raw shrimps may be used if obtainable . Shrimps are very popularly used for salads . In fact hotels and restaurants use them to a large extent in place of lobster , I am told . The following salad combination is , however , a little bit out of the ordinary . Jellied Shrimp Salad Cook together for fifteen minutes one quart can of tomatoes , one cupful of water , one and one-half teaspoonfuls of salt , one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper , four cloves , one bay-leaf , one tablespoonful of sugar , one teaspoonful of mustard , and . one small onion minced . Strain and pour mixture over two tablespoonfuls of granulated gelatin which has been softened in one-fourth cupful of cold water . Cool until beginning to stiffen and add one and one-half cupfuls of shrimps thoroughly cleaned and cut in halves , one-half cupful of finely diced celery , and one-fourth cupful of diced green pepper from which the skin has been removed by parboiling . Pour into wet , individual molds and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to serve , turn out on beds of lettuce and garnish with boiled or mayonnaise dressing , as preferred . They b easily ? work m Use M ptHUrn , Surest Sold ear Statiooe and De ; 1-4 Bey i                     