@@487288

Finally , I must also mention his admirable water-power policy upon which he has fought all the great power combinations within the State , to prevent the exploitation by private capitalistic interests of what is the heritage of all the people . Again , he has done everything possible to develop the State Barge Canal , except to furnish the traffic that it so sorely needs to justify itself , and he has advocated whole-heartedly its use by the - federal government as a part of the proposed ship canal from the Great Lakes to the sea . In all of these matters his course has been truly progressive and beyond criticism . In conclusion , I do not urge all Progressives to support Smith . By no means . He has still much to do and much to say before Progressives can give him their complete confidence . He is still a Tammany man ; against its excesses and wrongdoing in New York he never protests publicly , although he has at times used his influence to procure better nominations or to compel the Hall to indorse a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts and the police and the elections he has nothing to say ? Tammany still steals elections with utmost brazenness . It remains an organization for public plunder . It is outwardly whiter ; it has better figureheads and has drawn some fine young men into its ranks who hold the futile old idea that an organization like this may be reformed from within . It no longer waxes rich out of petty pilfering from prostitutes and gamblers and saloonkeepers and the criminals it licenses to prey upon the community ; it makes its money much more easily , but on a much larger scale . As for the prohibition issue , Governor Smith must tell the public exactly where he will stand if elected , whether he will continue to have his drinks in the White House or not , and whether he will determinedly uphold the Eighteenth Amendment . In foreign affairs he remains an unknown quantity . It is true that in 1926 he personally insisted that the Democratic State platform contain an indorsement of the World Court , and that in 1920 he made many speeches favoring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and defending every part of the Wilson program , probably without much real understanding of what it was all about . But the public has a right to ask how he stands today . Will he again seek to put this country into the League ? And how does he stand as to the Caribbean ? Does he believe that the flag follows every American dollar across the seas and the Rio Grande ? It is much-to his credit that he has said apropos of Mexico : " My personal attitude is that . . . no country has the right to interfere in the internal affairs of any other country " ? but that is precisely what Mr. Coolidge has said while intervening in Nicaragua and threatening to intervene in Mexico . Will Governor Smith specify his position by adding to the words quoted above " as has been done by our brutal and bloody interventions in Haiti , Santo Domingo , and Nicaragua " ? Will he , too , hold to the policy of a huge army and navy when the world is sick almost beyond hope of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Does or does he not believe in tariff reform ? As an administrator Governor Smith has no equal in America , not even in Herbert Hoover . But it is honest , radical , popular leadership that the country needs infinitely more than a great administrator in Washington . Will he always be for the people , or will he stand in the last resort with those whom Woodrow Wilson called " the bosses and their masters , the great capitalists " ? What guaranty is there that he whom the corporations have regarded so complacently in New York , whom Wall Street has never feared , will become the regulator of big business ? He has never formulated any deep-lying political philosophy . Doubtless he will be taught much , particularly about foreign affairs , before the convention meets , but he can not quickly acquire the background of experience and the personal knowledge of the national and international events of his lifetime which is so necessary to an intelligent conduct of the affairs of the Republic . Of all the candidates , Governor Smith on his record gives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines . It is today , however , but a promise . Great masses of Americans , many of whom now never go to the polls , long for the coming of one more brave outspoken man , long again to " see one straightforward conscience put in pawn to win a world . " These voters are to be had , but they must be convinced and won . From now until June is the Governor 's opportunity to demonstrate that as he has been in New York so will he be in the nation . He in himself is to be the acid test of America 's democracy .                     