@@493387

Is There Any Maritime Law ? AFTER many years of silence , a few British naval experts and publicists are forcing on the attention of British public opinion the existing ambiguous situation of maritime law and its necessarily unsettling effect on the relation between their own country and the United States . Recently in the House of Lords , Admiral Lord Wemyss expressed frankly the demand of aggressive British navalism for the renunciation by his government of its formal adherence to the Declaration of Paris . Still more recently , Mr. Garvin and Lord Cecil have emphasized the danger of a collision with the United States which such a repudiation would involve , and suggested the much wiser course of a conference between the governments of the two countries in the hope of reaching some agreement about their past and present differences with respect to the rights of neutral trade on the high seas during war . Sooner or later , an international conference will have to be summoned to deal with this subject , and it ought to be sooner rather than later . In the expectation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion , it is worth while to review the facts of this long submerged legal controversy between the British and American governments , as they might be presented to an international court by an American lawyer . The difference involves , of course , the question of the respective rights of belligerents and neutrals in maritime war . The Declaration of Paris , by which the neutral flag protects all goods on board a ship except military ( contraband ) merchandise , and by which neutral goods , except contraband , under any flag are deemed free , is only a part of the legal system protecting neutrals against the undue encroachments of belligerents . The issue , although it underlay much of the difference between the two countries at the Geneva Conference , has been deliberately allowed to remain undiscussed in public . Not so among naval experts : The issue goes back to the violations of international law which the British navy perpetrated in the late War . Unless the issue is settled on the basis of agreement and law , it is likely some day to be settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insists that it may act as it pleases as a belligerent , regardless of law , or that the rules of law governing the rights of neutrals are uncertain and vague , so that they may be interpreted at any given time as Britain chooses , there is only one policy left for the United States to pursue . All those nations , therefore , which do not yet concede either that there will be no more war or that every war must be a world war , and which believe that neutrals have the right to rely on law for the protection of their rights , have a vital interest in opposing the British claims to the unrestrained privile2-e of compelling ' neutrals to trade with Britain alone and as Britain may dictate . International relations contemplate the possibility of war . International law , through the development of centuries , has worked out a definite compromise between the two conflicting and irreconcilable claims of the belligerent to stop all trade with his enemies , and of the neutral to continue freely to trade with both belligerents . That compromise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but on agreement . Such agreement is the law governing their mutual relations , and it can not legally be departed from by either party . It is built around the principle that the neutral may not furnish direct military aid to either belligerent , but that other trade is free . That principle underlies the rules governing the legal disability of neutrals to trade in contraband or to violate lawful blockades . Subject to these limitations , the neutral may freely trade with either or both belligerents in non-contraband goods and goods not destined for the military forces of the enemy state ; and , of course , there never was any prohibition against trading with neutrals , though those neutrals , in turn , might possibly sell to belligerents . Since the Armed Neutralities of 1780 and 1800 , in which neutral nations first sought armed organized protection for their rights , steady progress had been made by international agreement in limiting belligerent claims to interfere with neutral rights , and in enabling neutrals to escape ruination from wars in which they had no part or interest . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ branch of modern international law . . . The rapid changes it is undergoing are in fact bringing the state-system of the modern world nearer to the realization of the dream of many great writers and thinkers , of a community of nations just as much governed by legal methods as any community of civilized men . To this desirable end the United States has , from the beginning of its history , made the most commendable contributions , forever identified with the names of Washington and Jefferson . These contributions arose from resistance to British encroachments on neutral rights in the wars of 1793 , when Britain undertook to prevent American commerce from reaching France , on the ground that France was a peculiarly vicious nation , that the French government had taken over control of the food supply , and that the entire population was engaged in war . The inference was that all foodstuffs sent to France would thus have a military or combatant destination . That argument Jefferson unequivocally denied . He maintained that " reason and usage " had " established that , when two nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace retain their natural right to pursue their agriculture , manufactures and other ordinary vocations , " and " to carry the produce of their industry , for . exchange , to all nations , belligerent or neutral , as usual , " subject to the restriction " of not furnishing to either party implements merely of war , " cornrnonly known as contraband , nor of carrying " anything whatever to a place blockaded . " When the British argument was repeated in 1916 , with the substitution of Germany for France , President Wilson was prevented by his sympathy with the Allies from resisting it as strenuously and effectively as Jefferson had , one hundred years before . The nineteenth and twentieth centuries had been marked by a steady advance in restraining belligerent claims and giving neutrals an established legal status , much alcng Jeffersonian lines . The decisions of Lord Stowell in the early part of the century contributed greatly ; the Declaration of Paris , the two Hague Conferences , and the confirmation of existing law embodied in the Declaration of London , mark a consistent progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the relation between belligerents and neutrals . The idea that there will be no more neutrals , or that every war must be a world war , takes a great deal for granted . Nations may generally still prefer to mind their own business , and may be loath to accept the word of a predominant group of powers which condemns their opponent as an " aggressor . " The British government smashed , during the War , that elaborate structure of the law of neutrality which protected non-combatants against starvation , and protected neutrals in their right to trade in non-military goods even with belligerents . Goods destined to neutral ports were freely cap tured ; all ships were compelled to stop in British or Allied ports ; neutral countries were rationed ; " measures of blockade " without the shadow of legality were enforced ; the so-called doctrine of continuous voyage was abused beyond recognition ; practically everything usable by a human being was made contraband ; the important category of goods " conditionally contraband " was wiped out , and a newly created doctrine of " retaliation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abrogation of the elementary and time-honored distinction between combatants and non-combatants . But the most alarming symptom had not yet appeared . With the end of the War , it might have been supposed that , as in the past , some effort would have to be made to restore the rule of law . Not so . Great Britain 's entire diplomacy has been exerted to prevent any arbitration or judicial chal lenge of her behavior , and the Department of State in Washington , apparently unaware of what is in volved in these questions , and notwithstanding the Arbitration Treaty with Great Britain , has concluded an Executive Agreement ( May 19 , 1927 ' Treaty Series 756 ) which practically abandons the American claims , and with them , international law ' Unless Congress takes out of the hands of the officials of the Department.of State and assigns to an independent commission , operating under the rules of international law , the distribution of the trifling amount of one and a half millions which Britain has permitted the United States to retain for the American claims , both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a perhaps irretrievable set-hack . The Executive Agreement contains a remarkable paragraph to the effect that the British government , in future , may adopt any position it sees fit and the United States may freely protest . Far from promoting peace and understanding , such a paragraph promises only misunderstanding and friction . Having , in practice , disregarded the Declaration of Paris , the Hague Conventions and the Declaration of London , which , though unratified , largely embodied rules the validity of which had not been questioned , the British navalists are now seeking to create the impression that there either are no rules of international law governing the rights of neutrals , or that such rules may be interpreted as British interest requires . The argument has even persuaded an American writer to entitle a chapter of his book , " the so-called law of neutrality . " Why Great Britain should formally denounce the Declaration of Paris is not clear ; for , in practice , Britain has not hesitated to violate its well established rules . It may be inferred that Lord Wemyss spoke out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's official policy of seeking to escape all legal fetters looks towards a retrogression to the ancient uncivilized principle of brute force in the conduct of international relations , and that British statesmen must necessarily , therefore , contemplate the natural position of their country as that of a belligerent with the cards stacked in advance in her favor , several matters of international polity become clear . It is evident that France and other countries which are liable to be starved out by a British blockade may be justified in building as many submarines and aeroplanes as possible . It is evident that the United States , whose natural position is that of a neutral , must , in order to rely upon the protection of law , be prepared to defend that law and American rights by force . It is evident that Britain , by insisting on 4 commerce-destroying navy much larger than that of any other power , is not merely interested in protecting her food supplies and trade routes , but is Primarily concerned in subjecting other powers to her will , while at the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object . It becomes evident why Britain declined to accept President Wilson 's " point " on freedom of the seas . It is evident Why the United States Navy desires a fleet at least a s large as Great Britain 's , though otherwise we have no need of such a navy . It is evident why the Naval Conference at Geneva was bound to break Oown . It is evident why disarmament in Europe Can make no headway , for disarmament presup- rses the reign of law , and not that of unrestrained Pree . When one nation insists on disregarding the time-honored rules of law , which are the sole protection for the weak and the law-abiding , the only wY to meet the challenge is either by persuading the lawless to desist , or by resorting to organizedforce . The very existence of the League of Nations is imperilled by the present state of affairs . We have stated the case against British policy with respect to the rules of the sea emphatically , not because we wholly agree with it , but in the hope of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ugly and dangerous complications . If , by any chance , the British government should follow the advice of Lord Wemyss and proclaim frankly that in time of war the British navy would consult British interests only in its censorship of neutral trade , a race for supremacy in the building of commerce-destroying and protecting cruisers between the United States and Great Britain would become inevitable . The British navy can not expect to exercise an international function of this kind except after an agreement with other powers about the rules of its exercise . Yet the British navy practically occupies this position now , as the result of its policy during the War , and the result is undoubtedly to embarrass every attempt at disarmament both on land and sea . Moreover , the consequent insecurity of maritime commerce is , of course , more dangerous to the British commonwealth than to any other political - body . The British need the kind of security for their maritime commerce which they can never obtain by their existing preponderance in cruisers or any practicable increase of it , and this kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispose of neutral commerce during war as their own interests dictate . The recognition of such a right would merely encourage the American government to build more and better cruisers than Great Britain has built or can build . English security depends upon naval disarmament , rather than armament , and international agreement as to the rules of the sea , rather than the defiant assertion of the supremacy of interest over law . The British or the American government , or both , should call a conference to discuss the questions at issue , which would assemble before the naval conference of 1931 . Otherwise the re-assembled Washington Conference is certain to repeat the fiasco of Geneva .                     