@@486155

BEFORE leaving Vladivostok the commander-in-chief of the Japanese troops , Tachibana , addressed the following telegram to the commander-in-chief of the troops of the Far Eastern Republic , Uborevich : To His Excellency the Commander-in-Chief of the Chita Army , Uborevich . Unfortunately I had to meet you under arms , and I was very sorry , but thanks to your highly just and well-timed orders we succeeded in avoiding hostilities and parted as friends , which I consider very fortunate for both states and armies . This will be a pledge for future friendly relations which are bound to be initiated in the nearest future . With this I wish you all good fortune . October 25 , Vladivostok . Commander-in-Chief of the Japanese troops , General Tachibana . A Jewish Manifesto to the Arabs THE Jewish National Council of Palestine has issued a second manifesto to the Arabs , the text of which follows in its original translated form . To subjects of the dear and holy motherland , Palestine , and to all the Arabic nations in their respective countries . We , all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , come to you , our Arabic brethren , with a message of peace and love , of unity and joint labors , to lay before you the sincerity of our aims and the purity of our hopes . You must know that our Bible and the writings of the Prophets admonish us never to transgress the laws of justice and fairness . Ere yet our feet had trod this holy land , we had engraved deep in our hearts that we were coming to re-inhabit the sandy shores and the deserts of this land ; to fructify the mountains and the valleys ; to bring to light the treasures embedded deep in the strata ; to elevate the waters falling at present to waste and creating the swamps which bring sickness on the dwellers of low-lying parts ; to conquer by toil and sweat , by money and science that which the inhabitants of the land were unable previously to exploit through lack of means ; to bring a sheaf of blessing on all the toilers in this land ; and above everything , not to encroach on anybody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you , as our traducers allege against us , nor yet to encroach on your own perfect and sacred rights . Our prophets , with heavenly inspiration , did exhort us to give rights of possession in our midst even to strangers sojourning with us ; how then shall we debase our thoughts by having intention to exploit a whole nation , our very kindred , with whom we are dwelling in the one country ? Enlightened Palestine subjects , open your eyes and behold what exists ; let our deeds bear witness for us ; we have been dwelling in the land from early times and it is now quite forty years that we have been building villages here ; have we then molested any person during all this time ? or did it even enter the minds of any of us to injure any one ? We have brought in from abroad millions of francs and expended them in the country for the benefit and welfare of all the inhabitants . Wastes and deserted places which no one ever dreamed of settling on were transformed by us into habitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created fresh sources of livelihood for thousands of the inhabitants , have raised the values of landed property and produce , and have revitalized the life and movement of the neighborhoods . Consider the town of Tel-Aviv ; scarce thirteen years ago there was nought but sandy waste there and for a few pence it was even possible to obtain vast stretches of land , while now hundreds of houses and thousands of settlers have been added and the price of land for a considerable extent around has reached almost fabulous figures . . . . In order to engender misunderstandings between us and to anathematize us some people have arrogantly dared in the name of holy religion to invent libelous falsehoods , declaring that we have come here to obtain possession of your holy places so as to desecrate them . You , the nation , can be the truest witness for the refutation of so baseless an accusation . For one small moment place your hand on your heart , and , with reverent feeling ask your very soul if ever indeed a Jew had desecrated what you hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Halutzim ( pioneers ) . Go and investigate whom these workmen harm . Do they not buy all their needs from the local inhabitants and pay with choice Jewish money , flooding the country from abroad ? Who are the buyers of the toil of the fellah and fisherman at the principal markets of Jaffa , Jerusalem , and other cities ? Is this then the way we exploit the natives ? Or is it then that a Jew buys and does not pay , or that a Jew borrows and does not settle ? Pray , in what way have we encroached on your rights ? Let the gentlest child relate or the most unfortunate native woman declare ; or let whosoever has had dealings with Jews either in trade or at work tell whether Jews molest them or whether it is not with justice and fairness , with respect and consideration that we behave to them while working for us in house or field . The development of the country calls for a stupendous effort which only all of us together can accomplish ; secure in our justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joint labors . We are brethren in this land ; let us then work together to make it bloom , and each nation will gather strength and develop its nationalistic powers , its language , and its literature ; for you must surely know that in work and science competition is a blessing to the competitors and to the whole world . By virtue of that truth which transcends and overcomes all falsehoods and libels , we are confident that all the Arabic nations will soon come to recognize that , in their aspirations for freedom and progress , they will assuredly find in the Jewish nation a brother faithful in thought and deed , a staunch and unswerving ally , and a loyal and willing comrade Semitic nations , our regeneration is your regeneration and our freedom is your freedom . Kiao-chau ? Open Port T HE following translation from the Chinese of the draft regulations for the administration of Kiao-chau as an open port upon its restoration by Japan is taken from the Peking Daily News of October 26 . The Daily News states that the document was published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not to be considered conclusive or final in its form . ARTICLE I. These regulations have been drawn up after careful consideration of the rules obtaining in self ( sic ) open ports , enacted in year , and the special conditions existing in Kiao-chau . ART . II . The territory of the open port of Kiao-chau comprises the area from north latitude 35 ? 53 ' 30 " to 36 ? 16 ' 30 " and from east longitude 120 ? 8 ' 30 " to 120 ? 35 ' 30 " . ART . III . The self-governing units in Kiao-chau are divided into the city proper and outlying villages . ART . IV . The city which comprises the district of Tsing-tao town , Ta-tung-chin and Ta-Shih-chin shall be called the city of Tsing-tao ; and all other communities shall be called villages and shall be prescribed for by the governor of the open port . ART . V. The regulations for self-government proclaimed in the 10th year , 7th month , 3rd day ( July 3 , 1921 ) shall apply to the open port @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be prescribed to meet the special conditions of the open port . ART . VI . The functions of the government of the open port of Kiao-chau are as follows : 1 . To enact and amend by-laws and regulations for the government of the port . 2 To control and manage public properties and to construct and manage civil works . 3 . The survey , registration , and expropriation of public and private land 4 . The classification and leasing of public land . 5 . Harbor services and wharves. 6 . The raising of taxes in the open port and the receiving of subsidies and paying contribution from and to the central government . 7 . Administration and supervision of land and marine police and other police services . 8 . The supervision of autonomies in the open port . 9 . Anything necessary besides the above-mentioned . ART . VII . The office of the open port . The President shall directly appoint the Governor of the open port . The Governor shall direct and supervise the office of the open port , and appoint the officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ port shall have four assistants who shall assist the Governor in legal matters . ART . IX . The office of the open port shall have four private secretaries who shall have charge of important matters , under the direction of the Governor . ART . X. The office of the open port shall have the following divisions having charge of the functions enumerated in Article VI : ( 1 ) Division of General Affairs ; ( 2 ) Division of Political Affairs ; ( 3 ) Division of Police ; ( 4 ) Division of Harbor Service ; ( 5 ) Division of Civil Engineering ; ( 6 ) Division of Foreign Affairs . ART . XI . The officials of the divisions and the public service regulation thereof shall be established by another enactment . ART . XII . The open port of Kiao-chau shall establish marine and land police ; their organization and service shall be under the common rules of the police , besides their being a special organization , the chief officer of the said police shall be appointed on the recommendation of the Governor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons , Chinese or foreigners , of the freedom of residence and of trade in industrial , commercial , and other lawful pursuits . ART . XIV . The limit of lease in the open port of Kiao-chau shall be fifty years . ART . XV . Without sanction of the office of the open port , transactions in regard to land by any person , Chinese or foreigners , shall be null and void . ART . XVI . Before details of regulations within the open port are enacted , the Governor shall consult the central government explaining local conditions which have a bearing on them , and obtain consent thereto ; and also inform the department of the central government concerned , and the provincial government ART . XVII . The administration and execution of executive and judicial power within the open port belongs solely to the Chinese officials . Litigation concerning foreigners belonging to countries which have treaties shall be conducted according to those treaties ; however , should a foreigner apply for relief at the Chinese court , it shall be granted ART . XVIII . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , both Chinese and foreigners , shall continue to pay every description of tax which has hitherto been levied . When any increase in the existing rates and taxes or any new tax is to be levied , the governor of the port shall consult the financial advisory committee , before imposing it . ART . XIX . A financial advisory committee shall be established consisting of nine members , five of whom shall be Chinese and four foreigners . When any increase in the rates or introduction of a new tax is contemplated , as aforesaid , the committee shall be prepared to deal with the matter . The Chinese members of the financial advisory committee shall be chosen by the self-government associations of the city and villages in the district of the open port of Kiao-chau ; and the members of foreign nt.tionality shall be chosen by residents of foreign nationalities , but no nationality shall be represented by more than two members . The term of office of members of the committee shall be one year , but any member may seek reelection . ART . XX . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a transfer and public works committee of six members . The mayor of the city of Tsing-tao shall be chairman of the committee , and the remaining members shall be selected byt he Governor , thre Chinese and three foreigners . The duties of the above committee shall be to supervise and execute the transfer of public works . ART XXI . These regulations shall be presented by the Governor of the open port of Kiao-chau together with the minister of the departments concerned to the superior authorities for approval The President shall publish these regulations by proclamation and they shall come into force from the date of such proclamation . ART . XXII . Any amendment in these regulations must be effected by the President of the Republic upon representation by the Governor and the ministers of all departments concerned .                     