@@152084

To Worcester , Mass. , last week went France 's learned **27;6965;TOOLONG Paul Claudel . His purpose : to visit Assumption College on its 25th anniversary . So distinguished a Frenchman as he could not go to Worcester without causing a civic demonstration . Fully one-quarter of Worcester 's total population ( 197,600 ) is foreign-born and mostly French or French-Canadian . Of Worcester 's four daily newspapers , one , l'Opinion Publique , is printed in French . When ce brave Monsieur Claudel arrived in Worcester , he found 30,000 cheering citizens waiting for him . Assumption College was M. Claudel 's chief host , but Assumption College under the Massachusetts laws can only give a B. A. degree . An ambassador should certainly be honored with not less than an LL.D . So Clark University , which is also in Worcester , was glad to help Assumption , give the degree , share the day 's festivities. * Assumption College is perhaps the tiniest and purest center of classicism in the U. S. Here are taught the Greek of Homer , Plato , Sophocles ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Racine and Bossuet ; the English of Shakespeare . For those who wish there is law , medicine . Although not stressed , science and modern languages are not ignored . Many Assumption graduates go to Harvard Law School or to Jefferson Medical College , Philadelphia . Although Assumption is a classical college , its regular instructors are all Catholic priests and Assumptionist Fathers . The college and its affiliated high school are the next educational step after Worcester 's parochial schools . Its greatest singularity is its rule that no student may come to Assumption unless he speaks fluently both French and English . Classes are conducted either in French or English . Thus Assumption has won the sobriquet of " only French college in the U. S. " It was in Nimes , France , one solemn morning in 1851 , that the first Augustinians of the Assumption took their public vows . The vigorous doubt of Voltaire and the science of Diderot had troubled Catholic France . The Assumptionist Fathers swore to combat irreligion in Europe , to missionize in the East . From the Balkans to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they learned Oriental languages , heard confessions in German , Greek , Turkish . Some-times they adopted and altered slightly alien rituals to make their gospel first familiar , then embraced . In Jerusalem they erected the Htelrie de Notre Dame de France . Here in 1893 was held a Eucharistic Congress . In 1900 , republican France accused the Assumptionist Fathers of royalist intrigues . Their schools were closed , their activities halted . They fled to Italy , Belgium . England , the U. S. Thus it came to pass that their little college in Worcester , Mass. , was founded in 1904 . <P> *Other Worcester institutions are Holy Cross College , Worcester Polytechnic Institute .                     