@@468505

So far , then , as its actual bearing on the last War is concerned , the beneficial effect of the Kellogg pact would probably have been very small , in spite of the fact that the possibility of physical involvement in European quarrels should not be entirely forgotten . It is certain , however , that if at the moment of another European crisis we refused to act we should be exposed to precisely the same storm of criticism and reprobation which attended our rejection of the peace treaties . Europe has given us clear and unmistakable proof that she regards the Kellogg treaty as obliging us to interfere and that her interpretation of it is totally different from ours . And interpretations , where so vague a pact is concerned , are of prime importance . Formally to agree to such a pact , when opinions on both sides of the water are so wholly different , is really not to agree at all , but to sow the seeds of more trouble and m isunderstanding . It is difficult to see how the Senate can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it justifies inevitable criticism from Europe later on ? criticism which will be far more severe than any which would attend its refusal to ratify . It has been argued that Europe would be very much distressed if the Senate should refuse to ratify , and would loudly criticize us for refusing to back up " our own treaty . " This cry would undoubtedly be raised if the Senate refused . But it would have only the scantest foundation in fact and so could not be persistent . The proposal was first made to us by M. Briand , foreign minister of France . Assuming that the idea did originate with an American , Professor Shotwell , that American has disclaimed the finished product and had no brief to speak for the United States in the first place . In a discussion of this sort , only official sources should be considered . Moreover , if it is recalled that M. Briand was the first official to make the proposal , does it not seem that thephrase " Kellogg treaty , " which originated in Europe , is a misnomer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the signing ceremonies in Paris , he modestly disclaimed being the sole author of the pact ? If the Senate refuses to ratify , it is indeed hard to see how Europe with any justice can charge us with not backing up " our own treaty . " The American Secretary of State has not and was never intended to have the same amount of power as the foreign minister of a parliamentary state , and it would do no harm to have European opinion realize this . If the question of ratification be considered solely from the standpoint of incurring European anger , must it not be set down that it would be better to refuse to ratify it now rather than wait till later ? And from the standpoint of historic American foreign policy , does not rejection seem the one intelligent course to follow ? The treaty may be a good enough thing for Europe ; but it can not be repeated too often that the position of the United States in world affairs is wholly different from that of the individual European state . This statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an interest in what happens in Europe . But our interest is bound to be peculiar and our actions are certain to be different . We are so happily situated by geography that what happens in Asia or Oceania or Smith America is of nearly equal interest to us with what happens in Europe . Being so far away and so remote from strife , we can apply ourselves to improving our civilization and , perhaps , setting a real example to mankind . In any case , our influence in the affairs of others should not be fettered and predetermined . On the contrary , should we not adhere strictly to the simple rule that the United States should never agree in advance to support or oppose any Power or group of Powers ? I think it can already he shown that this Kellogg treaty would fetter us . The treaty negotiations , thanks to Secretary Kellogg 's inaction , were used as a pretext by the pacifist lobby in Washington last winter to prevent congressional action on the cruiser bill . Moreover , a forecast of what Europe may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , seems to be contained in the following statement , issued last summer by a member of the British cabinet , Sir William Joynson-Hicks : We are signing this compact at your request , a compact to end war , and yet we understand that you are increasing your navy . I think we are entitled to say to America that deeds speak louder than words . Now , our navy may be too big and it may be too small , but do we want to give other nations a right to say what size our navy ought to be ? Should we listen cheerfully to the argument that because of the Kellogg treaty we must make ourselves navally impotent ? Yet that is what Europe seems to expect . V I have tried to show in the foregoing the dangers to world peace contained in the Kellogg treaty and the sacrifices which it would compel us to make to Europe without receiving anything in return . These are in themselves ample argument for the Senate to refuse to ratify . But there is one last argument , which seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have said at the beginning , the last few years have seen a widespread interest in and deep desire for peace . It was for our public servants in Washington to take advantage of this sentiment , interpret it , and give it effect . It was a grand opportunity , with the public in a highly receptive mood , to clear up some of the misconceptions about war . In my judgment they wasted that opportunity . They could have said , for instance , that so great a luxury as the abolition of war ? and what luxury could conceivably be greater ? ? can not be obtained without sacrifice . They could have pointed out in some public and impressive way thatthese sacrifices must be made by those who would benefit most from the abolition of war ? the rank and file of the people . They might have suggested , for instance , that those newspapers which increase their circulation and their revenue by sensationalizing war stop doing so . They might have pointed to the ever-increasing number of business houses , which since the War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such nations as Great Britain , for instance , to whom foreign trade is far more essential than it is to us . They might have made it clear that there are certain business men who , by asking the Department of Commerce for aid in promoting the foreign sale of their product , are actually building up causes of war . These very business men , to be sure , would hotly deny such a charge . They would be perfectly sincere in so doing . But in some cases at least they are making for economic pressure , and their activities are , in fact , contributing causes of war . Yet they do not realize it and neither do the most active and energetic pacifists . That is the worst of it : the chief causes of war are unconscious and unthinking ; they spring from apparently peaceful pursuits . But are they not far more dangerous than the navy , which is merely an obvious symbol of the treasure to be defended ? Is not the ending of war dependent on a brave and clear realization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Kellogg treaty even contributes to such a realization ? If these and similar commercial activities were curtailed , real sacrifices in money , production , and employment would he the result . Perhaps this curtailment would not be worth doing ; perhaps war is cheaper in the end . But why not face the real facts and , after facing them , make the decision ? An active , growing state collides with its neighbors . The vast ferment of life and of human activity brings war on ? not the neatly worded understandings of THE MEANING OF THE KELLOGG TREATY 41 diplomatists . To have pointed this out would have been realistic and courageous . I do not suggest that any attempt should have been made actually to cut down those activities which make for economic pressure and so often result in hostilities . Such an attempt , at this stage , would have been doomed to failure . Education is necessary , but the government could have called attention to the situation , and so have paved the way for reducing the activities of our growing nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they gave us the Kellogg treaty which is an attempt to get something for nothing ? and that , as every child knows , is impossible . In the meantime hundreds of newspapers are hailing the treaty as a great step towards permanent peace , and thousands of persons are being made to believe that something really has been done when , of course , nothing has or can be until a price is paid . A sense of false security is thus created and official sanction is thereby given to a most portentous misconception . The conception of renouncing war by governmental fiat seems inherently absurd . The great forces in modern society ? and especially American society ? are quite independent of the government . We are in great measure our own masters . The banks , the newspapers , the great organizations of business ? that whole body of influences which affect our thoughts , our food , our clothes , and our incomes goes forging along no matter what Washington says . We , as individuals , can not dodge the responsibility for war ; we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no matter how conscientious or well-meaning they may be . That may have been possible once ; it is no longer possible to-day . It seems to me that this attempt to get something for nothing , which is actually a program to give something for nothing , entrenches war more solidly than ever . War fears truth and realism ; only understanding and mutual sacrifice can end it . Is it not apparent that the Kellogg treaty , with its many textual dangers , only thickens the haze , deepens the pitfalls , and once again postpones the day when some really clear thinking is done ? Is it not manifestly true that the trouble with the Kellogg treaty is not , as some of its friends have said , that it is too idealistic but that it is not nearly idealistic enough ?                     