@@486393

public opinion shivers slightly while the crack of a growing yawn begins to mar its perfect indignation . All of the children drowned ! Only ten women saved , ocaost of them picked up hours after the disaster , floating helpless in the sea ! Most of the crew saved , having themselves abandoned ship via the boats easiest to launch , while leaving the women and children suspended in two boats hanging from the davits on the high side and at least a fathom from the water , all to tumble and perish with the turning over of the steamer ! One gruesome mistake piled upon another ; delays , confusion , incompetence , and personal cowardice the order of the day . Lack of judgment is no excuse ; in fact , it is criminal in men of the sea specifically charged with the duty to safeguard others . But so much for the blame . In this case there is blame enough and to spare and plenty of people to absorb it ; it will probably be spread as far as possible . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great extent the blame must rest upon all of us , myself included . I knew what would happen in a disaster calling for the use of boats . In the Nautical Gazette of June 6 , 1925 , I wrote an article called The Next Great Sea Disaster . In part I wrote : The war was so full of disasters it almost seems at present as if the disaster-business had been definitely closed out with the signing of the treaty . But a look over the log-book of the sea will show a succession of great disasters even in time of peace . It is a gruesome list , the most spectacular of victims being the giant Titanic . - . . A time comes at sea when assistance is of little use . Given a fatal combination of circumstances the result is certain . But there always must be the first weak link , the crash through the shell of the ship , from the outside or from within , and the sea of such temper that the small boats of the modern dumpy school can not live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ritz waiters and saloon-deck sailors now provided for that service . When the next great disaster comes and is finished a great commission of experts will be assembled . Most of these gentlemen are now seated behind their desks . A few sad and expensive reports will be added to those collecting dust on the shelves of the Library of Congress , etc . Describing the supposititious disaster , I wrote : " Great confusion prevailed . An outrageous riot and an utterly unparalleled state of criminal negligence held sway . " So much for my own opinion expressed some years ago . I might have raved up and down the piers shouting my warning , but the chances are that some general passenger agent would have had me arrested as a disturber of the peace . What I then wrote made no ripple , and having written for the better part of fifteen years without swamping any of the shallow but established skiffs upon which we embark our souls , I will expect this article to drop into the ocean of public indifference with little more than a momentary splash @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at this very moment , is as hazardous an adventure as at any time since the Phoenicians trimmed their sails and manned their oars on the first great trading and exploring voyages . Hazards have increased ten thousand fold with the vast increase in size , speed , and number of ships afloat . Fog is as thick as when the world began , ice as frequent in high latitudes , and far more dangerous in the case of large fast vessels built of steel ; and derelicts , often of great tonnage , are added to the unseen but ever possible obstacles in the path of ships racing over seas at night . The hazard of collision , one vessel with another , is a constant source of danger . Only the utmost vigilance of faithful men , alert and experienced , stands between these dangers and their consummation in some terrific catastrophe . Every time you take passage on a steamer , no matter how long or how short the trip , whether to Albany , New Orleans , Buenos Aires , or Australia , a hazard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voyage . Without consulting records , almost without thinking , a list of names springs to mind that would fill whole pages of this paper ? Oregon , La Bourgogne , Slocum , Titanic , Cyclops , Egypt , and Vestris , each different , each unexpected , and some of them , as in the case of the great collier Cyclops , utterly unexplained . Hundreds of lesser ships , such as the Suduffco , just sailed out to sea and never returned . In the latter case one of the ablest sailor men , Captain Thomas Turner , trained in the whale-ships of Nantucket as a. lad and for long years an officer on transatlantic liners , was in command . No sane man will contend that the hazards at sea are fewer simply because the percentages of disaster are low . No sane person will believe that because the percentages are low the total loss is also low , or that the lives sacrificed are negligible . Such reasoning may work out in the matter of tonnage and values , coverable by insurance , for which we all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dollars annually . The lives that go with the risks are not covered ; in fact , are specifically exempted when disaster can be blamed on " an act of God . " In the first place let me say that most vessels , built to the specifications of the classification societies , are safe in any weather , if safely loaded , skilfully handled , and not brought into contact with one another , with ice , or with derelicts . It is upon this fact that the insurance business establishes its rates . The insurance underwriters also recognize a " moral risk , " and some care is taken in approving the master . The records of master mariners are scrutinized by those who bet that a ship will not meet with disaster , for which risk they charge a fee . No special effort , however , is made by these gentlemen to see that the high character of shipmasters is as highly paid for as it deserves to be . The question of making a ship safe , except in cases where no ship can ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sound construction . It is a vitally important matter , and is so recognized by naval architects . Double cellular bottoms , wing bunkers , blisters , bulkheads , watertight doors , secure hatches on strong decks capable of keeping water out from the top and of holding down air pressure from beneath should a compartment be holed below the water line , these matters , with the exception of the last , are reasonably carried out . The great risk is in the upkeep , inspection , and handling of ships . It is a matter of the human equation , the same human equation that often goes wrong ashore , wrecks trains , and smashes automobiles . Now we come to the disaster . For some reason or other , including the ever-present risk of fire , a ship founders , or becomes untenable to those on board . For instance , a ship may lose her stability , heel over on her beam , and even if still afloat she becomes a supremely dangerous carrier . The terrible moment comes to abandon ship , to clear away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happened near noon , in daylight and in moderate temperature , and after hours , in fact almost after days , of warning . It was not a sudden emergency . Now let us consider a steamer in the passenger trade , commanded , officered , and manned by able and brave men . The sea is no respecter of persons , and our disaster happens at night , on a cold night of high seas and strong winds with sleet and snow , or perhaps it is in the midst of a night fog . There is a sudden crash , out of the black pocket of the future , and in a few minutes the huge steamer is foundering . Thousands of persons , men , women , children , and the army of stewards , engineers , deckmen  --  the crew  --  attempt to rush to their stations and lower boats . We hear the crack of the radio for a few minutes perhaps . The position given may be correct , unless the ship has been running by dead reckoning for a day or more ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it requires very little time for a ship to sink if mortally holed . In fact , if we combine some of our possible disasters with winds of hurricane force , the coming of rescue ships may be delayed for hours on end . What have our seamen to work with ? Open boats  --  open boats often stowed , one on top of another . These boats , to hold , on paper , the total number of persons on board , must be bulky , , heavy barges , carried high above the hull , and hung under a great forest of clumsy davits , suspended by complicated tackle , operated by screws and winches . Under the conditions assumed for the purpose of illustration , conditions not at all impossible , no crew of today , or even of the day before yesterday when sailors were real sailormen trained in handling rope falls , could launch them safely , let alone fill them to their rated capacity , lower them slowly into the sea , and release them . The whole matter of boats , their equipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upright or listed , needs a radical overhauling . Today the boat equipment on the best steamers built is obsolete , unworkable , unsafe . Open lifeboats can be launched safely only under favorable conditions . Most disasters happen amid the most unfavorable circumstances . I would propose the following suggestions for consideration at the coming International Conference for the Safety of Life at Sea , to be held in London next spring : 1 . Place a definite limit on the overall length of ocean passenger liners . They are again growing ' too big for safety . 2 . Consider the financial incentive now offered to carry boys of the highest type into the sea service , and to keep them there up to the important position of command . 3 . Carry light , open boats under davits , for rescue work only , not for the purpose of abandoning ship with passengers . Boats for the purpose of abandoning ship should be of a radically different design and construction . Such boats should be of steel , shaped somewhat like short blunt-ended spindles . They should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water-resistant material , capable of swelling if punctured , and strong enough to be filled with passengers and dropped into the sea from launching ways on the boat deck . These boats would stow , side by side , ends outboard . In this way , by stowing at right , angles to the keel , of the ship , the lifeboats could be carried in a single tier . The launching ways should be so arranged that the boats could be dropped on either side , depending on the list . The boats would have a large hatch , always unlocked , on their upper turtle deck . In a great emergency the passengers would be put into these boats , the hatch clamped down , with dogs operating both from the outside and the inside . The clamping down could light the interior by storage battery . Proper hand-holds , kapock cushions , and other necessities would be fitted , and the under side of the , boat would be ballasted by a tank containing fresh water . Then the boat would be easily slid into the sea . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the foundering ship , and could not be swamped by heavy seas or sucked under . The people in the boat could open the hatch , and other hatches as provided , ship oars , or a mast , or just stand by in comparative ' comfort and safety . Dare-devils have gone over Niagara Falls in barrels ; the short drop of a lifeboat as suggested is not half as bad as the clumsy practice now followed with open boats hung from swaying and tangled falls . A few motor-boats , as now carried , could be launched by the crew to round up the safety spindles . The art of engineering , miiRt gimergerie the tangled masts of rope and gear now provided by law for launching boats . Safety , speed , dryness , warmth , and the protection of the contents of the boats from weather during the long time they rest in the cradles can all be accomplished by a system such as this . At one stroke this does away with scores of expensive davits , tons of costly rope , and all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions . Such boats could be released , and if the emergency was so sudden that launching was impossible they would bob up free from the ship when she went down . At the first sign of real danger people could be put into such boats and kept there while the master made up his mind as to the course of action . Under our present system boats have been lowered and lives lost while the ship remained afloat . Most suggestions entail added expense on the shipowner . I respectfully suggest this as one of those rare ideas that is both practical and economical . Now boats are covered by canvas , a great expense in itself , their contents ' are constantly deteriorating , the boat literally falls apart from lack of use . Spindles , such as I suggest , could be hoisted by suitable lifting bolts , by a single derrick on'each side , and lifted on board and slid along into place on their greased launching cradles . The inspectors , overworked men , could have some fun filling one of these boats with members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to note that all was shipshape and correct . This would not be as tedious as the present system of creaking blocks and gear , and would only take a minute or so of their valuable time , when the proper entries could be made on the record . I do n't know what the rope bill is for a great ship , for boat falls alone , but it is considerable , for rope must fre-quently be replaced . Some use wire and this , too , is costly , and when the decks are icy it is almost impossible to handle . I feel certain that something positive in the . ? vay of reserve safety , aside from rafts and independent of the skill of a doubtful crew under stress of weather and excitement , would go- a long way toward making a sea passage reasonably safe even when the fateful moment comes to clear away the lifeboats.                     