@@486232

C ERTAIN broad facts about New York are obvious . It has become the metropolis of our planet . London , by virtue of the steady inclusion of adjoining districts , still surpasses Greater New York 's population of 5,802,638 . And while other European capitals retain vestiges of their power and glory ? Paris is still by a dwindling margin the leader in feminine fashion and the pleasure capital of mankind ? New York surpasses them all . Its high finance settles the fate of nations . Its shops display the rarest and costliest of the earth 's goods . It assembles the brains and talent in business , invention , and the arts . It is the lodestone for ambition , the ultimate of human gregariousness , the culmination of twentieth-century civilization . Here nature has been pushed back to the vanishing-point to make way for a house built by human hands , a great synthetic monolith of steel and cement and stone , an ordered macrocosm to house man and his works . It is a farther cry , a more quaintly grotesque contrast than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the island which the Dutch traders settled in 1613 to the Manhattan of today . They found , the historian2 tells us , " its lower end made up of wooded hills and grassy valleys , rich in wild fruits and flowers , and its middle portion covered in part by a chain of swamps and marshes and a deep pond , with a tiny island in the middle , while to the northward it rose into high rocky ground , covered by a dense forest , which was filled with abundance of game . Smaller ponds dotted the island in various places , and these with a score of brooks and rivulets swarmed with fish . " For nearly two centuries man remained little more than a furtive intruder , an inconsequential guest among the hills and dales of Manhattan . A genial settlement at its lower tip expanded into a town and here and there amid the wilderness of its upper reaches sparse hamlets nestled . Hardly more than a century and a quarter ago Mrs. John Adams wrote from her residence in Lispenard 's meadows  --  south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground , covered with wild shrubs , which surround me , give a natural beauty to the spot which is truly enchanting . A lovely variety of birds serenade me morning and evening , rejoicing in their liberty and security , for I have , as much as possible , prohibited the grounds from invasion , and sometimes also wished for game-laws when my orders have not been regarded . The partridge , the woodcock , and the pigeon are too great temptations for the sportsman to withstand . " And then in 1811 ? eight years after the City Hall had been faced with red sandstone on the north ( while the other three fagades were of marble ) because " few citizens would ever reside on that side " ? the brain of man Reproduction forbidden Quotation limited to 300 words Copyright , 1922 . The Nation , Inc All rights reserved For obvious reasons New York State has been divided into two articles In this series W A. White wrote on Kansas , April 19 ; H L Mencken on Maryland , May 3 , Beulah Amidon Ratliff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vermont , May 31 , Edmund Wilson , Jr , on New Jersey , June 14 , Murray E King on Utah , June 28 Ludwig Lewisohn on South Carolina , July 12 , Anne Martin on Nevada , July 26 , Sherwood Anderson on Ohio , August 9 , Robert Herrick on Maine , August 23 , Arthur Warner on Delaware , September 6 , E E Miller on Tennessee , September 20 , George P West on California , October 4 , Zona Gale on Wisconsin , October 18 , Leopard Lan-son Cline on Michigan , November 1 , and Basil Thompson on Louisiana , November 15 2Rufus Rockwell Wilson.shaped the destiny of New York and made it what it is today . The " city plan , " laid out with what many decried as reckless fantasy the city that might some day be . It is related that the three commissioners , while examining the ground one fine day , stopped to discuss the problem near a pit where workmen were screening gravel . In illustration of his ideas one of the trio began to trace with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he finished the outline and was about to sketch his proposed system of streets the sun , emerging from behind a passing cloud , shone through the screen throwing its criss-cross shadow upon the map . " There is the plan , " exclaimed another ; and immediately it was adopted . The authenticity of this story may be dubious , but certain it is that for all time the shadow of that gravel screen will darken the Island of Manhattan . From then on the rigid lines of this plan seared their way through the rolling , smiling woods and fields , disregarding topography , leveling hills , smothering brooks and rivulets , crushing nature into a man-made mold , as artificially as a Chinese woman 's foot . The assumption that the lines of traffic would always be from river to river instead of north and south was wrong , of course . But for a century , instead of attempting to rectify the mistake , New York proceeded to suppress all traces of its heritage , to will nature to conform to its error . Relentlessly it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebelling springs and streams it could not annihilate , flattening every undulation , straightening every variation , squeezing itself into endless rows of rectangles , as impersonal as pig iron . Was not here for the first time cast and forecast the regimentation that is America ? The prescription which patterned the body of Manhattan likewise gripped its soul . Impersonal , a vast amorphy of stereotypes , its complex formlessness , its decentralization have given it a myriad-faceted character all its own . Of the countless generalizations leveled at New York few are wholly true , few wholly false . There are a thousand New Yorks , overlapping , disparate , visible , hidden , obvious , obscure , material , spiritual , forming the gamut of human experience . Yet each of these microcosms pays toll to the surrounding larger entity , subject to its environment , to its dangers , to its drifts , like a protozoon in a teeming sea . Of the generalizations there is , first , that no New Yorkers know New York and that few love it . It has become too vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Within its immensity a New Yorker may know his neighborhood , his beat , his district . He may love his home , his set , his club , but only vaguely if at all does he relate this fondness to the civic background . Devotion to his section of the city is wholly lacking . As for the cosmopolis , he ignores its history , its traditions , its most elementary topography , its unparalleled resources , intellectual and material . Nor is this average of ignorance wrought through the presence of its vast number of foreigners and native strangers . The indigenous know and care about as little and apparently have always been as indifferent . A spiritual heritage more glorious than any in the land is as spurned by neglect as are nature 's lavish gifts all about . In his author 's apology to the Knickerbocker History of New York , Washington Irving wrote that he " was surprised to find how few of my fellow-citizens were aware that New York had ever been called New Amsterdam . . . or cared a straw about their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know that their city was once called New Orange ? How many can name the villages which were obliterated by the Juggernauting city plan ? Greenwich Village , uniquely revived , and Murray Hill , the only eminence below Morningside which did not wholly yield to the general leveling , and Harlem , but a generation ago a separate entity , survive as place names and localities . But who can locate Yorkville , Chelsea , Bull 's Head Village , Bloomingdale , Richmond Hill , Odellville , Carmansville , Mount Pleasant ? The city plan has blotted them out , except where here and there the slightest trace of irregularity , a jog in the sidewalk , a slightly curving alley , betrays to the curious antiquarian a sentimental remnant of the past . But it is not in a relatively unimportant assimilation of sterile facts that the New Yorker lags behind his brother Philadelphian or Bostonian . In those historic cities no " city plan " artificially erased ancient landmarks and frontiers ; instead the old settlements have fused gradually , preserving their ancient contours , evolving naturally to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that these cities are smaller . When Boston reaches New York 's present size , the Back Bay , Charlestown , Chelsea , the North , West , and South Ends will persist , individual and colorful , woven into their greater city as the figures in an Oriental rug  --  unlike the linoleum carpet of New York . Nor is it merely in the physiographic that New York has submerged its component parts . Long before the city achieved its metropolitan bulk , when it was still " little old New York , " it appeared careless of its localism , indifferent to its civic entity . It was as if the city had been aware somehow of a national , a cosmic role , which made local concerns , local pride mere provincialism . The Massachusetts tradition has permeated the land , sanctified at the source , wafted abroad with the blessings of each succeeding generation , its relics carefully treasured and displayed . New England has captured American history . It has made 1620 the great date , the Mayflower the great argosy . It has striven manfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cult . It has unblinkingly exalted as sheer ruggedness the intolerance , the harshness , the bigotry inextricably mingled with the brave pioneering of its founders . It has almost succeeded in making its own paternity the national fatherhood . Yet nearly a century before , an Italian  --  a Florentine sailing for a French king  --  had discovered New York . Dutchmen were comfortably settled on Manhattan when the first boatload scrambled ashore on Plymouth Rock . And where the Puritans who had dared greatly for freedom of worship persecuted the slightest forms of dissent , and practiced wanton deviltries on helpless women in the name of the Lord , the Dutch colony welcomed their exiles . Roger Williams and Anne Hutchinson both found refuge in New Amsterdam , where the mother country 's traditional policy of religious toleration prevailed . In consequence colonists of every faith , Waldenses from Piedmont , Huguenots , Swedish and German Lutherans , Scotch Presbyterians , English Independents , Moravians , Anabaptists , and Jews gathered there . Some eighteen languages were spoken in New Amsterdam about 1650 . Indeed the " polyglotboarding-house , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is of ancient lineage , while the most inherently American doctrines of religious toleration , of personal freedom are our Netherlandish , our New Amsterdam , our Manhattan heritage . The Puritans who have appropriated it honored it only in the breach except as applied to themselves . Revolutionary history repeats the abnegation . The Boston Massacre has been popularly credited with the first bloodshed for the principles of our War of Independence . Yet six weeks before a two days ' skirmish between the King 's soldiers and the Sons of Liberty was fought around what is now City Hall . Park , and the unhonored and unsung sailor lad who there received a mortal thrust from a British bayonet was the first to sacrifice his life in the cause of freedom . Where Boston has erected a monument to Crispus Attucks and his fellows on Boston Common , an obscure tablet in the dingy post-office building alone records the Battle of Golden Hill . And so on . How many New Yorkers know that New York was for six years the national capital ? Faneuil Hall in Boston and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great incidents are preserved and cherished , and in their shadows the atmosphere of olden time lingers pleasingly , hardly dispelled by the encroachment of the modern city all around . Who can walk across the Common in the heart of Boston without a reminiscent thrill ? Yet in lower New York Washington walked , and Hamilton , and Jefferson , and Adams  --  here our nation struggled in its infancy  --  and not a trace remains . Federal Hall , where Congress first assembled , vanished over a century ago . Cherry Street , where Washington and Hancock lived  --  one of the beautiful residential streets of its day  --  long ago passed into a filthy slum . St. Paul 's , where the first President worshiped  --  surrounded by the graveyard where not a few of his time are buried  --  is miraculously preserved , its dark slender spire seemingly as accidental in its survival among the towering polyhedra of business as a violet emerging between the flagstones of lower Broadway . St. Paul 's and Fraunces 's Tavern , where Washington bade farewell to his officers , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York with the era of the founding fathers . Recently the Globe , New York 's oldest paper , printed a series of articles on " things as old as the Globe " ; that is , which were extant in the closing years of the eighteenth century . The remnants of old New York were countable on the fingers of two hands . The two structures above mentioned , an ancient residence on Cherry Street scarce recognizable as a tenement , a beautiful mansion on State Street , its architecture happily preserved in its present function as a Catholic home for immigrant girls , parts of the Church of St. Mark's-in-the-Bouwerie , and a small piece of the old Jewish burying-ground in the new Bowery , consecrated in 1656 ? these six remain . The outlying sections of the present , but not the old , city are more fortunate . In upper New York the Dycicman House , the Van Cortlandt and Jumel mansions , and a bare score of houses in Brooklyn and on Staten Island have , thanks to a few public-spirited citizens , escaped the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a sense of their values , let us hope , permanently . Indeed , when we speak of what remains of old New York the term is wholly relative . Here and there bits of yesterday 's charm still linger ? North Washington Square , still almost intact ; the London Terrace in West Twenty-third , Stuyvesant Place , Front Street  --  a fading remnant making a brief but valiant stand against the onrushing day . The city as no other on earth is constantly destroying and replacing itself  --  only the pattern persists , mortmain of the city plan . Scarcely a section has been preserved to the uses of its beginning for a full lifetime . Every epoch thus far has been a transient phase . Throughout most of lower Manhattan one can observe from a given spot the varying architectures of ten successive decades . The abstract thing ? New York  --  the city itself , alone has remained , demonstrating ruthlessly its dominance over all its parts . No place , no period , no personality have been spared . A very few New Yorkers may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , charmingly lined with brass-knockered residences , but the grandsires of the oldest were still unborn when the Broad Street canal placidly reflected the gabled houses bordering it . Every New Yorker recalls the Fifth Avenue Hotel , whose history is so inextricably woven into the political life of the nation . Fewer remember the Astor House 's greatness , and very few indeed the heyday of the City Hotel , New York 's leading hostelry in the first half of the last century . The City Arms and the Province Arms of Colonial days are forgotten . There are many New Yorkers who remember Tiffany 's on Union Square , but few who recall it on Broome Street ; many who clearly recall the joys of the Eden Musee with its chamber of horrors and Ajeeb , the chess automaton , but to whom the greater wonders and freaks of John Scudder 's American Museum and the rival establishment of Reuben Peale , both later acquired by Phineas T. Barnum , are unknown . Many of Columbia 's living graduates spent their constricted college lives around the old brick buildings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honorary degree on a centenarian whose undergraduate days were lived on Murray Street . But nowhere is the past so quickly buried as in New York . " Everything in New York is a nine days ' wonder . " These were the words of Tammany 's present Chief Sachem in disparaging a political flurry that was distasteful to him . Tammany has always known its New York , where no sensation survives the day . In Chicago the Great Fire , the World 's Fair , the Iroquois Theater holocaust , the Eastland disaster are still constantly recurring topics . New York had her great fire , and for a time the year of its occurrence was so labeled , a disaster of sufficient dimensions to precipitate a national financial panic ; more recently New York has had her Triangle holocaust , her General Slocum disaster , her Wall Street explosion , but they are swept into the oblivion of the past . New York has no monuments for her dead . She alone survives . Neither has she thrones for her living . A contemporary Julius Caesar would never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are no firsts in New York , scarcely any seconds or thirds . In the great cities of other lands which are also political capitals , kings , presidents , premiers with their satellites dominate , at least for the period of their brief authority . In those cities the social structure is concentric . Whatever their size is , or may be , their human pinnacles are as outstanding as the castle towers in a medieval town . Other American cities have their first families , their founders , their big business dominators . But who is first or even second in New York ? Not the mayor of the city , not the president of the university , not the senior senator , not the editor of one of its great dailies , not the president of its leading banking institution , not the archbishop or bishop , nor the richest man in the world , nor the greatest tenor of the ages . Satraps in their own little circles , they are at best captains and majors in New York 's army of humanity . Even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York is but a pale phantasm in the city 's imagination . The vast public which gleans some vicarious satisfaction from reading of the activities of " Society " either through the social columns or through the occasional effervescence of some scandal or tragedy in the magazine section of the yellow journals is dimly acquainted with the names of a few " great " families . The " four hundred " remains , a pleasing if attenuated fetich . But the individuals here as always in New York are lost in the shuffle . There are Vanderbilts and Astors , but there is no Vanderbilt and no Astor , and their names have become largely symbols , of which the frequent parodic combination in one name affords evidence . Their world is not in New York the pinnacle of a structure toward which the millions climb , but merely a unit , a cell , a sphere , one of many in the vast whole . What then is New York ? And whose is New York ? It is not the New York of those whose houses are carefully boarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York of which Edith Wharton writes so well . It is not the New York of the politicians , either of enduring Tammany or ephemeral Fusion . Indeed it is essentially characteristic of democracy 's metropolis that nowhere is the governmental structure of less import in the life of its citizens . Not one New Yorker in ten knows the name of his Congressman , and not one in a hundred the names of his State senator , assemblyman , alderman , or the number of the congressional and assembly districts in which he lives and can vote . It is not the New York of banking and great business  --  the city of the twentieth-story luncheon clubs . It is not the New York of the cloak-and-suit trade  --  a world that supports its own daily newspapers . It is not the New York of the theater or of music . It is not the New York of the swarming ghettoes ? Lower or Upper East Side , Bronx or Brownsville , the vast domain of Yiddish newspapers and a thousand synagogues . It is not the Negro New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not the great Italy south of Washington Square , not the little Syria of Hudson Street , nor the Athens of Pearl Street , nor the Sparta of the Tenderloin , nor any of the exotic worlds lodged in our midst , representing almost every land and sect on earth . It is not the Bohemia or pseudo-Bohemia of Greenwich Village . It is not the New York of the countless restaurants , paneled grills , and coffee houses . All these New Yorks have had their chronicles , many of them faithful and brilliant . The Wall Street of Edwin Lefevre , the New York of crime portrayed by Arthur Train and Arthur Stringer , the Jewish New York of Abraham Cahan , James Oppenheim , Bruno Lessing . There is the New York of the current types ? Chimmie Fadden , Van Bibber , Potash and Perlmutter . There is the unspecialized New York  --  the New York of a million comedies and tragedies of everyday life , recorded among others by Harris Merton Lyon , Gouverneur Morris in his earlier stories , and of course by 0 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to being its epic than anything in our literature  --  each story a chapter in the book , a flash in the great moving picture , a novel indeed of apparently unrelated fragments in which the great central theme , the central figure  --  it can scarcely be called hero or heroine  --  is New York . There has never been the " great New York novel " just as there has never been the " great American novel , " and we are as little likely to get one as the other . What , indeed , is New York ? In vain may one seek to capture its spirit , to define its catholicity . Throughout the land it is the target for the scorn , suspicion , and antipathy of villager or provincial . At the same time it is his pride and boast , the goal of ever-projected pilgrimages of pleasure or profit , and with or without his cognizance the arbiter of his manners and thoughts . It designs his clothes , it supplies his music , in large part his books and magazines ? even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the local news . He may berate it as the temple of Mammon , as a hotbed of vice and iniquity , as foreign , continental , un-American . But he projects his local hotel on the model of its great caravanseries . Its Woolworth and Flatiron buildings are national monuments to him . Its Broadway is reproduced in the " gay white way " of his town . Its business axioms become his own , its speed , its " pep , " its magnificence , its idolatry of success his constant admiration and inspiration . " A fine city to visit , a poor city to live in . " How many times has it been said ! And despite its triteness it voices in varying degree the individual 's fear of insignificance in the great mass . But the tribute exacted goes beyond personal submergence . In New York , despite its transcendent opportunities , one confronts also as nowhere else in the world the frustrations of modern material civilization . New York is its masterpiece , its magnum opus . And New Yorkers pay the price . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horizontal vision . Their outlook is eternally on stone or brick walls . Even the sky is circumscribed , shrouded in dust , its vault gouged by great cornices . There is limitation not only for the eye , but for every sense . Nowhere has constriction been carried further . In the poorest sections the population reaches a density not approached elsewhere on earth . To the great apartment-renting middle class , space  --  or rather lack of it ? becomes an ever-intruding factor . The very word kitchenette began as a New York colloquialism , and the problem of a room more or less , or even of the size or number of closets , often profoundly affects the habits and life of the entire family . On Fifth Avenue one still sees the palaces of the very rich , Gothic and Renaissance chateaux flush with the street . The demolition of ten-story buildings to substitute others a few stories higher is a common phenomenon . The rearrangement of business interiors , the erection of partitions , the frantic attempts to re-deal space are as characteristic of New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yorker stand off to gaze at a beautiful edifice  --  his church , his theater are mortised into the city 's blocks , troweled into indistinguishable conformity like the bricks of adjacent walls . And whatever adornment the sculptor may have wrought on facade or cornice is hopelessly skied in the narrow corridors of New York 's thoroughfares . The constriction is clearly more than a physical difficulty . It lays its hands on the soul . It robs New York children of childhood 's natural heritage . Their choice of playground is the street , the backyard , or the fire escape . The street , with its pathetic games inevitably adapted to environment , " area " ? hide-and-seek , a rubber ball , thrown against the house , street shinny  --  games constantly shattered by the passing automobile , the surveillant policeman , or the disappearance of the ball through a window , or down the sewer . Or the backyard  --  four walls inclosing a few feet of caked dirt in which only the smelly ailanthus can live . Or the precarious fire-escape , when there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , restriction . . . . There are so-called parks  --  but the city plan made allowance for none , and the spacelets of Washington , Union , and Madison squares , and Bryant Park owe their existence to the accident of having served in the city 's earlier history as Potter 's fields . ( There is a slight debt , it would appear , to the unknown civilian ! ) So that in the great city ? Manhattan below Fifty-ninth Street , virtually all that was New York two generations ago , a city that houses a million and a half human beings , there is neither park nor waterfront . The half-dozen tiny spaces labeled parks in this great district denote merely absence of buildings . The trees , shadowed by great structures , their leaves withered by the noxious exhalations of the city , are dying . From what little patches of grass manage to break through the crusted earth the public is warned away , confined to a few slender circling bands of concrete between the dust-dejected verdure . Neither refuge nor seclusion from the din @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And miles of magnificent waterfront which should have been the people 's inalienable heritage , as it is in European and South American cities , are , save for the sliver of Battery Park , walled off for the nation 's and the world 's commercial use . Above Fifty-ninth Street , where the per capita wealth increases and the congestion is somewhat less , the relief is also greater . Central Park , belatedly purchased at great cost , is in itself a typically New York marvel of compression , and Riverside Drive , despite the intrusion of the railroad tracks , has preserved a rarely beautiful stretch of the Hudson 's shore . But even here nature is steadily losing her fight with the creature of the twentieth century Frankenstein . The great elms which adorned the Mall a generation ago are dead . A tree forty feet high in the lower half of Central Park is a rarity . Everywhere the forces of nature are shriveling , perishing before the relentless advance of stone and steel and poison gas . In Park Avenue we see today an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frameworks overtrained with ivy ! There are other and still beautiful parks ? Bronx , Van Cortlandt , Pelham Bay , where nature is not yet stultified , where the illusion of the primitive still persists  --  but the way to them for the New York that needs them is through miles of subway , crowded , stifling , pungent with the dust of concrete , iron , and sweat . The frustration and constriction , we have said , grips the human soul . The rush hour when New Yorkers acquiesce in a bodily compression , engage in competitive physical struggle to wedge themselves into subway trains is merely a burlesque epitome of New York life . In the contiguity of the great city , as in the enforced contacts of the subway , there is little room but for repulsions . New York is hard , cynical , ruthless , even beyond other cities . From their early repression its children emerge sophisticated , both stunted and overdeveloped , perverted , premature , forced by the artificiality of their environment . There is exaction too of time . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restricted amid the city 's abundance . Where leisure has become exotic , the supreme experiences  --  love , friendship , and human contacts  --  are harassed and trammeled . Courtship in New York is of necessity hurried , furtive , interrupted , irrationally exposed or confined . The streets , offering at best the stoop or a bench , the crowded parlor , the dance , even the taxicab and the roof are substitutes for the free spaces , or the seclusion of a real home . Friendship In New York is hindered by its distances , its haste , its proprieties , its irresistible propulsion . As for casual contacts , the city 's philosophy is everyone for himself  --  and the devil take the hindmost . Where the competitive urge has reached the highest notch , where each man is out to rise upon the bones of his fellows , suspicion and introversion are constant . One speaks of course of generic New York . But however wide the individual variation , however great the individual human impulses , they all are subordinated to the custom of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anywhere else on earth , neighborliness is reduced to a minimum . In New York one rarely seeks acquaintance with one 's neighbor ; it would be unusual , suspect . One never leaves a robe or any other portable object in a parked automobile  --  even for five minutes ; it would be gone on one 's return . These may be but trifling incidents , but they are the symptoms of the New York complex . If in New York the milk of human kindness is not wholly dried up or turned to gall at least it is pasteurized . Something remotely analogous to what war does to human beings , some modification of the precept " If you do n't know , you get killed , " is New York 's imprint on its denizens . And , like war , the New York Moloch demands and gets its victims . Countless moths and butterflies are singed at its flame , countless brave swimmers dragged down into its maelstrom , sunk without trace . Nowhere in the world has the process of subduing nature progressed farther , become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response to the irrefragible horizontal straitjacketing of the city plan , was conceived in constriction , sired by aspiration . Drilled a hundred feet into soqd gneiss , built on a base that defies all laws of equilibration , rearing itself on high as a challenge to the stress of wind and gravity , it is essentially a symbol of man 's conquest . Tunneled into the earth is a great system of subways , of corridors under river and through bedrock , of conduits , of pipes , of wires , like the alimentary and respiratory tracts , blood vessels and nerves of the human body  --  linking the vast amorphous structure into one coordinating , functioning whole . Here man has been not merely in conflict with nature . Here nature has been not merely checked , tamed , and converted to his service . Here nature has been fully conquered and is now being destroyed . Here civilization is creating its own code and manners , its language variations , new ways of life , new diseases , a new human species . New forms of beauty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these airy wire-hung bridges over which multitudes thunder daily , this skyline  --  these million lights , blinking massed and scattered through the city 's vast night ? these achieve a poignant beauty of line and atmosphere which stirs the emotions deeply and has in it something almost spiritual . Will this spiritual quality , now merely subjective , ever become a reality ? Will man learn to use his great powers for the good of mankind ? Or will he become increasingly the slave of his machine , his own creation ? This is the unsolved riddle of civilization . New York , where the integration of man 's energies has gone farthest , will first furnish an answer .                     