@@493457

Partnership in Poverty THERE are many Germans who would like nothing better than to ride through France , singing their national anthem and joyously killing Frenchmen to right and left in the security of a superior armament . Such a joy-ride would be an act according to their faith : towns aflame , fields strewn with enemy corpses ? could anything be more thrilling , more magnificent , to the true German patriot ? And there are many French Patriots who would like nothing better than a similar holiday of fire and blood in Germany . A certain number of times during every hundred Years , as the fortunes of the two peoples alternate , our French and German patriots have their hearts desire . The Germans are convinced that the French are to blame ; the French can prove that pugnacity is forced upon them by the Germans . The two nations are victims of habits of mind historically ingrained , which make them love to attack each other . Can these habits be corrected ? Are the French and the Germans capable of developing souls in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is that many men find it harder to live without hating than to live without eating . Food and raiment are not , by themselves , enough . The food must be snatched from somebody 's mouth and the raiment stripped from somebody 's body . Pleasure is not pleasure unless it be based on the suffering of others . The Frenchman and the German seem to be born with this ancient zest for robbing each other , breaking and entering each other 's houses , carrying off each other 's wives , strangling each other 's babies , defacing each other 's lands with such ruins as Turenne left in the Palatinate , and Hindenburg on the Somme . Is it the rule of life that neighbors can never be friends ? The peace of the world would be assured if nations with a common frontier could somehow manage to develop one or two thoughts in common . But proximity seems to produce incompatibility and antagonism . With indifference out of the question as a virtue of difficult practice , sneering and hating seem to be more to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hate , you hate best at close quarters . Thus the French and the Germans have become so blinded by inherited passions that they take no account of the experiences war brings . What did the conflict of 1914-18 prove , unless it proved that fighting is , above all else , a stupid piece of business , that victory is a disaster for the victor quite as much as for the vanquished , and that the greatest gain deriving from international struggles is far less valuable than the ordinary humdrum profit of avoiding them ? Yet here we are , denying the evidence of millions of dead and billions of debts , ready to begin over again , increasing rather than diminishing our armed forces ! We have so often fought each other that we know exactly what there is in war . But we have not experimented with conciliation and collaboration ? two recourses it is high time we tried , if we are to avoid a ruin greater than any we have ever known . Salvation together , or death together ? that is the alternative . Supposing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that war is a mutual disaster . What great things might not have been done with the money and energy that warfare has cost them ! What prosperity , what progress in all the blessings of civilization , could both nations not have realized ! No victory however sweeping could offer such prospects . In a struggle , one against the other , only one prize is at stake ? poverty . Peace means fortune for both , and the triumph of peace is not for one people to get what the other has , but for each to keep what it already owns . Peace does not involve selling your daily bread to a neighbor for the price of his enduring hatred : it means preserving your ability to live without costing you the exhaustion of killing . Somehow humanity is less familiar with the forces operating within itself than with the exterior forces of nature . We make worse mistakes in political economy than in predicting the weather . We can foresee a cyclone , but not a panic . Some of our best economists got the last war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to result from the need of replacing what had been destroyed . To the exact contrary , idleness and hard times followed on the wastage of wealth . Would such results as these not have their effect on public policy if so much effort were not expended to obscure and counteract them ? If the barkers of patriotism were hauled off the side-walks , would France and Germany continue to hate each other ? Yet the technique of modern life is such that the war-howlers retain their popularity and influence among French and Germans alike , by leading plain men to slaughter while keeping very safe themselves . This is not as it used to be . Saint Bernard of Clairvaux in preaching the Second Crusade boasted that after his sermons not one man was left behind for every seven women . But those seven women had tongues in their heads . When three hundred thousand Christians failed to return from under Turkish sabres on oriental battlefields , or from under the hammers of Greek slave-markets , the halo vanished from the head of the Saint of Clairvaux . He had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the multitudes a passion for danger , but he himself had stayed secure in his monastic cell . The unlucky Saint did not have , as M. Maurice Barr ? s has , for instance , a morning newspaper in which to explain himself . He could not prevent people of common sense from noting the cowardice of preaching by word and not by example , of creating danger and seek ? ing safety . Nowadays men can shout for war , but keep out of it when it comes . They can cheer men on to death , and themselves pass the time of peril in comfort and high living . But let us forget the existence of our gravediggers . Let us lay the foundations of Franco-German friendship , for which the French League for the Rights of Man and the German New Fatherland Association have set the first stones in place . It is no easy task , for men are loath to abandon the errors for which they have suffered greatly . There is too much blood on the concept of " country " for people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistakes more tenaciously than to our blessings . Casualties become a sort of national stock-in-trade . The more of them we have suffered or inflicted , the more we insist on the glory of them and the more we hesitate to depreiciate them and to lose our pride in them . To take away from men the chance to kill in the name of their country is to attack one of the great sources of human self-esteem . Leagues for peace exist ; but the work of the French and German societies , is of greater present urgency . We should not associate other peoples in our particular effort , because it is important that the desire for good-fellowship between those nations which have hated each other longest should be clearly and independently expressed . On such an expression the prosperity of Europe and the world depends . Men of goodwill in France and Germany should attack their own respective hatreds . A demonstration of friendship on their part will furnish the needed example , and establish a hope that life may eventually triumph over death . With ? out friendship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible . This would not in itself , of course , be a sufficient guar ? antee of peace : for that we need a sense of world solidarity . But peace in Europe must come first . Any heat between nations in Europe is sure to scorch the rest of the world . Every nation is con ? cerned once trouble arises there , and the greater the nation , the greater is this concern . America Is making a mistake in holding aloof . First , as she is , in understanding the modern world ( as a World of industry and commerce ) , first in the relief of Austria and Russia , first in the rescue of millions of European and Asiatic children , America should have continued to be first in preaching the doctrine of world solidarity . Instead she is Pursuing a policy of isolation as regrettable for herself and for humanity as Franco-German hostility is for Europe . Yet it is of the utmost importance for America that France and Germany become good friends . In helping to bring that about she is helping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against hatred , a world-wide assault , through every agency of publicity available , upon all the forces and upon all the men working for war . We need to mass the energies of world pacification against the propagandas that are inspiring conflicts for the future . We need to publish the evidence of such activities , to checkmate and confound the men who are secretly managing them . America is in a position to finance , to her own ultimate advantage , such an effort for peace . France , crushed by the burden of military preparation , can not pay ' back her borrowings . She will never be free of debts till her great armies are abolished . But if Prance and Germany could be brought together to collaborate each in the rebuilding of the prosperity of the other , Europe would become a profitable customer for the United States instead of an insolvent debtor . If the United States devoted to the project a portion only of the money due her ? money which she will never collect unless the state of mind in Europe can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recover strength through an era of peace ? the pacification of Europe would be assured . We make this suggestion ; for every five hundred million francs that the United States cancels from the French debt , France will allow Germany a credit of two hundred millions , assigning fifty millions more to a Foundation for Franco-German friendship . This latter fund , with interest at six Percent , will make annually available some three million francs ? to be controlled by a board consisting of one American , one Frenchman and one German , and to be expended in a propaganda against Franco-German hatred and in favor of Franco-German amity and goodwill . Its specific purposes will be to demonstrate on every possible occasion and in every possible way the need for sympathy and understanding between the two countries ; to bring the thinkers of both nations together ' periodically ; to create the common " patria " of labor ? for in the eyes of internationalists , a man 's work becomes his " country . " Who would deny that what we are here proposing would be an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any effort to execute such a proposal would be rewarded with a few million insults , if nothing worse . Any attempt to unite two peoples in a determination to refrain from massacring each other is apostasy from the religion of patriotism . For thousands of years the human race has been preaching the brotherhood of man , but practising the barbarity of war . As though men had an insane worship of death , they willingly accept the most frightful of destinies . Unable to overcome the vice of . hatred and combativeness , they have glorified it , draping it with flags , magnifying it with oratory , setting it to musk . Thus they have exalted glory against fraternity , grafting honor upon dishonor . Powerful as they are in their knowledge , they remain invertebrates in character ; for if intelligence has been applied to mastering disease , it has also been applied to perfecting warfare more terrible than any disease . A plague for which they are wholly responsible , which requires their de ? liberate agency in order to exist at all , they inflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misfortune which men need simply to abstain from in order to destroy ; yet they seem to recognize no obligation so imperious as that of perpetuating and intensifying it . Lack of patriotism has been made a crime . But for love of all the countries of humanity , let us joyfully commit that crime . Let there be many French and German " criminals " of just this breed , criminals guilty of having willed Franco-German friendship . Let us everywhere answer insult with inexorable irrefutable argument ; let us not bow our heads before the storm let us give as well as take , that the time may be not far distant when intelligent countries will refuse to listen to the screaming of the war-makers . But that should not incline us to wait till everybody is of our opinion , before we make known what that opinion is.                     