@@152045

Last week William Randolph Hearst , titular head of many a potent U. S. newspaper , discussed in Editor &; Publisher the ethics of crime reporting . After estimating that " the New York Times , which is a very thorough paper , printed more words on the Snyder trial than any other newspaper in New York , " Mr. Hearst entered upon a comparison between the newspaper and the author : " There are various elements of interest in the fiction stories which appear in books and on the stage , and in the fact stories which appear in newspapers-such as romance , adventure , melodrama , comedy and tragedy . . . . " In dealing with all of these elements of interest , all of these facts of life , the editor , however , must exercise good taste . . . . just as the playwright or the novelist must . " And as a matter of plain fact , the editor generally exercises , and should exercise , and in fact must exercise , more discrimination than the novelist or the playwright , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and because his product goes into the home , and to all members of the family . . . . " Such a great and all-pervading influence must be kept wholesome and beneficial ; in fact , it must even be exercised in a way to compel literature and the drama also to be wholesome and beneficial-as far as may be reasonable , within the more restricted limits of their narrower spheres . " Taking up the question of whether the publication of crime news prevents or incites crime , Mr. Hearst concluded that it had very little effect either way . Crime news is printed , said Mr. Hearst , because " whatever reflects life truthfully must deal with the harsh and cruel things in life as well as with the sweet and lovely things . " All in all , Mr. Hearst felt that the newspaper reader blessed with " the reasoning mind " would be led to believe , having read the crime news of the day , " that ' honesty is the best policy ' and " that ' the wages of sin is death ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " admitted Mr. Hearst , " what proportion of the circulation of a newspaper may be attributed to the publication of crime news . . . . " Mr. Hearst was recently elected honorary president of the American Crime Study Commission , an organization of which Bradford Merrill , general manager of the Hearst newspapers , is secretary . Addressing the Commission , Mr. Hearst said that the U. S. penal system is " built upon the sand , founded upon the basis of force and violence instead of on the basis of Christian care of our fellow men . "                     