@@487286

While the President has not thoroughly studied the Nagel report he came out firmly today against its salient provision , which hits at the fundamental Republican tariff policy he and his party propose to maintain . ' i llitTS a Washington dispatch appearing two days after the publication of the report of the Business Men 's Commission on Agriculture , headed by Charles Nagel , the former Secretary of Commerce . We venture to say that Mr. Coolidge had not studied the report at all when he gave out that statement to the press , but it would have made no difference if he had . He and the crowd that control the Republican Party have closed minds on this question of the tariff , even when the demand for a change comes from one as high in the councils of the Republican Party as Charles Nagel , and from so representative a group of American business interests . To the President the tariff will remain a sacred fetish until he is convinced that more votes are to be had by recommending a reduction . To date the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that famous flexible-tariff provision which gave the President the power to raise and lower duties , are live bob-white quail , millfeed , cresylic acid , and paintbrush handles ! How the American producers of quail and paint-brush handles allowed this to happen we can not understand . They must have been asleep on their jobs , for during the same period the President has increased the rates of duty upon fourteen articles , of which one of the most important is pig iron . Undaunted by this record the Business Men 's Commission on Agriculture was appointed jointly by the National Industrial Conference Board and the Chamber of Commerce of the United States . Besides Mr. Nagel , the Commission had such distinguished members as E. N. Brown , chairman of the board of the St. Louis and San Francisco Railway Company ; Alfred Swayne , vice-president of the General Motors Corporation ; and Paul M. Warburg , whose reputation as an international banker and student of finance is known of all men . The Commission was , of course , not authorized to commit its parent bodies by its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " efforts should be made more nearly to equalize , as between agriculture and manufacturing industry , such benefits as the existing protective-tariff system can afford to both . " While opposing any legislative measures of the type of the McNary-Haugen bill , the Commission believes that there should be " intelligent and discriminating effort to diminish gradually those trade restrictions and tariffs on manufactured articles which tend to reduce the foreign market for our agricultural products . " So far as this goes it is sound advice ; practically , it is not worth the paper it is written on , since after five years of the Fordney-McCumber tariff the President has been interested only in reducing the tariff on quail , millfeed , paint-brush handles , and cresylic acid . Much more hopeful is the Commission 's recommendation of a federal farm board to be appointed by the Presi- , dent , to advise the agricultural world as to planning of production and marketing of crops , and to cooperate with farm organizations and private companies in creating and financing corporations to buy and sell farm products in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wishes a fed-eral board to do indirectly what the farm representatives in Congress have wished the government itself to do . For the rest , the Commission urges cooperation and the usual remedies for our agricultural distress , such as better education of the farmer , better live stock , the utilization of machinery , calamity insurance , and standardizing farm products . In addition , the Commission is afraid of cooperative-marketing organization on a large scale , but urges a carefully planned policy of land utilization under what might be called -a National Agriculture Foundation , which should also be charged with eliminating misfit farmers and with controlling the movement of population from the farms to the cities and vice versa . In view of Mr. Warburg 's presence on the Commission its recommendation for extending farm banking and serving agricultural credit needs by fewer and stronger banks is of great importance . It realizes that the farmer has a just grievance in the credit situation , and to remedy this it also urges the establishment of agricultural credit corporations and farmers ' mutual associations under government control . Finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these recommendations are sound and useful . They ought to help the leading farm organizations , who have as yet been unable to agree upon farm legislation , to come to a joint understanding so that they may concentrate upon a relief program . But if they should agree in demanding a reduction in the tariff on the articles that the farmer must use , it is obvious that the President would give them no aid or comfort . Yet the knowledge that the tariff is a fundamental stumbling-block to our obtaining those additional foreign markets which the farmers must have for their surplus products , whether the government markets their crop or private organizations do so , is gradually permeating wider and wider circles . Thus , speaking on November 18 , before the Academy of Political Science in New York , Norman H. Davis , one of the delegates to the World Economic Conference , pointed out that the mere fact that we have changed from a debtor to a creditor nation in itself calls for a reconsideration of the effect of the tariff upon our economic life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the real test of our tariff policy will come from the need of additional markets and the necessity to safeguard and recover our foreign loans and investments . " That Europe can not recover unless our and other tariff barriers are reduced has been certified not only by the leading bankers of the world in their memorandum of last year , but by the World Economic Conference and every gathering at which the matter comes up for discussion . But the interests of America and of the world are invariably side-tracked by the men in Washington who control the Congress and insist upon giving relief to a struggling Europe only in the categories of quail , paint-brush handles , millfeed , and cresylic acid . This list- is an exact measure of the strangle-hold which the manufacturers have upon the country and the pettiness of the minds charged with formulating the national and international policies of the United States in these difficult economic times . American agriculture is being depressed to the danger-point , and Europe invited to organize against us . Curzon Weeps O persistently has T. E. Lawrence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public eye that some have found his professed desire for obscurity suspiciously paradoxical . It is , they say , only by design that so clever a man as he could fail so signally in an effort to avoid publicity , and they have accused him of knowing only too well both how reluctance adds value to ? revelation and how mysterious shadows make high romantic lights stand out in bold relief . But , however that may be , he has real stories to tell , and even if there be a touch of the unconsciously histrionic in his genius he has played a great role well Just about the time that the famous limited edition of his memoirs was published he was discovered serving under the name of Private T. E. Shaw in the Royal Air Force . Now , while he is still regularly performing the duties of that humble office , Robert Graves , the poet , comes forward with an authorized book in which is told how Lawrence , dressed in Arabian costume , came to Buckingham Palace , refused the decorations which King George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sovereign for having broken faith . It seems that in 1918 Lawrence , whose genius had played a large part in uniting the Arabian tribes in behalf of the Allies , discovered that the British Foreign Office had made him the unconscious instrument of a betrayal. - It had promised independence to Arabia but at the same time it had repudiated this promise in a secret treaty with the other Allies in which a division of- the country as part of the spoils of war was agreed upon . When Lawrence discovered that he would be unable to fulfil the promise with which he had won the confidence of the people he was leading " a longing for death to end his shame " came upon him , and though he survived the war he refused - the thanks of the Government he had served because he did not care to receive honors for having succeeded in a fraud . Shortly before he had protested to the Peace Conference he had , at a meeting of the Cabinet , made even the implacable , imperturbable Curzon weep  --  a phenomenon ( says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeping of a church image " ? but it was all in vain . King George , having heard Lawrence say that he might soon be fighting with the Arabs against England , could only express an unwillingness to believe that his ministers had-broken their word and permit him to refuse the proffered decorations . - - Lord Stamfordham , private secretary to the King , has issued a statement in the course of which it is said that " the King has no recollection of Lawrence 's saying that the part he had played in the Arab revolt was dishonorable to himself and to his country and government , " but the staterrient acknowledges the chief features of the interview as reported by Graves and it throws little additional light upon the incident . There is , however , one other detail highly characteristic of Lawrence and highly significant as a revelation of his character . He had come to the palace in the company of Prince Feisal and he was clad in the white robes of an Arabian chieftain . " Is it- right , Colonel Lawrence , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a subject of the crown and an officer should appear here clothed in a foreign uniform ? " " When a man serves two masters , " Lawrence replied , " and has to offend . one of these , it is better for him to offend the more powerful . " There is something in the gnomic form of this retort and something also in the proud , impolitic Quixoticism of its content which suggest the East . Lawrence 's memoirs may be , as Bernard Shaw has called them , " the greatest story of heroism by a hero since Caesar 's ' Commentaries ' " and he himself is certainly a typical example of those racial sports which seem so " un-English " in spite of the fact that England has probably produced more of them than has any other country , yet everything about him suggests that he not only came to understand very thoroughly the peoples whom he led but that there was something in his tempera- , ment which predestined him to a- sympathy with them and their ways . A certain sort of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because circumstance has denied to the Arab every other sort of greatness . His pride must be Quixotic because he has no power , and , since he has neither wealth nor possession , the magnificent gesture is - the only kind of magnificence he can afford . " When a man serves two masters and has to offend one of these , it is better for him to offend the more powerful " ? that aphorism sounds as though it had been uttered before the door of a tent by a man who had nothing but honor to lose . Such sentiments can not be afforded by anyone who owns very much or who happens to be serving an empire . When Lawrence talked Curzon wept and whether his were crocodile tears or not it is perfectly certain that he could never have understood Lawrence one-half so well as could those tribes whom the latter had led and unconsciously betrayed . The Glozel War - N that high , calm realm where the scientists pursue eter.1 nal truth , war has broken out ; and it is a Stone Age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , as with all French wars , the area is spreading to include all Europe . The Serajevo of this world war is Glozel . Glozel is a hamlet in the clay hills of Auvergne , not far from Vichy . Three years ago the peasant Fradin , plowing his fields , came upon what appeared to be the remains of a low brick wall . The local doctor became interested and dug further ; soon he produced- a variety of small unglazed tablets , variously scratched , and he announced that the scratches were a Neolithic alphabet  --  antedating , though related to , that Phoenician-alphabet from which our Western writing is derived . - - If Dr. Morlet was right Stone Age men , long before the invention of bronze , made the supreme human discovery of a permanent method of written communication . The horizon of history was pushed back , perhaps , a dozen millenniums . M. Salomon Reinach , president of the Academy of Inscriptions , visited Glozel , watched the excavation of more tablets , and pronounced the . Glozel collections genuine . Other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Glozel letters corresponded to a late form of Phoenician , whereas if they were the ancestors of Phoenician script they would be expected to be more like the earliest known Phoenician charaCters . Dr. Morlet continued his digging , and shortly produced new tablets , bearing more characters , this time resembling the early Phoenician . More marvels followed . Dr. Morlet unearthed an engraving of a reindeer , indicating unsuspected relationships between the Neolithic art of the period to which Reinach had assigned Glozel and the art of the cave-dwellers of the Old Stone Age . Skeptics pointed out that reindeer had vanished from France long before the Neolithic period . Then , came the reply , it is not a reindeer but some other species of deer . The question was referred to the Norwegian specialists in reindeer . Unquestionably , they replied , the animal was a reindeer . Then , M. Reinach and others asserted , a few reindeer must have persisted in France long after they had been supposed to be extinct . - M. Camille Jullian , the Gallo-Roman historian , entered the controversy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reproductions of the Glozel tablets he announced that the " Neolithic " letters were merely a degenerate form of illiterate Latin , and insisted that he could translate some of the inscriptions himself . The Glozelians called up new forces . A dozen ' professors visited the scene and attested the impeccable Neolithic character of the inscriptions . But some of the greatest French scholars held aloof . The Abbe Breuil , France 's greatest Paleolithicist , after some hesitation , announced that he did not like the unhealthy propagandist climate of Glozel and that he would retire to the pleasanter atmosphere of his Paleolithic caves . Rene Dussaud , of the Louvre Museum , a member of the Institute of France , published a brochure attacking Glozel as pure fake . The " Neolithic " tablets were impudent forgeries ? " Neo-modern , " he called them . He said that the most interesting were found by the peasant Fradin and Dr. Morlet when no one else was present , called one of the supposed " tombs " a medieval blast furnace , and pointed out that it was remarkable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairly close to the surface of the ground , in fields which cattle had trod in dry weather and wet for centuries . Dr. Morlet replied , accusing some of the leading anti-Glozelians of mere personal spite . They had shown , he said , a willingness to declare the relics genuine if they could announce them to the world and win the glory . A few neutral scientists impartially decided that some of the tablets were genuine and others false . The Government took a hand . The Minister of Public Instruction decided to send an official commission to excavate on the spot and determine the authenticity of Glozel . Dr. Morlet replied agreeing , but insisted upon exercising a veto against the membership in the commission of certain savants whom he distrusted . The Ministry declared that it must choose its own scholars , and Dr. Morlet then refused to admit the Government 's commission . Thereupon the Government took steps to declare the field a " national monument , " which would give the Government control ; and finally the International Institute of Anthropology , meeting in Amsterdam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Glozel and one of its French antagonists nearly came to blows , and an armistice was declared only after the appointment of a neutral commission , consisting of one Belgian , one Swiss , one Spaniard , one Czech , an Englishwoman , an Alsatian , and two Frenchmen . At last accounts the international commission was camped at Glozel , personally excavating with its own international trowels . Every night its members cover their pits with plaster of Paris , so that no midnight prowler can insert false tablets into the guaranteed authentic international trenches . So far as one can judge from the dispatches , the result is likely to be two contradictory reports . The New World may yet be called upon to enter the war . But whatever may be established as to the origin of Glozel 's " Neolithic " alphabet , the world should at least have learned from the war something about the infallibility of science  --  and of scientists .                     