@@488313

T HE strangulation of the Ruhr and the Rhineland , which the editor of The Nation so vividly describes elsewhere in this issue , is one part of the process of decay which is going on in Germany . As rats desert a sinking ship the monarchist Bavarians are asserting their independence of Berlin and the more material-minded of the Rhinelanders are seeking a safe harbor in the shelter of the French franc , while the federal government itself is kicking Saxony in the hope of appeasing Bavaria . If Poincar ? desired the destruction of Germany he has his wish , perhaps more thoroughly than he expected ; but if he desired reparations he must at last realize that the English were right when they warned him in terms of the nursery fable against killing the goose that laid the golden egg . There will be no more reparations for France  --  that is surer today than the future of the puny infant republic of the Rhineland , of the monarchist movement in Bavaria , or of the workingmen of Saxony . Frenchmen who think will hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , there seems to have been a woeful absence of statesmanship . It is difficult to understand the state of mind of the Bavarians who talk of their German patriotism while they sabotage German unity , or of the Berlin officials who give the order to the Reichswehr to advance against the Saxon workingmen while the empire is crumbling about their ears . Yet in these crucial days Bavaria has not only continued to mobilize her own guards but has defied Berlin , refusing to recognize the right of the federal government to name the commander of the national army unit in Bavaria , and actually going so far as to kidnap a whole regiment and force it to swear a special allegiance to Bavaria . This is separatism with a vengeance . Saxony , fearing precisely such disloyalty as the Reichswehr has shown in Bavaria and knowing its record of reactionary control , some time ago established working-class defense units , and when the local army commander called upon the Saxon Government to dissolve these it refused , at the same time sending a flaming protest to Berlin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to go ahead , and while Bavaria and the Rhineland are falling away from Germany we are treated to the spectacle of triumphant communiques issued by this general as he marches victoriously through the factory villages of Saxony . There is between the present rulers of Saxony and Bavaria almost as wide a gulf as there was in the early years of the soviet revolution between Russia and the Western world . Bavaria is today ruled by men who trace the downfall of Germany to the revolution of 1918 , and look to the restoration of monarchical dictatorship for any possible salvation . When they denounce " Marxism " and the " internationalists " of Berlin they mean to denounce mere democracy . They hate the republic , the Weimar constitution , the parliamentary governments which have had to recognize the fact that the Social Democracy was the largest single party in Germany . Ludendorff and his Fascist dummy , Hitler , and von Kahr , von Knilling , von Lossow , and Rupprecht of Wittelsbach , Crown Prince of Bavaria as they call him , may fight on internal Bavarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pre-war kind of rule . It is one of the ironies of history that old Munich is today the center of Germany 's grimmest reaction , while Frederick the Great'sand Wilhelm 's capital has become in its way a symbol of liberalism . Industrial Saxony was called the Red Kingdom in the Kaiser 's day . Since the war its Socialists have been unable to stomach , like their Berlin comrades , alliance with the Industrialists . The course of events has driven them into alliance with the Communists , and the mere existence of a Socialist-Communist Government , regardless of its activity or inactivity , seems to have excited the Munich super-patriots to frenzy . Presumably the willingness of the Berlin Government to send the Reichswehr into Saxony was in part due to a vain hope of placating the Bavarians . The insubordination of the Saxons has been far less than that of the Bavarians  --  it seems to have been confined to unwillingness to order dissolution of the proletarian self-defense organizations  --  but they are weaker , and they are suffering the fate of the weak in these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bavarian eyes at least , was that their ministers predicted the failure of the passive-resistance campaign in advance of its abandonment , while every official voice in Germany , Bavaria included , was still proclaiming solidarity unto death . What will be the outcome of this internecine strife ? It is difficult to believe that the parliamentary leaders of the Social Democrats will long support a government which surrenders to the Bavarians while sending troops against poor Saxony . But if their ministers withdraw from the Cabinet , what then ? They have voted Stresemann almost dictatorial powers . Presumably , even in the absence of a parliamentary majority , he  --  or those whom he represents  --  would continue to govern without them . The Socialists are not strong enough , even allied with the extreme Communists , to rule Germany against the Industrialists . Their weakness may be in part the fruit of past mistakes , but they are today , despite their numbers in the Reichstag , almost powerless . They have exhausted themselves in struggling against the Left . If a great civil war comes between Left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces of the Left . The decay of the middle parties , which has been noted by every intelligent observer throughout the period of French pressure upon Germany , seems to be reaching its climax . Monarchists and Communists face each other , alike ruthless and scornful of democratic principles . If it comes to a struggle the Communists will have numbers with them , but the monarchists will have the troops and the arms , and the rural food-producing sections . It is still possible that the threat of the Rhenish republic will draw distracted Germany together . There have been so many steps to the French invasion , however , that it seems probable that the effect of this latest stage will be no more striking in Germany than it is likely to be upon the outside world . If the collapse comes we shall have another great people forced , as Austria was , to beg alms upon any terms from the victorious peoples who fought to make the world safe for democracy . It may then be that the League of Nations , which thus far has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel called upon to act as it acted in Austria in the interest of the business life of the world . Before that happens some hundreds of thousands of German wompu and children will probably have starved to death . Mr. Hughes Admits Everything W HEN the attention of the Secretary of State was called by Washington correspondents to the editorial in last week 's Nation , entitled Mr. Hughes Makes a Secret Alliance , he issued a statement which , as sent out by the United Press , follows : The attention of the Department has been called to statements both in the advertising of the recently concluded loan to Salvador and in the press which created an erroneous impression regarding the relation of the United States Government to the loan . It has been stated that a secret agreement has been made by the Department of State . This is a misleading statement as the agreement was negotiated between the Government of Salvador and the representatives of the bankers concerned . It is in no sense a treaty . The Department of State has no relation to the matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disputes that may arise between the parties , and the appointment of a collector of customs in case of default . It is manifestly to the interest of peace and justice that there should be an appropriate method of deciding such controversies as might arise , and at the specific request of the Government of Salvador and the interested bankers the Secretary of State has consented to use his good offices in referring such disputes to The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States , or if he is unable to act , to another member of the Federal judiciary for appropriate arbitrament . Also , at the request of the Government of Salvador and the interested bankers , the Secretary of State consented to assist in the selection of a collector of customs , who , according to the loan contract , is to . be appointed in the case of default . This was simply for the purpose of facilitating the choice of an entirely competent and disinterested person . The contract also provides that the collector of customs , if appointed , will communicate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the customs administration as may be prescribed and also a monthly and annual report . The Government of the United States has no relation to the loan except in these particulars . We understand this statement was called a " denial . " It would be a tribute to our accuracy if all our writing were denied in a similar fashion , for Mr. Hughes confirms all the important points which we made against him . He admits having agreed to refer disputes between Salvador and the Wall Street bankers who are making her a loan to the Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court , thus taking it upon himself to lay extra and unauthorized work upon an independent branch of the government . He admits making the American Government a further party to the loan through promising that the Secretary of State shall " assist in the selection of a collector of customs " in case of default by Salvador . Mr. Hughes says that the agreement in regard to the loan " is in no sense a treaty . " We have not said that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out that the secret diplomacy with Salvador had eventuated in what are nowadays called " agreements , " negotiated by the executive power alone , although their substance is more important than that which when classed as " treaties " requires the consent of the United States Senate . These agreements , of which the highly important Lansing-Ishii agreement with Japan is an instance , have become notoriously frequent of late years , and an inquiry by Congress into their legitimacy would be timely . The samequestions in regard to loans which Mr. Hughes has cavalierly disposed of alone were submitted to the Senate in the form of treaties in Mr. Root 's days as Secretary of State and even in the golden age of Mr. Knox 's " dollar diplomacy . " The Dominican customs agreement did not take final shape until the Senate paSs'ed it , in somewhat amended form , in 1907 . In 1911 , again , when American bankers were considering a loan to Honduras , which would have involved the United States only to the point of approving the collector general of customs , President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Senate , , as a matter of fact , did not pass it . In the same year a similar convention for a loan with Nicaragua was presented to the Senate ; it also failed to go through in that form , although a loan was eventually made . Mr. Hughes could have found the detail of all this by taking down his red book " Foreign Relations of the United States " for 1912 . Instead he negotiated without the consent of the Senate an arrangement with Salvador substantially the same as those proposed with Honduras and Nicaragua , and he threw in as an extra a promise of the services of our Federal judiciary to settle disputes . Mr. Hughes 's explanation of the part played by the Department of State in the Salvador loan differs in no essential from the fuller presentation given in the pages of The Nation except when he refers to our having given an " erroneous impression regarding the relation of the United States Government to the loan . " Naturally we do not expect Mr. Hughes to put the same interpretation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would not have consented to the negotiations . But we beg to remind American citizens that all we maintain in regard to the danger of such arrangements as promoters of imperialistic aggression and foreign war is supported by the bankers who are floating the loan . These solid men of affairs , assaying at its business worth Mr. Hughes 's promise of our Federal judiciary in settling disputes , say , to repeat our quotation of last week : It is simply not thinkable that after a Federal judge has decided any question or dispute between the bondholders and the Salvador Government , that the United States Government should not take the necessary steps to sustain such decision . There is a precedent in a dispute between Costa Rica and Panama , in which a warship was sent to carry out the verdict of the arbitrators . Beer and Bigger Things NW HEN his beer is taken away from him  --  even by his own action or his own inadvertence  --  the American citizen knows how to raise a shout of protest calculated to make the high gods tremble on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages and his goods are taken from him by the more devious processes of big business his voice is very small . And this is natural , for beer flows directly down the gullet and creates , they say , satisfying sensation on its way , and its absence seems to be marked by a direct and painful sense of loss . But a man 's goods and chattels and even his rights as a citizen and his children 's education may be taken from him in so indirect and piecemeal a fashion that he is none the wiser during the process . He will cry out , " My beer is gone ; a curse on the blue-nosed blackguard that stole my beer ! " But about his other goods he can not shout , for he does not know what to say . And so he goes on being robbed . It is time , however , that he learned that the economic afflictions of life have causes that can be named and that these causes deserve some of the interest that he is spending so lavishly on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last of which appears in this issue of The Nation , Amos Pinchot has described the network of power and ownership that dominates the . life of America today . Put briefly , his argument is this : A group of big-business men and financiers own the great railway systems of the country . This ownership gives them several sorts of power ; they can charge freight rates that directly increase the prices of the things we buy , and they can distribute illegal transportation advantages to their own industrial concerns , thus unfairly driving out of business their competitors and developing their own concerns into great monopolies . These monopolies , free from the threat of competition , can fix prices where they want . More than this , they can dominate legislatures and universities and the cultural life of the people ; and this domination , which everyone feels , can be traced directly back to the illegal favors that are sucked out of the railroads . A general impression has got abroad that rate discrimination and other transportation favors are a thing of the past . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prove that transportation differentials are the common weapon of the trusts every day in the year and continue to be so . Various sorts of rebates are devised to elude the eye of the government ; cars are refused to competitors or service made ruinously bad . The government will never be able to protect independent producers under a system of private ownership of the railroads . The simplest logic in the world would seem to demand that we take the railroads away from the men who use them to dominate the country , and begin to acquire some control over the prices we pay and the sort of lives we lead . We need not pretend that Utopia will be ushered in with government ownership ; we need only admit that a vicious circle of control will be broken , and that many evils will automatically right themselves . We may expect lower rates and lower prices ; equal treatment of all business concerns , resulting in real competition in steel and coal and oil and meat ; lower prices . We may expect that monopolies will be broken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to monopoly will be freed . The relative success of government and private ownership of railroads has been subjected to endless dispute and almost no experiment . Mr. Pinchot 's consideration of the facts seems to us almost unanswerable , but it is worth suggesting to those who doubt the government 's capacity to run anything efficiently that even inefficient railroading is vastly preferable , from a public point of view , to railroading that delivers the welfare of all of us into the greedy pockets of a few . It is this robbery on the grand scale , intangible but complete , that the American citizen must come to think and talk and protest about . We doubt if government ownership of railroads will ever be the sole issue of a national campaign . Too many people will always worry about how to get beer or how to prevent people from getting it or how to keep out of Europe . But it must certainly be made a chief issue , and every labor and farmer group in the country must be made to realize that there will be no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food and clothes and leisure  --  and no real freedom while the railroads are in private hands . Pavlowa lAIMERICA is the happy hunting-ground of dancers , and in many a revue on Broadway you can see dancing that takes from you , as fine dancing should , the inner sluggishness and inertia that tie you to the earth . A superficial observation may not at once yield up the secret of the difference between the best of these dancers and Anna Pavlowa . But the difference exists  --  a difference at once exquisitely fine and enormously important . Pavlowa 's art is pure ; it is purged of all dross . It is beyond the impulse of display . It has divine ease , self-confidence ; it has piety  --  pietas  --  toward its own spirit . It has not the lyric lift , the romantic magic of the dancing of the Duncan girls . It is quite serene , quite alien in spirit to any modern experiments . It is pure dancing , as Bach is pure music . It has nothing to say that is beyond itself ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rhythmic motion . In brief , it is classic . It is all that despite the music , which is not natively or naively Russian but is Russian music trying skilfully but not convincingly to sound like Gluck and Mozart . More essentially right than this sounded a once famous and thrice-hackneyed waltz by good old Johann Strauss , because one felt there a last echo , at least , of the tradition in music to which Pavlowa 's dancing is so closely akin . We do not quarrel with all this . But we can not help imagining an evening of Pavlowa dancing , with all pantomime eliminated , to the music out of which her art has really come . She clings to her tradition and mood in every respect , wearing almost always the classic garb of the ballerina with no concession either to modern eccentricity or modern nakedness . She is effortless , too , as the classics are , and floats  --  all other dancers leap , with whatever marvelous agility  --  toward the shoulder of M. Novikoff . It is in that floating that you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth . The body has become the dance . What she adds , what betrays her period and sensibilities in the end , is the eloquence of her hands . They are morbidly fine and flexile , never pantomimic in their motions yet never still . They are very speaking hands . But what they say is nothing that can be set down in words . Here , as elsewhere , she shuns the mimetic . But they communicate yearning and even such touches of strange passion as deny the inner stillness which one would otherwise suppose at the core of her art . - She dances " The Fairy Doll " without much participation in the pantomime or in the grave , quaint humor . She leaves the expression of these to her associates whose work shares this with her own , that , in its possible measure , it has the perfection which is peace . After " The Fairy Doll " comes " Dionysus , " which is not of the modernized Greece of white placidity , but of the ruggeder Hellas of the severer gods  --  severe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of primordial aspiration , desire , ecstasy . After this the " Divertissements " seem a little trivial and a little shallow , and even the pleasant , quick , bird-like poetry of the Rubinstein " Valse Caprice " is in the nature of something faded and spent . What one remembers longest and most fruitfully is Pavlowa , the immemorial ballerina , poised as if for flight , poised yet still , giving that lovely and peaceful moment a touch of strangeness with the light eloquence of her incomparable hands .                     