@@493476

The Romantic Comedians MISS GLASGOW 'S new story is less weighted with matter , less voluminous in detail , than some of her previous volumes , and therefore reveals more fully the ripening competence of her art . More than any American novelist now writing , with the possible exception of Mrs. Wharton , Miss Glasgow preserves the nice balance between craftsmanship and material . If she is less deft in expression than Mrs. " Wharton ? and at times she seems almost rotund and sententious ? she has apparently exhausted her vein . While with Mrs. Wharton it is now a remembered and sometimes stale world , Miss Glasgow has grown from book to book with that South she began with a generation ago . If Miss Glasgow knows her South and its people in and out in all their phases she is never content with mere presentation : she sees them always in relation to the larger world of contemporary ideas . Distinctly she is a novelist with ideas , even with a latent thesis , which latterly ? in Barren Ground and The Romantic Comedians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal happiness through romantic passion , so often substituted for the illusions of duty , ambition , pride . Specifically the theme of The Romantic Comedians is , in Mrs. Upchurch 's words , " the disadvantages in man or woman of an incurably amorous habit of mind . " Judge Honeywell 's belated amorousness fixed itself at sixty-five on the wispy Annabel , disastrously : his fate illustrates again the ancient adage of " no fool like an old fool , ' with a woman . The misfortunes of a disparity of ages in mating is no new subject . But the title drives home a larger theme , that of all romantic comedians at the eternal game of self-delusion and disillusionment . So far as the story sets forth the ironies and the follies of desire , at odds with the power of fulfillment , it is on sure it well trodden ground ? although it is safe to say that marriage between a Judge Honeywell and an Annabel would : result disastrously without disparity in their ages , for he was a prig of a man and she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incompatibilities in sex are n ? t always due to age discrepancies . But Miss Glasgow is not content with an ironic exploitation of another instance of May and November mating . She pushes her thesis farther into a general disapproval of the common human effort to gain happiness through love . That illusion has persisted , no more in literature than in life . Some emotional glamor to heighten the process of living seems to be a necessity of the human spirit , and the illusion of love between men and women is no more ridiculous than those other illusions of religion or ambition with which middle age is wont to console itself . The Romantic Comedians proves nothing more novel or fundamental than that the Judge was an amorous and foolish old man . In fact he was too little romantic . A true romantic , he would have married the faithful Amanda without question , instead of the unreal Annabel , seeing her declining beauty through the radiance of his youthful love , thus creating a sustaining illusion for his old age . But not being truly romantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeking the renewal of physical forces through the embraces of youth . This familiar pathological case Miss Glasgow has described exactly , decently ? and cruelly , even to the grasp of old habits ? creature comforts on that doleful last journey of disillusionment , where his arm chair , his fire , his home quite banish the image of the lost Annabel . Mrs. Upchurch , somewhat younger than the judge , has mastered what seems to her creator the true philosophy of disillusionment : she has a feline instinct for the minor creature comforts , without the disturbances of emotion . Comfort and the patter of daily routine are all that may be expected , after youth . Romance , passion , love are illusions warming only below forty . Beyond that emotional deadline only the mockery of dead desires is possible . Logical but untrue . Innumerable instances of happiness in love among the middle-aged and old prove that not only the desire , but also the capacity for the larger illusions persist beyond the imaginary dead line . There are failures as well as successes , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elusive , as is the secret of all living . To deride the human effort for fulfillment through love , to establish age limits in emotion , is futile and undiscerning . Sentimentalists will always pay the price and true romantics Wm the prize , in age as in youth .                     