@@487265

This order is most illuminating . The relative excellence of woman 's achievement is seen to rise with the concreteness of the task and the prominence of the technical and human elements . Creativeness is more abstract in music than in the plastic and graphic arts , more abstract in these than in literature ; and in each case woman 's relative achievement increases as abstractness decreases . Even the peculiar drop in dramatic writing when compared with other forms of literature is explicable in terms of a more abstract sort of creativeness required by the formal elements of dramatic art . Again , the high position in the list of musical performers and actresses must in part be ascribed to the importance of the technical element in these arts . The preeminence of the musical performers is probably entirely due to this factor , although the intrusion of the human element ( performing for an audience ) may also have a share in the result . In the case of acting the human element is the most important factor , for here there is not only an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acting itself . The human orientation also accounts for the relatively high position of literature in the list when compared to sculpture and painting and to musical composition . Finally , the creativeness of musical performance and acting  --  two fields in which woman excels  --  is concrete when compared to that of literature , the arts , and musical composition . Incidentally , a sidelight is thus thrown on the case of science , where woman 's relative preeminence is found in the concrete and technical domain of the laboratory . The preceding analysis leads to the conclusion that woman 's strength lies in the concrete as contrasted with the abstract , the technical as contrasted with the ideational , the human as contrasted with the universal and detached . This conclusion , it may be of interest to note , harmonizes perfectly with the general consensus of mankind , as expressed in lay opinion and the judgments of literary men . To summarize : In all fields of cultural activity opened to her , woman has shown creative ability , but since cultural conditions have made major creativeness possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the highest ranges of abstract creativeness . On the other hand , woman has shown in her psychic disposition affinities for the concrete , the technical and the human . Before closing , these findings may be utilized for a prognostication of woman 's activities in the immediate and more remote future . The present tendency toward equalizing the cultural opportunities of man and woman will no doubt persist . Thus the range of woman 's cultural contributions will expand and the excellence of her creative achievement will rise , especially in the fields in which she has so far had but little chance to try her hand . It is to be expected , however , that in the highest ranges of abstract creativeness , in philosophy , science , art , music , and perhaps literature , she will fail as she has hitherto failed to equal man . Her concrete-mindedness will ever continue to provide a useful counterpoise to the more imaginative and abstract leanings of her male companion . Her technical talents will shinemore brilliantly in a world in which the crafts will again occupy the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unique contributions will come in the range of the human element . In this respect , woman 's principal affinity is calculated to bear its choicest fruits in a world better than the one we live in . When formalism recedes from the field of education , as indeed it has already begun to do , and gives room for more individual and psychologically refined processes , woman 's share in education will grow in scope and creativeness . When the family has left behind the agonies of its present readjustments , the reconstruction of a freer and happier family life will largely rest on the shoulders of woman . When prisons will be turned into hospitals and criminals will be treated as patients , woman 's sensitiveness , insight , and tact will bring her leadership in this field . When a return of leisure and the reduction of economic pressure will permit a revival of the more intimate forms of social intercourse , woman 's social talents will find new fields to conquer . When the world of nations will sheathe its sword forever  --  an event toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  woman , to whom nothing human is foreign , will at last be free to show the world what she can accomplish as the mother of the family of man .                     