@@468425

IT IS but a few weeks ago that a number of important British department-store owners came to the United States to study the reasons for American prosperity , and upon their return to London officially reported their findings to the members of their trade . As is so often the case , these reports tended toward self-glorification rather than entire accuracy . It was generally agreed that American department stores have nothing to teach the British . One gentleman made the amazing statement that in many American stores ? such is the craze for statistics ? fully sixty per cent of the employees do nothing but work upon figures . Another was of the firm opinion that the service in American stores does not compare with that of British stores . Still another gentleman put American business in its place by stating that a department store in Stockholm , Sweden , surpasses anything seen in the United States . All agreed on one thing : that although business in America was brisk , competition was so keen and expenses so high that few enterprises were making money . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often in their reports , " Prosperity without Profit . " Astonishing as were most of the findings of these British observers , there is one in which there is a shade of truth . In many American industries there does exist a situation that may rightly be described as prosperity without profit . And where this situation exists it is usually the result , as pointed out by the British business men , of too violent competition and too high selling expenses . Perhaps for the non-business reader it will be necessary to explain in greater detail the meaning and causes of Prosperity without Profit . Let us assume there are two grocery men who have shops on opposite corners , each of whom sells fifty dollars ' worth of groceries per day . Of a sudden each resolves that he will double his volume of sales and sell one hundred dollars ' worth per day . The families of the neighborhood really do not require so great an amount of grocer merchandise ; and so when the two storekeepers seek to realize their ambitions , intense and costly competition develops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ runs special sales , engages boys to shove printed dodgers under the doors of householders at night , maintains motor-cycle delivery , keeps his store open evenings , sends solicitors to call upon housewives several times each day to learn if anything be needed . It is possible that by means of such high-pressure activities the families of the neighborhood are made so " grocery conscious " that each merchant actually does realize his heart 's desire and attains his volume of one hundred dollars a day . The chances are the expense of securing this volume is so great that neither earns any money . But the amour propre of the merchants is such that neither is willing to admit defeat , and the unprofitable competition continues . When this occurs the two grocery men are operating under the condition known as Prosperity without Profit . Yet this is not all . The hectic coinpetition thus inaugurated extends to other fields . The two grocers have contrived to make the families of the neighborhood " grocery conscious . " This means that an undue share of the neighborhood income is spent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seek to protect their interests by similar campaigns of high-pressure salesmanship . Profits are sacrificed all around . Eventually some unfortunates fall into the hands of the sheriff . Store clerks lose their positions , and owners of store buildings lose their rents . There is a small-scale panic in the neighborhood . This state of affairs may spread from neighborhood to nationwide proportions if enough business men become so imbued with a desire for expansion that the cost of securing extra volume is disregarded . It is remarkable how the fetish of greater volume of business has spread during the past few years . This is strikingly illustrated by an editorial that recently appeared in Printers ' Ink , a publication which for more than a quarter of a century has been identified with American Big Business . The editorial in part is as follows : We lmow of an institution that attained a startling sales volume last year . This year it has set for itself a quota 25 per cent higher and doubtless will reach it . Next year another stiff increase will be set up . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thousands of other businesses . Coming from so authoritative a source , the foregoing statement is arresting . The caption of the editorial is more so . It is : " Why America Is Different . " The writer has set forth in concrete terms what executives with international experience have long known ; namely , that European business men do not strive so hard for volume as do their American confreres . In Europe an enterprise that holds its own from year to year is considered healthy . With us there is the well-established theorythat a business should show an annual increase . Why should American business men in great numbers set up stiff increases in volume each year ? Certainly it is not because Americans are more grasping than other people . The always magnificent response of American business men to calls for help from any part of the world would refute this charge if any refutation were needed . Americans like to make money , it is true ; but they like to give it away better than most people . American men , besides , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ careers . To depend on influence for business promotion is almost as much discountenanced in the United States as to marry for money . What reason , then , is there for the intensely competitive spirit that exists in American business if desire for gain is not at the bottom of it ? At the risk of shocking some readers , I am going to offer this explanation : Competition is more intense than in other countries because American business men are more influenced by vanity . Everything conspires to bring this about . The present generation in America inherits a condition of easy prosperity such as has never existed before and will probably never exist again . The hard pioneering work of the country has been finished , but so recently finished that its enormous natural resources are practically intact . Business success comes with almost unbelievable ease in the United States compared with other countries . In Europe success is so hard to attain that a man can not afford to have an eye on the grand-stand . With us it is possible for a business man to indulge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " I 'll try anything once , " or , " I look on my business as a game , " are exclusively American . Examples of easy success in America are so common that to many people no project appears incredible . Recently the Associated Press sent out a story that was printed in many newspapers under the heading , " Will Sing Crime out of Chicago . " The text described a group of citizens interested in the music trades who were about to organize a twenty-four-hour campaign of song , during which earnest bands of singers would perform in hotels , churches , and private homes . Under this uplifting influence it was expected that the forces of evil would be put to rout . The gunman , the swindler , the bootlegger would abandon those professions and turn to better things . This was a typically American attitude barn of vanity and easy conditions . It is impossible to conceive of a group of people in London , Berlin , or Paris who would believe crime could be sung out of their communities in twenty-four hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from hard experience that things are not accomplished so easily . When a person feels himself financially secure beyond the chance of a reverse it is only natural that he should seek further pleasure through acts intended to impress his fellows . In America there are more people financially secure than in other countries , and hence more actions motivated by vanity . A well-known economist has recently published the statement that vanity has dictated the erection of a large proportion of city skyscrapers during past years . Frequently skyscrapers do not pay savings-bank interest , yet " men who have made fortunes fast put up the biggest , tallest skyscrapers with their surplus money as monuments to themselves and their fortunes . " With this statement went the gloomy prediction that " Skyscrapers , as advertisements , are becoming so common that their value is already questionable . With the original reason gone , the vanity element eliminated by competition in this queer form of display , the skyscraper sections of New York and other cities will disappear . " In addition to the natural American temptation toward vanity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries . Europe , for example , knows nothing of what we commonly call " success " literature . This has become so popular a feature with us that many publications make their entire bid for popularity upon the presentation of stories dealing with the spectacular successes of eminent business men . Salesmanship in one form or another is the quality most frequently stressed . An example may be drawn from a series of success stories presented by the New York Sunday World , one of which concerns itself with the career of Mr. Fred F. French , a nationally known real estate operator and advertiser of the Metropolis . One of the paragraphs follows : " The best example for a sales talk is the life of Jesus Christ , " continued Mr. French , his eyes alight with vim for the competitive fight . " He was the best salesman of all time . He said , ' knock and it shall be opened unto you . ' What He meant was ' keep knocking until the door is opened and if it is n't opened pretty soon kick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " One finds it hard to believe this virile expression of an ideal reflects anything more profound than the natural desire to appear before the readers of the Sunday World as a dynamic , successful man of business . But its effect is none the less strong ; and it is reasonable to believe other executives may be excited by it to more strident methods of salesmanship . Practically all success literature depends for its appeal on the stimulation of vanity in the reader . An outstanding example that may be cited is Mr. Bruce Barton 's immensely popular book , The Man Nobody Knows . Mr. Barton stimulates salesmanship ambition in his business-men readers by the most subtle flattery . The Master is depicted as a salesman of surpassing ability . " Every one of the principles of modern salesmanship ' on which modern business men so pride themselves is strikingly exemplified in Jesus ' talk and work . " Jesus knew the art of " putting yourself in step with your prospect . " " He picked up twelve men from the bottom ranks of business and forged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Never , perhaps , has a writer hit upon so happy a means of elevating the ego of the business-man reader . There is a double jog to vanity . By depicting Jesus as a salesman Mr. Barton not only sets the seal of Divine approval upon salesmanship as an art , but contrives to convey the idea that by salesmanship one grows into the image of the Master . In the light of such compelling propaganda one does not wonder at the situation described by Printers ' Ink , wherein " hundreds and thousands " of business executives annually set up increases twenty-five per cent in advance of the previous year . Yet where vanity comes in at the door profits have a habit of flying out at the window . In the preparation of this article I had occasion to interview the head of one of New York 's largest banks , and during the interview I was shown a file containing the financial statements of three manufacturing corporations , clients of the institution . None of the corporations had earned an appreciable profit during the preceding year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollars , earned precisely $961.00 . The banker explained the situation as follows : Up to two years ago the corporations , all manufacturing similar lines of goods , paid reasonable dividends . At that time one of the corporations underwent a change in management . The gentleman who assumed its presidency was a vain man who wished to demonstrate his salesmanship powers . The corporation had been doing in round figures two million dollars a year . The new president arbitrarily decreed an annual business of three millions ; and to that end set in motion all the machinery at his command . Branch offices were established in various cities where stocksof goods were maintained for quick delivery to merchants . The sales force was doubled . Each salesman was equipped with an automobile to cover his territory more often than was possible by railroad , and each was required to sell a certain volume upon penalty of losing his position . Longer credit terms were extended to merchants as an incentive to buying . In communities where merchants bought too sparingly , competitors were set up in business and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By these strenuous methods the corporation actually increased its sales during one year from two million dollars to three millions , and to that extent the ambitious president 's vanity was satisfied . But the cost of gaining the extra million was so great that practically all profits were eliminated . Yet that was not ail . The corporation 's two competitors were also obliged to speed up their selling efforts in order to protect themselves . They also established branch offices , increased the number of their salesmen , and granted longer credit terms . Their profits likewise were dissipated in unnecessary expenses . Three important corporations failed to pay dividends because one man wished to appear before the world as a two-fisted , up-and-coming apostle of efficiency . If left alone , it is probable that conditions like the foregoing would right themselves , as responsible executives come more and more to realize the futility of over-expensive selling . But success literature is only one of many stimulants to business vanity . Vanity is promoted in many curious ways and from the strangest of motives . No longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men took place at Cambridge , Massachusetts , to dedicate the buildings that comprise the George E Baker Foundation of the Graduate School of Business Administration of Harvard University These buildings , reported to have cost five millions of dollars , were presented to Harvard by Mr. George R Baker , the New York banker . President Lowell of Harvard conferred the degree of Master of Business Administration upon a class of more than two hundred graduates , and in so doing used the following words : " By virtue of the authority delegated to me , I testify that you are well trained to enter upon one of the oldest of the arts and the latest of the professions . " This sweeping statement coming from so high a source and conferring the brevet of professional status upon all American business men , was seized upon as an important tribute to American business ; and many of those engaged in selling capitalized its splendid stimulation of business vanity . Leading newspapers sought popularity among business readers by quoting President Lowell 's phrase upon their front pages and by flattering editorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the trade press . Retail shopkeepers , even , have found a way to turn the Harvard formalities to account . As these words are written , a leading department store of New York City features in a full-page advertisement the expression , " Business , the latest of the professions , " as proof that its bargains are genuine . It may be assumed that even though Harvard 's president made his statement in cold blood he had no other end in view than to encourage more business men to contribute money toward the upbuilding of his institution . Such efforts are a part of the modern university president 's job , and by the employment of wholesale flattery Doctor Lowell merely exhibited keen business acumen . Yet the wisdom of his pronouncement is open to question . There is nothing to indicate that some hundreds of thousands of storekeepers , manufacturers , real estate men , undertakers ? all those who buy and sell for a living have suddenly reached professional status . There is an intrinsic difference between business and the professions . A merchant or a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services . For this reason the professional man can not push his affairs so freely as can the business man . He is definitely limited in the things he may do for gain . To cite one example : A lawyer or physician must not seek clients through paid advertisements or by sending out solicitors . To do either of these things at once lowers his standing in his community . But a merchant or a manufacturer may quite properly employ both advertising and personal solicitation in the selling of his goods . Few people would wish to see this distinction abolished ; yet so long as the distinction exists , business can not be given the professional status mentioned by President Lowell . Such status predicates restraint ; and it is generally admitted that less restraint is practiced by business at the present time than formerly . It is even possible that wholesale flattery of business men may make for still less restraint . Vanity in business is progressive . We have seen how a single business executive , fired with the desire to demonstrate his powers , may so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition known as Prosperity without Profit . In many lines competition has become so hectic that ordinary salesmanship no longer suffices . Executives drive toward coveted goals of volume by systematic prodding of the vanity instinct in their employees . For this purpose a device known as the " sales contest " has come to be employed during recent years by many important firms and corporations . The sales contest takes many ingenious forms , but its one object is to create in employees a fighting , he-man , bringhome-the-bacon spirit . The National Cash Register Company of Dayton , Ohio , for example , promotes a contest each month of the year among its twenty-five hundred salesmen in all parts of the United States and Canada . The object of each contest is to prod the individual salesman 's vanity . On one recent occasion this event was termed an " aeroplane race " ; and in the magazine published by the Company photographs of star salesmen were shown , attired in flying costumes and standing beside their machines ready to burst into flight . At another time the contest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the automobile contest this message was sent to every salesman , " Make your plans over the week-end . Then hit Monday morning with a hang that will jar the points loose in your territory as they have never been before . " Another nationwide corporation , the C and D Company , with twenty-five hundred salespeople who sell dresses , hosiery , and underwear throughout the United States , also prods the vanity of its employees by almost continuous contests . A recent event was the hunt of the " Whiffenpoof , " a mythical creature described as " anything that keeps a salesman from getting an order . " The hunt was under the direction of a sales-manager calling himself " Ram " Rod who divided his force into three camps named Teddy Roosevelt , Buffalo Bill , and Davy Crockett , respectively . Each time a salesperson took an order amounting to five dollars he was credited with the death of one Whiffenpoof . Prizes were offered for the greatest number of kills . The contest plan has been found so effective as a stimulant to salesmanship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to create novel ideas in the way of contests and to sell the products of their inventiveness to various firms and corporations . Among the most successful of these producers of contest plans is the Dartnell Company of Chicago with more than ten thousand American business organizations subscribing to its regular service . Recently the Dartncll Company produced a special plan for stimulating salesmen which comprised the purchase of certain novelties to bemailed to traveling representatives from week to week . One week , for example , the bagman was sent a miniature feather duster bearing a tag that counseled him to " dust his territory . " Another week he was sent an imitation cannon firecracker with the injunction " Make a Big Noise . " One is told that more than twelve hundred firms and corporations purchased the series of novelties and mailed them to their forces of road salesmen . Originally the contest idea was confined to manufacturers who felt the need of stimulating the amour propre of their employees . Of late it has been extended into other fields . The National Surety Company of New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States and Canada . Recently one of the Company 's regional managers , Mr. C. C. Spear , telegraphed from North Carolina that he had made the " largest forgery bond sale ever made in the South , " and challenged his brother regional managers to equal his exploit . This incident was seized upon as the basis of a spirited contest , and the following telegram was sent to all regional managers and supervisors by the Company 's vice-president : Speak about the Go-Get-Em Spirit : Spear certainly throws down the gauntlet to other regional managers and surely no red-blooded , two-fisted , fighting regional manager is going to let him get away with any such defy . He is practically thumbing his nose and wiggling his fingers at you . If he falls off his high horse we 'll make him literally eat his telegram before a camera in company with the regional manager who gives him the most decisive trimming . IV Not only do manufacturing and financial corporations appeal to the vanity instinct but many leading institutions of learning , one regrets to note , make a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the youth of America . It is but a short time since that the chairman of the board of regents of the University of Texas , in his desire to advertise his school as a center for red-blooded young men , conferred the rank of Dean upon his athletic director , a former Y. M. C. A. coach . More recently , the University of Idaho mailed a piece of literature to the members of the senior classes of state high schools , urging the importance of a university course as a means of higher culture . The preamble contained this subtle stimulus to youthful pride : You 'll have the world by the tail when you get that diploma . Then you 'll be looking for a place to throw it . Now what are you going to do with the hrute ? the world , I mean ? Let him slip from your hands because you do n't tie a knot in him ? Not you ! Not any Idaho boy or girl ! A singular branch of learning , featured by more than a score of American universities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , briefly , the art of writing sales letters ; and is based upon the theory that the prospect 's vanity may be excited by a hearty informality which is lacking in the English of literature or of polite intercourse . One reads , for example , in the text book used by classes in Business English at New York University : Business English is a useful art rather than a fine art . Its purpose , like the purpose of business , is to gain profit . " Follow the line of least resistance " is an axiom of Business English . Business English is typically conversational ? in many cases , colloquial . It is worthy of note that the colloquial English recommended by New York University finds enthusiastic reception in some business circles . One block from the University 's headquarters in Washington Square is a subway station where a great news corporation prods the vanity of prospective clients by the printed question : " Whad'ya read ? " V One defect in the employment of flattery as a sales stimulant is thenecessity for increasingly stronger potions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Business English may create sales ; but in communities where life is sustained upon a more austere basis and where ready cash is scarce it is often necessary to supplement the ordinary vanity appeal by almost unbelievable garnishments . Few will deny that sex and vanity are closely allied emotions ; and painful as it is to recount it , sex excitation has been authoritatively recommended as a sales stimulant when ordinary means fail . In the Merchants Farm , Journal one reads the success story of a prominent department-store owner of Devil 's Lake , North Dakota , and learns how hard-won dollars may be enticed from masculine pockets by skilful exploitation of the female form : We always had a hard time getting the men customers into the store in large numbers . We sent them invitations to our Easter opening , but few came . So I said to my brother : " We 'll have a summer opening . We 'll put bathing suits on living models and we 'll send personal invitations to the men ! " Well , that is one time we had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incident illustrates the desperate state of salesmanship in retail circles , a recent development gives ominous warning that the same deplorable situation may soon exist in the field of Big Business unless something is done to curb the ambition of executives who demand of their sales forces sensational increases of volume from year to year . Many firms and corporations that formerly depended upon their own sales-managers to keep the enthusiasm of their forces at white heat now find it necessary to employ inspirational talent from the outside . An entirely new profession has been created through this necessity , and in the pages of many business journals one finds the advertisements of those who , for lack of a better term , may be called revivalists in salesmanship . Among them one notes the name of Mr. W. L. ( Bill ) Barnhart , whose name , it is stated in his prospectus , is registered as a Trade Mark in the U. S. Patent Office ; and whose lecture , " The Magic Formula of Sales Success " is commended by such organizations as the Advertising-Selling League of Omaha @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Another , Mr. Willard Scott , advertises to have spoken before more than three hundred gatherings of industrial corporation executives , bankers , chambers of commerce , and college men . Mr. Scott solicits further engagements upon the following testimonial offered by the Aderaft Club of Canton , Ohio : " He made ' em laugh like kooka-burras half full of raisin jack . " VI From the employment of sex excitation and rollicking laughter as sales stimuli , it is but a step to the exploitation of another intensely human emotion ? love of little children . An influential business journal has recently published a success story based upon an interview with the sales-manager of the American Slicing Machine Company of Chicago , in which is explained how that nationwide organization jolts the vanity of its sales force by linking up the children with the Company 's drive for greater volume : Last fall we offered a turkey at Christmas to every one of our salesmen who beat his quota of sales . To give the contest an added element of human interest we asked each man to appoint a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of them would work his head off to make some youngster happy at Christmas . The way these youngsters took hold of the plan was amusing and at times the intensity of their interest was almost pathetic . The American Slicing Machine Company is not alone in the discovery that children may profitably be used to maintain sales volume . One reads in an influential business publication that a leading soap manufacturing corporation jogs the vanity of little boys and girls at school by providing cards on which they are requested to sign the following pledge : " Dear Teacher : I promise to wash my face and hands with my little cake of X soap before every meat and before going to bed until it is all used up . " One hesitates to inject a pessimistic note into activities that doubtless furnish much pleasure to ambitious executives , and sometimes do increase sales . But as we have seen , increased sales often mean decreased profits . Illustrating the futility of much of the supersalesman-ship that has come into vogue during recent years , Mr. J. F. Lincoln , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The tendency of sales costs to go up fully as rapidly as manufacturing costs have gone down , has been the history of the past ten years . The rate at which sales costs have gone up is stupefying when shown in percentages . In many products 33 cents being the only part of his dollar which has anything to do with manufacturing cost and the only part of the dollar which the manufacturer ever sees . Even in the United States business can not permanently continue to set up stiff increases without reaching an impasse . An outstanding example is the automobile trade . There is an unusually high rate of failures among retail automobile dealers . In the past most dealers have been obliged to accept certain numbers of cars each mouth from the manufacturers ; and often , when overstocked with cars , a dealer is tempted to make too high an allowance for the second-band car his customer wishes to trade in . This has become so prevalent that a large proportion of buyers refuse to be influenced toward any particular make of car . A saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a ear any more . He shops for the biggest allowance on his old car . " Where such a situation exists everyone in the trade loses . The dealer , perhaps , goes bankrupt . The manufacturer loses through having to secure another dealer . Also , the manufacturer loses in another way ; because for every sale that is secured solely on the allowance made for the second-hand car , the manufacturer 's advertising is nullified to just that extent Speaking of these problems , Mr. Alfred P. Sloan , president of the General Motors Corporation , has said : One of the big troubles of the automobile business is that dealers and manufacturers all have the habit of expecting business every year to be far in excess of that of the previous year . In line with this statement it is cheering to note that General Motors announces that in the future it will set no arbitrary increases and will adjust its manufacturing to legitimate demand . Always , just around the corner , is the menace of business depression that invariably follows overselling on a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most influential of Big Business journals recently comments : The prevailing idea in business that a Company must increase its sales each year is the cause of the senseless scramble for volume that is going on in so many industries . It is also one of the causes of rumors that sometimes start a deprQcsion . When a sales organization finds it is falling under its previous high-water mark , it is likely to go into a psychological funk . It communicates its pessimism to others . Orders are cancelled , employees are laid off , and the first thing you know there is a depression , although there is really not the slightest reason for it . If vanity dictates the policies of business to too great an extent a time may come when Prosperity without Profit will shrink into a condition where there is no prosperity and no profit .                     