@@152059

A good President must have a good Press. -U . S. POLITICAL PROVERBS . A fortnight ago , guests at the White House were Mr. and Mrs. Adolph S. Ochs of Manhattan . While Mrs. Hoover motored Mrs. Ochs around Washington and entertained her ( TIME , April 15 ) , President Hoover devoted spare moments to Mr. Ochs , who publishes the august , fatherly ( and almost always Democratic ) New York Times . President Hoover asked Publisher Ochs this and that about U. S. journalism . After the Ochses had gone , President Hoover wrote a speech . Last week President Hoover went to Manhattan , taking his speech with him , the first extra-routine speech of his administration . Publisher Ochs was at the station to meet him , to escort him to a hotel where the Press was assembled . It was the Press in a far larger sense than what the President meets each Tuesday and Friday at noon in his office . This was the Associated Press-a non-partisan organization which collects and distributes news , not for profit but for its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land were in Manhattan for the annual meeting of the American Newspaper Publishers Association . Most of them went into the hotel to hear what the President would say . Those who did not go in either listened in or read the speech as soon as it was printed. * There was not much in the speech that any alert publisher could not have prophesied beforehand . President Hoover 's biggest project is Law Enforcement . He urged the Press to be a quick public conscience to that end . Freedom of the Press to discuss public questions is a U. S. cornerstone . President Hoover acknowledged this , adding earnestly : " I put the question , however , whether flippance is a useful or even legitimate device in such discussion . ... Its effect is as misleading and distorting of public conscience as direct misrepresentation . " U. S. newspapers make crime romantic , glamorous . President Hoover suggested that they might " invest with a little more romance and heroism those thousands of our officers who are endeavoring to enforce the law . . . . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I have no criticism to make of the American Press . I admire its independence and courage . " Struggling into his winter overcoat , President Hoover last week went out and inaugurated Washington 's baseball season at Griffith Stadium . Calmly he watched the Philadelphia Athletics beat the Washington Senators 13 to 4 . With him and Mrs. Hoover were four members of the Cabinet : Secretaries Mellon , Good , Hyde , Davis . <P> Walter Johnson , longtime pitcher and now manager of the Washington team , entered the President 's box , handed him a shiny white baseball . President Hoover stood up , held a pitching pose long enough for cameramen to get the picture , then hurled the ball high and far to Umpire George Moriarty.                     