@@493260

The Accumulation of Capital OUR capital accumulation for the current year will amount to more than eight billion dollars . Nine months ago the talk was all of the great need for funds , of the scarcity of capital , of high interest rates , which could only be lowered as a result of economy and savings . And now the interest rate has been falling for some months . The concern of bankers and bond houses is no longer to find a market , but to get a sufficient supply of reasonably stable issues . As fast as such securities appear they are absorbed with avidity . High surtaxes , excess profits taxes , the disheveled state of European industry and politics , seem powerless to check the flow of funds to the investment market . Even the experienced investment bankers are astounded at the existence of a demand for investment securities which can be satisfied only by raising prices and thus reducing the rate of return . The assertion that our national savings amount , in this year of depression , to eight billion dollars will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than we consume , and our national savings are the excess of our production over our consumption . Can it be that with mining and manufacturing producing at less than seventy percent of their capacity , we are creating in excess of what we are consuming an amount which would extinguish the national debt in three years ? Even if we allow for the change in the price level , the amount here named is one-half the total product of either Germany or England in a pre-war year , and exceeds by a liberal margin the combined savings of these two nations . The determination of our savings involves less estimate for 1921 than for previous years . A larger part of the capital created during this year has come to the security market than ever before . The published figures of the financial journals show that the investing public of this country is absorbing approximately three billion dollars of industrial , state , and municipal securities in this year . This is after deducting the securities put out to refund old issues falling due . The small corporations issue a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial papers . The total figures for the capital stock and bonds of corporations outstanding are not available for every year ; but when they have been compiled they have always shown that the issues which come to the notice of the financial journals are far less than the total amount of securities put out . All toldfour and one-half billions of industrial , municipal , and government investments must have been issued and absorbed in the year 1921 . State and municipal governments alone have issued more than one billion dollars of such securities . There can be no doubt concerning the accumulation of the capital with which these were purchased . That portion of the savings fund at least can be ascertained , with a negligible margin of error . It is possible to determine with almost the same degree of certainty the amount of our excess production which has been exported to foreign nations , primarily Europe . Our exports will exceed our imports by more than two billion dollars this year . In return for this balance of trade we are receiving over eight hundred million dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The foreign nations are sending us over half a billion of new government and corporate securities which they have issued . We have repurchased a substantial amount of American securities which had been acquired by foreign investors in years past . These items combined approximate one and one-half billion dollars . In addition the remittances of immigrants and the amounts which we have sent to Europe for relief will total another four hundred million dollars . These amounts , too , are a part of the excess of our production over our consumption ; they have been saved by our people just as much as if they had been sent abroad in return for foreign securities . When we add the capital which was brought to the market and invested in securities , and the savings which were exported to Europe in return for gold , securities , and for relief , we arrive at a ' total of more than six billion dollars . This portion of our savings has passed through some channel , such as the investment market or ports of entry , where it has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no reasonable doubt of the accumulation of the capital used for these purposes . The sums which can be thus definitely fixed are large , but they do not comprehend the whole of our national savings . Prominent among the savings which do not come to the security market for investment are the profits retained and reinvested in their ' businesses by corporations . These fluctuate widely with the variations of production and profit . The National Bureau of Economic Research estimates that these savings approximated four billion dollars in 1916 ? In that year the earnings of corporations are much reduced , but dividend payments have been curtailed in much smaller degree . The earnings which these concerns reinvest in their own plant or in the payment of their debts will only slightly exceed half a billion dollars . This sum , then , must be added to the foregoing amount . A large part of our industry is not under the Corporate form of organization . This is especially true of wholesale and retail trade and of professional activities . Agriculture , with six and one-half million establishments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year of low prices , has come under the corporate form of organization to only a negligible extent . But these businesses have absorbed capital , as well as those organized under the corporate form . They have , however , provided their own capital through savings to a greater degree than corporations . The latter organizations distribute the major part of their earnings as interest and dividends in a year like 1921 . They then secure the new capital which they need for expansion or for payment of debts by issuing new securities . Not so with the business that is still carried on by individuals or partnerships . Here the owner relies to a large degree upon the savings which he makes out of the returns of his business . The profits of trade and of agriculture have been comparatively small , and the savings from this source do not greatly exceed one billion dollars . Some will be inclined to doubt Whether they are as large as this , but the fact that farmers and merchants had incurred indebtedness to an unusual degree has put pressure upon them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have observed conditions in the rural districts report that the farmer is not buying much this autumn . The farming industry is the only one Which has not reduced its production because of depression . If he is not buying he must be saving to some degree . We are forced to the conclusion , then , that the savings of agriculture and of businesses not under the corporate form are one billion dollars . They have been reinvested in these busi- nesses , and have not come to the capital market . They hey have , however , played an important part in bringing about a reduction in our bank loans . ? Ile other measure of capital accumulation and investment must ' be considered to complete the pic.tt 're ? Perhaps the largest single demand for capital is for the construction of buildings . The total amount expended for this purpose within a year is f 41. above two billion dollars . Much of this build- ing was carried on with funds derived from the ; le of corporate and government securities and r ? m the savings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our building operations is of another nature . It consists of residential construction . The capital with which these operations are carried on consists mostly of savings of our wage- and salary-earning classes . Those capital accumulations which find their way into the savings banks and which pass through building and loan associations go largely into these building operations . Real estate is still the standard investment , too , of the lower middle classes . Building statistics indicate that we must allow one billion dollars for capital invested in this manner . A summary of the evidence in support of the statement that we have accumulated eight billion dollars of capital this year would include the following items : Even if one makes considerable deductions from one or more of these items on account of excessive estimates , the total must still be over $8,000,000,000 . All the items in the first two groups above except the immigrants ' remittances are saved for the most part from the incomes of the rich and the moderately well-to-do . These are our professional investors in the security market . Practically all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of capital accumulation . In 192o the income of the old line life insurance companies exceeded their expenditures by over six hundred million . When we take into consideration the portion of the payments of death losses which is reinvested , the , institution of life insurance accounts for almost a billion dollars of capital accumulation a year . The total accumulation by this means has almost trebled within the last decade . The chief source of the incomes of these classes consists of the dividend payments of corporations and of the interest payments of corporations and government . Anyone who has studied the corn-position of the incomes reported to the Treasury for tax purposes knows that by far the larger part of all incomes above $20,000 consists of these items . For some groups of tax payers it runs as high as ninety percent . While the profits of corporations after paying interest chargers in 1921 will be only , one-half as large as they were at the peak in 1917 , the dividends which they are distributing will be only twenty-five percent less . The total dividends of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and one-half billion . The interest charges have not decreased ; on the contrary they have increased . The borrowings of the corporations have grown rapidly during the past four years , and interest rates have had a phenomenal rise . Between 1917 and 1918 alone the amount of interest paid by corporations as shown by the " Statistics of Income " increased half a billion dollars . The total payments of corporations on this account in 1921 exceeded those of 1917 by a billion and a half , thus offsetting the decrease in dividends distributed . The figures for dividend and interest payments for certain corporations as compiled by the Journal of Commerce show average monthly payments of $148,000,000 in 1913 , $199,000,000 for 1917 , and $290,000,000 thus far this year . They contain about $90,000,000 per month of corporate interest on United States bonds in the current year . After allowing for these we still have monthly distributions of interest and dividends in this year equal to 1917 when dividends were at a maximum . The total payments of dividends and interest by corporations this year will approximate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from this for inter-corporate payments , such as interest paid to banks ; and a further deduction for the interest and dividend payments to life insurance companies . But such deductions can not exceed two billion dollars . This leaves a net of five billions paid by corporations to individuals . In addition the federal government distributes approximately one billion dollars in interest , while the state , municipal , and foreign governments distribute four hundred million dollars more . When these are summarized they amount to a total of $7,300,000,000 when the savings through life insurances are included . A deduction must be made from this amount to allow for the fact that the government levies its normal income and surtaxes almost exclusivelyupon the individuals who receive the bulk of these incomes . But those taxes have never yet equalled $1,300,000,000 , and with the reduction of incomes this year and the shifting of investments to tax-free securities they will not exceed $1,000,000,000 . The interest distributed by the federal government is , therefore , adequate to offset in its entirety these taxes . The fund available for the accumulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore , been only slightly reduced by the forces of industrial depression . The great reduction in savings is found in the surplus of corporations and in the savings which farmers and other business men are making out of income . There are evidences , however , that even here there is a substantial amount of saving . The reduction in the loans of all banks , national and state , for the year will be nearly four billion dollars , while the decrease in Federal Reserve notes outstanding amounts to another billion . In part this has been accomplished by corporations which have floated securities and have used the proceeds to pay their bank loans , but in large measure this reduction has been effected by farmers and other business men . The capital which has gone into the construction of residences has been furnished mostly by the laborers and the lower middle class . All students of the investment situation have been amazed at the manner in which savings deposits have been maintained and even increased during this year of depression . The laboring classes accumulated savings at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ habit then contracted has been stimulated by the threat of unemployment . Without doubt , too , the eighteenth amendment and the absence of the saloon have played an important part in increasing the savings of the great mass of our common people . These facts concerning capital accumulation in " dicate that the industrial depression with its curse of unemployment and its curtailment of produc ' tion , has not impeded seriously the flow of invest ' merit funds to the security market . At least , they are still so large that the competition for suitable investment for these funds is reducing the rate of interest and will continue to do so for months to come . It seems clear , too , that the effect of taxes in curbing capital accumulation has been over ' estimated . Certainly such a state of the investment market must raise a question in the mind of any illy partial investigator concerning the effect of taxes in discouraging savings . Finally , there is reason t0 believe that plans for the reconstruction of Europe and for the salvaging of western civilization need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pressing needs of the world for funds , if only Europe will adjust its political and industrial institutions so that they will command our confidence .                     