@@493365

CORRESPONDENCE The Catholic Case in Mexico In a recent issue of the New Republic . you comment editorally on the attitude assumed by the Bishops of Mexico with regard to the decrees enforced by President Calles . In appealing to the Congress of Mexico for relief from these Decrees , the Bishops knew that their proposal would have to meet the active opposition of President Calles ; of the Minister of Gobernacion , whose Department exercises control in matters affect ? ing the Constitution , and of both Houses of Congress , which by everyone are known to be completely dominated by Calles . In announcing their appeal to Congress , the Mexican Bishops are quoted by the New York Times as having said that they did so " with no hope of success " and that " the only other course open , starting a religious war , is contrary to the spirit of the Church . " Persons who are familiar with what actually transpired in chapultepec Palace , when the Committee of Bishops called on president Calles , say that the President himself charged . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' The Bishops replied with indignation and unreservedly repu ? diated the idea of armed conflict . Indeed , the Bishops have been absolutely firm ' and constant in their repudiation of all thought of war . On August 5 , an editor of Excelsior , an important daily , pub ? lished in Mexico City , friendly to the Calles regime , intimated to Bishop Pascual Diaz that the action of the Bishops would mean war . The Bishop , in reply , declared textually : " The Church , which is outside of any political party , will never authorize the proposal that religion be taken as the banner of any party . " You are shocked that these " professed followers of Christ " should even mention war as an alternative . If they did mention war , as is alleged , this only shows that , having considered it , they had repudiated it , as true friends of peace and order and as " professed followers of Christ . " You suggest that " the Church might obey the law while work ? ing for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enacted a law which would compel the Editor of the New Republic to re frain from all mention of political questions in his paper and would deny to him his civic rights so long as he continued as gditor . Would he mildly go on publishing the New Republic , conforming to the law , while he undertook to obtain the amend ? ment of the law ? In refusing to say mass and conduct public worship in the churches , the priests of Mexico are breaking no law . They are simply exercising the right of free men . Even if we granted that Calles has the right under the Consti ? tution of Mexico to regulate worship as he is seeking to regulate it , it has never been claimed that he has any right to interfere with the personal liberty of the priests so long as their conduct does not offend the law . You say that the lay apologists of the Church have failed to explain why the Church could not continue to function under the laws of Mexico . Certainly , one who has undertaken the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been manifested by the New Republic should need no one to explain to him why the Bishops and priests of Mexico refuse to accept the laws which are being imposed upon them . These laws degrade their pro ? fession and give to the civil authority final jurisdiction to pass on the fitness or unfitness of the priest . Perhaps the Bishops and priests of Mexico would have gone on attempting to perform their ministry under the law of Mexico had it not been for the provision of Article 19 of the Calles decree amending the criminal code . This article compels the rector of a parish church to obtain the sanction of his appoint ? ment from a committee of ten parishioners designated by the civil authority and , in company with these ten , to appear before the civil authority to register as rector of the parish . This act , if performed by the priest , would constitute a formal acceptance by him of the restrictions which President Calles is seeking to place on the exercise not only of the ministry of the priest , but on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholic Church every ? where is hierarchical . The Bishop alone has jurisdiction with re ? gard to the designation and removal of the rectors of parishes . To place in the hands of a committee of laymen this jurisdiction constitutes a denial of the right of the Catholic Church in Mexico to its hierarchical organization and can have no other purpose than that of disrupting the organization and breaking down the discipline which is essential to the life of the Catholic Church . I do not wish to give the impression that the objections of the Bishops are based solely on Article 19 of the decree : The Bishops object to the decree in toto , but they base their refusal to continue the performance of religious functions by priests within the Church on this article , because , were they to comply with it , they would be doing a thing which , in conscience , they may not do .                     