@@493259

Conferences vs . Alliances R. H. G. WELLS 'S influence on public opin- ion in relation to the Conference is so much to the good that we dislike to emphasize any difference with him , but some recent admonitions and counsels which he has addressed to the American people demand the expression of a sharp dissent . These admonitions and counsels are discouraging to an American liberal . They indicate on the part of a man as friendly and as discerning as Mr. Wells a misunderstanding of what the American nation is half consciously and half unconsciously striving to do for the appeasement and amelioration of the world . They indicate a failure on his part to grasp what the strength of the American strategic position is and how an American government can best employ that strength for the common benefit . In one of his recent articles he says , " It is as plain as daylight that Japanese liberal tendencies can be supported and the aggressive ambitions of Japanese imperialism can be restrained , that China can be saved for the Chinese and Eastern Siberia from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Great Britain and France in framing and sustaining a definite system of guarantees and prohibitions in Eastern Asia . " Later he adds , " Similarly I do not see how any effectual disarmament is possible in Europe or how any dealing with the economic and financial situation can be possible unless America is prepared to bind itself in an alliance of mutual protection and accommodation with at least France , Germany , Britain and Italy , to sustain a similar series of conferences and adjustments . At the back of the French refusal to disarm there is a suppressed demand for a protective alliance . " " This , " declares Mr. Wells , " is an entirely reasonable demand . " It is " an alliance not to entangle but to release . " These statements may look as plain as daylight to Mr. Wells , but to a great many Americans they will look on the contrary just about as luminous as a smoke-screen . In them Mr. Wells confuses two very different types of international cooperation . There is , in the first place , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position to take advantage of other states and nations and which formed , in order to safeguard themselves against the consequences of their past and prospective behavior , a protective alliance . Such cooperation assumed the form of mutual guarantees which on paper always proposed to promote the peace of the world , but which were really intended to protect the contracting parties in the possession of some doubtful privilege or territory or against the possibly just resentment of another nation . This is what Americans mean by an entangling alliance . It is in order to avoid these entanglements that they have kept clear of European politics . The fear that Article X involved them in similar engagements accounts in part for their reluctance to enter the League of Nations . The same reluctance will prevent them from relishing the kind of protective alliances proposed by Mr. Wells . The New Republic sympathizes in this reluctance . If they are to surrender their isolation , it will be to participate in a different kind of international association . The Washington Conference is a sufficiently good example of the different association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participate . The spirit , the purpose and the method of this gathering is opposed to the protective alliances advocated by Mr. Wells . Its members are not as yet asked and should not be asked to guarantee one another against anything . Their only obligations are to confer with one another about any decision which they adopt and to admit to the Conference all interested governments . A decision does not bind any party to the Conference unless it is unanimous . They merely agree to confer and they confer in order to agree . In as far as they do agree they will define their agreements in specific treaties which will subsequently be confirmed by legislation . If they do not agree the significance and consequences of the disagreement depend on its nature . A cleavage Of the Conference into two antagonistic groups of apparently equal strength would be tantamount to complete failure and would render the method possible . But if there were only one dissenting member of the Conference to a decision in which all the remaining conferees agree , the method would not necessarily fail . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could submit to the world a sufficiently reasonable justification for its de " cision , it could morally and politically isolate the offender and so exercise coercion upon him . It could render him for the period of his offence a more or less complete outcast . As we understand it , President Harding 's association of nations is an attempt to set up conferences of this kind as a new and promising agency of international legislation . The old agency of legislation was chiefly war , and the old alliances Were expedients to enable their signatories to avoid the possible disadvantages and reap the possible benefits of international changes which it took a War to accomplish . The protective alliances desired by Mr. Wells are fundamentally a negative safeguard against war rather than a positive organization of peace . They would tend to perpetuate the instrument which they ostensibly pro-Pose to eradicate , precisely because they would tend in part to guarantee the status quo no matter how undesirable it might be . If the nations wish to get rid of armaments and war , it is not enough abstractly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some machinery for accomplishing the international changes which wars have accomplished in the past . Alliances of the kind proposed by Mr. Wells are intended for the benefit of vested Political interests which dread desirable changes and which seek to protect their possessions or Privileges under the pretence of keeping the peace . In so far as the guarantees which they constitute Were necessary , they would probably be undesirable . If Mr. Wells answers that the guarantees of Which he is in favor are not of this kind , we can Only ask him to reconsider the meaning of his own Words . The statements we have quoted , taken in connection with the existing situation in the Far tast , ' are susceptible of only one meaning . The guarantees which he proposes are at best the guarantees of a slightly modified status quo . He is supporting the official position of his own government which seeks a substitute for the AngloJapanese alliance and which proposes in substance a new alliance with the same general purpose which would include the United States . This new alliance would , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and integrity of China and the sacred principle of the open door , but its object and effect would be to set up a guarantee by the United States and Great Britain of some fruits of the actual Japanese inroads on these principles , in return for a guarantee by the United States and Japan of the British possessions in the Far East . Mr. Wells omits from the proposed association the two peoples who are particularly entitled to be consulted about the political future of that region ? the Siberians and the Chinese . The omission is illuminating . The contracting parties would consummate the alliance Int ) re or less at their expense . As to the other suggested alliance for the " mutual protection " of France , Great Britain , Germany and Italy , that , . we must admit , is a proposal which we find hard to understand . If Great Britain , France , Germany and Italy are now ready to enter into an alliance which . would guarantee their existing possessions , relations and frontiers , why should they need the adhesion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but combined with the smaller states they need not fear Russia . There is only one sufficient reason for lugging in the United States . It is the disconcerting fact that the four great European powers are not willing to guarantee one another 's possessions and boundaries . France knows the Germans will not in the long run acquiesce in certain possessions and privileges which she holds under the Treaty of Versailles . She demands the " protective alliance , " of which Mr. Wells so warmly approves , for the purpose of guaranteeing to her the territorial and economic fruits of victory . As in the Far East , the guarantee is necessary chiefly because it is undesirable . If France would evacuate the Rhineland and the Saar Basin , remit part of the indemnity and enter into a mutually advantageous commercial treaty with Germany , she might reasonably ask for American protection ; but in that case she would not need it . She could get it out of an alliance with the Germans themselves . By presenting her with unconditional protection , America would encourage her to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bargain of this kind which Mr. Wells proposes in the name of world appeasement and as " an alliance not to entangle but to release . " The alternative is cooperation by conference without guarantees and without any sanction ex ? cept the possible isolation of the offender . This method , we have already admitted , will not work unless a substantial majority of the conferences can agree upon a desirable adjustment and unless they are ready to insist upon the acceptance of the adjustment as in itself a desirable act without paying for it by prejudicing some better adjustment in the future . In the case of the existing Conference , for instance , it would mean that the American government would not purchase an agreement to limit naval armaments by explicitly recognizing some part of the existing Japanese encroachments in China and Siberia . It would mean that , if Great Britain took the side of Japan and asked the American government to enter into such a bargain , the American government would courteously but firmly decline even though as the result of declining the Conference dissolved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the United States rather than with Japan , and Japan insisted on the bargain , they would permit Japan to withdraw from the Conference rather than purchase temporary unanimity by guaranteeing undesirable possessions and privileges . Inasmuch as such guarantees could not survive without military or naval protection , they would merely confirm the old partnership between power and injustice and the old antagonism between order and justice . But , the objector will answer , if America and Great Britain permit the Japanese to walk out of the Conference , they turn her , angry and unmuzzled , loose upon the helpless peoples of the Far East . They will positively invite the hostility , the armament and the war which they seek to avoid . Before accepting this consequence , consider what the facts of the situation would then be . If the United States and Great Britain isolate Japan and Japanese policy remains aggressively independent , the Japanese military caste may , it is true , take the bit in its teeth and run amuck . France under similar provocation may adopt an equally ugly and dangerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeking appeasement without further war can not create what they are seeking without taking a risk at some point in the process . If they remain cool , firm , united and resourceful , the risk which they run will be slight compared to the risk which will threaten the offender . If Japan walks out of the Conference , she will find herself alone and friendless in an Asia which she has outraged and offended and which she is not strong enough to subdue . France under similar conditions will find herself almost alone in a Europe which her policy is rending to pieces . Neither of them is powerful enough to play a lone hand under such hazardous conditions and both the Japanese and Frenchmen know it . Their only chance of keeping what they have got is to force other nations to guarantee the major part of it by threatening to run amuck . But this threat is really a big bluff . The answer to it is not to yield , but to call the bluff . We do not assert that the time has already come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not come . But . eventually the time is likely to come when the nations which seek general appeasement and recovery will have to ask Japan and France to lay their cards on the table . Once they are obliged to expose their hands , they will discover what the penalty is for a poker player who bets his fortune on a royal flush all but one card . Pending this consummate moment , we devoutly trust the Amer. ican people will not follow the advice of Mr. Wells and guarantee any part of the status quo in Europe and Asia which these nations are striving to preserve .                     