@@493242

overwhelmingly generous response on the part 4e American people , which shall be an unntistakable sign that we will not let the children of Russia die . Up to the present time this response has been pitifully inadequate . We have had before us for months the ghastly aggregate of the toll of death , by months , by weeks , by days . We have had in detail pictures of villages from which the inhabitants have fled to die on the plain , of peasants gathered by the riverside , patiently awaiting our help which does not come , of children , with their bloated , tortured bodies , their shrunken limbs , their suffering faces . We have turned away . Undoubtedly one reason has been the belief that the A. R. A. has on hand all the money it needs , or can obtain it by government appropriation . Other reasons are the belief that the Russian people deserted in war the holy cause of the Allies , that they committed the unpardonable economic sin , that their government is a criminal conspiracy . Grant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia , and still ask the question : Will you let her children die ? In these Christmas days filled with prodigal luxury , we repeat the appeal made again and again through these columns for starving Russia . The New Republic will receive contributions in its own name and transmit them to any agency designated ? the A. R. A. , the American Friends , or the Russian Red Cross . AT the time of this writing friends of China have reason to distrust the work of the Conference with respect to its chief remaining subject of deliberation . China has fared badly in the parleys . The Chinese delegation had the hardihood actually to propose for reconsideration the Twenty-one Demands which the Japanese government imposed by ultimatum on China in May , 1915 , but they were promptly suppressed and nothing more was heard of their proposal . Yet the Twenty-one Demafids constituted a flagrant violation of all four of the o THE NEW Root resolutions and one which the United States has never recognized . Until China is released from the agreement she can not call either her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it looked as if the negotiations over the Shantung Railway were proceeding prosperously . The Japanese professed to be willing to sell their assumed interest in the road . But what they meant by sale , it was finally divulged , consisted in retaining a mortgage on it for twenty years which vested in them for the period of thebond a large measure of actual control . The Japanese method of negotiation resembles that of the French at Paris . They pretend to make concessions for the sake of agreement , then come back with a slightly revised version of the objectionable proposal . APPARENTLY the Japanese do not intend to concede any substantial part of their legal and illegal rights and territories in China . This assertion may be too gloomy . If it is , we shall be only too happy later to withdraw it . But we are afraid it is not only gloomy but true . The Japanese probably figure that with the Four Power Treaty signed they occupy a strong position and do not need to yield any of their spoils . They have entered into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States and have accepted in substance the American proposal for the limitation of naval armaments . Their associates in the Concert do not occupy a favorable position from which to press on them any important concessions on the Asiatic mainland . It is highly desirable from the point of view both of the British and the American governments that when the curtain rings down on the present Conference the spectators be found standing up and vigorously applauding a happy ending . If they do not reach an agreement about China , the ending will not be happy and the critics of the American government will stigmatize the Conference as a substantial failure . An agreement , consequently , is more necessary to the American and the British than it is to the Japanese government . According to the laws which determine the outcome of diplomatic negotiations , the American and the British will have to pay for the final agreement ? pay by overlooking if not recognizing , many existing encroachments on Chinese national rights . THERE is not the slightest evidence that the British government will regret this necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emancipation of China , and many Englishmen in and out of the Foreign Office will take satisfaction in the loss of popularity among the Chinese which will befall America and Americans as soon as it is clear what a poor fight they have put up against // the abuses of foreign intervention in China . This outcome will expose the American government to the charge of having consented to a Far Eastern Concert without taking the precaution to do awaY with certain causes of future war in the Far East . But Secretary Hughes will have a plausible defence . He considered it of primary importance to get rid first of the atmosphere of suspicion and recrimina ' tion among the three largest naval powers which , if undissipated , might enable the agitators to brew a war . There is much to be said for his preference , but its justification lies in the future rather than in the present and depends on the fulfillment of two conditions . One is that he refuse to purchase an understanding with Japan by any bargain which hampers the United States in continuing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that he and his successors deliberately use the Concert as an agency not of interference in China , but of pr ? ? tection for the Chinese against further exploitation . FROM the point of view of the Chinese the mean- ing of the Conference is already written out lad exceedingly large and plain letters . Japan an Great Britain will not yield anything of much value to themselves in China except under pressure . That pressure will be exerted at best only to a minor extent by the United States . The worst calamitY which could befall China would be that of becorw ing the occasion and the victim of a war between the United States and Japan . The necessary Prer sure must come from one source chiefly ? that Is from the Chinese themselves . They will have t , tu ' vindicate their national independence by making ! impossible for the Japanese to enjoy their spoils in peace and security . They will have to make gle11 nuisances of themselves that a world which craves peace and security will finally recognize the justice of their ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tively become a public nuisance is for themselves to decide . They have already invoked the boycott ' They may have to extend its use . They may l'ule to adopt other methods of non-cooperation . nut whatever question there may be about the forrui there remains small doubt about the substance ? ) , their future conduct . The Conference is apParerltrt leaving them no alternative but to cultivate the ails of being disagreeable . It is a costly , a dangerue and a painful road to travel , but it will not be to first time that a people have had to travel a clang ous and a painful road in order to force other Pc0 , pies to acknowledge their national being . r A YEAR ago a declaration by Germany of hey inability to pay the indemnity charges levied uPo her would have been regarded as evidence of b3 by huge majorities . In Ireland itself , however , 4 different story has to be told . The separatist ! entiment has proved to be astonishingly strong .41 the Dail Eireann , de Valera and his followers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s a humiliation , and that to ratify would be Ignominious and oppressive . This passionate feel- g is shared by enough members of the Dail to leave the outcome of the debate in some doubt . e cold facts are all on the side of Collins and iffith ? The evacuation of the British army , as partnership says , is the consummate act of peace and ' artnership But where Collins and Griffith have ; Tied a direct judgment of British intentions , de 4lera and his followers have remained separatists is sith fixed convictions regarding British imperial- ' ln ? The degree to which the Black and Tans revived this historic mistrust and hatred is the tragedy of de Valera 's persistence in that mood . M a dramatic point of view it is a great pity : t Mr. W. J. Burns 's new exploits in bomb plot detectors have been given to the press prematurely . Jest fe think what a sensation would have been pro- f , il-s etc ' on the jury that is to pass on Lindenfeld ' s n th a+. " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? nale of Moscow had been thrown before them without preliminary warning . Not only has that wonderful climax been lost , but a lot of Mr. Burns 's corroborative evidence has gone into hiding . Well may Mr. Burns wring his hands and complain that he has been double crossed . Who did the double crossing ? Perhaps the Reds of Warsaw , whose plausible reason for seeking publicity is unknown to us ; perhaps the Whites , who , might naturally have sought to time the disclosures in such a way as to bear upon the question of amnesty to the I. W. W .. Anyway , Mr. Burns should not despair . " If he is unable to prove anything he can cast the blame on the premature disclosures . And he may still be able to prove something . Advance newspaper publicity did not destroy the value of Harry Orchard 's confession . Recalling that confession of ten thousand words or more we are moved to wonder that Mr. Burns did not instruct Lindenfeld to be more concise . It is a rare man who can produce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true . Europe 's Job Next T HE Conference of the Pacific Powers is confounding the prognostications of the pessimists . The menace of war for the mastery of the Pacific , which six months ago was serious enough to evoke words of grave omen from even so brave an optimist as General Smuts , has visibly diminished . Not that all risks have been eliminated , but a precedent has been set for frank consultation among the powers chiefly interested in the Pacific . Every one of them recognizes now that peace is a more vital interest than any other ; and there is good ground for believing that this recognition will realize itself increasingly in institutions making for the insurance of peace . If a Pacific conference could produce such happy results , why should it not be succeeded by an Atlantic conference , or better still , a conference of Europe and America , to abate the risks of war in the region where they remain gravest ? Why not revive the League , and make it a reality through the adhesion of the United States and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are being asked every day by the partisans of Wilson and Wilson 's League . They are questions that may be summarily dismissed by that minority who believe that wars are as natural and inevitable as the winter frosts . They can not be dismissed so lightly by those who face the fact that in an age of invention which remorselessly increases the destructive possibilities of war , either war must cease or civilization as we know it must come to an end . Those who recognize this can not                     