@@486238

The new tariff adopted in America on September 24 , signifies the victory of American heavy industry and the farmers over the banks and export capital In answer to the wails of European capitalism for American assistance , American capital obstructs the import of European-made commodities , making it difficult for Germany to pay her debts to France , and for the latter and Great Britain to pay theirs to America This measure aggravates not only the international crisis of capitalism , but enhances Russia 's importance as a supplier of raw materials for Europe 's industries E VER since the end of the war , European capitalism has anxiously let its glances travel over the ocean , waiting for Uncle Sam , who helped it to crush Prussian militarism and set democracy and condensed milk in the saddle , to help reconstruct Europe which fared rather badly during the four years of war . The foremost to harbor this hope was Germany . For even if Wilson rid Germany of its Kaiser , there could be no doubt whatsoever that America , proud of the democratic infant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to that opera  --  tion , would take care that it was properly nourished In spite of the fact that Wilson approved of the clauses of the Versailles treaty strangling Germany , in spite of the fact that America declined to interfere in European matters , the American religion lost none of its followers in Germany . When it became obvious that Germany would never be able to pay her debts to the Allies , the latter , in order to avoid acknowledging their defeat and the bankruptcy of the Treaty of Versailles , began to cast side-glances across the ocean . The European Allies owe America 10 billion dollars . . . If one adds the interest which the Allies did not pay , the American bill totals 12.5 billion dollars . Europe is to be saved by Amer  --  ica 's either renouncing or considerably reducing these demands , which she is little inclined to concede . Renunciation of this demand would mean that America would have to spend several billion dollars every year to cover the interest on the loans to the Allies  --  more than its whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debts would furthermore mean renun  --  ciation of its gigantic political lever . But if America declines to forego its demands , the question remains , how the Allies and Europe can pay the interest . The only means would be to in  --  crease exports to the States . It is not only a matter of paying the interest of one billion dollars on the debts ; the balance of the financial relations between Europe and America is , apart from that interest , as follows : 1 . Excess of American exports to Europe over European exports to America $1,600,000,000 2 . Seven per cent on the five billion dollars of European pre-war debts to America 350,000,000 Total in 1921 .............. $1,950,000,000 Europe receives from America : 1 . Interest on European capital invested in America $100,000,000 2 . Remittances of European emigrants to their home countries and remittances of charitable institutions . . 500,000,000 3 . Expenses of American travelers in Europe . 150,000,000 4 . Payments for the services of European banks , freight , etc 50,000,000 Total $800,000,000 Thus Europe would have to pay America , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on government debts and $1,950,000,000 for the excess of American exports and for the interest on private debts ; or about three billion dollars in all . Europe 's counter-demands , however , only amount to 800 million dollars . These figures , taken from an article by John Foster Dulles in the first number of Foreign Affairs , published by very influential American circles and edited by Professor Coolidge , go to prove the tremendous importance of those difficulties which the new tariff sets in the road to an increase of European export . The new tariff is the outcome II of a struggle between the banks , American industry , and the farmers . The banks financing the export of capital to Europe for the purchase of European enter  --  prises and European commodities are the principal spokesmen for the renunciation of the debts , the granting of credits to facilitate the solution of the German reparation problem , etc . If we take into consideration the usurious rates under which American banks have given credits to European countries in recent years , we can easily understand the anxiety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banks , it is those circles that import cheap German goods and sell them at a profit of several hundred per cent , that are also interested in financing Europe and in raising the tariff barriers . A third group work  --  ing in the same direction is that section of American capital that goes to Europe to buy factories and exploit the cheap Euro  --  pean labor market . To facilitate European imports would , how  --  ever , mean increased competition for American industry which is manufacturing for the home market and is therefore adverse to European competition . The decline of prices for agricultural products , due to the lowering of the European purchasing power and the appearance cf Canadian and Argentinian competition on the local market drove the farmers into the arms of the Republican advocates of a higher tariff , with the result that a tariff was passed which has no parallel in the past . This tariff not only provides for an increase of from 10 to 40 per cent on all custom duties , but it also empowers the President to increase or decrease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 50 per cent , or in other words , impede or facilitate , as the case may be , the imports to America from Great Britain , France , and the other countries . The fact that the manner by which the prices of imported goods are to be determined is not definitely formulated makes room for other difficulties . The new tariff will cause an increase of prices , and it is quite possible that it will not survive the next presidential election . For the time being , however , that is , for the next few years , it will result in an aggravation of the inter  --  national situation . " Many boats with cargoes from Lancashire and other industrial centers are returning with full cargoes . Custom duties on these commodities are so high that in many instances they put a ban on imports . Great Britain will not , or only to a very limited degree , be able to export these articles to Amer  --  ica . " ( Daily Chronicle , the organ of Lloyd George ) It adds : " Sir Robert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of English debts . But we can pay only if we have credits in America , to obtain which we must export goods there . At the very moment when America was to help us find ways to pay our debts , it excludes those commodities by which alone we can pay . America can not at once receive our wares and exclude them . " The conservative Observer , one of the principal advocates of Anglo-American friendship , points out that America is re  --  peating the mistake committed by France when the latter demanded payment of Germany and at the same time handi  --  capped German exports But these philosophical considerations will very likely effect the American capitalists just as little as the tears of the German Government bewailing the fact that without an American loan it can not recuperate . All observers of American politics are unanimous in their opinion that public opinion in America , i.e. , the broad masses of the petty bour geoisie , are opposed to America 's mixing in European affairs . This public opinion is all the more influential as its interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American capitalism ; and as long as the 3 or 4 billion dollars , representing the increase in the cost of living resulting from the new tariff , do not rouse the masses and make them overthrow the Republicans , it is ridiculous to expect the repeal of the new tariff . Apart from its international significance the new tariff has special importance for Soviet Russia , increasing as it does the interest of European capital in Russian raw material and thus improving our outlook for loans to advance our economic recon  --  struction . The American Tariff : A Bar to Peace By GUSTAF CASSEL* T HE most remarkable thing in the new American customs legislation seems to be the economic theory on which it is built . In this respect it is stated quite plainly that the object is to level the costs of production between the United States and other countries . If we imagine other countries introducing a customs system based on the same principle , the world would see a system of customs walls which would equalize all costs of production and which would render all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is based on the sup  --  position that the costs of production vary in different countries , and the idea of international trade is just to make use of this difference in order to bring about a rational division of labor among the countries and thereby render the world 's supply of goods more profitable . The protectionism which has been culti  --  vated in the United States implies a fundamental denial of the utility of this theory , and declares in effect that a country  --  and therefore all countries  --  is healthiest if it altogether shuts itself off from the outer world and organizes itself for self-support . The absurdity of this view ought really to be so evident that it might be expected that no legislation would be willing to under  --  take the part of appearing directly as its defender . During the last few years it has been noticeable in several countries that the demand for the collection of debts from other countries has advanced hand in hand with the desire for pro  --  tection against the importation of other nations ' goods . This strange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nowhere been so strongly expressed as in the United States . An inflexibly harsh attitude is adopted toward the wishes of all the suffering European countries for a remission of the United States ' claims , and at the same time a customs tariff is adopted , the direct aim of which is to prevent those same countries from paying the United States . American pro  --  tectionists have traveled round the country and carried on an agitation by exhibiting such and such an article which Europe can make for a fraction of what it costs to produce in America . They have thereby induced public opinion in America to adopt the program that America should not allow such imports . But Europe shall pay ; there can be no question of a remission of her debts . Now what does this mean in plain Swedish ? Why , it means that they want goods for nothing en masse , but that they refuse to accept goods cheap . If anyone comes along and offers goods at a low price he is turned away with the answer that admittance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his prices to the level of the American prices ? What would one think of a private person who managed his business in this way ? But what a private person with any intelligence would not do , it is evident that a state will do , especially a great state , which , intoxicated by a new feeling of power , wishes to revel in the exercise of this power by disregarding not only the interests of other nations but also common sense and logic .                     