@@487226

Drama Convention and Revolt The Famous Mrs. Fair and Other Plays . By James Forbes . George H. Doran Company . Plays For Merry Andrews . By Alfred Kreymborg . The Sun-wise Turn . T O be natural one must be both humble and brave  --  humble enough to accept oneself as one really is , brave enough to expose that true self to the world . People try , on the contrary , to project a flattering image of themselves to others . But since they can not better nature they construct that image according to false and baseless principles . It crumbles and their last estate is more pathetic than their first . These processes of individual behavior are often imitated in literature . Hence the recurrent cry of those in every period who care for an inner integrity , is " back to nature . " Mr. James Forbes is the fashionable American playwright of the hour . His earlier plays were great popular successes . " The Famous Mrs. Fair " has conciliated both the critics and his fellow dramatists . Banquets are given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has been persuaded to risk the cold , gray light of print . The whole of this small stir is an unconscious but ignorant tribute to nature . For in " The Famous Mrs. Fair " Mr. Forbes is supposed to have fortified his relations to reality , to have achieved the good breeding that is truth , to have interpreted a bit of American life justly and with penetration . What first strikes the attentive reader of Mr. Forbes 's handsome volume is the poverty of observation . Two of the three plays deal with the little theatrical world in which he has been busy for twenty years . Yet he has not seen that world directly at all . The superficial bits of verisimilitude are pure veneer . He simply used lay-figures out of his immediate environment for the purpose of embodying stiff conventions  --  not the conventions of life that are sometimes observed and sometimes broken , nor those of art , but the quite unreal ones of that curious world of lower middle-class sentimentality that arose among certain authors of early Victorian England and has now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chorus girl always says  --  or anyone else , indeed ? " Gee , it 's good to get home again , " or " she 's shy on knowing the difference between right and wrong , " and a youth is described  --  every good youth  --  as " a splendid specimen of outdoor manhood . " In that world " plot " means a universal suspension of common sense . " I can explain ! But not now . You got ta trust me . " Why must he trust her ? Because Mr. Forbes can not send home his audience at the end of Act Two . These entertainments would be clearly negligible were Mr. Forbes not supposed to have broken boldly with his own past . Yet it is difficult to infer from " The Famous Mrs. Fair " that he has put on a new man or left the world of sentimental convention behind him . He is true to his old methocl , of characterization : " A fine example of American youth . " ? jeffery Fair represents the highest type of American man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method of interpr.atrog his fine examples . " You 're not going to be a rotten snob abc . t a man who fought for you , " Allan Fair remarks to his sister . The inference is that it is improper for a young woman to dom . the eligibility of any ex-member of the A. E. F. The central moral incident of the play is not a bit more rational . We are asked to believe that during the four years ' absence of a wife and mother her family remained virtuous and united , not because it was in the character of that family but because her absence was dictated by patriotic motives . So soon as she goes on a short trip for personal reasons the family morale snaps and she saves husband and daughter but in the nick of time . Mr. Forbes is not illustrating crowd-psychology in the individual . He embodies the theatric delusions of the crowd which any member of it , taken separately and honestly confronted , would at once declare to be violently untrue . Nature is hard to reach even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face , like that of the idol of Sais , is veiled . Where convention is so opaque , revolt is apt to be excessive . New art tends , in the words of a Greenwich Village wag , to be " too utterly but . " There is no doubt that Mr. Alfred Kreymborg has both talent and intelligence . But he has not reached the stage of any clear communication . The lilt of these playlets haunts the ear but teases the mind . There is a vertigo in the oddly rhythmed prose . But the intentions are dark , and where the darkness lifts they seem perilously commonplace . Assuredly there is no inner warmth . The writing is moon-cold . Is it also moon-barren ? Johnson declared the odes of Gray to be intolerably obscure . A distant year may rebuke us . Today Mr. Kreymborg seems to leap beyond nature as far as Mr. Forbes falls below . LUDWIG LEWISOHN                     