@@486203

Opposition in the Soviet Union T HE question of the opposition within the Soviet Union Communist Party was discussed at length at the recent party conference in Moscow . Stalin delivered a report on the relations between the party and the Opposition Bloc ; Kamenev , Zinoviev , and Trotzky attempted to explain and justify the opposition position , at the same time declaring their loyalty to the party as a whole . Following are brief excerpts from the stenographic reports of the discussion as it was printed in Moscow newspapers during the week of November 12 . FROM STALIN 'S REPORT The basic question on which the party differs with the opposition bloc is the question whether the victory of socialism is possible in our country , or , which is the same , what is the character and what are the perspectives of our revolution ? There are three questions involved : 1 . Is the victory of socialism possible in our country in view of the fact that so far ours is the only country with a proletarian dictatorship ? 2 . If this victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a final victory ? 3 . If a victory of this kind can not be considered as final , what conditions are imperative if this victory is to become final ? . . . The fact that the imperialist front gave way in connection with the imperialist war in Russia shows that , as capitalism develops now , the imperialist front can be broken , not only in a country with a highly developed industry but in a country where the proletariat , in its struggle against the imperialist power , has a strong ally such as the Russian peasantry . . . . In 1921 , when we introduced the new economic policy , Lenin repeatedly declared in his speeches and articles that , by introducing the " Nep , " we were not retreating from our program but proceeding under new conditions to lay the " socialist foundation of our economic development , " " in union with the peasantry , " " under the leadership of the working class . " . . . As if in reply to this , Comrade Trotzky , in January , 1922 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in which he says that socialism can not be established in our country in union with the peasantry , since the life of our country will develop along the lines of hostile conflicts between the working class and the peasantry , until the proletariat is victorious in the West . . . We thus have two points of view on the questions of the possibility of building up socialism in our country and the victory of the socialist elements of our economy over the capitalist elements . Leninism offers a positive solution to this question . Trotzkism , however , denies the possibility of socialism winning in our country through the inner forces of our revolution . If the first is the line of our party , the other line represents an approach to the views of the Social Democrats . . . . We are in a position to . . . achieve a victory over our own capitalists , we are in a position to build up socialism . But this does not mean that we are in a position to insure the country of the proletarian dictatorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the restoration following in its wake . . . . We live in capitalist surroundings . The fact that we are building socialism and are thus revolutionizing the workers of the capitalist countries can not but stimulate the hatred and hostility of the whole capitalist world . Therefore , as long as we remain in capitalist surroundings , as long as the proletariat has not been victorious at least in a number of countries , we can not consider our victory as final , whatever our successes . . . . Discussing the differences in matters of practical policy , Stalin continues : The party considers that in its general policy , particularly in its economic policy , it must be guided by the principle that there should not be a division between agriculture and industry . Hence , our socialist method of industrializing the country through the constant improvement of the material conditions of the laboring masses , including the peasantry . . . . The basic advantage of the socialist as opposed to the capitalist method is expressed in the fact that it leads toward the unity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strata of the population , that it expands the internal market . Hence the idea of the junction of the socialist industry with the peasant economy  --  in the first place through the mass cooperation of the peasantry  --  the idea of the directing role of industry in relation to agriculture . Hence our taxation policy , and the policy of lowering the prices of industrial commodities , etc. , taking account of the importance of maintaining economic cooperation between the proletariat and the peasantry . The opposition bloc , on the other hand , starts from the premise ? that industry is in opposition to agriculture and blunders along the road of detaching industry from agriculture . . . . Concerning the attitude of the party toward the opposition , Stalin declares : In accepting the thesis dealing with the opposition bloc , the October plenum of the Central Committee and the Central Control Commission had in mind not repression but the necessity of carrying on an educational campaign against the unrescinded errors of the opposition for which it is prepared to continue the fight within the limits of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaration of October 16 . EXTRACTS FROM KAMENEV 'S SPEECH Two weeks ago the Central Committee accepted with satisfaction the declaration of a number of members of the C. C. , and the party newspaper on the following day stated that the communication of the Central Committee and our own declaration were " historical documents . " . . . This declaration , which summed up a very serious period in our inner party history , was actuated not by any maneuvering but by our understanding of the situation in the party , by our realizing what the rank and file of the party demanded of us . For us it is a political document , an obligation which we have assumed before the central institutions of the party , before the whole party , and before all the proletarian masses . . . . I take the resolution proposed by Comrade Rykov on the economic situation . I read there : " We must in the shortest possible time strive to overtake and then to surpass the level of industrial development in the leading capitalistic countries . " I ask @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correct . But why is it imperative ? Because only by overtaking and surpassing the level of development in the capitalist countries will we be able to prove the actual superiority of the socialist economy over the capitalist economy . . . . That means that you recognize this pace as imperative , just as we do , and thenon-accomplishment of this task is fraught with some dangers and difficulties . Military intervention is not the only obstacle to the building up of a complete socialist society ; another is failure in this task of keeping up with the level of capitalist countries . . . . Once the proletarian dictatorship is accomplished in a country with a majority peasant population . . . we have to face the conclusion that the lower ranks of the state authority will not be in the hands of the factory proletariat but in the hands of the peasants . Disturbance . Interruption from the floor : " Do you propose to take the workers from the factories and send them into the village soviets ? " Permit me to ask you , comrades : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million peasant population and if you carry out a correct line of soviet democracy , then it is inevitable . A proper policy would consist not in denying the fact but in extending the leadership of the proletariat in those lower branches of the soviet authority which inevitably are being taken over by the peasantry . . . . We thought that the party was wrong in its estimation of the concrete class relations in our country in 1925 . It seemed to us that a number of comrades and particularly the press were underestimating the processes which were taking place not within the socialist but within the capitalist sector of our economy . In order to carry out a correct taxation policy it is necessary that the party recognize two things . First , that the growth of private capitalist accumulation both in the cities and in the villages is a fact . Second , that the matter of the redistribution of the national income , that is moving accumulated wealth from the capitalist sector into the sector of state industry , is a question of class struggle . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it possible to confine our existing differences within the limits of our common work and our joint responsibility for the work of the party ? We declare : It is both possible and necessary . You must be aware , comrades , that by adopting the resolution about our " Social Democratic deviation " you are making it more difficult . But we , on our part , are prepared for practical work on the bases of the decisions of the congresses , of the Central Committee , and of the conferences of the party , and to subject all our activities to the supreme principle of the unity of the party and the strengthening of its dictatorship . . . . We consider that to defend our opinions is our duty as Communists , but that to submit to party discipline , to carry the responsibility for the common work of the party , is also a duty which we will fulfil . FROM THE SPEECH BY TROTZKY The resolution accuses the opposition , including myself , of a Social-Democratic deviation . . . . I must state that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absolutely no basis for accusing us of a " Social-Democratic deviation . " We have disagreed first of all on the question , What is the danger that menaces us at present ? Is it the danger of falling behind in our state industries or the danger of growing too fast ? The opposition , including myself , has maintained that the real danger before us is the danger of our state industries falling behind the development of our national economy as a whole . We have pointed out that in view of the existing policy in the matter of the distribution of the national income this disparity may increase . We have disagreed on the pace of industrialization and I was one of those who pointed out that the present pace is insufficient ; this . . . lends particular importance to the process of class differentiation in the village . . . . We have striven for a more elastic taxation policy for the various strata of the villages , the lowering of taxes for the lower layers of the middle peasantry , increasing them for the richer upper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exertion of pressure upon the fists , particularly along the lines , of their union with trade capital . We said that the growth of differentiation in the village , as long as industry is dragging behind , creates the necessity of double guaranties in the political field , i. e. , under no circumstances can we tolerate the widening of the voting rights for the fists , employers , and exploiters even of the small type . There were differences on the question of wages . We thought , and we still think , that at the present stage of the development of our industry , of our economy , at the level already achieved , the worker can not first increase his productivity , and thus make possible an increase of wages , but that the system must be the reverse : an increase in wages , even a modest one , must precede the increase in the productivity . Interruption from the floor : " Where will the money come from ? " Whether this is right or wrong , there is nothing Social-Democratic in it . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elements of stabilization of capitalism in Europe and against the underestimation of its political elements . If we should ask , let us say , in relation to England , in what ways her economic stabilization is expressing itself at present , we should find that she is deteriorating , that her trade balance is unfavorable , that her foreign " trade is diminishing , that her production is falling . Such is the economic " stabilization " of England . But what is it that sustains bourgeois England ? It is not Baldwin , not even Thomas , but Purcell . The Purcell attitude is the foundation of the present " stabilization " in England . This is why we believe that , in the face of the working masses who carried out the general strike , for us to solidarize ourselves with Purcell directly or indirectly would be utterly wrong . Therefore we demanded the breaking up of the Anglo-Russian committee . From these differences , from the position we defended during these differences . . . it is impossible to construe a Social-Democratic deviation . . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility of building and maintaining socialism in one country alone . . . . It is not only a question of intervention . . . . Intervention is war , and war is the continuation of politics through different means , and politics are generalized economics . Accordingly , the question concerns the economic relations of the Soviet Union with the capitalist countries . . . . I shall ask you , comrades , and this is a fundamental point : What is going to happen to Europe while we are building our socialist society ? You say : We will build up socialism in our country independently of what is happening in Europe . All right . How much time do we need for the building up of socialism ? Lenin figured that in twenty years we would not be able to build up socialism , considering the backwardness of our peasant country . . . . Let us accept thirty to fifty years as a minimum . Now , I ask you , what is going to happen in Europe during this time ? I can not give a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well . . . . If you think that in the course of thirty to fifty years the European proletariat will seize the power as a matter of course , then there is no discussion . . . . Do you think that capitalism will find a new dynamic equilibrium , do you think that European capitalism is in a position to insure for itself a new period of growth , a duplication of the process which was in existence before the imperialist war ? If we should consider this possible ( and I believe that capitalism has no such chance ) this would mean that capitalism . . . had not exhausted its historical mission , that if was not an imperialistic deteriorating capitalism but a growing capitalism , advancing economically and culturally . But this would signify that we the Soviet Union had arrived too early . . . . I maintain that there are no theoretical or political reasons to believe that it will be easier for us to build up socialism with the peasantry than for the European proletariat to seize the power . No , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proletariat . But if this is so , then I ask : Why are these two elements put in opposition to each other , why are they not united as " two conditions , " as Lenin does ? Why do we need a theoretical admission of the possibility of building up socialism in one country alone ? . . . I still think that the victory of socialism in our country can be insured only with victorious revolution of the European proletariat . The adoption of the proposed resolution , in our view , will be harmful . But as far as I can judge the attitude of the comrades of the so-called opposition , the adoption of the resolution will not move us from the line expressed in the declaration of October 16 . . . . Each of us , without minimizing the differences  --  there are differences  --  will endeavor to confine these differences within the boundaries of uninterrupted work and the common responsibility for the policies of the party . EXTRACTS FROM STALIN 'S CLOSING SPEECH . . . I must say that none of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference is either objective or complete . You want to know , comrades of the opposition , what are our practical differences , what the party demands of you ? The party can not and does not intend to tolerate a situation in which each time a member finds himself in the minority he comes out into the streets and declares a crisis in the party . . . . The party can not and will not permit a member who fails to obtain a majority within the party to assemble all sorts of dissatisfied elements as a material for a new party . . . . We know that there are great difficulties to be met in building up a social system . We see these difficulties and we are able to overcome them . We would welcome every assistance on the part of the opposition in the work of surmounting these difficulties . But the party can not and will not tolerate attempts to use these difficulties to make our situation worse and to attack the party . . . . The party is aware . . . that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible . only with the uninterrupted material and cultural improvement of the position of the working class . The party is adopting and will adopt all measures to improve the material and cultural position of the working class . But the party can not and will not tolerate it if the opposition comes out ? with demagogic declarations in favor of immediate increase of wages by 30 to 40 per cent , when they know perfectly well that industry is not in a position to advance wages to such a degree at the present moment ; when they know that such demagogic declarations have for their aims not the improvement of the position of the working class but the cultivation of dissatisfaction among the backward elements of the laboring classes . . . . The party can not and will not tolerate it if the opposition continues to break up the bases of the union of the workers and peasants by propaganda for raising industrial prices and increasing the pressure of taxes on the peasantry , attempting to " construe " the relations between the proletariat and peasantry not as relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peasantry by the proletarian state . When writing to advertisers please - mention The Nation                     