@@486301

A FTER mechanized warfare the bitterest thing in modern life is unemployment . Wars come and go . Unemployment goes on in season and out . In the depression of 1921 probably five millions were walking the streets as factories and offices slowed down . In the spring of 1928 , with prosperity in full cry , it was estimated that four millions were out of work . Today there are at least two million jobless , and quite possibly three million . A recent census of New York working-class families showed 17 per cent without jobs at the time of the investigation . Seventeen per cent of thirty million non-farm workers is five million . This is obviously too high for a national average , but 10 per cent out of work today may well lie within the facts . A new phrase has appeared in the jargon of economics , " technological unemployment . " It means two things , one as old as the steam engine , the other hitherto unheard of . Machines , or the technical arts , have continually thrown men out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and blood . Hand weavers , spinners , metal workers , potters have lost their jobs by the millions in the course of the industrial revolution . But after a sufficiently painful period of adjustment , new jobs have appeared in tending and servicing the machines , or in finding markets for their wares . We saw earlier how the motor car had created nearly four million new jobs in America alone . In brief , unemployment due to the machine has gone up in bad years and down in good years , but has not added constantly to the reserve army of the unemployed . " Technological unemployment , " as the phrase is now used , means an ever-growing army ; a total firing rate greater than a total hiring rate ; a displacement of workers by the technical arts faster than they can be reabsorbed in other occupations . Management fosters the technical arts ; management is accordingly the chief creator of technological unemployment . Thus the central fire of productivity and commercial prosperity promises to wreck * This is the sixth of a series of sever ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the issue of January 8 . ? EraToR Tam NATION.and destroy the hope , the happiness , the very lives , of uncounted human beings in an ever-widening arc . I know I speak bitterly . But have you ever hunted a job when your meat depended upon it ; hunted it in the face of the age limits which are closing down on all workers over thirty-five ? Listen to the testimony of Middletown in the fall of a prosperous year . Workers ' wives are speaking : He 's just lucky if this job keeps up . He never knows from day to day whether his job will be there . He 's to be laid off Saturday . We have been buying no fresh milk this year , using only canned milk . With two boys seven and nine . He is forty and in about ten years from now will be on the shelf . A pattern maker is n't much wanted after forty-five . What will we do ? Well , that is just what I do n't know ; we are not saving a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25 per cent of our workers are over forty . Speed and specialization tend to bring us younger men . Of 122 Middletown housewives interviewed , eighty-three reported unemployment in the preceding months . Sixty-eight were forced to make changes in living standards . Forty-seven cut down on clothing , forty-three cut down on food , twenty-seven wives went to work , fourteen allowed insurance payments to lapse , six moved to cheaper houses , five had the telephone removed , four took a child out of high school . And so it goes . Page after page of testimony from Middletown , the average city ; volume after volume of testimony from all America . Dr. Wesley C. Mitchell has compiled certain figures which are sufficiently indicative of the trend  --  and sufficiently alarming . His computations are exhaustive and technical , dealing with the new labor supply since 1920 and the new jobs available , all reduced to net changes . He concludes flatly : " The supply of new jobs has not been equal to the number of new workers plus the old workers displaced . Hence there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1927 which exceeds 650,000 people . " The ratio of unemployment during these eight years , he finds , was 7.7 per cent as a minimum . Who in the face of these figures dares to say that anyone who really wants a job can find it ? The census of 1930 may give us the first real count of the unemployed which the nation has ever had . My guess is that the 7.7 per cent minimum ratio will give way to a substantially higher figure , and for two reasons : first , the period from 1927 to 1930 gives technological unemployment three more years to accumulate its reserves ; second , Dr. Mitchell 's figures are minimum estimates only . And again , management encourages mass production . A basic principle of mass production  --  particularly emphasized by Mr. Ford  --  is a shorter period in which to learn the job . A craft apprentice took years to master his vocation ; a worker on " the belt " can be taught all he needs to know in a few days . Other things being equal , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hire strong , healthy youngsters . Mergers are throwing clerks , salesmen , and even high executives out of work . Such constitute the " overhead " which the merger is chiefly organized to save . Again the older man is the worst sufferer . A Hollywood producer reports that the " talkies " have cost 25,000 movie extras their jobs , while they threaten the employment of 10,000 theater musicians throughout the country . Thousands of tobacco workers are now being displaced by machinery , according to Dr. Harry Laidler . More than fifty millions of retail merchandise will be sold by automatic vending machines in 1929 . Out on the street go the sometime human salesmen , displaced by mechanical robots . These machines increased 328 per cent from 1919 to 1927 . Millions of jobs , however , remain . Are those who are still in the shop working harder ? Are they under more physical and nervous strain than a decade ago ? Is management achieving greater productivity at a greater human cost ? There is no comprehensive answer to these questions . The basic studies have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the demonstrable facts seem to be these : Hours of work are declining . The total number of Americans subjected to factory discipline is declining . The life span of the whole population is growing . The life span of the industrial worker is constantly less than that of the farmer , merchant , or clerk . Plants with high productivity have a relatively low accident rate . Working conditions in factories are improving ? Iighting , ventilation , noise and dust prevention , mechanical safeguards , sanitation . Automatic and semi-automatic machines are displacing machine tenders , and putting skilled inspectors and repair men in their places , for certain processes only . Assembly belts and other conveyors , on the contrary , are tending to set a working pace which outrages the nervous system of many workers . Some industries are testing their workers for adaptability to the job before hiring them . Some are measuring fatigue in an attempt to prevent fatigue toxins from lowering output . Both movements are small , but are growing . Management has created many new so-called unskilled jobs which nevertheless " carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self respect than most unskilled jobs of former days . " At first blush these ten points make out a stronger case for a reduction in industrial strain than for its increase . Let us examine them a little more closely . Up to 1928 no less than five hours of labor have been stricken from the average week in industry as against 1914- . The demand for the five-day week has gathered momentum in the past year or two , and now some 500,000 workers come under its provisions . Increasingly , city shops and offices are closing their doors on summer Saturdays . Vacations are becoming more in order , while their duration is longer . ( But American industry has far to go to match the Russian worker 's minimum two weeks . ) It is fair to conclude that , if strain is increasing , it is in the face of a continually shorter period in which to experience it . The Illinois Department of Health reported in 1929 that the 500,000 male workers in the factories , mines , and railroads of the State suffer a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This does not mean that the situation for industrial workers is growing worse . It simply means that they live more dangerously than the rest of us . From the days of Watt they always have lived so . Since 1920 industrial accidents have increased slightly faster than population . This connotes more strain . But for the mass-production plants , where management is mainly functioning , the story is otherwise . Fourteen thousand plants employing 2,500,000 workers were analyzed . The plants showing increased productivity per worker had a declining accident rate . The coefficient of correlation was .835 ? a high one . When we come to strain induced by the machine itself , we are faced with a serious dilemma . Machines , like farmers , are not all alike . Here is a conveyor belt in an automobile assembly shop , setting the tempo for all the human beings in the building . Give it oil and power  --  it never tires , never stops . Against its remorseless rhythm human flesh and Mood fight an uneven battle . If it is geared sufficiently high , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own , and not for long . New blood must presently be pumped in . From the human standpoint the balance is in the red . But here is a machine which automatically inspects needles . When it comes to a crooked one it throws it out . This work used to be done by human eyes which could examine perhaps 3,000 needles per hour . The inspecting machine examines 17,000 an hour , and has no eyes to be strained . I spoke of the assembly line , speeded above the biological tolerance . Suppose it is geared lower . Suppose only that type of man  --  duly selected by test  --  is given access to it who can find comfort in day dreams and who does not revolt at repetitive work . It is a common type . Suppose that the company finds that more profit is to be made by steady , adjusted workers at lower speeds than by nervous , unadjusted workers , frequently hired and fired , at higher speed . The more advanced management engineer is beginning to find this out . Thus even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it could be . We can lay down no national yardstick and say that strain is increasing or decreasing . It depends on the specific machine , the duration of contact , the nervous equipment of the worker . Mr. Dennison guesses that the total fatiguing effect of factory work has not increased during the era of prosperity , but is not so sure about the factor of monotony . It is as good a guess as any , and made by one who , preeminently among the exponents of the new management , appreciates the human factor . But this , of course , does not quite finish the argument . For prosperity in the deeper sense we should demand a very great reduction in the speed and strain of factory work . We find no such reduction , although the automatic process may some day bring it . We have heard much from the Prosperity Chorus about the housewife , freed from her ancient drudgery , sitting in a nickel-plated heaven of labor-saving devices . This pretty picture needs somewhat more examination . Business-class matrons are deriving some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  or it might be more accurate to say that their maids are . Here and there a washing machine , or a vacuum cleaner , bought on the instalment plan , is lightening the load on a working-class homemaker . But by and large some twenty-six million followers of the housewife 's trade might arise and announce in the words of Mark Twain , " The report of my death has been greatly exaggerated . " Miss Hildegarde Kneeland of the Bureau of Home Economics in the Department of Agriculture has recently studied 2,000 homemakers , picked at random from farms , towns , and cities , and belonging to both the working class and the business class . She finds : The average week 's work is 51 hours . One-third of the 2,000 homemakers work more than 56 hours a week . 950 farm women averaged 62 hours a week . Women in cities from 2,500 to 50,000 averaged 51 hours . Women in cities of over 50,000 averaged 48 hours . Only 10 per cent of women in large cities spent less than 35 hours . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best case ( in New York State ) was a farm woman without children , living in a five-room home , with running water , electric lights , and a washing machine . She spent 31.3 hours a week for the care of two persons . The worst case  --  in New York still  --  was a woman in a nine-room home with a husband , four children ; and no improvements . The family spent 117 hours a week on home work . Our final inquiry is not one which can be shown readily by figures . How shall we set about proving that the whole tempo of modern life is quickening ? I can not prove it , but I think that it is . By virtue of the motor car we certainly travel far more miles per annum than any people has ever done before . By virtue of the telephone we make  --  and break ? far more engagements . By virtue of radios , riveting machines , phonographs , motor horns , airplane engines , outboard motors , we live in an atmosphere of ever-growing din @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be jammed into one subway car is broken regularly . Indeed , the whole phenomenon of record-breaking , from flag-pole sitting to continuous piano playing , grows ever more furious . We city people drink too much , smoke too much , wisecrack too much . We are restless , nervous , unsatisfied , perpetually seeking that which we never find . All this has been mounting year by year with prosperity . But I can find no reliable evidence that nervous diseases are on the increase , or that any substantial group of Americans , anywhere in the republic , is revolting against the speed at which they live . The retreats and monasteries may come , but I have yet to see the laying of the cornerstones.                     