@@493344

Integrating - the Carol Kennicotts MARRIED life for the majority of educated American women is either " aching comedy " or callous tragedy . If the woman is able to continue a lively intellectual interest and at the same time perform adequately the functions of parenthood , she may succeed in elevating marriage to the exalted levels of high comedy ? a set of human relations in which the essential conflicts are resolved , integrated , creatively utilized . Few marriages persist on that level . Tragedy , it is true , is often concealed by farce and melodrama , by compromises downward which dull the ache and suppress the tragic consciousness of defeat . Married life may thus go on with a semblance of success but only in so far as the woman is content to play a tragi-comic role . Carol Kennicott and her battle with Main Street may still be regarded as adequate symbols for this phase of frustrated life . And it will be remembered that she was thoroughly beaten in the end . Nothing in that story of revolt is so pitiful as her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have won in this : I 've never excused my failures by sneering at my aspirations , by pretend ? ing to have gone beyond them . I do not admit that Main Street is as beautiful as it should be ! I do not admit that Gopher Prairie is greater or more generous than Europe ! I do not admit that dish-washing is enough to satisfy all women ! I may not have fought the good fight , but I have kept the faith . Kennicott : Sure . You bet you have . ... Well , good-night . Sort of feels to me like it might snow tomorrow . Have to be thinking about putting up the storm-windows pretty soon . Say , did you notice whether the girl put that screw-driver back ? Aspirations , the good fight , faith ? storm-windows and screw-drivers , and she had asked for the " greatness of life ! " Is marriage then to be considered as one of the irrepressible conflicts ? Must the educated woman choose between mutually exclusive desires : self-expression through continuance of her intellectual interests or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of labor in which some women will elect the functions of wifehood and parenthood while others seek professional careers and intellectual independence inevitable ? Must those who take the latter course also face the dilemma of deciding between complete exclusion of sexual experience and defiance of the conventions which are presumed to protect the integrity and sanctity of marriage ? Childless marriages , although increasing , are not sufficiently numerous to constitute the norm and must consequently be excluded as clues to solution ; no one supposes , even in a highly sophisticated and over-populated world , that marriage without children is either a physiological or sociological answer . Besides , marriages based upon conscious non-reproduction have not been conspicuously successful in achieving the desired integration ; in one sense they are an evasion of the issue . Happily courage has been found with which to seek means of release and adjustment in the mood of scientific inquiry . Smith College has , with the assistance of the Laura Spelman Rockefeller Memorial , inaugurated an institute for the coordination of women 's interests . The collaboration of these two institutions ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women 's interests ? is in itself a step of considerable significance toward coordination . What is needed , according to the formal announcement of this project , is " a new psychology of action ... that shall integrate the woman 's normal family life with a genuine continuous intellectual interest , and thus conserve the attainments and powers reached in the work of the college . " It must be a positive affirmation and resolute inclusion of interests , not , as now , a deprecating , apologetic adjustment of two aims concededly warring with each other . This new psychology of action must also develop a specific technique of release and adjustment for the educated woman within the normal family life ; what might be called an " intellectual economy . " In addition to the specific experiments conducted in the environment of the College , graduates will be expected to cooperate by sharing their experiences with the Institute . Thus experiment and demonstration under scientific control will be paralleled by the corrective experience of numerous participants . The method appears to be in harmony with modern tendencies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does nothing more than induce a few hundred college women to become conscious of their behavior under the compelling adjustments of marriage , it will have justified itself . Specifically , the Institute proposes to experiment with cooperative enterprises which will release women from the drudgeries of home-keeping . It is assumed that a " mastery of the basic arts of family life " is essential and that this can be accomplished more readily if certain functions are transferred to a cooperative technique . Technical bases are for the most part already available , awaiting further application and demonstration . The Institute 's program becomes difficult when viewed as a phase of adult education . A proposal to change adult activity in significant directions must somehow become an adequate stimulus to the social process . The gateways toward release for most married women will be opened when cooperative activities replace time-wasting individual activities , but how is a cooperative enterprise to be set going in a social milieu which contains no sufficient or compelling cooperative stimuli ? Presumably Smith College graduates are expected to supply this stimulus ; if they do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along lines which induce cooperative ways of living . This is precisely the kind of education which most colleges fail to provide . But the paradox persists : the purpose of these cooperative enterprises is to furnish releases for intellectual activities , but intellectual activities , if they are to have meanings above asceticism , need to be shared ; we do not learn cooperative habits on one level in order to negative those habits on another . A cooperative nursery may afford the mother three or five or ten extra hours for something more educative , more creative , more self-expressive , than baby-tending . She may , let us say , use these added hours to do what most college women insist marriage prevents , namely , " keep up her reading . " But if she reads without sharing the experience of reading , she will find herself cut off from participating relationships with the other mothers with whom she cooperates in the nursery. * Roughly stated , how can an educated married woman sustain a continuous intellectual interest in a community which makes no functional use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will suffice to alter the fact that graduates of Smith College , like graduates of all institutions of so-called higher learning , are obliged to spend their married lives in dull American communities where the cultural standards are set by those who possess the most wealth ? not the most intelligence . By Implication at least , something profoundly regenerating must also happen to the culture-complex of these communities if educated women are to find suitable soil and nurture for developing coordinated , integrated , unified personalities . It becomes apparent that any movement looking toward a re-orientation of the family ? the institution which is assumed to be basic for our society ? must necessarily exert pressure in many directions . We have already seen that an attempted adjustment of a small group of college women demands a corresponding adjustment on the part of the college itself and also upon that of the neighborhoods and communities in which experiments are to be made . But the proposed Institute includes in its program the professional married woman who not merely wants to continue her intellectual interests but who in addition wishes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This , as the director of the Institute recognizes , calls for a modification of the professions , and since the professions are meshed in our total economic structure , the conclusion must be that economic readjustments will be sought . From this point onward one 's concern for the relatively small number of college women who combine marriage and a profession begins to wane ; into the picture looms that larger and perhaps more important body of uneducated married women who work , not because they have aspirations for careers or because of an urge to continue intellectual activities , but because they lack bread and shoes and money to pay the rent . If there is need for modification of the selected professions on behalf of a small number of college women , how much greater is the need for industrial modification in the interest of working mothers who merely have jobs ? the mothers who , after all , bear by far the greater bur den in child-bearing as well as in productive labor . Present industrial organization does not aim to give employment to either women or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of their personalities ; it exists to produce profits , and something bordering on a psychological and spiritual revolution must take place among those possessing economic power before this formula is reversed . The Institute for Coordinating Women 's Interests will be obliged to consider sooner or later the innumerable questions which the foregoing critical analysis raises . These questions are proposed , not as obstacles or discouragements , but rather as signals and suggestions . The director of the Institute advises a " modest and tentative " approach accompanied by " thrilling interest and humble minds " ; the critic could ask no more . What is most to be admired at the moment is the courage which lies back of this venture . The Institute is attacking a problem which probably is central to the major portion of civilized unhappiness . It deserves immediate applause and continuing encouragement .                     