@@487245

ri HE Russian Commission of the Near East Relief comprised the following members : Chairman , Albert A. Johnson , director of the New York State Institute of Applied Agriculture ; secretary , Paxton Hibben , Capt. , F.A. , R.C. , secretary of the American Embassy , Petrograd , 19051906 , fellow of the Royal and American Geographical Societies ; treasurer , E. A. Yarrow , Capt. , A.R.C. , director general of the Near East Relief in Transcaucasia ; Frank Connes , official interpreter of the Supreme Court of the State of New York ; John R. Voris , associate general secretary of the Near East Relief . This Commission visited Russia with the following formally stated object : To assemble information as to economic conditions and reputed destitution in Russia , in cooperation with the Russian Government , with a view to placing this information , when gathered , before such American organization or organizations as might be designated to represent the American people in extending relief to Russia ; or if no such organization be designated , to place the findings of the Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . The Commission left Tiflis , in the Socialist Soviet Republic of Georgia , on August 16 , 1921 , returning to the same point on September 12 , 1921 . The Commission traveled through the following points : Tiflis , Baku , Rostov-on-Don , Voronej , Moscow , Roozaivka , Samara , Syzran , Penza , Rtistschevo , Tavoljanka , Povorino , Tsaritsin , Tilhorietskaya , Baku , Tiflis . The entire journey , including side trips notindicated in the above itinerary , amounted to 4,863 miles , and enabled the Commission to make personal observation in the following geographical divisions of the Russian Federation : Soviet Republics of Adjaria , Georgia , Azerbaijan , Daghestan , Gorsk ; and the following provinces of the Russian Socialist Federal Soviet Republic : Stavropol , Kuban , Don , Harkov , Voronej , Ryazin , Moscow , Penza , Simbirsk , Samara , Tsaritsin , Astrakhan , Saratov , Tambov . Upon its return to the United States the Commission presented its unanimous report , which we reproduce in part herewith , signed by all the members , to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hoover , director of the American Relief Administration . In the estimation of this Commission the situation in Russia today is a very serious one . Its consequences may be far reaching and entirely unforeseen . It is not the province of this porn : mission to speculate on what these consequences may be , but the members of this Commission are profoundly convinced that a situation exists in Russia , due primarily to the famine , which impels the serious consideration of the rest of the world . The districts affected by acute famine conditions are for the most part situated in the valley of the Volga River , comprising approximately 600,000 square miles of the principal grain-growing territory of Europe . . . . It is clear that there was , as a rule , no considerable reserve production of grain in Russia , even before the war , against possible famine years . . . The grain export of Russia appears to have been merely the disposal of an industry either for self-protection or ? for maximum profit . If this is true , as seems to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of foodstuffs while in bad years famine conditions were the normal result of a lack of prevision characteristic both ofthe former national government and of the peasants themselves . Under these circumstances it is scarcely astonishing that the revolution in Russia worked no miracle in this respect , and famine followed as certainly adverse climatic conditions under the Soviet Government as under the former Imperial Government . Not the form of government but lack of economic organization was at fault . Even had it been the intention of the new Government to stimulate an increased production of the land , it was obviously powerless to accomplish this because the agricultural equipment available in Russia had never been more than sufficient to cultivate more than about 30 per cent of the arable land , and first during the war and later owing to the economic blockade of Russia it was not only impossible to add to this equipment but impossible also to maintain the equipment already existing in a state of repair . In a word , since 1914 Russia 's agricultural production had been slowly undergoing an inexorable process of enforced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war the average holding of the peasant family ( whether owned or rented is immaterial ) was about 8 acres . By the system then in vogue the peasant holding , say , 8 acres of a landlord was compelled to cultivate a similar amount for his landlord in lieu of rent . When , however , by his industry and frugality a peasant had been able to increase his holdings ? increasing also the amount of land he must cultivate for his landlord thereby  --  a point was automatically reached at which he must make a very considerable new capital investment in - agricultural machinery if he was to continue to increase the land under his cultivation . This additional capital investment the Russian peasant was rarely ever able to make , and in consequence instead of leasing more land and cultivating it himself on a larger scale , with modern farm machinery , he leased or purchased more land and then sublet it , thus becoming not a large tenant farmer but a small landlord . The significance of this fact lay in its automatically keeping cultivation down to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ binding , threshing with flails , etc. ? thus employing a vast number of persons for a relatively inconsiderable grain production , and so keeping two-thirds of the arable land of the country uncultivated . A peasant family rarely held over twenty-five acres and in a very few instances were the peasants equipped , single handed , to cultivate even that much . . . . This fact is cardinal , for taken in conjunction with the war which limited the imports of Russia to war materials and the economic blockade which cut them off altogether , it makes clear the reason why the division of the land among the peasants failed to increase production of food products in Russia . . . . For seven years the imports of agricultural machinery , spare parts for repairs , tractors to take the place of draft animals used for war purposes , and power machinery to replace the loss of man power due not only to the losses by war but to the fact that some of the most densely populated sections of Russia have been ceded to other countries ? Poland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the terms of the various peaces entered into by Russia , have been negligible . In this period the depreciation of any agricultural machinery , even with the best of care ( which in Russia it has not ) is so great as to render it virtually useless , and the loss from the sum total of agricultural machinery existing in 1914 , when open importation ceased , is of necessity , and has actually been , in rapid progression year by year as the material for repairs has not been available . It is the opinion of this Commission that Russia today is in need of at least $500,000,000 worth of agricultural machinery , and that , without a very considerable immediate importation of machinery , cultivation in Russia , never more than 30 per cent of the arable land and in 1920 only about 75 per cent of that , will dwindle with the greatest possible rapidity . The consequences of this upon the food supply of Europe need no definition . These figures require no comment . The results of the excessive heat and lack of moisture are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parched . All vegetation has been burned up . In the few fields where any grain has appeared at all the sparse and stunted plants would not pay cutting , save in the event of a desperate lack of food ; in this instance these plants have been carefully cut , even one by one , and what few grains of wheat , rye , or barley they bore have been painstakingly harvested by hand . . . . THE SPIRIT OF THE PEASANT It is the observation of this Commission that there is no tendency whatever on the part of the peasant farmers of Russia voluntarily to reduce their production to a minimum , for any reason whatever . They are today , and they have been throughout , eager to cultivate the maximum land at their disposition and for the cultivation of which they still have equipment . This Commission is well aware that this finding may upset a preconceived idea of the situation in Russia today which is current abroad . It is , however , true that this Commission has seen the land being plowed and sown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a crop next year , when those who were plowing and sowing the land in question were actually living on bread made of flour of acorns , " soosak , " sunflower seeds , and millet and when they were consciously facing a failure of even this inadequate form of nourishment by January 1 , 1922 . This Commission wishes to record here its conviction that the gradual decrease of the area of cultivation in Russia has been due to the causes herein set forth , namely , to the old system of land tenures which automatically limited the agricultural equipment of the country ; to the inability of the peasant farmer for the past seven years to increase his agricultural equipment ; to the depreciation and destruction of agricultural equipment , loss of draft animals , and lack of man power due to war conditions ; and , finally , to the droughts of 1920 and 1921 ; and that it has not been due in any appreciable measure to a voluntary reduction of production on the part of the farmers themselves , for whose industry and courage in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . REMEDIES There are of course two general methods of dealing with a situation of the nature of that which exists in Russia today : ( 1 ) It may be regarded as an isolated and ephemeral disaster , comparable to an earthquake or an epidemic , to be accorded a helping hand for the brief period of its greatest intensity . ( 2 ) It may be looked upon in its relation to the economic life of the rest of the world , and its consequences weighed not merely as affecting so many million inhabitants of the Volga Valley of Russia , temporarily suffering from famine , but as affecting the whole population of Europe whose bread supply in the past was in a very considerable measure dependent upon this very Volga Valley of Russia , and with whom both the present high cost of living and the international exchange difficulties are by no means unrelated to the cutting off of the grain supply from Russia . . . . In the first case , the extent of the relief to be afforded , if any , depends upon no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnish relief to the suffering people of the famine area of Russia . For this purpose , no further report would be required of this or any other Commission or individual than a report showing that a famine exists and that relief from without is requisite if a very great number of people are not to die . . . . - But aid of this nature , however valuable , has and can have no relation to the broader problem which , thus far , has been generally appreciated in respect of the remainder of Europe but is not yet perhaps so widely considered as applying to Russia , namely , that there can be neither well-established peace nor recovery from the general effects of the war until every nation and every people whose economic life has been dislocated by war conditions has returned to a certain normalcy . It is not in the least a political question , nor does it matter under what form of government the fields of the Volga Valley are plowed and sown and harvested . What is vital , not to Russia alone , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , upon which the economic support of those suffering from the effects of the war in the rest of Europe has already fallen , directly or indirectly , and will fall again , is that the fields of the Volga Valley shall be plowed and sown and harvested , and not permitted to revert to a desert through lack of foresight on the part of the Soviet Government of Russia or any other government . . . . WHAT THE SOVIET GOVERNMENT IS DOING 1 . The children are being fed , clothed , and housed , so far as the available resources of the government permit . In Samara , for example , 50,000 children are being housed , clothed , and fed by the Soviet Government . This Commission found them well cared for , cleanly housed but rather scantily clothed in cotton garments . They were receiving 7 ounces of bread per day , at which 7 ounces of bread and a tin of hot soup were supplied each child once daily . In Tsaritsin 20,000 children were being cared for in institutions , clothed as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grammes of sugar daily , with meat or fish soup twice or thrice per week . At Nevinnomysskaya and other points the largest available buildings in the towns had been turned into orphanages and children 's hospitals , while in Moscow the former School for the Daughters of the Nobility had been made an orphanage . These may be taken as characteristic examples . 2 . A nation-wide propaganda is being conducted for the relief of the famine sufferers . . . . 3 . The Soviet Government is levying and is actually collecting without difficulty in districts where crops have been sufficient to sustain life until next harvest a famine tax in kind which varies from 5 per cent to 15 per cent , according to the crop , the same to be used as seed , as fast as it can be gathered and delivered direct to the points of greatest need . This Commission saw this contribution being brought in many villages by the peasants themselves , without compulsion of any kind , and saw the seed grain so gathered being delivered and stored at Samara , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes . . . . 4 . According to Commissar Kamenev the Soviet Government of Russia has purchased in Sweden and the Baltic states some 162,000 tons of grain to be used for seed purposes throughout Russia , and is endeavoring to purchase a further supply of seed grain in Persia . The plan of the Government , Commissar Kamenev states , is " to take from the hungry to feed the starving , " that is , for the central Government to requisition throughout Russia even the winter food supply of grain where there-is such and distribute the same for fall sowing , as seed , in the famine area , in the hope of being able in the interim to replace the grain thus requisitioned . The desperate character of such a measure does not , of course , require to be pointed out . It may be seriously doubted if in any country in the world today such a measure could be carried out except in Russia , and it may be doubted , indeed , if it can be generally carried out in Russia . As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war purposes , it is possible that it may be carried out again this year , however . 5 . A very extensive program of propaganda to persuade the peasants to remain on their farms and put in next season 's crops is being conducted by the Soviet Government . . . 6 . Where , however , the peasant farmers have been unwilling to await the results of the Government 's efforts , and have left their homes in a panic of fear of a famine winter to crowd into the Volgaside cities , railway centers , and neighboring states , the Soviet Government has organized their transportation to such parts of Russia and Siberia as have enjoyed at least an average crop and are in a position , therefore , to share their food supply with those who have none . It is not pretended , even by the Soviet Government , that any of the above measures are anything more than mere emergency measures calculated to deal with the immediate problem as it arises . The Soviet Government has a well-conceived plan of rehabilitation of the present famine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least its pre-war productiveness and if possible developing it even further . . . . MEASURES OF PERMANENT REHABILITATION It is the judgment of this Commission that however necessary certain emergency relief measures may be in meeting the crisis of the famine in the Volga district of Russia . . . no measures of relief in Russia can accomplish any lasting good or insure Russia against an immediate return of famine conditions which do not have as their basis the purpose to enable the people of Russia to help themselves , by putting them in a position to achieve the economic rehabilitation of their country . . . . To accomplish any lasting good not only for the people of Russia , whether in the famine district or elsewhere , but also for the rest of Europe , the following essentials are immediately requisite in Russia : . . . 1 . Food sufficient to enable the peasant farmers to live on their farms until next harvest is in , and to induce those who have left to return to their farms . 2 . Seed sufficient to sow at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible of course more . 3 . Agricultural implements sufficient to cultivate the land , sow this seed , and harvest the resulting crop in 1922. 4 . Either draft animals to take the place of those which have been taken from the farms during the last seven years for use in the army , or have been eaten up in the last few months by the hungry peasants , or in default thereof , tractors in sufficient numbers to do the work required . 5 . Sufficient transportation to insure the rapid distribution of these things at the points where they are needed by the peasant farmers . . . . THE NEED OF TRACTORS According to statistics furnished by the People 's Commissar for Agriculture there was a reduction in the number of draft horses between 1916 and 1920 of 16 per cent  --  that is , of course , not simply that 16 per cent of the draft horses had been withdrawn from the pursuits of peace , but that 16 per cent of the draft horses of Russia had disappeared , largely due of course to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to what proportion of the remaining 84 per cent of the draft horses of Russia are still on the farms . Relatively few are in the cities , for under the present Government private carriages , racing stables , hunting mounts , and horses for pleasure riding have disappeared . . . . - Two things are clear in respect of the draft animals in the Volga district of Russia : ( 1 ) There were never at any time more than about one-third the number necessary to cultivate all the arable land ; ( 2 ) there are today scarcely one-half this number and by next spring there will not be anything like so many available for the planting and harvesting of the 1922 crop . Under these circumstances there is but one solution of the question : tractors . This is appreciated by everyone with whom this Commission spoke of the matter . There are today in Russia , the property of the Soviet Government and in use for demonstration purposes and to cultivate the national land , a number of tractors  --  mostly old-fashioned , out-of-date machines . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE FUEL SHORTAGE According to Prof. George Lomonossoff , Director General of Russian Railways under the Imperial Government and subsequently under the Kerensky Government and today , under the Soviet Government , occupying the important post of chief of the Russian Commission for the Purchase of Railway Supplies abroad , there are now in Russia 1,750 locomotives idle for lack of fuel . In view of the handicap under which Soviet Russia is laboring on account of the shortage of locomotives this enforced idleness of so large a portion of the locomotives that there are in Russia is , to use the expression of Professor Lomonossoff , " disheartening . " But the reasons for it are not , after all , far to seek . 1 . The mazoot ( oil residue ) shortage is of long standing , and is due to the fact that the oil wells of Baku , in the Socialist Soviet Republic of Azerbaijan , which formerly produced 13 per cent of the oil output of the world , have produced little or nothing since 1917 , owing to disturbed conditions in that country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there is but one solution , namely , new machinery and technical experts for the Baku field . . . . 2 . The coal shortage in Russia is of much more recent origin than the shortage of mazoot . It dates primarily from the operations of the Denikin army in and about the Donetz coal basin in 1919 , seconded by the operations , never actually in , but against , the Donetz coal basin by the Wrangel armies in 1920 . It is difficult to escape the conclusion that the choice of Taganrog in the Donetz coal basin as Denikin 's headquarters , and of the Donetz coal basin itself as the immediate objective of the Wrangel armies , was not altogether fortuitous : The coal and iron mines of this region had been , formerly , French properties . The " basin , " lying north of the Sea of Azov and in the valley of the Donetz River , comprises some 10,000 square miles and produced , before the war , between 25,000,000 and 30,000,000 tons of coal annually . When Denikin 's effort at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which had been the center of his- military operations , a ruin . This Commission has been through the district in question , and can compare it adequately only to the similar mining districts of northern France and Belgium immediately after the armistice . There is this difference , however ; the terms of the peace treaty imposed on the vanquished in the war the duty of putting the mines of France and Belgium in a state of operation once more . Those of the Donetz coal basin are as they were left by the Denikin armies , and the economic blockade of Russia had made it impossible for the Russian Government to put them in working order . . . . LOCOMOTIVES At the height of the war , the Russian military front was some 2,000 miles in extent , and it was necessary to supply an army of unprecedented dispersion virtually entirely by rail . The strain which this placed upon the Russian railway system was so great that in 1916 both Moscow and Petrograd were left for considerable periods without food owing to the congestion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for additional locomotives was seen , and a mission was sent to the United States to order them . The revolution , however , intervened and those locomotives were never delivered to the Soviet Government of Russia . Recently 700 locomotives have been ordered in Germany , to be delivered by the end of February , 1922 , together with a considerable quantity of spare parts , tires , boiler tubing , and other material for the repair of the locomotives now in Russia . One thousand locomotives have also been ordered in Sweden , of which 50 are to be delivered this year and 250 each succeeding year until complete delivery has been made . At present , however , there is an acute shortage of locomotives in Russia which greatly complicates the handling of the famine situation by the Russian Soviet Government . . . . This Commission would fail of its duty , however , did it not record that the limited train service which is attempted under these trying circumstances is surprisingly well conducted . Trains leave on time and generally speaking arrive on time . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Turkestan , and Siberia , and those which connect Petrograd with Rostov-on-Don and Odessa run regularly . Yet the railway roadbeds throughout Russia are sadlyin need of repairs . In the district where Denikin 's army operated scarcely a station or a water tank is left standing , and there is not a single bridge , even including the great railway bridge over the Don at Chir , which has not been damaged or blown up . Yet all of these bridges , left behind by the retreating Denikin armies in this condition , have been very skilfully repaired or replaced by wood construction in default of structural steel . The need for structural steel in Russia today , to make these repairs permanent , is stupendous . According to Professor Lomonossoff , if no impediment is placed in the way of Russia 's purchase of railway supplies abroad , the railway system of RusSia can be put in pre-war condition by January 1 , 1927 . THE SOVIET GOVERNMENT WILL PAY ITS WAY So far as this Commission is concerned a disposition of the fullest and most cordial cooperation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the lowest to the highest . It was given the freest opportunity to observe and no limitations of any kind were put upon its movements and no bounds , either expressed or implied , were put upon any report which this Commission might see fit to make . This Commission found the Soviet officials uniformly earnest , hard-working , to all appearances sincere men , as well equipped for their work as the average officials of any country , and certainly , so far as the members of this Commission could judge , profiting in no way personally by whatever power their positions placed in their hands . The Commission did not discuss politics with the officials with whom it came into contact and is ignorant whether they were or were not Communists . It found them , however , reasonable men eager for the economic regeneration of their country and ready to take whatever steps they consistently could to achieve this end . . . . From the beginning the report of this Commission has envisaged a comprehensive scheme of economic aid of Russia , particularly in the agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never , however , been the thought of this Commission that the program which it has clearly in mind , and which would , in its estimation , return the great wheat-growing region gf Russia to its former position as the granary of Europe , should be a program of charity . On the contrary , Commissar Kamenev has been specifically quoted as saying that " for the regeneration of Russia we expect and are ready to pay our own way . " This has been the attitude of the Soviet authorities with whom this Commission has come into contact throughout . That Soviet Russia is ready to pay in one form or another for the assistance which is required . . . is in the estimation of this Commission a fact which needs no discussion . That much of the damage which must be repaired in Russia has been due to civil war , incited by those who have profited by the peace terms to accomplish their own rehabilitation , while Russia , which for three years at a frightful expense in human life fought beside the victors in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state of war , is unfortunately true . The knowledge of this fact is widespread in Russia , and is perhaps one of the difficulties in the way of a better understanding between Russia and the rest of the world . It is not a difficulty which obsesses the leaders of Russia , however  --  if indeed there be leaders in Russia . They are frankly ready to enter into commercial relations with other countries , and have-demonstrated this willingness by consummating various commercial conventions with Great Britain , Germany , Italy , Greece , etc. , which countries now have large so-called " commercial missions " in Moscow endowed with quasi diplomatic functions . This Commission is ignorant whether the Soviet Government of Russia still possesses a reserve of gold with which it can purchase the supplies , or any part thereof , of which mention has been made in this report hitherto . But one thing is certain , namely , that Russia is a solvent country  --  that is , given the known natural resources of Russia , mineral , agricultural , arboreal , in mineral waters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia to pledge this or that industry for a period of years for a sum sufficient to pay for any supplies which she may wish to obtain abroad . . . . This Commission is aware of two such concessions which were granted during its stay in Russia : one for the hardwoods of the western slopes of the Caucasus Mountains , granted to a German company , and the other for a period of 99 years for the telegraph service of Siberia , to a Swedish company . It is also aware of a possible concession for agricultural development in the state of Yaroslavl , which , according to the terms outlined to this Commission , would be highly advantageous to anyone undertaking the same . It may be added that this Commission traveled from Batum to Constantinople with an American representing an American export firm , who was carrying with him 36 avoirdupois pounds of gold coins which he had received in payment of American goods imported into Soviet Russia . This Commission also met other Americans who claimed to have secured concessions in special fields of the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is beyond question that the Soviet Government is today ready to grant concessions of development under whatever guaranties may be required by prudence and good business . It can scarcely be contended , stherefore , that Russia is either unable or unwilling to give sufficient security for whatever she may require not only to tide her over the present crisis , but to start the country on the upward path again . This Commission is convinced that the guaranties the Soviet Government of Russia is able to give as security of any such concessions are quite as sound as those of many established governments today . RECOMMENDATIONS In view of the expressed willingness and the ability of the Soviet Government of Russia to pay for what it requires , this Commission recommends : 1 . That a commission be empowered without delay by the Congress of the United States , or if this should be deemed inadvisable , by the American Relief Administration , or any similar organization or group of organizations , American or international , of sufficient size to accomplish the work in hand , to obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the farmers of the Volga region and those of Armenia , the delivery to be effected under the joint control of an American or an international commission and the Soviet Government of Russia . It is the thought of this Commission that such an amount of grain should be regarded as a loan from the United States , or from those who supply it , to the people of the Volga region and of Armenia to be repaid in kind on demand at a rate proportionate to the current market value of the grain in question , repayment to cover a fixed period of years and to begin in 1925. 2 . That the United States Government facilitate under the Act of Congress authorizing the formation of associations for export trade the formation of an association of the American manufacturers of agricultural machinery and tractors , for the purpose of supplying to Russia $500,000,000 worth of agricultural machinery and tractors , as a commercial enterprise . 3 . That a similar association be formed of the American manufacturers of locomotives and railway supplies , with which might be associated the manufacturers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in view , the amount of railway supplies , locomotives , and bridge iron and steel required for the rehabilitation of the Russian railway system to be fixed by a joint commission of technical experts . 4 . That the United States enter into a trade agreement with Russia on the general lines of the trade agreements reached between the Soviet Government of Russia and the governments of Great Britain , Sweden , and Italy . CONCLUSIONS It is not the thought of this Commission that the above recommendations are to be regarded solely as a matter of business , though in the estimation of this Commission they are good business . There is a vast humanitarian element in the present situation in Russia . A sober , industrious , fundamentally honest andintelligent people , numerically greater than the population of the United States , has suffered cruelly from the war and the after-effects of the war . In the creation of the circumstances which have brought about their suffering the United States has not been altogether guiltless . It has been a party , with other nations , in maintaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when not impossible for the Russian people to work out their own salvation  --  a great people , struggling blindly , perhaps , but very earnestly toward the light of a new day in human liberty . There has been a wrong here which is not in harmony with the high ideals of the brotherhood of man which are at the foundation of our own institutions . The hour has come to repair this wrong by aiding in guiding toward civilization a vast population in grievious peril of going astray .                     