@@468635

IT- would be a bold writer who would attempt to say the last word on the mooted maternal instinct . But since so many men have had their say on the subject in sermon and in poem , perhaps a woman observer of her own sex may be permitted to add a word . From the beginning of time woman 's maternity has been a matter of no little import to man . Anthropology tells us that the early agricultural tribes made their women the star actresses in orgiastic fertility rites and that their descendants deified an Earth Mother who was the author of all life . With progress came the knowledge that man played a part in the process of conception , and so it happened that woman lost her mystic significance . But the myth of the mother-god survived in one guise or another among the Greeks , the Babylonians , and the Egyptians ; and centuries later something very akin to it springs up in southern Europe in the form of the cult of the Virgin Mary . No longer considered a symbol of fertility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glorified as the ideal mother , full of bounty and mercy for all mankind . Legend had it that she herself had been known to deliver a woman of a sinfully begotten child , to heal a man 's ugly sores with the milk from her own breasts , and to perform many another act of divine mercy . In short , the men of the Middle Ages came to attribute to Mary Queen of Heaven all of the tenderness , the pity , and the selfsacrificing nobility not to be found on earth . But naive as they were in many respects , they were never so naive as toindentify womankind in general with their goddess . It was left to the Anglo-Saxon poets ? in that access of idealism which marked the nineteenth century ? to see the Madonna in every mother . Wordsworth sang of " A perfect woman , nobly planned , to warn , to comfort , and command , and yet a spirit still and bright , with something of an angel light . " Following the same tradition , the American psychologist Thorndike described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from early childhood to death some interest in human babies , and a responsiveness to the looks , gestures , and cries of infancy , being moved to instinctive comforting acts by childish signs of pain , grief , and misery . This series of situations and responses constitutes the maternal instinct in its most typical form . " Another psychologist , William McDougall , believes that " it would be easy to wax enthusiastic in the cause of an instinct that is the source of the only entirely admirable , satisfying , and perfect human relationship , as well as of every kind of purely disinterested conduct . " The poets and the theoretical psychologists have merely voiced the belief still held by most men that there is something inherently noble in mother love , that every " normal woman " wants babies , and that " the right sort of woman " will devote her life to her children and ask no other outlet for her ego . It is these assumptions which I should like to examine , not in the light of what men have loosely believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what science has actually discovered about the maternal emotions , and of what women themselves reveal by their own actions and confessions . II The psychologists and the writers who hold that maternal love is instinctive rest their case on the fact that in the animal world the female 's whole life is adapted to the necessity of feeding , warming , and protecting her young , and that among the higher animals a mother will show the greatest heroism in protecting her brood . It is true that lionesses and tigresses are fierce in defense of their cubs ; but it is also true that they will occasionally abandon them , or eat them under stress of starvation as Robert Briffault admits in his theoretical study The MOtheT8 . But in the case of the primates he believes that the " maternal functions have been transferred into maternal love " despite the fact that there is no evidence to show that the mother monkey 's devotion lasts beyond the nursing period . Passing on to primitive peoples , Briffault points to the existence of maternal love in certain Eskimo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most passionately attached to their children . But he refers to a very limited number of tribal groups ? as his anthropologist critics have pointed out ; and here again , he presents no evidence to show how long the mother 's attachment persists . Anthropologists say that the nursing period may last as long as four or five years , but that when it is over the child often loses intimate contact with his mother and becomes one of a number of children in a household where there may be a number of mothers . Among the Zunis , for instance ? the most nearly primitive untouched tribe left in North America ? we are told that it is difficult to distinguish the mothers of their own offspring ; while in Samoa , according to Margaret Mead , the young children are given over to the care of the older children as soon as they are weaned , since child-rearing is considered a task unworthy of the grownups . On the other hand , the Cheyenne Indians of North America spend much of their time fashioning miniature villages and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been known to leave a district or remain longer than was desirable merely to satisfy the whim of a child . Among all of these tribes mores , not instinct , would appear to be the determining factor in the relationship of parents to children . The same social principle determines the attitude of primitive women toward pregnancy and birth . Among many of the tribes of India a woman 's life is blighted if she has no children , or if she has only girl children ; and among the Indians of Vancouver Island a bride ransoms herself from her husband 's family by having three children . Yet an Iroquois woman is considered d6classec if she has children within five years of one another , and in the South Sea Islands the technic of abortion is highly developed . Infanticide , as we know , is common IP among a great many tribes , and is not always at the behest of the father or of the community . Natchez women of the Mississippi Valley and Tonga women of the South Seas kill their babies in public to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Australia , according to Spencer and Gillen , make it the rule that the first two children shall be killed , since they consider the burden of a large family too great for the mother . Nor is there any record that the women object to this practice . Westermarck tells us , however , that in most tribes the custom calls for the killing of the infant within a given number of days or hours ? before the mother has had a chance to become fond of it . But the fact remains that infanticide and abortions are an accepted social custom among many primitive peoples . The most outstanding characteristic of civilized society , as compared with primitive , would seem to he the stress upon the individual 's and the family 's private life , in contrast to the habits of the tribe as a whole . Together with this change has come a diminution in work for women , with the net result that the affective relationship between mother and offspring has been prolonged for many years beyond the nursing period . This prolongation has led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are usually lumped together as the " maternal instinct . " Of late , however , there has been more than a little dispute among psychologists as to whether there are any " pure instincts , " i.e. , inherited behavior patterns , and whether , if there are , the maternal instinct as it is usually conceived , belongs among them . Thorndike , in declaring that " all women possess from early childhood to death some interest in human babies , " probably had in mind the commonly accepted belief that all little girls love dolls and that during adolescence they experience a heightened interest in babies . As a matter of fact , mothers frequently have to teach their daughters to handle dolls gently ; and there is good reason to believe that every child 's play with dolls is simple imitation ? as parents recognize when a little boy cries for a doll like his sister 's . They see no paternal instinct there I It is noticeable , too , that in a family where there are two or three sisters , the one who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most indifferent to social example when she grows up . Nor is there any proof that girls experience a heightened interest in babies as they approach adolescence ; in fact , there is some proof to the contrary . In the English National Review for February 1900 , Catherine Dodd reports the interesting results of a questionnaire sent to different groups of school children between the ages of eleven and thirteen , inquiring as to their ideals . Of the 289 girls who answered the questionnaire in England ( while the Boer War was going on ) 33 per cent wished to be men , while only one boy out of 302 wished to be a woman ; 30 per cent of the girls wished to be nurses like Florence Nightingale , and the remaining 30 per cent wanted to be women so as to escape the responsibilities of life . Not a word about motherhood . In Sweden , in a group of 42.5 girls , 48 per cent chose men as their ideals and gave as their reason the desire to excel in intellectual and artistic pursuits . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stressed maternal and domestic duties , while the boys stressed civic virtues , showing what a difference social regimentation can make . A somewhat similar questionnaire , submitted to a group of children in one of our Southern high schools ( Ruth Reed , Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology , Volume 18 ) showed that the majority of the girls dreamed of a career which had as its center marriage to a rich man , with children as an accessory in most cases . Some thought that marriage without children would be wrong , or not permanent ; others that life would be stupid with nothing to do , while only a few gave love for children as their reason for wanting them . In a group of 900 girls in Massachusetts ( Stanford University Studies in Education ) not one mentioned marriage as a career . These girls came from poor homes where they had very likely seen their mothers bowed down by childbearing , and they apparently had no wish to follow in their footsteps . In my own circle of acquaintances I have noticed that the young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has almost invariably grown up in a home where baby worship was an actual cult . This is apt to be the case in a well-to-do family , where the pattern of life has been kept simple , and the mother is a woman of no great brilliance or personal ambition , but of an affectionate nature and of sufficient intelligence to know how to elicit children 's best selves through a policy of sound discipline . Under such auspicious conditions the growing girl may become accustomed to the care of younger brothers or sisters , or the babies of relatives , without feeling overburdened with responsibility for them . She will discover the delights of holding and of kissing the soft little unresisting creatures , and as a consequence she will very likely want to have children of her own . But the average American girl ? who has not been accustomed to babies ? is more likely to be moved to annoyance , rather than pity , by the sound of an infant 's crying . Certainly the last thing she wants to do is care for the neighbors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this " interest in human babies " manifests itself when a woman marries and knows that she is in a position to have them . But here again we must discount the force of social example before we can get at the facts in the case . The primitive woman accepted childbearing as part of the married state ordained by the tribe and the gods . But believing , as she did , that life was quickened within her by an earth spirit rather than by her mate , she did not associate conception with the passion act . Later civilization brought some scientific knowledge of the reproductive process , and in its wake came Christianity to teach women that the flesh in itself was evil , and that intercourse was justified only by conception . In the course of the centuries , not only the church , but society as a whole has conspired to force this idea upon our sex . And so it happens that there are still thousands of women who believe that marriage would be " wrong " without children ? and who never stop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When the specific question , " Are you glad that you are going to have a child ? " was put to a group of women in a prenatal clinic , sixty-five out of eighty-seven replied in the negative , their answers ranging from a timid and frightened denial to the indignant rejoinder of one woman who wanted to know whether the questioner thought she was crazy . Of the twenty-two who expressed no aversion to having children , very few gave love for them as their motive . The prevailing attitude , according to the investigator , was one of resignation and passive acceptance of an inevitable concomitant of marriage . ( Ruth Reed , Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology , Vol. 18 . ) The woman who cares about the opinion of society is not so ready to admit the fact that she does not want a child . Indeed , doctors insist that most women of the well-to-do classes ? except the " vain , pleasure-loving " ones ? are willing to have at least one child . If they arc , it is not surprising , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and since there may be various motives back of their desire to conceive , which have nothing to do with a love for children . First let us take the imaginative woman who is deeply in love with her husband . She will want a child as a completion or a " symbol " of the passion act ? a poetic aspiration . The possessive instinct will also make her want a small edition of her beloved , which she can be sure of possessing wholly and for all time . On the other hand , the woman whose husband shows dangerous signs of philandering will seize upon a child as the obvious means of holding him . By the same token , the woman who is not greatly in love with her husband may crave a child as a substitute emotional outlet . An even more powerful urge is created , doctors tell us , in women who are unable to conceive or who have had miscarriages . Caught in such a dilemma , they feel that nature has cheated them , and so ? like orphans who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of coursethey work up a feverish desire to conceive . Finally , there is the appeal to the imagination . The mystery of the experience ? the amazing idea of bringing to life another human being ? the possibility of exploring a new realm of human relationship ? these are the forces which impel many women to conceive , no matter how full their lives may already be . Yet on the other side of the shield one Ends women of imagination , although fewer in number it is true , who have deliberately chosen not to have children . In this group are the artists , writers , and professional women who find their work so absorbing , and their husbands so adequate emotionally , that they feel no need for children . In a somewhat different category is the woman who has no profession , but who prefers marriage to motherhood ? paradoxically speaking . Such a young woman , writing anonymously in the January 1928 issue of Plain Talk , said that she had decided not to have children because she did not want her happy companionship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any way . She had observed that the couples of her acquaintance who had most successfully preserved a romantic feeling for each other were the childless ones . She doubted , too , that a child would be worth the candle : he would inevitably have to suffer the same disappointments in life that she had suffered , and he ? could hardly be counted on to love her in her old age . Whether or not this young woman 's point of view is typical of the " hard-boiled " moderns , it is at least significant in its honesty , revealing as it does how perfectly natural it is for a woman to consider herself and her own happiness ? and little else when she faces the ordeal of having a child . IV " But what of the vast army of unmarried women ? " a masculine readerrises to inquire . " Are n't they living thwarted , unhappy lives for want of children ? " The Freudians for their part have presented plenty of evidence ? in the form of day-dreams as well as night-dreamsto prove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her state of single lonesomeness and that , to put it bluntly , she needs a mate . They will tell you that she also needs a child , and that the one biological desire is implicit in the other . But if it were , a neurologist points out , there would be more women who have dream-children . Other mind specialists observe that it is when women have arrived at their thirties and forties and lost all hope of marrying that they begin to brood over the absence of children in their lives . Whether they brood because they hate to be different from other women , or because they genuinely like children , is still another question . It is true that an increasing number of single women are adopting children ? lonely women and women who take an imaginative delight in young people 's society . But one knows bachelors who are just as hungry for the companionship of children , so hungry that they are apt to adopt them ? literally as did Barrie , or spiritually as did Lewis Carroll . Also to be taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so starved for human affection , or so rashly experimental , that she will dare to bear a child without benefit of wedlock . But the independent modern woman , whose life is not barren of other interests , would not think of paying the price of social ostracism ? or of making the child pay the price , much as she would like the opportunity to watch a child of her own grow and develop . Nor would she think of marrying a man who does not appeal to her as a lover and a companion , no matter how excellent a pater familial he might make . Even the woman to whom children make a strong aesthetic and emotional appeal may continue quite contentedly in her single way , provided that she is happy in her work and associations . In this connection there are some interesting conclusions to be gleaned from Dr. Katherine Bement Davis 's article in the March 1928 Hurper 's in which she presented the results of a questionnaire sent to 1077 college women . Out of this number only 532 regretted not having married @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lack of children as their principal reason for regret . Others , however , regretted home and children , or husband and children , but even this group represented less than a quarter of the total number of women questioned . It must be remembered , too , that most of these women had had at least one chance to marry . Looking at married as well as unmarried women , I should say that the happiest are those who have good health and who feel successful and effective in whatever role they are playing . There is obviously no comparison between the vitality and personality of the single woman of forty-five ? let us say ? who is doing a constructive piece of work in one of the professions , and the woman of the same age who has suddenly come up against the realization that neither her husband nor her children need her any longer . The woman of affairs will hardly envy the latter . She may , however , regret not having had children as well as a career ? just as every one of us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into one . But there is nothing in such a woman 's personality to suggest that a vital instinct has been thwarted . If we consider all of the motives that impel women to marry or not to marry , to have children or not have children , we can but conclude that all women do not " possess from childhood to death some interest in human babies . " If this interest is there , this desire for children , it is so often obscured by other motives , or so easily deflected , that it can hardly be called instinctive . Even the yearning for a symbol of love 's passion or for theexperience of motherhood is a product of civilized thought ? a far cry from any primary impulse . V A good case might still he made out for the traditional maternal instinct if it could be proved that women who bear children forthwith lose all thought of self and become totally absorbed in the process of nurturing and rearing them . It may be rather a shock to the layman to be told that the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the child is fundamentally a physical reaction . And yet that is not a particularly new theory . Back in the nineteenth century the English psychologist Bain startled the Victorians by declaring that " the mother 's tender emotion derives chiefly from an intense pleasure in the embrace of the young ? a pleasure which may be as purely physical as that resulting from the embrace between the sexes . " " For the sake of this pleasure , " he reasoned , " the human mother discovers the necessity of nourishing the subject of it , and of making the requisite sacrifices . " To-day the experimental psychologists have reached similar conclusions . John B. Watson , while carrying on his experiments with newborn infants at the Johns Hopkins Hospital , observed that the maternal emotion was frequently aroused in mothers who had at first been cold to their infants by the stimulation of the nerves of sexual feeling in the mammary glands . His observations are corroborated by reports from other public maternity hospitals , where the rule holds that an unmarried mother is not to be left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her breast . Yet there are many twentieth-century women who take no pleasure in nursing . Even the earthy type of mother who has abundant milk may not react to the experience as the psychologists expect her to . I think , for instance , of a woman who has five children and has been the traditionally devoted mother in every other respect , but who found nursing most distasteful indeed . Another , who is a more cerebral type , but at the same time an unusually healthy and well-poised individual , says that she felt dragged out and depressed the whole time that she was nursing . Contrasted with them are other women of breeding and intellect who admittedly derive sensuous delight from the process , so that one is at a loss to generalize . A number of cases point to the conclusion , however , that it is the highly-sexed woman who takes the greatest pleasure in nursing ? and this would be consistent with Watson 's theory . Not only the nursing , but the holding and caressing of the child will arouse the mother 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book on The Instincts is considered the standard work of its kind . Watson adds that the moth er 's coddling is at bottom a sex-seeking response ; otherwise she would not kiss the child on the lips . Certainly any I honest woman who has ever held a baby in her arms will admit that the emotion aroused by the child 's embrace has a sexual element in it . For the parent the pleasure of the embrace is heightened by the assurance that the baby will reciprocate ; whereas the response of another grownup is never certain . Bernard believes that it is also instinctive for a mother to jump forward when her baby cries . At the same time he scoffs at the idea that a mother knows instinctively how to care for her child , and in proof he points to the high rates of infant mortality in those districts and countries where mothers have not had the benefit of scientific instruction in the care of infants . Watson , arguing in the same vein , declares that there is no more awkward sight than that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet most mothers are eager to learn how to take care of their babies , and it is undoubtedly true that many a mother has saved her child 's life by unparalleled devotion to its needs . The average mother is not only intent upon preserving her child because it affords her sensuous delight ? as Bain argues ? but because she has come to identify it with herself and to take overweening pride in it . Here the possessive instinct comes into full play , as it always does when a stronger creature is responsible for a weaker creature . Out of this compound of physical response , social responsibility , and possessive instinct is born the thing we call mother love . As long as it remains truly instinctive ? with a desire to have and to hold forever ? it is au fond self-centered . But in the degree that it is blended with a generous nature and a true philosophy of life , it becomes capable of selflessness and nobility . In any event , mother love is bound to be an absorbing experience ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only one type of woman whom it altogether absorbs , and that is the intensely emotional type , the woman who is so carried away by the thrill of possessing another creature that she loses all sense of balance and becomes completely submerged . This is especially likely to happen when a woman has her first child ? if she has no rational detachment or saving sense of humor . On the other hand , there is evidence to show that the great run of women experience a sharp conflict between their individual desires and their sense of duty to their children . Spencer astutely called this inevitable clash " the antagonism between individuation and genesis " ; and to-day the psycho-analysts declare that it is an important factor even before birth . In this connection Fliigel asserts that a surprisingly large number of dreams occurring during pregnancy have as their motive the death of the child . Substantiating the latter theory , an American psychiatrist told me the story of a pregnant woman , a perfectly sane individual , who dreamed that her baby was lying dead in a coffin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wish-fulfillment , because she desired the baby . But during the day previous to the dream she had felt very miserable and had been obliged to give up three interesting engagements . As a result her subconscious registered a strong objection to the cause of her misery . Numbers of women , too , loathe the physical degradation of pregnancy and birth , as the anti-feminist " Jane Smith " so candidly admitted in these pages some time ago . Other women have been known to turn from their babies at birth with profound disgust and disappointment . Watson observed in the maternity hospital that the women who were not bound by a sense of social convention were the ones who took no pains to hide their real feelings toward their babies . When it comes to nursing , women no longer feel any social compulsion . In fact , the great run of women of the leisure class ? doctors say ? rarely nurse their children for more than six weeks at the most ; some of them flatly refuse , while others offer one pretext or another . Apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figures of more importance than any possible benefit which their babies might derive from breast nursing . In other respects , too , their social tradition demands very little of them as mothers , with the result that they turn their children over to servants and governesses , see them at stated intervals , and keep their social engagements as usual . Outstanding exceptions to the rule are extremely conscientious women , and those who delight in the society of children . The latter understand young folk so well that they can manage them with the minimum of friction ; and they find in their companionship a refreshment that they can not get elsewhere . So they are quite willing to spend a great deal of time with their own children and to devote themselves to the study of modern methods of education . Yet even the most enthusiastic of these mothers tell me that they find it a strain to be with their children constantly . The average young mother ? who has not this imaginative rapport with her children but is , nevertheless , obliged to spend most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recurrent inner conflict when she thinks of the pleasures she has sacrificed and the fatigue that is her daily Jot . She may not complain , but her rebellion will manifest itself in ragged nerves and uneven discipline , and she will be weighed down by a general sense of martyrdom . The active type of woman who formerly had a congenial occupation feels this conflict the most keenly of all . Freudian analysts talk of women who " gladly give up their work for the sake of husband and children " ; yet I have never known one woman of proved ability ? as contrasted with the woman of no professional future ? who did not keenly regret her work . As a striking example , I think of a girl who made a promising beginning as a singer and then married and had a child unintentionally ; economic difficulties and ill-health resulting from childbirth have prevented her from regaining a foothold in her profession , and to-day one reads bitter disappointment in her face , conscientious mother that she is . Another girl who is devoting much time and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says that she was happiest , the most " on her toes " the year that she lived in a town where she could put her children in a good nursery school and herself hold a part-time job . A commercial artist , who married with the intention of combining motherhood and career , has found that bearing three children has taken ten good years of her life and that her art has had to play second fiddle ; now she is marking time until she will be free to give more of her energy to her work . A woman doctor who forsook surgery and went into a less exacting branch of medicine out of duty to her husband and child says that the whiff of ether in an r operating room is still like the breath of life to her . And so on down the line . .. . Devoted as these women are to their children , and conscientious mothers as they arc ( far more so than the women of the leisure class , doctors say ) , they are no less eager to live their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so for their children 's sake as well as their own . For the behaviorists and psycho-analysts have sufficiently warned them what tragedies will accrue if they vent all of their emotions and energy on their children . More modest , too , than the oldfashioned mother , they realize that their own discipline is often uneven , and that they are no better for their children as a steady diet than their children are for them . So they welcome the nursery school as a partial solution of their problem . But it is not only the professional woman who is straining at the leash of motherhood ? as birth statistics plainly show . Dr. Louis Dublin tells us that in 1880 there were in the United States forty births to every thousand of the population ? as against only twenty-one in 1926 . It is a well-known fact that the rate is the lowest in those levels of society which have access to birth control information . Child specialists say offhand that the families which they attend rarely average over two children , and that no matter how well-to-do a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as their reason for having small families . In this connection statistics from the leading women 's colleges are of interest . Reports from Smith , Wellesley , and Barnard indicate that their married graduates who have been out of college fifteen years or more , have an average of considerably less than two children ; while figures from Radcliffe and Vassar , unanalyzed as to classes , likewise show an average of less than two children to a marriage . Graduates of Bryn Mawr , however , who have been married at least twenty years boast of 2.8 children per marriage . Conscientious mothers often have a second or third child out of duty to the first , while others are anxious for a boy or a girl . A small number of women take such sensuous and imaginative delight in babies that they are sincerely overjoyed when they conceive . But if one is to judge anything from young wives ' ? as well as old wives ' tales ? the third child is generally an accident , and very often the second . This applies even to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do all of her own work . It is true that the woman of today , no less than the woman of yesterday , responds with a great rush of feeling to the sweetness and the mystery of personality in her own children ; and they may well become the most important human beings in her orbit for they are her responsibility . But the extent to which they can fill her life appears to be a question not of instinct , but of emotional temperament and conflicting mental interests . VI The final argument advanced to prove the existence of the maternal instinct is that many women are protective not only toward children , but toward adults , animals , and helpless creatures in general . McDougall , it will be remembered , declares that the maternal instinct is the sole source of purely disinterested conduct ; and Briffault holds that altruism , pity , tenderness , mercy ? all the social sentiments in fact ? stem from it . We know that some women have such sympathetic temperaments that they can not stand the sight or even the thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our great social workers ? have such abounding faith in human nature that they take joy in giving it an upward lift . Yet there are men who have the same sympathy , the same faith in mankind , although they are not so often in a position to devote their lives to serving the young and the luckless , since they must concern themselves with the struggle for not only their own , but their family 's survival . Of a similarly sympathetic nature is the woman who delights in ministering to the comfort and happiness of her friends and family ? Wordsworth 's " spirit still and bright " ? if you will . In addition to a native fund of sympathy , this type of woman generally has a definite maternal technic which she has acquired at some time in the past , through taking care of her own children if she has had any , or through looking after young brothers and sisters or a sick parent perhaps . This technic often manifests itself not only in swift thoughtfulness for other people 's physical welfare , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a person is likely to feel older and wiser than the rest of the world . Other women may be no less generous in friendship , although they are seldom spoken of as " maternal " for the reason that they have never acquired this special technic . Men , too , may be every whit as generous as friends ; yet they are even less apt to anticipate another 's physical or psychical needs , since they have not been trained to think in terms of personalities from their childhood up , as have women . It is also argued that there is a strong maternal element in many women 's love for men . Briffault 's pet theory is that maternal love is the source of all love , and that the mother originally transferred a share of her affection from her child to her mate in order to trap the latter into making the hearth and protecting it . The Freudians ? arguing along the same line , although , as always , from the masculine point of view ? declare that a man invariably looks for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases of women who lavish maternal emotion upon men because they do not dare express any other kind , we must admit that even the normal woman " mothers " the man whom she loves to a certain extent . But men too must feel that women are dependent upon them . For as Havelock Ellis has said , any ideal relationship between the sexes predicates that the woman must be a child one moment and a mother the next , whilethe man must be first a protector and next a beseeching boy , so that each in turn can feel the glow of sheltering the other . Occasionally the maternal element predominates in a woman 's love , as it did in George Sand 's love for Alfred de Musset and later for Chopin . To a woman , the knowledge that a man needs her badly makes him infinitely dear . But this kind of gratification in love is not enough for most women ? just as it was not enough for George Sand . She wanted not only a boy to mother , but a man who could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his strength ; and so she found both de Musset and Chopin far from satisfactory lovers ? which suggests that sexual love is something different from maternal love , Briffault and Freud to the contrary . As for true altruism , I must admit that I have seen no evidence that it is a feminine trait . So far women in their relations with one another and in their conduct in the business world ? as Mrs. Anne W. Armstrong admitted in these pages not long ago ? have shown themselves to be no more idealistic , no less self-seeking than men . Indeed , human sympathy would appear to be a matter of character not sex , while much that men have called maternal in women is merely a need of being needed . Perhaps men have worshipped woman in her niche of motherhood these many years not because they were honestly convinced that the mother principle was divine , but because it served their purpose to make womankind accept this truism . In primitive days men in their ignorance exalted maternity with awe in their hearts . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by superstition , they have come to exhort maternity with fear in their hearts . The very fact ? as another writer has pointed out ? that church and state in the Western world have consistently legislated against the propagation of birth-control information , would suggest that men have been more than a little fearful lest the maternal instinct in itself would not prove strong enough to hold women to the continuous job of procreation . Men have good reason to be fearful , if they have set their patriotic hearts on mass production of human beings . For there certainly is no instinct which can be counted on to drive women on to have children in the sense that the instinct for self-preservation can be counted on to impel human beings to defend themselves . There is evidence , however , that maternal love is born out of sensuous response to babies , and that it develops into a complex emotion which derives its intensity from the possessive instinct . Maternal love as a consequence is often more sustained in its effect than any other human emotion . Furthermore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unit , maternity continues to offer women one of the two greatest adventures in human relationships . So there is no danger that women will stop having children altogether . There is every likelihood , however , that coming generations of women will look upon maternity , not as a lifelong career , but as one event in their lives . For we have seen that the mother 's sense of duty toward her child is determined by social custom , in primitive as well as civilized societies . To-day , with the advent of the new psychology , it has become the thing for mothers to be less centered upon their children . So with the spread of nursery-schools and the increasing number of mothers who are holding part-time or full-time jobs , the pattern of American family life will be gradual-ly modified , and the mother will be called upon to make fewer personal sacrifices . The small family appears to have come to stay . It will do the Theodore Roosevelts no good to preach the glories of prolific motherhood and exhort women to fulfill their duty to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in much the same light as soldiers look upon cabinet ministers who declare war with the comforting knowledge that they themselves will never have to lay down their lives for their country . It might better profit men to make motherhood less of a burden to women ? as the Russian government has attempted to do . Let boards of education establish free nursery-schools where one trained specialist can relieve ten or fifteen mothers . Let business men permit their women employees to take maternity leaves of absence without prejudice to their jobs . Let the state subsidize a sufficient number of maternity clinics . And finally , let the medical profession attack the burning problem of maternal mortality and of physical disabilities which follow childbirth . Such measures as these are the only ones which can possibly affect the birth rate . Women to-day are freer than were their mothers and grandmothers to assert their will and refuse to bear children under inauspicious circumstances . And they are more conscious that God gave them minds as well as bodies . That they should try to make good use of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mothers , but that they are beginning to know themselves . And if they look in the mirror and see little of the Madonna ? let men congratulate them on their sanity and agree that the Madonna belongs only in heaven .                     