@@467773

A WELL-KNOWN American who has been on a visit to this country , with which he is exceptionally familiar , remarked to me the other day that he had been disquieted by the change of feeling which he had found here on the subject of America . He was disquieted because , like most responsible Americans , he regarded fraternal relations between the two peoples as the most necessary condition of the general well-being of the world . He attributed the changed feeling to the undercurrent of dissatisfaction which existed on the subject of the American debt . Wherever he went , he said , he found a deep sense that England was receiving hard measure in regard to the finance of the War which was waged in the common interest and the burden of which should have been a common burden . I do not know whether the impression which my friend received as to the changed tendency is well founded , but it can hardly be questioned on an impartial consideration of the facts that there is abundant ground for the view that the English taxpayer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and creditors who do not release him from his obligations , is being roughly handled . This view is strengthened by the fact that the money which England borrowed during the War was not borrowed for her own needs but for the needs of her Allies . England was the one European nation involved in the struggle which from the beginning to the end paid her way by the capacity and willingness of her people to provide her requirements . In her borrowings she simply made herself the channel for the supply of the necessities of her Allies , and assumed the responsibility for repayment . Whether she was wise in doing so may be doubted . The fact that her credit and her business honor alike should have been regarded as the only reliable financial guarantee in Europe was a flattering recognition of her position , but there were those , like Mr. McKenna , who at the time gravely questioned the wisdom and the justice of making ourselves responsible to one Ally for the borrowings of other Allies . The tendency in England during the War was not merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a certain lavish prodigality , in strange contrast to the severe economy of the French , who conducted the War on the strictest business principles , profited by the presence of two million troops of Allied Powers on their soil for four years and punctually charged those Allies with " damages " incident to their presence . It was perhaps too innocently assumed in making ourselves responsible for the liabilities of others that with victory attained , considerations not of gratitude but of ordinary probity would prevail , and that while fulfilling our obligations to America we should be reimbursed by our Allies in respect of those obligations which we had undertaken on their behalf . In that expectation of course we have been grossly disappointed , and it might reasonably be said that our dissatisfaction should be directed not across the Atlantic but across the Channel . While the English taxpayer is staggering under a burden of taxation unprecedented in European history ? a taxation which rises in the ease of the wealthy to I0/-in the ? 1 , and which even in the case of the middle classes is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inconsiderable degree represents payments to America in respect of debts incurred on behalf of France and Italy , the French taxpayer is still subject only to a trivial impost ; and the French nation , while almost ostentatiously ignoring itsdebts , is spending more than the equivalent of the interest of those debts in arming the smaller states which accept its practical sovereignty , and in building up a system of blockhouses on the Continent , designed to establish a military domination of Europe unprecedented since Napoleon bestrode Europe from the Channel to the Vistula . When to all this is added the fact that the policy which M. Poincare has imposed on the Allies has prevented the recovery of world trade upon which the industrial prosperity of England depends , the discontents which prevail will be seen to have a quite intelligible basis . Had peace been established in Europe and had there been even a remote possibility of the debts due to us being honored , there would have been no feeling in this country such as that which the American visitor to whom I have referred found to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question that the debt we had incurred to America , even though it was on behalf of others , should be honored ; and the funding of that debt by Mr. Baldwin was carried out with entire public approbation as a matter of ordinary business principle . But it is not unnatural that as the pressure of taxation is increasingly felt , as the recovery of Europe is delayed and the depression of trade assumes the character of a permanent condition , the sense tends to develop that this country is being unfairly crushed between the upper and the nether millstones . It would be an unfortunate fact at any time . It is peculiarly unfortunate in the present circumstances of the world . The end of the War left the European system in chaos . That system had been founded on the basis of competitive armaments and the fatal principle of the balance of power . The ruin that was left by the convulsion contained one element of magnificent promise . It provided an opportunity such as there had never been before of reconstructing human society on a more rational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that the two Powers in the world which had survived the catastrophe with least misfortune were equally interested in a pacific solution of the world 's affairs . Those powers were the British Commonwealth and the American Commonwealth . Powerful among equals before the War they were left , assuming they acted in agreement , the supreme arbiters of the world . They had it in their power to canalize the future into a new mold fashioned after their heart 's desire . Between them they ruled , directly or inrfireetly , not much less than half the eartn . They commanded practically the whole of the credit left in the world . Their supremacy in mere terms of force was unchallengeable , for their command of the sea was absolute and their military potentialities as considerable as those of all the nations outside their borders . In wealth of resources ? industrial power and command of that raw material which is the determining factor in the activities of peace as well as war ? their supremacy was as marked as that of the general standard of the life of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense was their community of interest Jacking . They spoke the same language and derived their ideas of justice and social order largely from the same sources . They had in their own relations offered the world the most conspicuous example in history of the rational adjustment of differences . More than a century had passed since the last war between them , and in the interval many grave subjects of quarrel had been amicably arranged by negotiation in a spirit , which , however hostile in the early stages of discussion , bore witness in the result to their wisdom and common sense . Two outstanding incidents of that century of peace represented the most decisive steps that have ever been taken toward the substitution of reason for force in international relationships . The first ? the honor of which belongs primarily to America ? was the RushBagot agreement made at the end of the War of 1812-14 , in pursuance of which the American-Canadian frontier of nearly 4,000 miles has remained for a century without fort or gun , warship or sentry from end to end . The records @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so wise , so courageous , andso triumphant . Uninterrupted peace has been the fruit of that act of faith and mutual good will . Sir Wilfrid Laurier , when Prime Minister of Canada , justly described the achievement as " a spectacle that would astound the world by its novelty and grandeur ? the spectacle of two peoples living in amity side by side for a distance of 4,000 miles along a line which is hardly visible in many quarters , with no cannon , no guns frowning across it , with no fortresses on either side , with no armaments one against another , but living in harmony and mutual confidence , and with no other rivalry than that of generous emulation in the arts of peace . " The other episode , the submission by the British Government of the " Alabama " claims to arbitration , was a no less conspicuous triumph for rational processes in international affairs , It would be a mistake to conclude from these two remarkable and outstanding achievements that the relations of the two countries had been conspicuous for amiability . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrary conclusion . The occasions of sharp and even embittered controversy have been frequent and serious . They have shown a singular contrast between speech and action . They have begun in a cloud of unwise and menacing words , and issued always in reasonable and honorable action . Between the United States and ourselves have been waged some of the most fierce verbal and diplomatic battles in history , but in the end reason has always prevailed , a sensible agreement has been reached , and when reached it has invariably been kept with a loyalty and a freedom from mutual suspicion and distrust rare if not unexampled in the relations of great Powers . The diplomatic history of the European nations is largely a record of dishonored " scraps of paper . " But the diplomatic history of Great Britain and the United States is a record of accommodations , often painfully reached , but when reached never dishonored . In view of all this it is natural to ask why , when the two English-speaking Commonwealths at the end of the War found themselves in possession of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new orientation , the failure to take advantage of it was so complete and disastrous . I shall not attempt to analyze the causes of that failure or to allocate the responsibility . It was shared in differing degrees by both sides , and shared for reasons some of which may be intelligible , but most of which were not worthy of our great kindred civilizations or of the priceless opportunity they might have turned to the general advantage of mankind . Internal considerations , some of them of a not wholly reputable kind , were allowed to deflect policy from the high plane of world reconstruction to the low plane of petty political expediency . As the historian will see it , the true course of the two Commonwealths was plain . It was impossible to look for moderate ideas of peace to the Continental Powers which were saturated with the virus of centuries of strife . Left to themselves any peace , so called , that was accomplished would be a peace of vengeance ? a peace imposed by the victor over the vanquished in the ancient terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a prelude to the unfolding of a new chapter of history that would repeat the tragic tale of the past . But together the English-speaking powers were in a position to impose a settlement which would have changed the current of history . They were alike in their detachment from the cockpit of Europe and in their preoccupation with extra-European interests . Neither was infected with the militarist traditions of the Continental Powers , and both were profoundly concerned to secure a pacific foundation for world society , not merely or even primarily on moral grounds but on grounds of practical self interest . There can be no question in the mind of the future historian that had the two nations worked loyally together in the most critical period of the world 's history , they could have settled the problem of a distracted Europe and given the world a just and enduring peace . The golden moment has gone by and it will not return , but the task still remains to be accomplished , and the first condition of its accomplishment is still the cordial co-operation of the English-speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exceptional advantages with which time and circumstance have favored them . In the light of to-day it is easy to understand the measure of the calamity which a foolish king in the eighteenth century inflicted on the future development of the world . Had that fatal breach in the solidarity of the English-speaking world not been made , and had not the most virile and most richly endowed element of the English race been driven into a separate and hostile political system , the unity of the English-speaking world would to-day have been intact , its real if not nominal center would have shifted across the Atlantic , and the most enlightened and pacific community in the world would have the unchallenged control of world tendencies . The War brought within the ambit of possibility not , it is true , the reunion of the severed peoples on the old basis , but their practical co-operation in the establishment of a new world order . The achievement of that co-operation , in spite of the disappointment of the past five years . is still the capital theme in world affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think , temperamental more than practical . Such political difficulties as there are have in fact been very largely modified within the last two years . When I was in America in 1919 I was impressed , as I think any visitor to America would have been , with three political sources of irritation in the relations of the two peoples . They were the question of Ireland , the British alliance with Japan , and the problem of sea power . Since then all these irritations have been removed or at least substantially modified . Home Rule has been conceded to Ireland , the Alliance with Japan has lapsed , the Washington Conference has gone far and , but for French opposition , would have gone still farther in the direction of disposing of the last source of an tagonism . In all these matters it may be fairly claimed on behalf of Great Britain that she has acted wisely and in consonance with American feeling . It can not perhaps be claimed that the result has been all that was hoped . For example , although Ireland has received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parnell ever claimed or regarded as possible ? a measure which leaves the Free State intact and as untrammeled by external interference as any of the Overseas Dominions ? the attitude of the Irish element in America is as hostile and embittered as if Thibtin Castle still threw its shadow over Ireland . I suppose the present generation of Irish-Americans has become so infected with Anglophobia and has lived so long on that acrid diet that any change of mind in that quarter is not Lo be looked for . A new generation must arise before the poison of an ancient wrong is worked out of the system . But I do not think that any reasonable American to-day can fail to recognize that however late in time and however vulnerable in circumstance , England has in fact done justice to Ireland and has closed satisfactorily and honorably that long outstanding account . I think that it is legitimate to expect that American opinion will , in the long run , disown the perpetuation in its midst of an extra - territorial quarrel which has been settled in its placeof origin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of America and equally certainly not in the interest of Ireland itself . I remember in a conversation I had with the late President Wilson at Paris in 1919 that on my mentioning with some fervor the question of Ireland , he expressed himself very decisively on the subject of the Trish-American . " The Irish-American , " he said , " has to make the decision ultimately which the German-American had to make during the War . He will have to decide whether he is an Irishman or an American . Our country has offered to them , as it has offered to others , the full measure of its citizenship and its franchises . The claim it can make and must make upon them in return is that they shall not make our country the battlefield of a controversy between two islands three thousand miles away . " If that was a reasonable position for an American to take up in 1919 , it is an overwhelmingly more intelligible view to hold to-day when the conflict to which President Wilson referred has been settled , and when the continuance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in present conditions and no practical goal except the embitterment of the relations between two peoples who have no solid ground for disagreement , but have great and compelling reasons for seeking a basis of understanding and good will , not in their mutual interests only , but in the general interests of society . Tf therefore it . were specific political discords which alone obstructed the path to a secure Anglo-American accommodation , there would be little reason for concern . Not only have such discords as there are been largely resolved by recent events , but the history of the past century , as I have indicated , has shown that the fundamental good sense which governs action if not speech between the two countries is an unfailing safeguard in all cases of serious collision . The century of peace which has reigned between the two nations and the unfortified American-Canadian frontier are better witnesses to the practical capacity of Britain and the United States to live on civilized terms than any document ever drawn up by diplomatic art . Nor is there any conceivable ground of difference between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for active hostility , a easus belly could be made : We neither of us want a scrap of the other 's territory , and whatever justice there may have been in American criticism of British Imperialism in the past , that criticism has lost its sting of late years . Self-government in the most unequivocal terms is now the privilege of all the Overseas Dominions of the British Commonwealth . For all practical purposes they are independent nations , sentimentally bound together by custom , community of law , language and literature , and by a common racial origin ; but free to go or stay as they please . It may be said that this profound change in the character of the Imperial relationship is the result of the inexorable operation of conditions that we had ceased to control . I do not think that is a generous estimate of the matter in view of the momentous grant of full self-government to the Boer Republics within four years of the conclusion of a war in which Great Britain had been completely victorious . Nor is it tenable in view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a country into the joint control of which we were inveigled by France in pursuit of her own policy nearly fifty years ago , and where we were left alone in a guardianship we did not desire when a change in the French internal political situation led to the withdrawal of that country from its share of responsibility . Even in the case of India it is only a very prejudiced or a very ignorant criticism which does not recognize the enormous strides which have been made in the past fifteen years toward the emancipation of that country . Both in Egypt and India , whatever may be said of the origins or the propriety of our presence there , theimpartial historian will never question the magnitude of our service in giving order , security of life , and financial stability to peoples who , left to their own resources , would have been the victims of incredible civil dissensions and tyranny . We can say with indisputable truth that we have left Egypt immeasurably more prosperous , more orderly , and better governed than we found her , and if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance the same claim . The case against British Imperialism which occupies so large a place in the attacks of some American critics of this country had some justification in the facts of the past , but it has less validity to-day than it ever had , and I venture to say that no imperial system in history ever had so substantial a balance on the credit side as can be claimed for an Empire which is now much less an empire than a loose confederation of independent nations . I come back then to the fact that the grit in Anglo-American relations is due neither to dissimilarity of national aims nor to concrete grounds of antagonism but to historic prejudices , ancient grudges and misunderstandings , and matters of feeling and amour propre . Perhaps if we had not sprung so largely from the same stock and if we did not speak the same language , we should be free from those petty irritations which play so large a part in the exacerbation of our mutual feelings . I dare say we bear more than our share of the blame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the example we chiefly export ? who is more than a little insufferable . It is often said , I think with some truth , that the American mind respects English opinion but is resentful of the English manner ? the manner not of the people but of our feudal remnant now incarnated in our public-school system . That discrimination between your mind and our manner is part of the price we pay for the community of speech and civilization . If Americans and English were alien to each other this source of irritation would not exist . The romantic attachment of Americans to France is the fruit of an eternal dissimilarity which conceals from America a national pride and superiority beside which our attitude is that of a " whispering humbleness . " Americans and Frenchmen never meet spiritually , and so the romantic attachment ? in spite of Napoleon I 's dream of a Gallic Empire in the southern states and Napoleon III 's monstrous intrigues during the Civil War ? preserves the freshness of a first and immortal love . The Americans adore France as Don Quixote adored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mind unbesmirched by the contacts of earth . The difference of language , so far from interfering with the affection , serves to envelop it in an atmosphere of agreeable strangeness . And we are bound to admit that , in dealing with less subtle and sophisticated peoples , the French have an art far transcending our clumsy methods . A friend of mine who spends half the year in traveling throughout the United States , who probably knows America better than any living man not born an American and who certainty has an unrivaled acquaintance with Americans , from New York to San Francisco , wrote to me a month or twceago about the " monstrous French propaganda " which he finds carried on everywhere and always " with a deliberate anti-English bias . " He goes to a New York club to hear a lecture with an innocent general title , only to discover that he is listening to a French political missionary in the guise of an American citizen . And similar experiences meet him everywhere , while the peaceful penetration of the American press with French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts in the public life of America to-day . It would be impertinent for me to suggest that the Americans are not free to bestow their affection where they choose , but they will not think it unreasonable if we make reflections notwholly pleasant on the fact that while we are paying to America the debt we incurred largely on behalf of France , America is pouring millions of dollars into the exchequer of France to maintain a currency that has collapsed because the French nation will not submit to reasonable taxation . Nor will they think it irrelevant to be reminded that the purpose of the War which , in the words of their own President , was to " make the world safe for democracy " has been so completely defeated by French policy that Europe , nearly six years after the declaration of peace , is a more complete and hopeless wreck than it has ever been since the Thirty Years War ? a wreck over which the giant militarism of a single Power , backed by the black hosts from Africa and the armed satellites of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the world wants , and for which all that was best in both branches of the English-speaking race sincerely fought , still remains to be accomplished . It can only be won , and it can still be won , on the terms our two nations equally desire . Whatever temperamental irritation there may be between us , however much historic memories on both sides may linger and perplex our relations , there are fundamental bonds between us more real and enduring than those which link any other two peoples . They are not merely bonds of blood , of speech , and of literature : these things are a common heritage which , for all our superficial disagreements , we can not repudiate if we would , and I am convinced would not if we could . Nor are they simply that other mutual heritage of the common law which makes us equally respect the authority and sanctity of law in diplomatic relationships . These ideas are the invisible foundations of our national structures . But beyond and above them are a spirit and an outlook that differentiate us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free from the parochial and embittered nationalism of the European continental system . Our traffic is with the world , and our vision is a world vision . The function of the United States has been to preserve the Western Hemisphere from the reproduction of the racial strife of Europe , and though the origin of the British Commonwealth was imperialistic , its development has been steadily , and never more so than in these days , toward the extension of the principle of liberty " in widest commonalty spread . " We want , in equal measure I think , the substitution of the reign of law for the reign of force in the affairs of men , not merely on moral grounds but from the conviction that neither justice nor peace can be achieved by force , and because our greatest common interest in the world is peace . The last great war waged on American soil was a war waged , and successfully waged , to defend and secure the solidarity of the American people and to safeguard the peace of the Western World . The late War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the distracted peoples of Europe the same security of a common law and a common interest in the organization of peace . It was from America that the beneficent idea was formulated , and it was through the devoted passion of a United States President that it became incorporated in the Treaty of Peace . There it stands to-day , beckoning the world into a new and better path . It is not an achievement . It is still only a promise . We are still in the surge and backwash of the War , but it is to the fulfillment of that promise that the hopes of all that is best in every land turns . By the fulfillment or failure of that promise our white civilization will stand or fall , not in one nation only , but over the whole earth . And it is by the capacity of the two English-speaking families to rise to the height of the greatest argument ever offered to men that we shall be ultimately judged . It is for this reason that , in the thought of all men of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cordial understanding between the English and American peoples . It is not a selfish concern , though we have both much to gain from such an understanding and much to lose without it ; but we have jointly been placed , by events and purposes outside our own volition , in the guardianship of interests greater than our own . We shall be false to the great trust we have inherited from the past and treacherous to the posterity whose destiny is in our hands if for trivial motives ? matters of pride , matters of money , matters of self-interest or passing domestic and party advantage ? we fail in the high mission committed to our hands . " I believe I can save this country and that no one else can , " said Chatham in a time of world crisis . It would be true to-day to say that America and England can save the world , and that no other Powers can . But they can not save it without mutual confidence and good will . It is this fact which makes the promotion of solid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of human society .                     