@@493386

strike at all , " that " miners quit work from fear of violence and not from a sense of grievance against their employers , " that , according to the State In- , dustrial Commission , " no legal demand has been made for an increase in wages or change in working conditions , " that the representative of his company union expressed himself as being satisfied with conditions and argued against joining an independent union , and that most of his employees remained at work until intimidated by mass picketing directed by men who " had but recently come to Colorado from other states where they had definite I. W. W. records and in many cases criminal records . " The company is continuing to operate its mines , at a loss , out of a sense of duty to the miners , who want to work , and to the public , which needs coal . Mr. Wellborn doubtless believes all this ? though it will be instantly recognized as the standard defense of all employers against all strikes , no matter what the facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of it , because the employees have been denied , by Rockefeller policy , any organ of representation independent of company control or pressure . There is no more tragic mistake for an industrial executive than , first , to believe his employees are always satisfied , and second , to deny them any independent means of showing him whether they are satisfied or not . SECRETARY Work , we are glad to see , sticks to his guns on the Boulder Dam project , in spite of the great influence of the power lobby . It is important to recognize exactly what his position is . In his annual report , he records the fact that his department does not undertake enterprises which are primarily power developments . But when , in reclamation or other works , power development is a logical incident , the Department does undertake it , and to great advantage . The federal government has a legitimate interest in the Colorado project because of the interstate and international bearings , because of reclamation , flood control and water rights . If the government is asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income from the power to be generated , in order to retire its great investment . If the power rights can be leased by competitive bidding so as to achieve this result , ' well and good . If not , the government should have the right to build the power plant , and ' dispose of it at a fair price . And if no fair price can be obtained , the government should be authorized to produce the power and sell . it . This alternative is embodied in the Swing-Johnson Bill . And this alternative is what the power interests are fighting . They want to compel the government to lease the power rights . They want to do this so that in a farcical " competitive " bidding they can get the power more cheaply . The issue between Secretary Work and the power lobby is not an issue between public and private operation . It is essentially an attempt by the Secretary to prevent stealing of government power from the taxpayers . The chief difference between the oil frauds and the power fraud which is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on in private dealings with the executive , while- the power fraud is being attempted by subornation of Congress . The New Flivverism EW news stories of recent years received more ' space than the announcement of the new . Ford car . None betokened more genuine and sustained public interest . We do not except the chivalric flight of Lindbergh , or the heavyweight championship , or the most sordid murder case . Certainly no political , or international , or social , or artistic , or scientific news could approach it in popular validity . In a peculiar way this business venture indicates and symbolizes the temper of the American people in the later 1920 's . For that reason it is worth a few moment 's rumination . It may be contended , indeed , that the news value of the event was stimulated by adventitious aids ' Skillful publicity men were at work . The fact that a new car was being designed , then the generalnar ture of the car , and finally the details of its struction and price , were allowed to leak out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despet ' and ate attempts were'being made to conceal them , anu hence the appetite of news vendors and readers was whetted . When the time came for the final announcements , the page advertisements were not . an attempt to force something upon the public at ' tention , but the solution of a mystery , the answer , . to questions which had been on millions of lips . At the hundreds of thousands of dollars ? perhaps mid ' lions ? which the newspapers knew were to be Wen ' in advertising no doubt predisposed them to devote more columns of type to the event than they othev wise would . Yet none of these motives would We-. operated so well without a solid basis of native ' terest . Conflict , of course , is the essence of all dratfla ' . but here is a type of conflict which to this tiat.i ? ? ' ' - ' at this time , is " real " in the sense that even boxiatg matches , elections , and struggles for life in a c ? 11 ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the world , the industrial giant risen by his own eft ? 99 from poverty , the originator of a new type of production and a new theory of profits , defying t bankers and the monopolists , had lost a bout tos organized capital and modern industrial admiTi9 tration . His competitors had learned most tifP secrets and one him one or two better . At fist slowly , and then with a terrifying speed , the saor of other cheap cars had eaten into the market the old Model T. Would Henry Ford come bgrchis if so , what would he do to the new champion ? great conflict , apprehended more or less dirrilY everyone , lies in the realm which is sianificant to the modern age . And the preparations for the comeback take on some of the aspects of magnificence . Enormous plants , carrying great overhead , were shut down . Millions of profits were foregone . Ex : : penses of experiment , of new machinery and pro-cesses , were met . Yet Ford did not have to bor -- . row . His amassed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At last comes the concrete challenge . As a challenge , it is interesting . But the nature of the challenge is still more interesting as a revelation of our tendencies . The old Ford was almost austerely a utility . For long it made no compromise with fashion or esthetic demand . Everything was sacrificed to continuous mass production ; the one reliance for sales was cheapness and more cheapness . It adopted no mechanical improvements or refinements . It was always black . It was not advertised . It had no gadgets or gewgaws . Its lineS were high and awkward . In short , it was a flivver . Long did the public rebel against this austerity before any concession was allowed by the manufacturer . Individuals painted their cars , bought all conceivable kinds of attachments and embellishments from minor manufacturers and mail-order houses . When the effort to make a Ford look and act like a " real Car " became too hopeless , the owners took refuge - In the defenses of deprecatory wit . One flivver out of every three bore sonic comic sign , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and did not care . A few minor changes were at last made , but they were like an obvious toupe on a much ridiculed bald head . The public drifted to cars they would not have to label . The new Model A constitutes a complete surrender of this utilitarian austerity . It makes every Concession to taste and convenience ? real or fantied ? which is embodied in cars selling for three or four times the price . The most common comment  - -  that it looks like a baby Lincoln ? is the crux of the matter . Four choices of color combinations . Stream-line form . High radiator and hood . IlluInitiated instrument board on the dash . Nickeled radiator and headlights . Four-wheel brakes . Even such improvements as the speed of sixty miles an ' Our , standard gear-shift , twenty to thirty miles on a gallon of gas , and hydraulic shock absorbers arc Valuable in their sales appeal more because they make the Ford like other cars than because they 4re intrinsically useful . The advertising and show'llanship , too , are standard . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the points at which it retains something of the old Ford individttalitY ? the four-cylinder engine , the transverse springs , and the gasoline tank in front of the driver ' other than hidden at the rear . But these things are 4 c't emphasized . At only one point has Ford boldly stuck . to his guns ? the low price . The irresistible Ilre.ssure of public preference has so molded and offering a car as much like others as possible ? only for less money . Part of this change is due , undoubtedly , to the old and flourishing desire of every American to be as good as every othe ? ? and , in present-day terms , this must be interpreted to mean , to have things as good . It does not suffice to own a car which supplies your needs ; if you can not afford the same make as Mr. Rockefeller and Mr. Morgan can , you must at least have one that looks as much like it as possible . There must be nothing to advertise your indigence . In so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Ford ? the new car is still identifiable as the least expensive . The shame of ownership will be modified , but not wiped out , by the appearance . Those who can ? and they are many ? will still procure more expensive makes as used cars or by instalments . If the salesmen can persuade owners of larger cars to buy Fords for their second or third machines , it may take some of the curse away ; one can be seen-in a Ford and still hope that passers-by will think there is a costlier car in his garage . The low price , however , remains a sign that swank has been sacrificed for utility . It was indeed a shrewd gesture for the head of General Motors to remark that his concern was not a competitor of Ford 's , that it aimed at the higher-priced fields . But social emulation is not , we believe , the strongest motive at work in the American public . There is also a genuine longing for esthetic release . Foreigners observe that we have little , or pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and spiritual lives exhibit en masse-an astounding poverty . Yet Americans are not a race in which the feeling for beauty , significance and self-expression has undergone an inexplicable eclipse . It merely comes out in other and more superficial ways . We have a childlike delight in machinery and Contraptions . When some suppressed inner urge becomes too troublesome , we jump into an automobile and drive at breakneck speed over hard-surfaced roads . It matters not where we go ? the country is all much alike . We can not loiter and explore for the sake of solitude or nature 's beauty . The important thing is how far we can get in a day or an hour . The important thing is how many miles we can make to the gallon . This is how we score our achievement . And we derive our inner - satisfaction from a properly purring motor , the absence of . rattle in the body , the easy flick of the gear lever , the appearance , feeling and sound of a well made ' car . The automobile is not primarily a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like any work of art . In the contemplation and use of it we lavish our national genius and our instinct for balance and perfection . - This is what really explains why the whole popu --  lation is watching Ford 's new car with bated breath and sighs of satisfaction . It is a tribute to a tribal god , a masterpiece of a master craftsman . The sinner has been converted to religion , the image- // breaker to beauty . Many who do not need it , who can afford something much better , will buy it just to share in the triumph . Will it give lasting satisfaction ? Ah ? that is a different matter , one about which we do not trouble ourselves . We have organized no means of information concerning the wearing quality of cars , their relative dependability and cost of upkeep . We do not think of the still more profound difference between the joys of use and the joys of creation . What of the workers who make this toy , bound to monotony on the endless assembly line ? What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we accumulate the means for these brief pleasures ? It is too difficult to think of such matters . Is it not enough to share vicariously in the creative triumphs of our Fords ? Are they not our saviors ? Our nervous , surface activity demands ? and so far receives ? more speed . When speed fails , there may be time to think . No Security without Justice T HE recent meeting of the Preparatory Commission on disarmament at Geneva , like its predecessors , accomplished little or nothing , but it would not be fair on that account to impeach the sincerity of the governments which participated in the gathering . They are tackling the most important and the most difficult of all problems of political organization . The Russian proposal for immediate and comprehensive reduction of armaments : expressed a less sincere intention to disarm than the timid and gingerly approach toward the same result by the heavily armed capitalist governments . States which rely ultimately on force for the assertion of their domestic authority are handicapped in creating a society which can dispense with military force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states , including , obviously , the Soviet Republic , are incarnations of power politics . As such , they can not completely disarm . What they can do is to inquire more honestly and suspiciously than they , have done in the past into the importance of the alleged benefits or purposes for which they are arming . If the governments can , by agreement , limit or adjust the objects which they propose to accomplish by military force , they may gradually introduce a very substantial measure of disarmament . It is this problem which is now preoccupying the Preparatory Commission . It is trying to frame protective political agreements which will reduce by a very considerable percentage the number and the scope of the purposes for which they are preparing to fight . Since governments tell peoples and peoples tell themselves that they arm chiefly for security , European statesmen are now trying to negotiate comprehensive political agreements which will introduce a guarantee of security into the public law of Europe . The proposed method is a compact for obligatoryarbitration . Nations which sign the compact will submit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compact to arbitration . The nation which refuses to arbitrate is to be outlawed as an aggressor , and is exposed to coercion by its associates . This is an heroic method , and , if modified , it may ultimately prevail and succeed , but at present it raises as many difficulties as it overcomes . If all the governments of continental Europe sign this agreement and then expect security to dawn and disarmament to follow with the rising sun , they will be disappointed . It provides for protection against future aggression , but it merely sanctifies the results of past aggression . Security is not at present coin : promised by the threat of systematic military ambition such as that which Louis XIV and Napoleon I flourished in Europe . It is the result far more of the popular restlessness and discontent which originates in frustrated but not unjustified national activities and interests . The attempt to set up a legal sanction for security , without providing in the same instrument for the consideration of those international grievances for which existing law provides no remedy , can hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as any candid judge will admit , to reach just and satisfactory decisions , even when the court can call to its assistance an explicit body of law which is binding on both parties , and even when the defeated litigant can not effectively protest . In the absence of such a body of law , and considering the difficulties in many cases of finding out what the facts are , and of enforcing decisions , compulsory arbitration is very far from being a trustworthy method of administering justice . Yet , - - in the long run , if the system was not equipped to purvey justice , it would not , in any effective , sense , write security , into public law . It is putting an excessive strain on the machinery of arbitration to de ' mand of it satisfactory judgments upon disP " test unless the international litigants are willing to COI fer on the court something like an equity jurisdictionf and to agree in advance upon certain matters ? procedure and of governing principle . The existing basis of public law is provided bYt treaties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests . 11-1e : many instances , they represent the triumph of one group of national or local interests over a no the. ? This is conspicuously the case with the treaties which restored legal peace to Europe at the end oftbe War . They almost entirely ignored the intere ! , a. , and the susceptibilities of the defeated peoples ; they have bequeathed to Eur6pe many causes ' popular restlessness and discontent which fortgl ! t international suspicion , hostility and agitation ? these compilations and grievances which chieflY , the count for the prevailing sense of insecurity ana , at , threat of future , war . There have been severn ! rive tempts to organize security in spite of them . fist , Covenant of the League of Nations was the60ji but it assumed in its original form the coOperd                     