@@493467

Foreign Schools in Turkey UNDOUBTEDLY the direct American in-terest in Turkey centers in the numerous and important educational institutions which American religious bodies have founded in that country . An American concerned about the fortunes of these schools is likely to think of the action of the Turkish government ( too often of an arbitrary nature ) as if American schoolS exhausted the problem of Turkey with respect to foreign schools . The Turk on the contrary thinks . of Ameri-can schools in terms of his experience with a variety of other foreign schools which far outnumber the American . Hence a growth of misunderstandings on both sides . I want in this article to say some-thing about the larger educational problem within Iaficcehd.the question of American schools has to be l In the first place , by far the greater number of foreign schools in Turkey have been Armenian and Greek ; these schools of course have been religious or parochial ones . In the case of Greek schools in particular , the school teacher has been in the past , along with the priest , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new Greek state , including a large part of Asia Minor as well as all of Macedonia , and having Constantinople as its capital . Armenian schools with Armenian churches were the chief . instruments in getting and nurturing Armenian nationalism . It is not surprising therefore that the Turks arc antecedently disposed to approach the question of all foreign schools with suspicion as to their bias . There is a presumption that any foreign school has designs which are hostile to Turkish nationalism . And while they are willing to acquit American schools of political designs , it is hard for them to free their minds from the idea that they have some concealed purpose -- a feeling strengthened by the fact that these schools were started under religious auspices which in Turkish experience have always been anti-Turkish . At first hearing , it is strange to learn that in most respects the still remaining Greek and Armenian schools face a simpler problem than other foreign schools . But the explanation is easy . They have as pupils only their own nationals ; they are " community " schools , and Turkey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own language , religion , and customs . There is no danger of religious proselytism , for they have no Moslem students ; their teachers are examined and receive their licenses to teach from the Turkish ministry of education ; their courses of study and methods are supervised and controlled . Moreover the spirit of Greek and Armenian nationalism within Turkey is now so broken that there is no immediate fear of its revival . Next in importance and also outnumbering the American schools are those of French origin . Before the war there were over a million pupils in the empire of Turkey in schools under French management , and over two million persons a year secured relief or assistance in French hospitals , clinics and charitable institutions . These institutions , even though under private and religious control , were subsidized liberally by the French governmental funds . Europeans in general as well as the Turks take it for granted that educational and religious ' enterprises have economical and political ends to subserve , and are frankly incredulous of American claims that our schools have no such aims . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and for a long time , under Abdul Hamid , the only Turkish public secondary school had a French director , gave all its courses of instruction in the French language , and , although a Turkish governmental school , was liberally subsidized by the French government . Even now , although the French directorate and even sub-directorate have been abolished by the new Turkish nationalism , and only sciences are taught in French , the French government pays the salaries of teachers of the French language . This school , the Galata-Serail , has been , I should say , the chief single influence in disseminating western and liberal ideas among the Turks , and has played an honorable role in the formation of the New Turkey . Yet its whole record is such as to strengthen in the minds of the Turks the belief that any educationalundertaking. supported in Turkey by foreigners has political motives and governmental direction back of it . But , of course , the chief factor in determining the political slant of French educational and religious activities has been the claim of France since ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all non-Moslem religious interests in the Near East , a claim once recognized officially by Turkey , and , after it had been reduced to a protectorate of Roman Catholic interests , confirmed by the Pope . This claim , it is hardly too much to say , has been the corner-stone of , French diplomacy in the Near East , and since it has been supported by French cabinets that were openly anti-clerical in domestic affairs , it has correspondingly strengthened the Turkish belief that no foreign cultural undertaking it simply educational or philanthropic in nature . Of late , the situation is complicated by increasing rival-. ry between France and Italy . As a French writer naively expresses it , when Catholic interests in Turkey which are under French auspices receive a check , the papacy in its religious character is grieved but in its Italian aspect rejoices . It is openly asserted that French schools , even those conducted by clerics , are more devoted to propaganda of French " culture " than of Catholic religion . It is rumored that the Roman church is quite willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with religious aims , and would be glad to come to an agreement with the Turkish government that Catholic schools confine themselves to teaching those who are already of the Catholic persuasion . On the other hand , the Turks were suspicious of the distinctively Italian schools which had been opened along the Anatolian littoral . When it closed them the Italian authorities were told that since they claimed their aims were purely humanitarian , they might open schools in the interior , but not in any district which at any previous time had been claimed as an Italian sphere of influence . This inadequate sketch should at least make it clear that the Turks approach the question of the activities of American educational institutions with adverse preconceptions which have a certain amount of justification in their experience with the schools of other foreign nationalities , and that American schools have offered less than those of these other countries . But , while Americans are acquitted of aggressive political ambitions , there is not the same assurance about the religious character of their schools . And although the Moslem is such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that missionary schools have for many years done nothing in that direction , this very fact has created an additional source of friction . The outstanding fact in the record of American schools in Turkey is that they have devoted themselves chiefly to the education of Armenians , Greeks and Bulgarians , in other words to those elements of the population which were always the tacit and often the open enemies of Turkey . It was humanly impossible that , as Turkish nationalism developed and finally won a military triumph , the memory of this fact should not make the Turkish government doubtful about the value to the nation of American schools , while it rendered the Turk oversensitive to any sign on the part of any American teacher of favoritism to any anti-Turkish national group . Given the fact that these schools were conducted under missionary auspices and with religious aims , and given the obduracy of the Moslem believer to conversion , this state of affairs could hardly have been avoided , so that appraisal of praise or blame for what has happened in the past is not worth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgment is fundamental for the future and which must be faced . It may be stated as a dilemma . If the religious purpose is to continue to dominate American schools or even to color them in any marked way ( and the same thing holds of the Y. M. C. A. and the Y. W. C. A. ) American institutions will continue to deal mainly with non-Turkish elements in the population , and hence remain an essentially alien and suspected factor in the Turkish body politic . On the other hand , these institutions can play an immensely useful role in the modernization of Turkey on condition that they devote themselves primarily to education of Turkish young men and women ? a condition which definitely means the complete subordination of Christian religious aims , and the surrender of the schools , in spirit as well as in outward form , to secular social and scientific methods . I may of course have a wrong understanding of the situation , but to the best of my belief this dilemma is a flat one . Any failure to meet , it or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American and Turkish interests , and service which American ideas and ideals are capable of rendering at a critical juncture to the experiment of transforming Turkey . And it hardly need be said that the success or failure of this experiment , in view of the consequences both in the Near East and in the Moslem world , is of immense import to the future peace of the world . A Turkish ? and of course Moslem ? graduate of an American school in Turkey said to me that if in the two generations of its existence in Turkey that particular higher institution had turned out four hundred men trained to be leaders in Turkish schools and civil administration , Turkey would soon be made over . , He made the point of his remark clearer by saying that if this school had , through its graduates , done as much for Turkey as it had done for the neighboring state of Bulgaria ; the whole social and economic outlook of Turkey would be radically different to what it actually is . In many ways , he went on to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much more for minority elements in the population than they had done for the Turkish had worked harm to both the minority and the Turkish elements . It was an indispensable condition of peace , mutual understanding and harmony that all factors in the population should either have remained on the same level of ignorance or else should have progressed together . But American schools had developed democratic ideals among the Greeks and Armenians in Turkey , had given them ' modern ideas , aroused their initiative and equipped them with the tools of modern life , while the Turks had been left practically in their mediaeval state of mind . The result was two-fold . The Greeks and Armenians were naturally stimulated to work for their political independence , which in turn created the hostility of the Turks , and the Turks , seeing themselves outstripped in industry and commerce because of the modern education of Greeks and Armenians , were roused to envy and hatred which easily were fanned into the flames of war and massacre . I shall not forget the earnestness with which he assured me that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same condition of ignorance and backwardness , the various nationalities would still be getting along reasonably well together . The point was made without resentment . I have never seen any persons as objective as are educated Turks in discussing their wrongs , a fact connected possibly with their fatalistic philosophy . It was made in connection with a discussion of what these , schools are to be and do in the future , and in that reference it is most significant . If American schools in Turkey , because they have been founded under missionary auspices , are bound to perpetuate the old distinction between Christian and non-Christian and to be anti-Turk because they are pro-Christian , Icannot see that they will accomplish a great deal for Turkey , and it is reasonably certain that they will be points of diplomatic friction , with a ten.dency , as far as it goes , to strain political and econ omic relations between the United States and Turkey . On the other hand , what these schools have done in the way of enlightening and liberating non-Turkish elements is sufficient proof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make it their main business to discover and educate , irrespective of religious belief , the able Turkish young men and women who are to be the intellectual and social leaders of future Turkey .                     