@@164523

The Man Who Laughs violates the three classic lunacies of cinema : 1 ) never follow closely the story of a great literary master ; 2 ) always have at least one character who looks like the man in the Arrow collar advertisements ; 3 ) never be thoroughly morbid . Hence , The Man Who Laughs is a truly great , a devastatingly beautiful film . It was made by Universal Pictures Corp . from the story by Victor Hugo , directed by Paul Leni ( the German who did the sets for Variety ) , acted chiefly by Conrad Veidt ( another German importation ) . The tale goes back to early medievalism in England where political irregularity was punished in a most horrible manner . Gwynplaine ( Conrad Veidt ) , whose noble father had displeased King James II , was turned over to a gypsy band for proper punishment : a facial mutilation which leaves him with a perpetual and ghastly grin . In a travelling circus , Gwynplaine finds employment as a clown ; he winces and tears muddy his eyes when thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girl , Dea ( Mary Philbin ) , loves him and does not laugh at him ; she is blind . Another old girl , Duchess Josiana , lusts for him because of his strange disfiguration . Queen Anne hates the duchess and tries to humiliate her by restoring Gwynplaine to his place in the peerage . There follows a superb scene : Gwynplaine appears in the House of Lords , first infuriating the members , then causing them to slap their gouty limbs in merriment . Disgusted , Gwynplaine returns to the lovely , blind Dea . They are blessed by their foster-father , a philosopher who calls himself " Dog " and his dog " Man " -a Hugonian touch , if ever there was one . <P> Glorious Betsy . Costumes are all right . So is the Vitaphone when it does not lisp . But the little locks on the nape of the neck of Dolores Costello are the hearts of the lettuce of this film , wherein Betsy , belle of Baltimore , wins Jerome , young brother of Napoleon Bonaparte , away from all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seagoing sons of Jeremiah Shore of Paradise Cove , Mass. , take a voyage to Singapore . One of them , ugly Mark ( Ernest Torrence ) , becomes marooned with drink and Chinawomen , forgets his fiance ( Joan Crawford ) . The other son , handsome Joel ( Ramon Novarro ) , is brought home in chains by the villainous members of the crew , who tell his father that he deserted Brother Mark . That is a lie . To vindicate himself , Brother Joel again sails to Singapore to fetch Brother Mark with the aid of Brother Mark 's fiance . After much skullduggery on land and sea , Brother Mark is killed while embracing the cause of Brother Joel . That is the signal for Ramon Novarro and Joan Crawford to give each other a buss over the dead body of ugly Ernest Torrence.                     