@@163301

The sizzling Paris heat at last proved too much for even grizzly-bearded M. Raymond Poin-car . He , " Lion of Lorraine , " President of France during the War and for 35 months past her indomitable Prime Minister , will be on the 20th of next month 69 years old . In the course of the present debt debate ( TIME , July 22 ) , he had addressed the Chamber for a total of more than 37 hours ( three or four hours daily ) reading every word from sheets covered with his neat , almost microscopic handwriting . Result : the strain gave him a high " gastric fever , " his physician last week imperatively tucked him into bed . <P> Nothing could have been more fortunate for the Government , for the cause of ratification , for the Prime Minister himself . The Deputies , overawed by M. Poin-car 's gargantuan logic , had given him a vote of confidence 304 to 239 on a minor issue , but they had also grown sick and tired of the sound and sight of him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government 's defense was taken over by pouchy-eyed Foreign Minister Aristide Briand , wise and wily as an old tomcat , nine times Prime Minister of France , incomparably her most winning , sonorous orator . Whereas M. Poin-car had piled the Chamber 's rostrum mountains high with notes and documents , shrewd B'rer Briand with a droll little gesture laid one of his visiting cards on the stand before him and commenced his spellbinding quite extempore . <P> Bouillion v. Briand . Stout , excitable Deputy Franklin-Bouillion , who was Minister of Propaganda during the War and now leads the obstreperous Left Unionist Bloc , was last week the first anti-ratifica-tionist to cross a potent sword with M. Briand as the Foreign Minister assumed the Government 's defense . With fire and slash M. Franklin-Bouillion sought to destroy by an emotional onslaught the Government 's chief logical reason why France must ratify her debt agreement not later than Aug. 1 next . On that date , as M. Poin-car had incessantly reminded the Chamber , there would fall due the debt of $400,000,000 owed by France for War stocks purchased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to escape paying this huge sum now and in cash would be to ratify the general debt settlement , one clause of which virtually grants France a moratorium on what she owes for War stocks . Logically the Government 's position was unassailable-either ratify or pay at once " through the nose . " But to Propagandist Franklin-Bouillion logic is something which can always be worsted by appeals to passion . Working himself by degrees up to a whirlwind climax , he pointed an accusing pudgy forefinger at M. Briand , shouted defiantly : " You can not and you shall not force France to debate the debt settlement with a knife at her throat ! " <P> As the Foreign Minister began to reply - softly at first-the excited Deputies seemed less than usually responsive to the persuasive cadence of his cello voice . If M. Briand was to turn the tide he must indeed surpass himself , and presently , magnificently he did .                     