@@487275

Books in Brief Miniatures of French History . By Hilaire Belloc . Harper and Brothers . $3.50 . Mr. Belloc , as a historian , has three claims upon public consideration : he writes readably , carries the burden of his learning easily , and never permits his cranky notions to interfere with fact . The present gift-volume  --  a very neat one in its external make-up  --  will be particularly acceptable to eager , studious boys and girls of sixteen or thereabouts , staring round-eyed , from the Darien-peak of their youth , upon the wonders of the human past . Eve Walks in Her Garden . By Louise Ayres Garnett . The Macmillan Company . $2 . A volume of utterly simple poetry , which for all its delicacy covers deep ranges of emotion . It passes from rhythmic ballads to two or three-line lyrics , from strong moving assertions of faith to fresh and fanciful pictures ; and in whatever the author touches is the quality of truth . The Story of the Catholic Church . By Cuthbert Wright . Albert and Charles Boni. $2.50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moving laws of human history , reconstructive power , a title indicative of content , and an index . What is left , after all these deficiencies are accounted for , is an impressionist sketch of some picturesque details of Roman ecclesiasticism . The book is evidently founded on the time-honored Greenwich Village assumption that susceptible nerves and a thin , newspapery sort of education are the sole prerequisite of writing " de omnibus rebus et quibusdam aliis . " Loyalism in Virginia .. Chapters in the Economic History of the Revolution . By Isaac S. Harrell . Duke University Press . $1.50 . An excellent help in the study of the static forces of the American War of Independence , which assists in putting the history of our nascent commonwealth upon the solid soil of economic fact . - 11. dONG regarded as the standard book on its subject in all European countries , this masterpiece , which has sold over 150,000 copies in Germany , is now available here . The story of the evolution of love , holy and profane , as the great cosmic force in all life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its amazing variety . SOME OF THE SUBJECTS TREATED : OVE and Religion ; Love and Art ; How Love begins in art ; Relics of primitive love ; The first visible evidence of love on this planet ; The nature of emotion ; The law against inbreeding ; The animal in man ; The contrast between male and female love ; Polygamy , polyandry and monogamy ; Communal marriage ; Natural history of prostitution ; The wonder of creation . Seven chapters make up this book : The Observer , The Thinker , The Discoverer , The Loser , The Lover , The Destroyer , The Scientific Spirit . It is possible that Darwin may be best comprehended if viewed from these several angles ; but  --  as Mr. Bradford is doubtless aware  --  any such analytical device is largely arbitrary and , furthermore , it tends to a certain amount of overlapping in both argument and illustration . As a working device , however , it is sufficiently effective and perhaps , in the case of such a man as Darwin , analysis and argument should supersede narration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is frequently shrewd and discriminating ; if he tends to exhort too much , he has no patience whatever with the theologians who dogged and besmirched Darwin ; and if he is somewhat too personal and plaintive in his concern over metaphysical mysteries , he shows a minute , judicious , and urbane knowledge of the vast revolution which Darwin was chiefly instrumental in effecting . Causes and Their Champions . By M. A. DeWolfe Howe . Little , Brown and Company . $4 . This book has two aims : it deals with eight causes " directly affecting contemporary life in America , " and with the man or woman who was principally instrumental in furthering each cause . While including Phillips Brooks as the champion of tolerance in religion , Mr. Howe yet excludes Garrison on the ground that anti-slavery " is omitted only as a res adjudieata . " To those who are interested in a surface presentation of things , this distinction will doubtless appear valid ; to those who , with Carlyle , believe that Negro slavery was only a symptom of a national disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toleration is most decidedly unsettled , the distinction will be unsatisfactory . The volume , in short , while written in a clear and businesslike fashion , offers little that is new in material , in method , or in theory . Translations and Tomfooleries . By Bernard Shaw . Brentano's. $2.25 . The Austrian novelist and playwright Siegfried Trebitsch translated into German the bulk of Shaw 's work and Shaw out of pure gratitude undertook to render into English Herr Trebitsch 's " Jitta 's Atonement , " although  --  as one might have guessed beforehand  --  he found it impossible to refrain from making it over to suit himself . This is the " Translations " ( sic ) of the present volume . The " Tomfooleries " include the well-known " Admirable Bashville " and " Press Cuttings " as well as several even slighter skits , one or two of which were written e Shaw 's more extravagant burlesques dialogue but rather feeble in general                     