@@493331

vices to ' odge a problem for a few years in the hope that when it comes up again the condition of public opinion will make it easier to handle . It may have to consent to such expedients , but it can not itself frame and operate them without tarnishing the vividness of its peculiar social vision and diminish ? ing its ability to translate that vision into an oper ? ative political and economic mechanism . Yet under existing conditions a policeman 's gov ? ernment is more or less necessary , and if a labor er farmer-labor party is to provide a living alternative to conscious and completely organized conservat ? ism , it must , of course , be willing in emergencies to assume its equivocal and demoralizing responsibili ? ties . I am not arguing that a labor or farmer-labor party should abandon competition with a conserva ? tive party for the control of government . I am only arguing that they can not really control government but will find themselves controlled by its exigencies unless they can give energy and clarity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is carried on . Their most formidable enemy is not organized and conscious conservatism . Such con ? servatism is only the natural defense mechanism of society which is more conscious of its deficiencies than it is of the satisfactory remedies . Their most formidable adversaries are first the stubborn limita ? tions of the existing economic and social system which are created by and confirm the existing dis ? abilities of human nature , and secondly the lack of a sufficiently alert , conscious and educated body of workers . The main object of a radical party is to bring into existence a body of workers who do not consent to their existing inferiority of status and have equipped themselves to take their ap ? propriate share in a regenerate political and eco ? nomic government . A worker 's party usually can ? not safely participate in government as it is , with ? out seeking at the some time to transform it ; and workers can not transform it without depending on their conservative opponents to devise an improved technique of social engineering and without educat ? ing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their kingdom , if they are ever to possess a kingdom , most be established in the mind before it can begin to subdue the unmanage ? able engine of political government to its purposes . As yet they have made little headway in emancipat ? ing popular opinion from its delusions , its fears and its cheap values ; and until they do they must expect to be for the most part excluded from power . It should be added that the foregoing estimate of the comparative vitality and peculiar functions of conservative and progressive parties is derived more from the facts of British politics than it is f rom the facts of American politics . Our own Re ? publicans are still far from being conscientious conservatives . They are likely under their present leadership to remain obstructionist and self-satisfied and unnecessarily to imperil their popularity and prestige by refusing or fumbling immediately nec // essary reforms . In that case , the Democrats will try to come back as a " liberal " party whose busi ? ness it is to unite all good progressives in the task @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the next presidential election may , shape themselves in this way ; and an effective Re ? publican coalition may or may not be formed and may or may not be victorious . Yet although the Democratic party in this country is far from being as devitalized as the Liberal party in Great Britain , it will , if the two party system survives , suffer from an analogous process of emasculation . A party of radical progressivism , which serves to transform the human values implicit in existing capitalism by the redistributing of the exercise of political and eco ? nomic power , is as clearly called for by the demo ? cratic impulse in America as it is in Great Britain . In so far as it comes , the Democratic party will be superfluous . The radicals can never be satisfied with a " liberal " program which aims merely at re ? forming a few of the glaring abuses of capitalism without challenging either its human values or its distribution of power . On the other hand , there is no reason why " liberal " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservatism had become , as it surely will , some ? what more conscious and intelligent . In the end , they will probably vote Republican , just as they did in such large numbers last November . In both English speaking countries industrialism is spread ? ing at a rate and under conditions whichare destined to create the same radical protestantisrn on the part of its non-beneficiaries and the same formidable fortifications on the part of its beneficiaries . Copyright of New Republic is the property of New Republic and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listsery without the copyright holder 's express written permission . However , users may print , download , or email articles for individual use .                     