@@488293

H ERBERT HOOVER 'S MUCH-HERALDED speech in New York City turned out to be the dullest and most wearisome of the entire series of statistical essays which he has dubbed campaign speeches . There was indubitably genuine enthusiasm in the cheering which continued for twelve minutes when he rose to speak . Within three minutes , however , people began to leave , and before the speech had ended several thousand of the twenty-two thousand people who were there had left . It passes our comprehension how a public man with Mr. Hoover 's reputation for brains and ability could face such an audience , be the recipient of such enthusiasm , and yet be unable to arouse a single emotion or to say one word of human warmth to thrill or stimulate his audience . Again and again he labored his favorite issues of prosperity and what had calls progress ; his best phrase was that the country had gone " from the full dinner pail to the full garage " under beneficent Republican leadership . Many of his statements were utterly misleading , as , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war-time government control with private operation in the piping times of peace and his references to governments of Europe under socialist control and management . But ride his hobby of taking the . government out of business he must . Of course his assertion that government management is always bad is nonsense . If it were true , then the government should immediately relinquish the carrying of the mails , the operation of the Panama and Cape Cod canals , the Alaska railroad , the national parks and forests , and all the rest of the multitudinous business enterprises in which it is today engaged . T O OUR READERS in the States concerned we again urge that they cast ballots on Election Day for the return to the Senate of Robert M. La Follette of Wisconsin , Hendrik Shipstead of Minnesota , Burton K. Wheeler of Montana , Lynn J. Frazier of North Dakota , Robert B. Howell of Nebraska , and C. C. Dill of Washington . We feel , as we said in our issue of September 12 , that the return of these men to Washington is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Not quite so unqualifiedly we indorse also the reelection to the Senate of David I. Walsh of Massachusetts , Hiram W. Johnson of California , Kenneth D. McKellar of Tennessee , and M. M. Neely of West Virginia . In spite of many vagaries and his indifference toward Mooney and Billings , Johnson has come out so well on the power issue that we think he is needed in Washington at this time . Walsh generally aligns himself in the popular interest , while McKellar and Neely are supported by the People 's Legislative Service . We have not mentioned parties in referring to these men because their services have not been along party lines . Among new candidates we have already indorsed Alanson B. Houghton in New York because of his personal worth and his excellent outlook on foreign affairs , while the People 's Legislative Service rejoices that Representative Tom Connally is in line in Texas to succeed Senator Mayfield . So far as the House goes , we add only a word to commend the reelection of Victor L. Berger of Milwaukee and Fiorello H. La Guardia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members . S MITH CONTINUES TO LEAD The Nation 's poll of its subscribers by a margin of more than two to one with Norman Thomas in second place ' and Hoover a close third . The vote now stands Smith , 6,804 ; Thomas , 2,780 ; Hoover , 2,761 ; Foster , 428 ; Will Rogers , 26 ; and the rest scattering . New York and California have cast the most votes , and in both States Smith leads with Hoover in third place . The poll gives little indication of a farm revolt in the Middle West , since Hoover is running a close second to Smith in Iowa , Kansas , Nebraska , and Minnesota . While the Literary Digest 's poll indicates that Hoover will cut deeply into the solid South , our subscribers in all the Southern States are overwhelmingly loyal to the Democratic nominee . Some doubt is thrown upon the Literary Digest 's figures for ' the South because of that journal 's underestimate of the Davis vote in 1924 . The Nation regrets that there ' is no trustworthy method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this poll . We have circulated ballots only among our 25,000 mail subscribers in the United States ; our 12,000 to 15,000 newsstand readers have not been reached . The high proportion of returns from our subscribers underscores what the enormous registration of voters has already indicated , that there is more interest in the coming election than in any Presidential contest in this country in , many years . A complete summary and analysis of The Nation 's poll will appear in the issue of next week . T HAT IS A REMARKABLE DOCUMENT which was published on October 20 by forty-five distinguished Southerners : bishops , college presidents  --  eight of them  --  teachers , editors , professional and business men and women . What was its purpose ? Something unique : a demand that the race issue be not dragged into this campaign . Ever since Reconstruction it has been the habit of Southern politicians to ride into office on the backs of Negroes  --  by abusing them . There being no State issues , and no contest between parties , the game has usually been to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there has not been the slightest excuse for lugging in our colored fellow-citizens ; there have been enough other " horrifying " issues . Yet the day this manifesto appeared the Republican headquarters felt compelled to issue a denial that Mr. Hoover had " danced with a Negress . " As for Governor Smith , he has been portrayed in the South as that most dreadful of persons , a " nigger-lover , " and his managers have felt compelled to deny that he ever employed Negro stenographers or that he has appointed Negroes to any higher offices than the menial ones they fill in the South . The forty-five Southern objectors to this nauseating kind of un-Americanism speak out well when they say in their manifesto : It is our hope that no one will be deterred by them anti-Negro appeals from calmly considering the real issues and voting his honest convictions ; and certainly that no one will allow them to inflame his mind with antagonism toward our Negro neighbors , who too long have been pawns in the game of politics . Any attempt to influence men and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white man and unjust to all . When one considers the conservatism of the South and the general fear of being denounced as Negrophile , this is almost an epoch-making statement . P ROFESSING ATHEISM is a dangerous business in the State of Arkansas . Charles Smith , president of the American Association for the Advancement of Atheism , is serving a twenty-six-day term in the jail of Little Rock because his attacks upon the proposed anti-evolution law which comes up for a popular vote at the next election were " calculated to provoke a breach of the peace . " A Little Rock judge refused to allow him to testify in his own behalf because he would not importune the Deity to assist him in truth-telling , and Mayor Charles E. Moyer declared : " No atheist will be permitted to maintain headquarters in Little Rock if I can prevent it . " Mr. Smith was fined $25 and costs but refused to pay his fine and is serving his sentence as a protest . Meanwhile the State of Senator Joseph Robinson has otherwise distinguished itself by its interpretation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as follows : The legislature of the State , meeting in special session , passed a resolution barring from employment by its sage body any man or woman who would not sign a pledge to vote the straight Democratic ticket in November ! Coercion ? Oh , no . The people of the North and East have no idea of the coercive efforts , the intimidating methods , being used in this Presidential election in the South . Negroes are being used to form Negro Smith clubs , while freely it is said : " Hoover , if elected , will put the Negro in office over Southern womanhood . " Three judges , two Democrats and one Republican , are at each polling place by law  --  but the Democrats choose the Republican judges ! T HE NEW OIL SCANDAL , described in last week 's issue of The Nation , has burst like a stink bomb , leaving a most unholy odor in its wake . The Government 's contract with the Sinclair interests for the oil of the Salt Creek fields , which Secretary Hubert Work renewed last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sargent . The contract , it will be remembered , contained a secret option granted to Sinclair by Albert B. Fall allowing the Sinclair interests to renew the agreement at the old rate and thus beat certain Kansas oil companies willing to pay a much higher price . It now appears that Attorney-General Sargent did not pass on this contract officially when it was renewed last winter , and allowed Senator Walsh 's protest concerning its legality to lie on his desk from March 2 to October 16 . Then , two days after the New York World had exposed the affair , Mr. Sargent sent his opinion . Why did Mr. Sargent keep silent about a fraudulent contract for seven months , and why did Mr. Work renew a contract with so notorious a customer without adequate investigation ? The action of the Department of the Interior in canceling the contract after public exposure with no adequate explanation for the delay can only be interpreted as a confession of guilt . Even the Scripps-Howard news- papers have interrupted their eulogies of Mr. Hoover to demand the removal of Hubert Work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . NINE MONTHS AGO public-utility officials were as- suring Senators that they would give " full cooperation " if the Federal Trade Commission instead of the Senate would investigate them . Now they have defied the commission , convincing Commissioner Edgar A. McCulloch that they have information they do not want the people of the country to know about . Josiah Newcomb , counsel for the Joint Committee of National Utility Associations , says the conflict " was perhaps inevitable when the commission began its investigation of the separate utility companies as distinguished from their associated activities . " So the Electric Bond and Share Company , which according to Raushenbush and Laidler has , with the General Electric Company , " a certain influence " over about half the power industry , has declined to answer questions about its disbursements for propaganda and politics . The commission can go to the courts to compel witnesses to answer , or it can furnish the Department of Justice with evidence of their defiance as a means of prosecuting the officials , but the fact that there appears to be a way to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means that the investigation can be halted just as it was about to reach the financial operations of the utilities . It took the Claire Furnace case seven years to go through the courts , and although the Federal Trade Commission won  --  without , however , a full decision on its powers  --  it was then too late to go on with the investigation undertaken at the behest of Congress . This , no doubt , is the consummation aimed at by the utilities . Even if they lose in the courts , they will have had many more years in which to concentrate control , forestall federal regulation , prevent investigation , and fill the heads of the public with their dishonest propaganda . O NE OF THE COUNTS on which Governor Smith is most frequently assailed is his affiliation with Tammany Hall . It is a real weakness in his candidacy , but if political spellbinders wanted to enlighten the people instead of merely to corral their votes , they would have to go on to say that , unsavory as the history of Tammany Hall has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party up-State has been a match for it and not infrequently the two organizations have worked hand in glove to defraud the electorate . One of those who has taken special pains to attack New York 's Governor because of his association with the Tiger is that gentle and lily-white Portia , Mabel Walker Willebrandt , who owes her own political ascendancy to the grace of the unimpeached but far from unimpeachable Harry M. Daugherty . Mrs. Willebrandt has been quoting , as her authority for the rottenness of Tammany Hall , from that excellent work the eleventh edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica , giving chapter and book . It is impressive , but if anyone should take the trouble to verify the reference he would find something which Mrs. Willebrandt must have failed to notice . He would discover that the article concludes ( volume 26 , page 392 ) with the following sentence : " The power of the organization Tammany Hall in the State and in the nation is due to its frequent combination with the Republican organization , which controls the State almost as completely as Tammany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ringing with protests at the treatment of the passengers on the Graf Zeppelin . They were received at Lakehurst " as if they were criminals , " surrounded by police and customs officials , and rushed off to a room , where they were kept standing for three hours , there being only two chairs in the room . Nobody was allowed to leave , the excuse being that if the doors were opened the 250 reporters would rush the room . The passengers were kept on their feet until finally their baggage was brought in  --  the delay was due to the fact that as each piece of luggage was removed a corresponding weight of ballast had to be put on the Zeppelin . Through some blunder or misunderstanding no order was received from Washington to grant the passengers freedom from search , and examination at Lakehurst presented extraordinary difficulties . The result is humiliating and is not compensated for by the cordial official welcomes in New York and Washington . We would , however , like to assure the Berlin press that possibly the travelers of the Graf Zeppelin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an ungracious business for the United States to engage in , and every year it rouses the anger of thousands of foreigners who should be our friends . It is , however , an accepted concomitant of that protective tariff to which both Messrs . Smith and Hoover are expressing themselves as so devoted . T HE BEARING OF THE OFFICERS of the Graf Zep- pelin since their arrival has been admirable . In a modest and illuminating address at the dinner given by the German-American Chamber of Commerce , Dr. Eckener made it clear that he regards himself neither as a hero nor the pioneer of a regular airship service to begin tomorrow . He warned his hearers that large sums of money were needed and equally large additional stores of knowledge , notably meteorological . As for speed , airships , he declares , can be made to go much faster but they must be larger and carry more engines . That there will be a regular passenger service eventually he is entirely certain . He considers a two days ' flight from Europe to New York entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At this stagehe wishes $14,000,000 to build additional vessels and equip the line to give a biweekly service . It is significant that Henry Ford 's chief engineer has been to Lakehurst to talk over the problem . It is an adventure that Mr. Ford could well embark upon . Sooner or later this method of overseas voyaging must be tried to the fullest extent . T HE ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL recognition of Russia grows steadily more complete and definite . A contract has been signed by the Amtorg Trading Company , acting for the Soviet Government , and the International General Electric Company for the sale of at least $21,000 , - 000 worth of electrical equipment for export to Russia . Amtorg will pay 25 per cent of the agreed price in cash ; the remainder will be paid over a period of six years . It is said in Washington that the negotiations leading to this agreement were carried on under the eye and with the approval of the Department of State . It is also said that this approval represents no change of heart or policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the long-term credits , secured by the guaranty of the Russian State Bank , are looked upon as merely the necessary arrangements incidental to a strictly commercial contract . It will be recalled , however , that last year the State Department forced the Chase National Bank in New York to discontinue the sale of certain Russian railway bonds which it had placed on the market . Loans to enterprises under the authority of the Soviet Government were to be prohibited as strictly as loans to the Government itself . But in the light of this ruling of the Department of State the Journal of Commerce ( New York ) on October 18 comments editorially on the recent electrical contract , and asks : Wherein does this transaction differ from the railway-bond transaction ? The Soviet Government controls both the railroads and the State Bank . Morally as well as legally , the two transactions are very close . The head of the Amtorg in this city speaks of the contract as " a decided forward step in the growing commercial relations " between the two countries , and he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the State Department toward a position which to the average man appears to be very different from the one it formerly occupied . T O BRING ABOUT more friendly understanding between the Occident and the Orient the first India Conference of . America is being held in New York City . The East has been traditionally a mystery to the West . India is a strange and even forbidding name , and the purpose of the present series of meetings  --  to make available " a comprehensive knowledge and reliable information about India and her people , her art , philosophy and religion , her ancient civilization and her modern problems " ? can bring nothing but good to India and America both . An exhibition of modern Hindu paintings is being held concurrently at the Corona Mundi galleries ; the conference itself consists of lectures and discussions , notably " India Free ? Within or Without the British Empire ? " with Herbert Adams Gibbons , Robert Morss Lovett , Harry F. Ward , and others as speakers . And most interesting of all , for those who wish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here as a lecturer on India 's womanhood . Mrs. Naidu is a leading feminist ; she was president of the Indian National Congress in 1925-1926 ; she is a poet as well as a publicist . As an unofficial ambassador from the ancient , splendid East to the vigorous young West , she brings friendship as well as understanding .                     