@@490155

SINCE the recent to-do about the government 's putting an extra portion of poison in liquor , several purveyors of the illicit have told us that they have made arrangements to have every shipment analyzed . Our feeling is that if the bootleggers have really learned to safeguard our health ' Mr. Andrews unexpectedly will go down in history as having done a really great piece of work . AWEEK or two after the season of universal happiness , we can not resist calling attention to a teeny-weeny hit of the irony of things that recently caught our eye . We refer to an entertainment program , got out by the inmates of Auburn Prison on the occasion of their giving a show , and containing a tempting advertisement of the Cotton Club of Harlem , where one may dance to seductive music . If any amateur statistician knows what percentage of the Auburn prisoners thought this joke was funny , we will pay him a suitable reward in genuine old-fashioned oil stocks . WE WISH to call attention to a discovery that was made by the papers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to a newspaper , was nothing less than a super-society wedding . Those of us who have been in touch with things during the last few years have felt that a super-society has long been needed , and our thought now is that a Super-Social Register would ease everybody 's mind . A RELIGIOUS milestone exten- sively publicized during the past week is the Episcopal Bishops ' crusade for souls . It comes to an official end on Saturday . Obviously it is absurd to suppose that after Saturday , Episcopal Bishops will stop bothering about souls ; obviously the creation of a soul-saving week has its absurdities . The Church always looks a little foolish when it indulges in publicity . Ton many moving picture actresses use it to make the garment very becoming to St. Peter . THE CONCERTS in the great hall of the Metropolitan Museum began last week . Once again the Egyptian sarcophagi vibrate to the sound of fiddles and kettledrums , and once again the best part of the city is trooping in and spreading itself on the floor of the gallery and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accept excuses for nonattendance based on the plea of ignorance . These concerts should be an attraction to all who love good music , not because their setting is unique , but because they are truly good . BASEBALL , theatres , senators , Mexico , poison rum and pornographic magazines have all been bitterly assailed since the turn of the year . Despite a popular superstition to the contrary , gentlemen prefer charges . We are not yet ready to believe that baseball is basically base . It is probably no longer possible to buy a series , F.O.B. Detroit . At any rate , we can not clean up the game by a sweeping indictment . Perhaps this is contempt of court , but among the things we care for least is Kenesaw Mountain Landis trying to be an Alp . Ringing Steel MULE ICE is sometimes very good , sometimes quite bad , and always pleasantly crowded in the afternoon at Seventy-second Street in the Park . We solemnly recommend it as a place to go ? for the spleen , for the ankles , and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one 's shoes and topcoat in the warming house . Those who have skates but not ten cents ( and there were several of these the other after-noon ) may even avoid this by changing in the bushes and appearing on the ice with their shoes lashed around their waist by a piece of line . Possibly no crowd in all the town is quite so genuinely happy as this one . The kids are partly the reason . And there is the waspish-waisted girl in the green sport outfit who has tried everything for weak ankles except vaccination . And the little man in the beaver cap who does the twirlies . And the uncertain policeman , uncertainly shod with shiny rockers , vainly persecuting boys with hockey sticks , and finding difficulty in upholding the dignity of the Department when he feels himself slipping . And there is the lady fancy skater who is only about seventy per cent good but who has a way of passing off the imperfections with a smile . And the debutante , who stands very well along Park Avenue and who stands almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sheik ( in a derby ) who puts his hands behind his back , bends dreadfully low , and thinks of himself as skating very , very fast . And there is the tiny son of wealth , mounted expensively on double runners and convoyed by a liveried chauffeur ; the little scion is pretty bad , and the chauffeur is terrible  --  besides , he did n't hire out as a nursemaid , anyway . Twice around is a mile . At five o'clock , with the skaters silhouetted against the white pond and their dear voices silhouetted against the evening , there is a very particular magic in the scene  --  headlights of cars streaming north along the drive , still trees against a sunset sky , and all around hemming you in , the golden-tipped towers , splendid and far , like the peaks of St. Moritz . Item EMPTY taxi-cabs , it seems , are forbidden by a new police ruling from crossing Sixth Avenue into the theatre district during the night rush hours . Evasion is accomplished by invitations extended to pedestrians to take a free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted the hospitality of a driver the other night reports that he took the latter completely by surprise when , upon being told to get out , he demanded the amount registered by the meter . The taxi-man was so bitter about it , in fact , that he withheld a tip . Service ANOTHER milestone in the Season 's progress nears with the Junior League 's annual ball , this year to be an oriental pageant with buck and wing dances included . No one knows hove the Provisional Members , less portentously known as debutantes , stand the added strain of preparing for it in the midst of their activities and Social Service . Any debutante will tell you that the League has become a stern affair . Its membership is based upon examinations taken after four weeks of intensive training . There is no favoritism in the selection of candidates ; although , naturally , a young lady must have five letters of recommendation to prove that she is the right sort for sociological activities . Once accepted , she attends a course consisting of lectures and does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are on immigration , child welfare work , citizenship , etc. , and the field work consists in going through public schools and hospitals . Of course it does n't matter if she loses the notes she takes ( everyone does ) and she does n't have to stay long in the hospitals unless she wants to ( and her mother annroves ) . Nor is there any penalty if she does n't show up for the visiting at all , although the sessions are certainly an easy way to meet girls who may give luncheons and dinners . After four weeks of this grind comes the examination . There arc five questions , of which any four may be selected for answer , and if a mark of sixty per cent is attained the young lady passes . Thank goodness they have five days in which to write the answers . This year 's class was limited to one hundred Provisional Members . Thirty-two , as college girls , were exempt from the examination ; of sixty-eight who took it , sixty-six passed . Such rigor was not always in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a small group of debutantes led by Miss Mary Harriman , now Mrs. Charles Carey Rumsey . They called themselves the Junior League of the New York College Settlement , although today no one seems to remember just what the N. Y. College Settlement was . The League was an invitation affair ; it raised money for its settlement work by giving tableaux , which netted $1,200 the first year . Its members instituted the custom ( which still survives ) of taking the flowers they received at their coming-out parties to the hospitals next day . By heritage it had a flair for doing the right thing socially ; and , New York being what it is , it prospered . The rest of the country , also being what it is , took up the idea ; and the League has recently become national , although woe betide the Oshkosh debutante who thinks her membership in the home town League gets her very far in New York . Historically , the League 's tableaux grew into a series of solemn little plays , enlarged their audiences and became more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ younger generation swirled the conservatives off their feet and broke loose with what Broadway calls a leg show . The horrified mothers then took a firm hand and gained a compromise . A ball with a pageant included would be given . This became the annual affair of recent years . Last season it made $14,000 ; the most a leg show ever made was eleven . Virtue and competitive examinations have triumphed . Soft Answer UPPORTING the World 's dis- covery of the hollowness of night life , we are able to relate an incident reflecting upon its spontaneity . It concerns a substantial middle-aged gentleman who was given a seat beside the dancing space in one of our dens of rather pale iniquity . During the show one of the vivacious young ladies skipped out of line , and by way of making things livelier , pulled loose the gentleman 's tie and playffilly- rumpled his hair . When he gave evidence of being annoyed , her expression of gayety relaxed for a moment . " I 'm sorry , sir , " she explained , " but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the present era of demon-iacal newspaper activity has fastened upon our public men was illustrated the other day by the experience of two Manhattanites who found themselves , while strolling about Long Island , overcome with curiosity as to whether it , as an island , was larger than Manhattan . They asked a policeman . After deep thought he expressed the opinion that Long Island was the larger . " But , " he shouted to them as they departed , " do n't quote me on that . " John Erskine PROFESSOR John Erskine , the author of " The Private Life of Helen of Troy " and " Galahad , " is working on still another book that concerns the gods and heroes of our childhood , in this case Adam and Eve . The strange thing is , that while his pen is turning gods into people , the youth of Columbia University have turned Professor Erskine into a god . He sits upon Parnassus and beams kindly upon his adoring pupils ; and although he does not possess " the face that launched a thousand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has the worship of the many young men who attend his classes . They speak in whispers in his presence , we are told , and the more daring ask him for his autograph . This is graciously given in a small , neat hand , with the gentle warning that these requests for autographs must not be overdone lest some vague disaster result . By the casual and uninitiated observer Professor Erskine might easily he mistaken for an ordinary human . He started out , at the age of five , to be a pianist ; and , after becoming a thorough musician , he changed his mind quite in the manner of an ordinary mortal , and decided to follow a literary career . He still studies music , however , taking piano lessons with Ernest Hutchinson , and even gives an occasional recital to a friendly college audience . There is a piano in his study to which he takes recourse in the midst of his writing , and he is also known to play for the company at dinner parties , looking like a pudgy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stool and renders the classics with surprising virtuosity . His dinner-table conversation  --  almost as witty and racy as his beloved Helen 's  --  is also delivered with the air of a naughty boy , suddenly grown up , trying to shock his elders . THE ROOM where Professor Erskine works at Columbia can hardly be considered Olympian . It i3 a cubby-hole of a place , cluttered with books and chairs , and presided over by his secretary , who , when the professor shows any signs of becoming conscious of his collegiate deification , promptly reminds him of a dentist appointment " Adam and Eve " will be the last of the trilogy of books of this particular genre . What sort of an Adam , what sort of an Eve he is drawing the author refuses to divulge , but he says there is to be no serpent and no God in the story , nor is Eve to be created from Adam 's rib . ? THE MEN who contemplated calling Sir Harry Lauder in London , charges reversed , on the new trans-oceanic telephone would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate it is reported that he was seen recently in Detroit with three suits of clothes over his arm . Asked where he was going , he replied , " To the Detroit Free Press . " Carilloneers WORD COMES from the Park Avenue Baptist Church that the trustees there consider their problems in obtaining carilloneers to play Mr. Rockefeller 's bells at an end . The belief that only a person with years of training could properly ring such bells has been dispelled as a myth , we are told , by a young lady . She is Miss Ruth Muzzy Conniston , and the Park Avenue Church borrowed her from the Christian Science Church next door ( where she was an organist ) when the most recent carilloneer left the country a few weeks ago . Miss Conniston at the time knew nothing of carillons but was willing to try . The big bells ( there are fifty of them ) are played from an operating board in the tower . There are a row of levers to pull and a row of pedals to step on . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told Miss Conniston that she had thirty days in which to learn to play and introduced her to a practice board in the basement . That was in the beginning of December ; on New Year 's Eve she gave her first public rendition and it brought telephone calls of congratulation from the neighborhood . These Sundays she plays three times  --  before and after the morning service and at 7:45 P.M. when the music is broadcasted , over IVJZ . So exhausting is the work that she spends Mondays in bed ; but she has proved that a good musician can master the art , even to the most difficult of carillon feats , the ringing of a chord of four bells . Remembered THERE ARE those who are wondering these days what disposition the will of the late Joseph J. Manning will make of one of the most extensive collections of cigar coupons ever amassed . Mr. Manning , who was one of Wall Street 's noted plungers so long ago that the present generation scarcely remembers him , husbanded the little slips as though they were bank notes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single one of them . He died at his home in West Fifty-third Street leaving behind him more than the usual run of stories which circulate about the idiosyncrasies of big operators . Frequently , when the market was dull , he would start off on a vacation only to become so apprehensive that he would turn back before he reached his h9Iiday destination . When in town he would drive to his office each morning with a secretary who had , primarily , two duties . One was to prompt the broker with the significant word from some Shakespearean quotation . The secretary would say , simply , " Mercy , " and Mr. Manning would react with , " The quality of mercy is not strained , etc . " The broker explained that he thus kept his mind occupied until the market opened . The other duty was to appear on the floor from time to time                     