@@486371

p RESIDENT COOLIDGE 'S MESSAGE to Congress on the state of the nation is a first-class report of an executive to a board of directors . It is clear and straightforward , in the best style of any of the President 's documents , and  --  is lacking in vision and idealism . The President boasts not at all of his tremendous electoral success ; when he refers to it he does so merely to assert that it is a verdict that the country " is determined to go forward , " but that " it will have no pretenses " and " no vagaries . " Unfortunately , to the President , who in his Labor Day speech asserted that the New England mill operatives ought to call themselves blessed because they were earning $14.95 a week , the country 's " going forward " means merely business and material development . He makes many recommendations , most of which are tossed off with slight comment for the consideration of Congress . Some are routine ; others , like the proposal for a national police bureau , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unnecessary concentration of power in Washington . Mr. Coolidge 's approval of voluntary railway consolidations has helped to send railway securities sky-rocketing in Wall Street . Curiously , he looks upon the pending consolidations as altogether desirable  --  a complete break with the policy of the Roosevelt-Taft days  --  because he is convinced that it not only means " a greater element of competition as to service but it will afford economy in operation , greater stability in railway earnings , and more economical financing . " He is not able to see that for the Government to amalgamate all the railroads would afford far greater economies and far better financing than is possible under private ownership . O NE PASSAGE IN THE MESSAGE we notice with particular pleasure . It is that in which Mr. Coolidge warns our militant admirals and generals that he will take no stock , and he does not wish the country to take any stock , in the usual military alarums as to what other countries are doing in the way of armaments . " We shall do well , " he says , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Declaring that " this country has definitely relinquished the old standard of dealing with other countries by terror and force and is definitely committed to the new standard of dealing with them through friendship and understanding , " he raps the generals and admirals over the fingers by saying : " This new policy should be constantly kept in mind by the guiding forces of army and navy . " These are pleasant words . But they will be regarded as treason by our 100 per cent patriots who insist that we never did deal with other countries by the old standards of terror and force . To us this Presidential utterance will appear meaningless until we end the cruel and bloody Caribbean policy which has given the lie to the President in Haiti , Santo Domingo , Nicaragua , and other countries that have been the victims of our wanton aggression . Nor does the menacing plan of the navy bombastically to voyage to Australia and maneuver in Hawaiian waters at the very moment when our relations with Japan are so strained , make legal tender of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the words of our former ambassador to Japan , Mr. Cyrus E. Woods , who has just told the Federal Council of Churches that our anti-Japanese legislation was " an international disaster of the first magnitude , a disaster to American diplomacy in the Far East , a disaster to religion " ? 7 ! F ? 7E ARE ALSO IN COMPLETE SYMPATHY with the 41 ' President 's traveling to Chicago and back in an ordinary Pullman . Anything that will tend to democratize the office of the President and to strip it of some of the attributes of royalty which have been attached to it in the last twenty years deserves the heartiest praise . The Presidency was meant to be an office to which a Cincinnatus should go from the plow to return to the plow ; there is still no finer picture in American history than Thomas Jefferson , riding unattended into Washington for his inauguration and hitching his steed to a post . Mr. Coolidge has plenty of opportunity in the Presidential office for practicing the excellent doctrine of economy which he is preaching , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completely honest basis . Unless things have changed lately , various White House employees such as the first secretary to the President 's wife are carried on the rolls of other departments as clerks , etc . Thus the yacht Mayflower , on which the President cruises , is , we believe , still carried as a cruiser in the navy , although its chief function is serving as a pleasant place to give tea dances . If the President should have a yacht devoted to these valuable functions it should be so designated by Congress , and the men should be specially enlisted , not taken from the strength of the navy . The more that Mr. Coolidge deflates the Presidency , and cuts down officials and waste in the White House , the greater will the office really bulk in the eyes of the world . G ERMANY IS MOVING BACK to the center . In spite of Nationalist gains preventing a clear moderate majority in the new Reichstag , the Socialists have added at least thirty seats , probably enough to keep the Nationalists out of the Ministry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the extreme Left will practically eliminate anti-Dawes Plan , anti-Republican influences . The most striking returns come from Bavaria , where the Right suffered a loss of nearly 75 per cent of its strength and the Socialists gained 50 per cent . The election results may cause parliamentary difficulties but they show unmistakably the trend of public feeling in Germany . Hard times drive people to political extremes . Bolshevism and Fascism thrive amid economic chaos . Peace and relative comfort bring new strength to the parties of evolution . Political prophets foretold the moderate victories from such encouraging figures as the following , of bank deposits in Berlin : deleted table H ERRIOT HAS ADDED to his good name by agreeing in behalf of France to submit the vexed question of the " free zones " on the Swiss border to the World Court . This is a sensible and an honorable decision . Readers of The Nation will recall the distressing attitude of previous French governments . Old traditions and century-old treaties bound France to an annoying system of tariff regulation on the border near Geneva . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ border zone received Swiss products duty free . The Treaty of Versailles , to which Switzerland was not a party , arbitrarily declared these stipulations " no longer consistent with present conditions , " and besought France and Switzerland to negotiate a new agreement . This they endeavored to do , but while Switzerland was ready to assent to the deneutralization of the border provinces and to other limitations of her treaty rights France asked total abrogation of all the reservations upon her sovereignty . Finally , no common agreement being reached , Poincar ? , then Prime Minister of France , took the ' law in his own hands and moved the custom-houses to the frontier . Against this high-handed violation of treaty rights the Swiss Federal Council protested , but in vain . Naw a compromise has been reached  --  the terms are printed in our this week 's International Relations Section  --  and resort is had to arbitration . It is a practical expression of international good faith which the world will welcome . A T HOME HERRIOT has loudly and heroically stifled a Communist revolution . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolution or two every morning before breakfast . So far as we can judge from the newspaper dispatches this particular uprising consists chiefly in a strike by the sardine-packers of Douarnenez , a town in Brittany which in 1920 had a total population of 10,000 . This metropolis had a Communist mayor , and when the prefect of his department told him to stop the strike  --  the strikers were paid ten cents an hour  --  he wound the flag of France about his waist and went out to join the strikers on the picket-line . Other reports indicate that the Communists have been holding meetings and preaching revolution  --  which is hardly news . The other leading evidence of the Communist revolution in France is the return of Jacques Sadoul . C APTAIN SADOUL , a mild young school-teacher , was sent to Russia by the French Minister of Munitions in 1917 . When the revolution came he discovered that he liked the Bolsheviks , and he refused to assist the French Ambassador in his attempts to organize military intervention . Instead , he persistently wrote letters to French politicians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or two later , after his letters had found their way into print , a French court-martial amused itself by trying him in absentia on a charge of desertion , and sentenced him to death . Sadoul remained comfortably in Russia . A week or two ago he returned to France and telephoned to the police please to come and arrest him . That they did  --  and the boulevard press , to cover up its embarrassment at the necessity of arresting so pleasant a young man , began to howl about the Communist danger . Herriot , whose political position has been weakening , saw his cue . Whether there was a Communist menace or not , he would suppress it and win the laurels of the press . That he has done , and bravely : he has removed the mayor of Douarnenez from his office ; he has broken up meetings , denounced Sadoul , and finally has deported a few score foreign workmen . Thus not only France , but M. Herriot 's job as premier , is saved . O THER SIGNS reveal that M. Herriot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Millerand , Viviani , and so many other French statesmen who began their political careers as radicals and ended them as reactionary office-holders . With Ramsay MacDonald out of power in England Herriot 's liberal foreign policy was left high and dry , and Austen Chamberlain seems to have had no difficulty in persuading him to make a right-about-face and to join the British Tories in a career of empire . He is reported to have renewed the Franco-British agreement of 1905 ( one of the first steps in the policy which made the European war inevitable ) , agreeing to give England a free hand in suppressing Egypt in return for England 's support in the expansion of the French empire in Morocco . The Berbers of the Riff have thrown off the Spanish yoke , but they are not to be left to independence . France , in the holy name of " law and order , " will step in , and add what was Spanish Morocco to her vast African empire . England will aid and abet . Plans for peace are jettisoned ; and if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this program of conquest these two noble Powers will support each other in their aggression . It is a sorry deal , of which both countries will be ashamed . C HAMBERS OF COMMERCE , " sentinels of the republic , " " woman patriots , " and " defense societies " are mobilizing to stop the passage of the child-labor amendment . Let us make no mistake : These are the black hundreds of American reaction , men and women who have proved their scorn for the liberties guaranteed in the American Constitution but today take its name in vain . In the name of freedom and of the Constitution they would stop the federal amendment granting Congress the power to stop child labor . In their furious stand-pattism they distort facts , create false bogies , invent red perils . Nor can we solace ourselves with the belief that , because they have lost the power they once had to hound the police into arresting innocent men by the thousand , they are today harmless . They have not lost the power to frighten . Here is a simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few years ago State legislatures would have rushed to demonstrate their readiness to support such legislation . Today the apostles of fear have raised vague , enervating doubts  --  the absurd but effective bogy of federal regulation of the home , the irrelevant lie of nationalization of children , the outgrown shibboleth of State rights . And these fears disturb minds which are not touched by the sordid interest of the real inspirers of the opposition  --  manufacturers who would employ children  --  and retard the progress of a reform which would seem to be typically American . N OW THAT EVERYBODY ELSE in the world has called the Russian Communists names , George Bernard Shaw has decided to do it too . But he has thought of new names , and we have a suspicion that they will penetrate several inches deeper into Russian sensibilities than all the opprobrium of all the Churchills and Hugheses and Poincares in the world . Mr. Shaw discusses Mr. Zinoviev 's " cinematographic schoolboy nonsense " ? not in connection with the famous letter but with the constitution of the Third International , whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and affairs " shock Mr. Shaw profoundly . He says that modern socialism has left Karl Marx as far behind as science has left Moses . Mr. Shaw urges the Soviet Government to wake up " unless it wishes to become the main bulwark of capitalist imperialism in Europe and America , " and he blandly charges the Third International with wrecking the British general election in the capitalist interest and thereby making " the Sudan a present to the British Empire and the River Nile a present to the Sudan plantations syndicate . " There is enough stinging truth in every wrong thing Mr. Shaw says to hurt the feelings of any intelligent Communist . W HEN WE AMERICANS want a change in the cost of living or the price of wheat we grumble and make speeches and then eventually go out and vote about it . We vote Mr. Taft out of office or Mr. Coolidge in , according to rather vague feelings of discomfort or security . We still belieVe in sudden shifts which will make us rich and powerful and better than our neighbors . So we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it seems , do we manage to scratch our eyes in again . Which explains , philosophically , why Europeans have developed the cooperative movement to heights of success and mutual benefit beyond the dreams of all but a few of the 100,000,000 people in this country . Cooperation demands vision and intelligence ; it offers no opportunity for competition or dizzy individual success . Europe has come to it through generations of patience and hard work . A recent report by Huston Thompson , chairman of the Federal Trade Commission , and William Notz , of the Department of Commerce , writ-ten after ' a summer 's investigation , estimates that some 120,000,000 persons are linked to the cooperative movement in all parts of the world ; in England and Germany nearly half the population is affiliated with cooperative societies . The farmers of Finland and Denmark and Holland and Ireland are solidly and prosperously organized . In Czecho-Slovakia about 8,000,000 people are cooperators . On another page of this issue Agnes D. Warbasse describes some encouraging enterprises in this country . When cooperation in Europe is considered the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . M ORE PASSPORTS ! That is the cheerful prospect that the Secretary of Labor holds out to a public already too much inconvenienced and restricted in its natural right to move about the world as it pleases . Not only more passports but thousands of miles of new frontiers and walls of restriction to interrupt existing free and friendly intercourse . For that would be the practical result of Mr. Davis 's recommendation to extend the immigration-quota law to the nations of North and South America . Mr. Davis does not pretend that immigration from Canada and Latin America is a menace , but he imagines that the extension of the quota system would prevent what he calls the bootlegging of aliens over the Canadian and Mexican borders . In fact it would probably be as ineffective in that respect as is the Volstead law to stop bootlegging in liquor , while thousands of persons would be inconvenienced by the inevitable requirement of passports . Even worse , although less immediately apparent , would be the handicap to the natural economic and social development of the North American continent as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in North America , like the rivers and mountains , run north and south . At a moment when we are beginning to accept this fact Mr. Davis suggests new political barriers . His ideal for our country seems to be a system of barricades beside which the barbed-wire entanglements of the war were nothing . C AN THE AUTOMOBILE SUBDUE the desert ? We shall soon see , for the French are making what amounts to a mass attack upon the Sahara . Four expeditions have started or are about to start which among them will attempt the loneliest and most difficult reaches of this great expanse . The first expedition , using caterpillar wheels , is working its way from Algeria toward the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan , and thence through Abyssinia to French Somaliland . Another party under Marshal Franchet d'Esperey , governor of Algeria , is heading south into Dahomey , using six-wheeled cars in order to test their usefulness for such travel . A third journey will be made in ordinary touring cars , but west to east from French Guinea . to French Somaliland , while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airplane line from Tunis to the heart of French equatorial Africa . On top of all this we are not surprised to find that it is proposed to start a line of sightseeing automobiles across the Sahara in January , with a semi-weekly service . The project is fathered by Andre Citroen , manufacturer of the " French Ford . " It is proposed to make the trip of some 1,500 miles in nine days , establishing hotels where necessary along the route . Three types of conveyance will be used : caterpillar-wheeled cars , ordinary automobiles , motor boats . " Native ' jazz bands and other entertainments " are promised along the way .                     