@@487234

Gandhi 's simplicity , openness , frankness , and directness confound the modern politician , parliamentarian , and publicist . They suspect him of some deep design . He fears no one and frightens no one . He recognizes no conventions except such as are absolutely necessary not to remove him from the society of men and women . He recognizes no masters and no gurus ( spiritual preceptors ) . He claims no chelas ( disciples ) though he has many . He has and pretends to no supernatural powers , though credulous people believe that he is endowed with them . He owns no property , keeps no bank accounts , , makes no investments , yet makes no fuss about asking for anything he needs . Such of his countrymen as have drunk deep from the fountains of European history and European politics and who have developed a deep love for European manners and European culture neither understand nor like him . In their eyes he is a barbarian , a visionary , and a dreamer . He has probably something of all these qualities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and can look at things with plain eyes without the glasses of civilization and sophistry . Some say he is a nihilist ; others that he is an anarchist ; others again that he is a Tolstoian . He is none of these things . ' He is a plain Indian patriot who believes in God , religion , and the Scriptures . He believes even in caste , not the present-day subdivisions and subsections of it , but the four original castes of the ancient Aryans . He does not believe in the superiority or domination of one caste over another , but he believes in their different occupations according to their inherited ability . He is so orthodox as to believe that caste is heritable . Far from being an anarchist he believes in discipline , organization , and authority . His cult is not one of negation as some say , but of positive discipline made up of self-denial and self-assertion . He does not believe in the inherent superiority of the white race or in its God-given mission of ruling other people by making tools of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he abhors the industrial system upon which the civilization of Europe rests , and the double-mindedness which characterizes European politicians . The doctrine of non-cooperr ation which he preaches and practices is not a negation . It is the withdrawal of that help which the Indian people have voluntarily been giving the English which has made it possible for them to rule India and exploit her for their own ends . The non-cooperation program consists of : ( a ) Rejection of all government titles , honors , and honorary offices , ( b ) abstention from drink , ( c ) withdrawal of all boys and girls from a system of education which has reconciled the best of Indians to slavery under foreign domination , without feeling the sting of it , and which has made of them parasites sucking the blood of the classes that produce and work , ( d ) establishment of such schools and colleges as will give a secondary place to the study of English and other European literature , reserving the first for the spoken languages of India and for manual training , ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " their courts and their lawyers , ( f ) boycott of foreign cloth and the rehabilitation of Swadeshi ( i.e. , Indian-made cloth ) , 3 ( g ) withdrawal of Indians from the service of the British Government and from service in the British army and the British police , ( h ) non-payment of taxes . This is a provisional program which is by no means exhaustive and which is not to be put into practice all at once . Gandhi and his associates have been working on this program for only twelve months and the success they have achieved is marvelous . It is true that not many people have given up their titles or honorary offices . It is also true that only a small proportion of lawyers have given up their practice . As regards withdrawal of students , the vice-chancel- for of the Calcutta University , an Indian high court judge in the confidence of the British , complained the other day that in Bengal the attendance at colleges had fallen by 23 per cent and at schools by 27 per cent , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from examination fees . As regards the boycott of foreign cloth , he has succeeded remarkably well . Lancashire is already feeling the pinch , and the sale of foreign cloth in Indian bazaars has gone down to less than 25 per cent . It may be safely said that the masses and the middle classes are with and the wealthy against him . There are a sufficiently good number of wealthy men also with him as was proved by the phenomenal success of the Tilak Swaraj Fund for which ten million rupees were collected in less than three months . In these three months he perfected the Congress organization which now has a registered membership of about ten millions . He called upon the country to introduce two million new spinning wheels in the same period and the response was more than adequate . These are concrete items of his success , but to my mind his great success lies in having created a universal love of freedom and a spirit of non-violence among the people . The Indian patriot of Mr. Gandhi 's school is quite distinguishable from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has no secret affiliations either in India or abroad . He is frankly out to destroy the present system of government and win full freedom for his country , with full discretion to remain in or go out of the British Empire as it suits him best . It is true that the " higher " and " respectable " classes of the intelligentsia who have thrown themselves on the side of the Government are opposed to his program because it would reduce them to positions of comparative poverty and nothingness . The British in India have accepted these intelligentsia as subordinate partners in their business of exploitation . Imperialism is as much a business as capitalism . For 150 years the intelligentsia cried for reforms . The Government did not listen to them . At first they did not ask even for home rule . They merely wanted a few more posts and offices and extension of education . In 1905 rose a party which set up the flag of independence . Both the Government and the intelligentsia saw that the game was up . That astute scholar-politician , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moderates . " So he decided to throw them a few crumbs . They accepted them gratefully , sang Hallelujahs of gratitude and praise , and conspired to root out the extremist , both by repression and propaganda . In the meantime came the war . Lord Morley 's disciples and the princes immediately declared for the British , and persuaded the people to believe that British victory would bring them freedom . The country was " bled white . " Men and money , munitions and provisions were poured into the theaters of war , though the country itself lost millions of . souls ( six millions from influenza alone in six months ) from disease and distress . Victory came and was immediately followed by the Rowlatt Act which was a negation of freedom . Gandhi who during the war had been recruiting for the Government , but had caught the popular fancy by his simple life and fearless championship of the poor and the peasant , declared for passive resistance . All kinds of repression have been resorted to ; meetings proclaimed and prohibited , speakers and writers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . India is in a state of non-violent revolt . The most pleasing feature of the new movement is the active support it is getting from the women , who flock to the non-cooperation meetings , clad in khaddar , by thousands . Millions worth of foreign cloth has been destroyed in order to intensify the feeling against it . Thousands are ready to adopt general civil disobedience of British laws as the cult of their lives , but the leaders are withholding their consent in their desire to keep the movement strictly non-violent . When a man is arrested , he refuses to give bail and goes straight to the lock-up with a view to spreading the idea that he has no confidence in and he does not recognize the authority of the Government and its courts . In some places people have lost self-control and committed outrages on the police and government men . Gandhi has denounced them and advised expiation . The movement for Indian freedom has taken deep root and gone out of the control of the Government and the " respectable " section of the intelligentsia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suppress . The greater part of Mr. Gandhi 's following may even now accept a dominion form of government within the British Empire , but a little more delay and the weight of public opinion will not be satisfied with anything less than full independence .                     