@@488306

W HAT is social progress ? Is it synonymous with contemporary civilization ? Is it the mere flight of time in the history of mankind ? Or is it something rarer and more elusive ; and , if so , how are we to identify it ? The individual has never before been so deluged with newness , with novelty , as today . Teeming factories surround him with new material possessions ; roaring printing presses overwhelm him with new information and ideas . America is developing a philosophy which almost assumes that anything new is better than anything old . Probably no previous age or nation has shown such a general tendency to confound novelty with progress . Social progress is certainly not merely new inventions and ideas . Only a small part of the novelty of any generation is carried over to another and only an infinitesimal fraction survives a hundred years . It is dangerous to assume that everything new is mischievous or inconsequential , but it is more so to accept it as good and desirable without a most searching examination . Are there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such inquiry ? The question presents itself afresh in looking through the pages of a volume that has just come from the press. * The first half is a record of recent happenings and present conditions which may be regarded as causes of discontent . The second half is a directory of organizations and movements which are working to correct or eliminate some of those causes . The causes of discontent are presented in a series of brief and largely disconnected paragraphs , which in their treatment as well as their content suggest that modern civilization is in no other way suffering so cruelly as through its failure to distinguish between novelty and progress . The book in question does not pretend to answer the question How can we distinguish between novelty and progress ? It is a volume of information , not theory . The only test which possesses any finality is that of time , and we can only speculate as to how often such judgment is as it should be . But the general belief that man has made true and substantial progress since the Garden of Eden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be right . The trouble is that no individual or generation can wait for time to point the way . We must have a more immediate technique . Perhaps as good a one as can be found appears in the dedication of " Social Progress . " It is " To those who form conclusions from known facts and who wish to outlaw war , abolish poverty , unveil superstition , and secure justice . " The Great Advance Toward Peace B EYOND all question what has happened at Locarno is the most hopeful event since that worst of days , August 1 , 1914 . For the first time since the era of Charlemagne France and Germany have pledged themselves not to attack one another , have outlawed war against each other . The German Government has forever renounced all claim to Alsace-Lorraine , and has accepted the existing French boundaries as the definite delimitation of Germany 's westward expansion . j For that the world may sing to deums . Locarno not only punctuates the bloodiest and most disgraceful chapter in human history , it opens up a whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can outlaw war with the cooperation of England , Italy , and Belgium , why not the whole civilized world ? Who now will dare say that France and all the other Allies can not disarm and at last turn to the reconstruction of Europe ? Who can say , with Aristide Briand himself pledging that the alliance of the Allies is finished and that the very name is to disappear from the language of diplomacy , that Europe can not at last in dead earnest put an end to the hatreds and bitternesses of the war and begin its spiritual disarmament and reconciliation ? It is idle , of course , to deny that what happened at Locarno should have taken place at Versailles ; that the seven long years since the armistice with their spirit of revenge , the desire to humiliate and abase the former enemy , the readiness to starve to death women and children and to inflict such immeasurable suffering as that in the Ruhr and the other occupied territories constitute a shameful and utterly unnecessary chapter in the history of every conniving nation . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ memory upon those direful years for we believe that the events from 1914 onward must be kept before oncoming generations in order that the world may be warned against repeating such incredible folly and again intrusting its destinies to such faithless leaders as Sir Edward Grey , Asquith , Lloyd George , Poincare , Viviani , Bethmann-Hollweg , the two Kaisers and their guilty crew . But while we can not forget these years , we are of those who pray that the new chapter will genuinely mean a new era for all humanity . If the ' statesmanship is there , Locarno may be but a beginning and not an end , the beginning of an epoch . tr Locarno 's great achievement is an atmosphere rather than ( a text . There are always loopholes in any text. / A Poincare might interpret Article VI of the treaty of mutual guaranty , for instance , to suit his own purposes . " The provisions of the present treaty do not affect the rights and obligations of the high contracting parties under the Treaty of Versailles , " it reads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ruhr ; if thalt is not changed of what lasting values are then new pacts ? There are suggestions that the new arrangement may be used to isolate Russia still further and to present a solid European front not only against the United States but against the rising demands of Africa , India , and Asia for deliverance from the yoke of white imperialism . That the reactionary and chauvinistic press of France , England , and Italy has been the first to acclaim these new treaties of peace is not encouraging . A recrudescence of Kaiserism in Berlin , of Poincareism in France , and of the secret alliances and deceitful trickery of Greyism in England may , indeed , upset those alliances . But if our rejoicing is tempered by these considerations , we still can not but give thanks for the immediate relief that the new concord has brought , its restoration of Germany to full fellowship among the nations , and , best of all , the triumph of generosity and good will and sanity in France . What now will be the role of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may cease to be the creature of England and France , that with the entrance of Germany into the Council there willbe vigorously presented to Council and Assembly a different viewpoint from that of the war victors . There is , therefore , a prospect of stirring exchanges of opinions , and even of facing issues , like- disarmament , which the League has burked . The fact that Germany has received the promise of a seat in the Council and admission to the League itself , not by action by either Assembly or Council , but from the four leading members of the League , speaks volumes for the lack of democracy of that organization and reveals patently enough how certain the chief allies are that the League will do as it is told . Once in , Germany will , we take it for granted , raise the disarmament issue and compel a decision as to whether her fellow-members shall be allowed to keep up great standing armies or navies while she herself remains disarmed . In that she should have the moral support of President Coolidge and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will compel the League to vigorous action along certain lines in which it has been content to let the years roll by without accomplishing anything . Next to disarmament the most pressing need of Europe is for a tariff union . Nothing could accomplish so much for the spiritual disarmament for which we have just appealed and for the economic restoration of Europe than the establishment of a customs union . Here again is a great opportunity for Germany . Surrounded by high tariffs on all sides , she is yet expected to produce enough money to meet the demands of the Dawes Plan . It was the German customs union of 1834 that resulted in the tremendous development of the German states years before the Empire was reconstituted at Versailles in 1871 . Who can doubt that the breaking down of tariff barriers now would mean the accomplishment of what still seem economic impossibilities ? For the new and small states that have been created since the war the levelling of the tariff barriers with which they are surrounded could only mean their flourishing like the proverbial green bay tree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Esthonia , Poland  --  there is not one of these but would benefit incalculably by a free exchange of goods . No other measure would do so much to break down the nationalistic obsession out of which grew the war ; no other act could so effectively develop the interchange of thought and the friendly intercourse of the nations . Washington seems to take it for granted that there will be a general European economic conference before long . Here is the opportunity for the advocates of free trade . Meanwhile the Locarno treaties stand , if for nothing else , as complete justification of those who , like The Nation , have preached , in season and outl , the reunion of the enemies of the past upon the simple basis of mutual good will and the determination to build a new , a sane , and a just Europe . French - Debts and Liberian Rubber H ARVEY S. FIRESTONE announces that he plans to invest one hundred million dollars in rubber plantations in Liberia . This , he feels , marks an epoch in American history . Henceforth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Today the United States ( by which he means American capitalists ) control only 3 per cent of the world 's rubber production ; when he has remodeled Liberia it will produce 250,000 tans of rubber a year , which is half as much as the entire world at present produces . One hundred million dollars is not a staggering figure in Wall Street these days . The federal reserve banks cleared checks worth more than a billion dollars in a single day last week . One day 's transactions in the New York stock market recently involved a transfer of two and a half million shares , probably having a market value of nearly two hundred million dollars . Mr. Mellon has just informed Mr. Borah that corporate and government loans floated in the United States in the first nine months of this year totaled about $900,000,000 . Mr. Firestone 's project is quite in scale with every-day American finance . To Liberia it marks revolution . Liberia is a. strip of African jungle which was colonized by returned American ex-slaves a century ago . A vague American protectorate hitherto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonies , and from the intensive exploitation to which they have been subjected . It has a population of fewer than two millions . Of these " about 50,000 of the coast Negroes may be considered civilized , " according to the " Statesman 's Yearbook . " The white colony numbers fewer than 200 . There are no railroads and only twenty miles of motor roads . Liberia 's exports have been averaging less than a million dollars a year . What an investment of a hundred million dollars , development of a million acres , employment of 300,000 workers  --  these are Mr. Firestone 's terms  --  means to Liberia is incalculable . Such investments as . Mr. Firestone 's do not come within Mr. Mellon 's figures of billion-dollar foreign financing , but they may mean just as much to American citizens as any of the government or corporate loans . What attitude will the Government in Washington take in case Mr. Firestone gets into trouble , either with the French and British neighbors who have always watched their chance to nibble at Liberia , or with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stop rent riots , if the cost of a thatched-roof house soars too high under the stimulus of Mr. Firestone 's enterprise -- as we have just done in Panama ? Shall we continue to provide American officers for the native constabulary ( we do so now ) if it is used to conscript unwilling labor for the rubber plantations that are to " make America independent of Britain " ? Will our Government build light-draught gunboats to patrol the Liberian rivers as it has already done for the Chinese rivers ? Unless American opinion awakens to energetic protest we most assuredly shall do these things . Meanwhile the Washington ' Government is taking an energetic attitude toward export of American capital  --  to France . " America 's purse is closed to delinquent European creditors , " announces an inspired dispatch to one of the news agencies . " Blunt notice to that effect went out from the White House today to France and other debtor nations . " The extraordinary part of this notice is not that Washington wants France to repay and wants France to know it . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If a Socialist were to arise and demand that the Government be empowered to tell Wall Street bankers just what loans they might make and what they might not make he would be denounced as interfering with business . It is possible , of course  --  and even probable  --  that when Calvin Coolidge tells Wall Street how to act he is merely doing its unpleasant chores for it . One may , knowing Mr. Coolidge 's attitude toward business , suspect that the bankers do not like to tell France that they will not lend her money until she has settled her inter-government debts , and prefer to have the Washington Government bear the burden of any ill-feeling which may result from such a message . But whether in this instance Washington is doing Wall Street 's bidding or giving it orders it is getting into this foreign-loan business and deep into it . There are implications to this . Thus , if the Government censors loans beforehand it accepts an implied obligation to help carry out their terms . We do not believe the American people want that . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called on to clean up where investors and would-be investors have been caught in a jam  --  whether it be in China , Haiti , Liberia , or France . If the Government is to be the bankers ' chore-boy it ought to be their boss as well . The bankers certainly do not want that . Why not let them " go it alone " ? and suffer the consequences if their judgment is bad ? Capitalizing Calamity L OUIS LOUCHEUR of France is asking the League of Nations to make a coordinated plan for economic use of the natural resources of the world ; a plan to pool them and ration them under central control . Not much headway has been made with the proposal to date , and one suspects that , in so far as progress can be made today , it will be animated more by commercial envies and jealousies than by the economic welfare of the underlying population . But what a vision of a world ruled by common sense instead of by bunkum and bluff this proposal calls up ; what a challenge to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are said to float in the human brain ! A world deliberately ordering its precious and diminishing stores of coal , oil , lumber , minerals  --  without haggling and waste  --  for the benefit and comfort of its inhabitants . A world growing its corn and its cotton in those geographical areas best suited to their production , and shipping and exchanging them on the principle that a straight line is the shortest distance between two points ! , A wild , fantastic dream , so it seems today ; yet the job has actually been done . Under the pressure of war and the submarine menace , human intelligence , acting through the Supreme Economic Council of the Allied nations , actually rose to the chal ? lenge , and did coordinate and control the major resources and products of two-thirds of the world . Under the rule of normalcy and an economic system based on the sturdy principles of self help and all the traffic will bear , these war days , with an economic control founded on necessity rather than on pecuniary gain , seem remote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Incas , where , for two thousand miles along the spine of the Andes , with the steam engine in the womb of time , a population of ten millions was fed and clothed and sheltered without poverty , without want , without waste ; where a great system of reservoir store houses balanced the lean years with the fat . Let William Bolitho sketch the picture of the situation today : Our world system is so ordered that for a long way on every hand of a new calamity , the spreading wave carries prosperity and joy ; an approaching war brings vast delight and jubilee to every general , to all officers , to all the thousands of investors in munition companies , and all workmen in war industries rejoice . A famine enriches vast interests and classes in first effect . . . . Every farmer in three continents goes home to tell his wife that good times have come again . Speculators , traders , bakers , export houses , all share in the glad tidings . Joy and riches wrung from death , degradation , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeing our world as a series of competing geographical units . When the International Institute of Agriculture announced last winter that the estimated bread-grain crop of the world was 574,000,000 bushels short of meeting the world 's bread-grain requirements , and that the United States was the only nation with a substantial surplus , there was joy among American farmers . " Our own grain growers will largely monopolize what advantages there are for anybody in this situation . It means much for business prosperity here . " But the New York World , from which this quotation is taken , went on to show the wider aspect : " However , if Europe 's general buying power is reduced , the reduction must have its effect on foreign trade . It is easy to paint the advantages of a shortage in too brilliant colors . " Calamity can not be capitalized forever . Mr. Benton MacKaye , late of the United States Forest Service , is engaged single-handed on the kind of initial survey which the League of Nations ought to make  --  if its proposal is more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world into some thirty districts , following natural geographic boundaries . For each district he is tabulating present statistics of agricultural production , Taking the present population , he determines how much of that production is needed in the home districts and how much is available for export . Each district finally shows certain quantitative surpluses and shortages . Then comes a very pretty computation in balancing the shortages against the surpluses on the principle of minimum transportation haul . When such a plan as this ( and it is essentially the plan of the Supreme Economic Council during the war ) is superimposed upon the chaos of the present traffic  --  with its gluts and its famines , its tariffs and trade barriers , its speculations and its higglers , and its transportation wriggling in loops and circles through the seven seas ? the sheer cost in human labor of the failure to coordinate becomes manifest in all its immensity . And what Mr. MacKaye is doing for agriculture should be done for minerals , oil , lumber , and basic manufacturing such as textiles , steel production , boots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations is destined some day in fact to become a league of nations , this proposal to coordinate and control the store of the resources by which mankind is ultimately fed and clothed and housed remains a standing challenge to human intelligence . Our Literature and Ourselves I F the critic and the reviewer pass somewhat different judgments upon the value of contemporary American literature the fact is not to be wondered at , for they proceed , as they should , upon different asssumptions . The critic takes established masterpieces as his standard and he has to put himself out of time and place . The needs and interest of people long dead as well as those of generations yet to come are part of his concern , and his judgments attempt the absolute . The reviewer who sets out to deal only with a current literature is , on the other hand , concerned principally with the here and now . His business is with the meaning and significance of works to those who produce them and to those for whom they are produced ; he sees them as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them as such . It is for this reason that while the critic may grumble the reviewer is not dissatisfied with contemporary American literature . Whatever its other virtues or defects its immediate relevance to our thoughts and lives is obvious . It is not , as literature sometimes tends to be in less vigorous ages , a world apart . It is not , that is to say , occupied chiefly with fancy and day-dreams nor is its subject-matter limited by very stringent conventional or artistic restrictions . It takes all life as its province , it draws into itself whatever concerns us in our living , and it comes home to our hearts and bosoms . In our leading novelists , dramatists , and poets is visible no anxiety to escape and no hesitancy in setting down whatever seems to them most true and most vital . They are , as a class , passionately interested in the life of their times , they try to burrow into it as deeply as they can , and they know no relenting . Whatever we may say of their works we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature of his age , that it is irrelevant . The concern of our writers with national life is direct and eager , their chief occupation is with experiment which we are at present making in the art of living , and though we may find in them varying degrees of skill and profundity we can not , unless we happen ourselves to be outside the current of contemporary life , fail to feel that their writings are very close to us and very relevant . They will at least furnish the future historian with a marvelously complete record of our age and they serve to keep us immersed in it . When the reviewer has shown this , when he has proved that our writing is not separate from our thoughts , that it is not paralyzed or impotent but a free and vigorous record of our thinking and feeling , he has proved all that he needs to prove ; a national literature may be said to be functioning properly when it is affording , as ours is , a clear and adequate expression of national life . Whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature is as profound and as beautiful as American life . We are in it and if it does not always have the richness of English , the grace of French , or the brooding intensity of Russian literature it is because we ourselves are not  --  not yet , at least  --  as rich , as graceful , or as reflective as they . We may be sure that when we have become so our literature  --  unless meanwhile it has turned from its present course , unless it has ceased to reflect us as well as it does now  --  will reveal the change . Considered as a channel of expression , there can be no question of its adequacy today .                     