@@467943

0F COURSE it should . The speedy achievement of a high level of monotony is absolutely necessary to successful marriage : it is the character which distinguishes it from furtive liaison . Husband and wife should be for each other something in the nature of a general qualification of the background against which the events of life are played . For it is this general background which , by reason of its all-pervading influence , gives every lesser event a value . In the irregular union the personality of the individual has to be incessantly before the footlights ? the performer has to continue bowing and grimacing until the audience is surfeited and weary . The exaggerated wonder of adolescence at the mysterious revelation of the loved one represents a stage of development that can not be perpetuated . The irregular union is committed to the hopeless attempt to perpetuate this atmosphere ? an attempt which invariably fails . The few that apparently succeed do so by reason of the fact that they become marriages in fact if not in law ; the woman , as a novelist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes with the man upon a joint adventure , The necessary condition of a continued intimacy of living for a man and woman is the development of external and objective group interests . These interests tend gradually to minimize , if not to supplant , the mutual preoccupation with each other of two lovers on a honeymoon . To the young and ardent I have no doubt that middle-aged matrimony seems unduly monotonous . To those who are middle-aged and happy it seems to hold a serenity and a complexity of interest that compare well with the passing fevers of youth . If for no other reason , this apparent monotony might be justified by the single consideration of the disastrous effect which any alternative situation has upon the growing child . A young man of twenty-six had achieved for himself an unusually satisfactory position for one of his years . Re was a University graduate , he had to his credit a remarkable career in athletic games . After something of a struggle he had been very successful in business ; he was fortunately and happily married . To the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depressed and suicidal , and medical examinations gave no clue to the origin of his disorder . It remained for a psychiatrist to reveal something of the real situation , to discover the deeper impulses which had determined both the direction of his career and his dissatisfaction with it . His general attitude to the world had its origin in his infancy . Up to the age of seven he had lived mainly in hotels with his parents . The ordinary home life which every child needs , he had not had . In addition to this , the general atmosphere about him had been unhappy . His parents suffered an irksome incompatibility of education and interest ; his early years were lived in scenes of marital discord . When he was seven this discord culminated in a divorce , after which the boy lived the greater part of his life , until later adolescence , in boarding schools . During this period he was accustomed to spend a portion of his holidays alternately with either parent . His memories of such vacation time were largely preoccupied with recollections of parental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the growing child for evidence of resemblance to the other ; when any such manifestations appeared they were unsparingly condemned . This being his general history , it was not surprising that in adolescence the boy should have developed a secret conviction of his own utter worthlessness , of which he spoke to none . But although he had never mentioned this conviction of his personal unworth and futility to anyone ? not even later to his wife ? it had apparently operated largely to determine the direction and character of his development . Such athletic success as he achieved was by no means incidental or the mere expression of physical vigor . On the contrary , it was deliberately designed as a " test " in order to prove to himself that he was at least as other men are . He remembered that on one occasion as he scored a winning touchdown for his school this thought was definite in his mind . So also with his success in business and with his choice of an unusually pretty and intelligent girl for wife ? both these achievements were so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinary , that is , of his capacity for coming up to the ordinary level of humanity . With him , as with the majority of such cases , there was a passionate desire to be mediocre , and content . But the endeavor failed since no success sufficed to convince him of his happy mediocrity . At twenty-six an irrational but understandable conviction of his inferiority and futility took entire possession of his thinking , and the impulse to suicide followed as a matter of course . In this case , as in many , the ability of the individual to recover something of normalitywas conditioned by his ability to understand the origin and nature of his curious attitude to the world about him , and to alter it fundamentally . When I last saw him his mental situation had improved beyond belief but at the cost of much time and trouble to him and his advisers . This is not a special instance ; unhappy marriages begin in the repudiation of monotony by the parents and end , for the children , almost invariably in the psychopathological clinic . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never known an instance of nervous breakdown in the children of happily married parents . But it is difficult for people to be happily married in these days . In the so-called literature of our time there is increasingly manifest a tendency to repudiate happiness in marriage . This is no doubt a consequence of many changes that have occurred in the last two generations . It is perhaps especially due to the modern aggregation of humanity in large cities . It is this aggregation which has reduced domestic duties from a high economic function to drudgery . It has deprived woman of her special sphere and has found her no feminine counterpart . It has largely destroyed group life and the feeling of group function in man and woman alike . It has increased the loneliness of the individual and has embittered it by making it a loneliness amid a multitude . Love is in one respect like food : it matters most when one has n't any . This is the situation of many unfortunates in this world of ours . There are more people starving for love and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and embittered by the general attitude to marriage . Love and sex are by no means identical ; yet the inner life of civilization is at present dominated by an unintentional conspiracy which has for its apparent object an exaggeration of the importance of sex . The means employed are so diabolically ingenious that , if one did not know that the situation had merely happened , one would of necessity suspect craft and intention . Our whole prose literature , essays and fiction , is given over to discussion and depiction of " romance . " The average novel describes the events which lead up to marriage ; novels of married life describe the events which lead up to divorce and re-marriage . This is one outstanding influence brought to bear upon youth . It finds as complement an even more nefarious compulsion , the general suppression of competent sex discussion . For adequate sex discussion is substituted the pornographic novel or instruction in false psychologies . What wonder that sex writes itself into our newspapers and fills hospitals , asylums , and prisons ! A continuous positive stimulation coupled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a method of helping the young to see sex and marriage with clear eyes . The situation is especially difficult for the man or woman who is alone , or virtually alone , as many are , in a big city . Everywhere such a person finds suggestion and suppression . If he , or she , goes to the " pictures " he is first assured that the picture has been " passed " by the censor of public morals . Having received this assurance , he is compelled to watch a wearisome series of anticlimaxes ? husbands , wives , and lovers posing and posturing about the eternal triangle . Like a new Euclid , the moving pictures are an attempt to infer , by abstract reasoning , all the properties of triangles . There is much to be said for a love story which is simple and fine ; it is an incentive and inspiration to youth . But overemphasis and exaggeration of the importance of sex is bad , even if it is not directly vicious . It does not make life easier for those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marriage sex is probably the dominant factor . Civilized marriage is quite otherwise ; it includes sexual intimacy , of course , but only as a relatively small item in a highly complex situation . The sex factor may seem important at first but is soon merged in wider interests ? intellectual and socialcopartnership , children , a house and garden , a joint career , children 's careers , friends held in common . Sex , as developed by civilization , is very complex . One sees this complexity of sex clearly demonstrated in civilization 's failures . Experience in a psychopathological clinic makes one doubt the truth of the common assertion that man is naturally polygamous . Man can be polygamous , it is true ; but it takes much effort and is not worth while . Judged from the standpoint of the clinic , promiscuity is a road to misery rather than happiness . It involves not victory but defeat for sex . I was once asked to examine a young man of twenty-six who was said to have lost his memory . The description was not altogether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but had developed what he called " holes in his thinking . " He was a representative of an important firm in a big city and one of his chief duties was to visit other business houses . One morning he walked , as usual , into one such business house and discovered , to his astonishment , that he had forgotten the particular errand which had taken him there . He consulted his pocket book and found the name of this house and two others . He could recall nothing of his business with any of the three . Taking thought , he realized that he could not remember whether he had called at his own office , or , if he had done so , the route by which he had traveled thence . A mental condition of great distress immediately followed . He thought he was " losing his mind " and anxieties multiplied themselves on his mental horizon . In other words , lie became a case of " nervous breakdown , " tortured by unnecessary fears and self-accusations . Taking his history in detail , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until the age of sixteen , when his father had died . Shortly after this he became unduly intimate with 11111 ? Em .. SHOULD MARRIAGE a woman many years his senior . The liaison lasted for a year , at the end of which period he became afraid and abandoned the relation . In the early twenties he returned to promiscuous living and from then on such of his time as was not given to business was increasingly thus occupied . One day the thought occurred to him that his habit of relapsing into sex-reverie on all possible occasions did not make for a successful business career . He determined to break away from this form of meditation , to pay no heed to women who passed him in the street . The sequel showed that , although he could suppress thoughts of sex , he had lost the capacity for putting other thoughts in their places . The " holes in his thinking , " his lapses of memory , disappeared directly we encouraged him to allow his sex reveries to return for purposes of critical discussion . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that promiscuity leads to utter dissatisfaction . Sex which remains merely sex becomes weary , and any species of rapid transfer of the impulse from one object to another achieves only increased weariness . To describe the situation as a conflict between a " natural " sex impulse and an external code of morals is superficial and mistaken . The conflict lies in the heart of sex itself ; the situation is that the sex impulse has failed to reach its goal , has achieved only disappointment . Civilization is founded very largely on the empirical discovery that the complex goal of sex is marriage ; no lesser condition is satisfactory . The very renunciations , or apparent renunciations , are part of the realization . Sex-energy is " funded , " a small part for direct , a large part for indirect expression of a social and intellectual kind . The complete ignorance imposed by a " strict " upbringing is no preparation for romance and marriage . The adolescent who lives in such surroundings realizes , better than his parents know , vestigation , I challenged directly . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story affection for a man or his affection for you must have played a part ? " She thought for a moment and then said , " I remember years ago that a man once walked home with me from a party . " It was pathetic that this should be the only recollection that came to her , the only suggestion of romance in her tragically lonely life . It was still more pathetic that the cause of the emptiness which had been substituted for love , happiness , and children should have resided , unsuspected by her , in herself . There are cases which show a clear-cut resistance to marriage with much greater definiteness . A college graduate who " broke down " in her later twenties was accustomed to bemoan the fact that she was " unattractive to men . " This did not seem probable unless all the men of her acquaintance were themselves eccentric , for she was well educated , good looking and well off . Investigation speedily showed that for years she had been in the habit of " crossing the road " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only when she liked the approaching man and never when she disliked him . Here also the conflict and the cause of the trouble was in herself . Although she did not know it , she was trying to prevent the whole range of her desires for love and children from coming to expression . Her behavior suggested the prude , and yet behind the scenes in her mind her typically feminine desires and interests were , if anything , stronger than in the average woman . It was this very strength , combined with a belief that such feelings should be suppressed , which caused her trouble . Talking to a man she liked accentuated her difficulty of control , so she avoided the conflict by running away . She had never realized in spite of her education that control implies adequate expression , and not complete repression , of our racial and inherited capacities . One of the most interesting cases of this type that I have ever known was that of a girl of thirty or so who admitted several " engagements " and who also admitted at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretty and well supplied with this world 's goods . She had been brought up in a most sophisticated European society and had no social difficulties to contend with . All doors were open to her wherever she might travel . Yet as she progressed towards thirty she developed eccentricities of which she was quite clearly aware and which annoyed her the more because she could not account for them . For example , the sight of a church or the sound of a church bell always made her ill . There was no trace of agnostic influence in her personal history or her youthful surroundings , but her various hysterical symptoms were nevertheless much accentuated on Sundays . She was " intensely interested in the problem of free-will and determinism , " so much so that if anything in an ordinary conversation suggested this problem she fell into an emotional condition and tended to lose control of her limbs . Finally she consulted a medical practitioner and was sent to hospital for further examination . Now it is not the overt history of those who suffer from neurotic afflictions that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history of doubt and conflict that throws light upon their troubles . This poor lady had a theory no more than a theory ? that in each instance her marriage had been prevented by the poverty of the beloved man . The shortest discussion sufficed to make plain that , if she had married , her income would have been far above that of the average family . It also revealed the fact that , if she was driven by a wild impulse towards marriage , she was actuated also by an equally strong reaction against it . None of her love affairs ran smoothly or were happy . Her attitude alternated between hope and despair , between enthusiasm and a feeling of " utter impossibility . " Nor was her choice of a man in any instance fortunate . She seemed to give her consent in a mood of enthusiasm and desire and immediately to repudiate the agreement in a mood of pessimistic reaction . This did not make matters easy for the man ; she was always an " April 's lady , " uncertain and difficult to please @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffered attacks of pronounced depression in adolescence , long before romance in the concrete had risen , like a star , above her horizon . Though by nature gay and happy , occasionally in the midst of dancing and hilarity she would be overcome by an attack of weeping and would withdraw into a miserable solitude . To the initiated , this description may seem to be highly suggestive of what the psychiatrist calls the manic-depressive psychosis , a form of insanity in which excitement and depression , mania and melancholia , alternate . Yet there proved to be no trace of real insanity ; her trouble was breakdown , the inevitable result of a continuously mistaken upbringing . It is worthy of notice that none of her friends ever suspected her abnormality ; she was occasionally " difficult " but never " queer . " Here then an extraordinary picture reveals itself . A girl , presumed by all her acquaintances to be normal , yet suffers private agonies by reason of an intolerable conviction that she is a hopeless sinner . She can not make decisions , she sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her mind to enter a shop to buy some ordinary commodity . Nor can she find consolation in religion ; the accepted forms are unendurable to her and the Christian God merely a vindictive agent of punishment . She has a strong desire for marriage , she believes also that marriage will remedy her condition ; but in spite of this she is utterly unable to carry a bethrothal through to matrimony . It is tragic that parental love can react to a child 's disadvantage , yet that same love and affection proved to have been the source and origin of this particular disorder . Dr. John B. Watson has pointed out that an infant 's development can be made or marred before it reaches school age ; this case serves to illustrate his claim . The girl 's mother had been induced in adult life to participate in efforts after social reform which she had not the requisite knowledge to understand clearly . The unwisdom of this became evident when she developed a morbid fear of the results of sexual promiscuity , a fear unenlightened by any gleam of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with her only child as an attempt to subdue , and savagely , anything which seemed to her symptomatic of sexual precocity , interest in marriage and children , and so on . Unfortunately she succeeded all too well : her daughter came to look with horror upon any symptom of such interest or activity in herself . And the failure to achieve a normal adaptation to life was progressive in its effect ; the years brought not healing but an increasing area of disaster in their train . So much so indeed that we were surprised to find her capable of responding to treatment and returning to normality across the barren waste of years . It is somewhat extraordinary that in the most important department of life we are commonly accustomed to leave the education of the child either to chance or to those totally unequipped to grapple with the various problems of sex . It is as if in this particular respect we desired to impose an artificial imbecility upon the child . As a society we acquiesce in the " innocence " of the adolescent girl , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not inquire what effect so disastrous an ignorance of herself is likely to have upon the growing girl , nor how she will react to rude enlightenment coming perhaps from a prurient source . There are those who dismiss the matter with a laugh and an assurance that ignorance of this sort survives in very few individuals in these days . To this last claim I can only reply that psychopathologists in every civilized country find that ignorance and half-knowledge are still doing their deadly work . Even in those who have had promiscuous and unfortunate experiences one still finds the densest ignorance of the real facts of sex . And one finds also that it is this ignorance or half-knowledge which drives them into nervous breakdown or promiscuity or both at once . Even those who desire to help the child frequently succeed only in doing harm to an extent that remains for the present unknown . There are well-intentioned individuals , for example , whose idea of education in the normal and natural facts of sex finds expression in endeavors to enlighten the infant before it can understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dread effects of disease . It requires strong understanding to face such facts as these . The only possible effect such endeavors can have upon adolescents is to drive them down towards perversion , obsession , and morbid fear : before adolescence it is well to let an infant ask his own questions . All other efforts succeed only in exaggerating the importance of sex beyond the normal . They must consequently be regarded as part of the general conspiracy against happiness which characterizes our methods of adolescent training . The situation finds a partial parallel in the classic tale of Bluebeard . Every room in the house save one is open to investigation : but that one room of mystery is doubly locked , bolted , and barred . The inevitable effect is that the whole interest of the house comes to center in the one secret chamber . And the exaggerated importance does not depend upon its contents ; it is conferred upon it by the mere fact that it is forbidden . So long as we fail utterly to ensure that sex development is guided by appropriate knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potent cause of mental disorder . Over-stimulation combined with suppression induces reverie on the forbidden subject ? together with an acute consciousness of sin . A young man of twenty-eight , suicidal , was brought into a clinic with both radial arteries slashed across . It was said of him that he had " overworked , " that be could not " stand up against responsibility . " These assertions were true , but unimportant . The important fact in his personal history was a sex-experience at the age of eight . Thereafter he developed two types of reverie , the one an over-stimulated interest , and the other a conviction of sin and disgust with himself . He was unable to summon one without the other ? thought of sex brought shame and the feeling of shame was accompanied by over-stimulation . No wonder that he could not stand up against responsibility . His mind was a house divided against itself ; and sex had acquired an entirely fictitious importance in his life scheme . As a result life became unbearable , and he sought escape . There are many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Freudian psychology for the claim that all " sex-repression " should be abandoned . This is a most ludicrous misunderstanding ; the Freudian doctrines are much nearer to being a triumphant vindication of the methods of living prescribed by conventional morality . Freud teaches that repression is necessary but that it must be established in the pre-adolescent period , if trouble after adolescence is to be avoided . It is true that he uses the words " reaction formation " and " sublimation " in this connection , but the practical significance of his claim is not thereby altered . He uses the term " repression " to-describe the general situation that arises when an individual becomes adolescent without having established in infancy the inhibitions of aberrant sex impulse which are necessary to mature normality . Such an individual tries to model his conduct on that of others , but behind the scenes in his mind the uninhibited perverse tendencies continue and develop ? finally manifesting themselves in promiscuity or nervous breakdown . So there is no comfort in Freud for the would-be promiscuous ; he regards all promiscuity , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is no psychopathological theory , Freudian or other , which supports the view that sex perversions should be allowed expression . But there seem to be many novelists who imagine this to be the outcome of " psychoanalysis . " The book market is flooded with the productions of writers who fondly imagine that they are entitled to expound , in fictional form , " the new psychology . " There is hardly one such book that is not merely a pathological specimen . And pathological specimens are of value only to experts . The truth is that what the average novelist calls love is an ailment of adolescence that must be got over before life proper can be said to begin . Passion , the onset of sex , is painful ; the " drag " of matrimony is the true romance . The novelist who conceives married love as a continuous chuckle-headed infatuation is a public nuisance . And the man or woman who models his behavior on this conception is a pernicious influence in the community . If the early attitude toward husband or wife is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or wife is to get out of the limelight as speedily as possible . Only in proportion as husband and wife succeed in retiring from the center of the stage do they achieve love and happiness . The woman who insists upon continual proofs of devotion very soon receives , and deservedly , proofs of excessive boredom . It is her real busi ness to get " out of focus " and to pervade the whole background of her husband 's life . So also with the man . Only when both have consented to constitute a joint background can they look at things as not " mine " or " yours " but " ours . " In real marriage divorce is impossible because wife and husband fill the universe for each other , though never or rarely in " focus . " The moving pictures are sometimes as much at fault as the novelists in this regard . A recent production heralded the advent of " the triangle " by such captions as " He sought money and power and forgot his wife . " " After fifteen years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " If one could n't take one 's wife for granted after fifteen years , there would be little love and no civilization on this planet . Yet this sort of vicious sentimentalism is served out daily to gaping crowds who begin , against all common sense , to believe it . In California the newspapers quite frequently report a divorce suit as involving a husband , a wife and " her suitor . " If wives can have " suitors , " then we shall go far towards realizing the imaginations of the perverted novelist . Marriage and utter boredom will become synonymous terms . Adolescent love is an event ; married love is a situation . The first is a critical phase of development , the second is sustained romance . The desire to retain a special mystery or attraction is imbecility . Love for a wife implies an inability to conceive of life without her . The music of the spheres begins , years after the marriage ceremony , when this happy condition is achieved . For both man and woman the domestic atmosphere should hold rest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great adventure .                     