@@219668

While politicians are arguing , objecting , protesting and shaking in their boots because the World Court will or will not be a political issue , what is this world court ? Who made it ? Who controls it ? What power has it ? What is it for ? Its right name is the Permanent Court of International Justice . It was not created by the League of Nations Covenant , but its structure was projected thus : " The Council ( of the League ) shall formulate and submit to the members of the League for adoption plans for the establishment of a Permanent Court of International Justice . The Court shall be competent to hear and determine any dispute of an international character which the parties thereto submit to it . The Court may also give an advisory opinion upon any dispute or question referred to it by the Council or by the Assembly . " In February , 1920 , the Council appointed an Advisory Committee of Jurists , among them Elihu Root , who drew up a plan for the Court . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Committee 's plan with alterations . This " statute " of the Court was subsequently ratified by a majority of the members of the League , and judges were elected . The Court met for its first annual session on June 15 , 1922-so it is not yet a year old . The Court is composed of eleven judges and four deputy judges , elected for nine-year terms . Each nation may submit four candidates for the Court , two of whom are not of its own nationality . From this group the judges are elected . The expenses of the Court are paid by the League of Nations . The " statute " of the Court provides that it may handle disputes about treaties , breaches of international obligations and reparations for such breaches , provided such disputes are submitted to it by both parties . There is also an optional clause attached to the statute , which if accepted by a nation thereby pledges that nation to compulsory jurisdiction of the Court in certain legal disputes with other nations , who also have accepted the optional clause . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France , Italy and Japan are not among them . ( The President 's proposal for our participation in the Court does not call for adherence to the optional clause for compulsory submission of disputes to the Court . ) <P> Citizens of the following countries are now judges of the Court : Spain , Italy , Cuba , Great Britain , Holland , Japan , France , the United States ( John Bassett Moore , former Counseller of the Department of State ) , Denmark , Switzerland . ( The eleventh seat was filled by a Brazilian , now dead . ) The four deputy judges come from Rumania , China , Yugo-Slavia and Norway .                     