@@493399

uzRA MEEKER , one of the last of the pio- r , veers who went west in covered wagons , died the other day at the age of ninety-seven . And too much history died with him ? too much is dying every day in America as one by one the Old Men pass away . For old men can never tell all they remember . Some things they remember are too ' deep for telling . The night they almost , but not quite , gave up in a blizzard when the limbs grew weary in the pitiless cold , when sleep seemed the sweetest of all blessings ? and when the death that follows sleep on a frozen night seemed not Worth caring about . The long days in a covered wagon when no road , only prairie , reached out to the hori ? zon and led them on . Nights on the long trek to Utah or Oregon or California ? to any place where gold or deep soil or religion led ? when camp was made beside some green-edged stream , and children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , wide-eyed , remembering Indians , watched dark ? ness creep among the willows . The days of settlement when one log room grew to two and then three , when the green of the new wheat edged year by year wider into the wilderness of sagebrush or forest . Indians came , and women on lonely ranches were afraid when some old chieftain and his " braves " rode up . They trembled a little when he stretched out his arms to the valley and said with fierce resentment , " All my land , all my water . " But the soldiers took care of the In ? dians , killed them off in rocky ravines , herded them to reservations . As years went on they still camesometimes in the fall , but peacefully , with squaws , ' building their campfires across the creek , moving on the next day to gather pine nuts in the nearby hills . The days of civilization and plenty when fathers and mothers who had walked across the plains saw their sons and daughters , who were sometimes ashamed of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universities and markets , getting education and good grammar , making money ? not listening when grandfather , before he dropped into final irrevocable silence , told the tale of young America going west . Sons and daughters of pio ? neers going east now , " back " east , completing the circle , seeking the culture their grandfathers left when the rich black soil of Iowa , the white peaks of the Rockies , the golden depths of the California hills , called to adventurous youth east and south . . The West is peopled now . The red men lead emasculated lives on reservations ; in Montana , Idaho , New Mexico , they sit , fat and sleepy , fol ? lowing the shade that moves around grocery stores where white men sell shredded wheat and chewing gum in patented packages . The Pacific has turned the Oregon Trail back upon itself . It is as adven ? turous as ever , but it is covered with-asphalt and leads mostly east . Cars whiz by too fast to mark the places where men died slowly one hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ empty world . Ezra Meeker first went by ox team over the Oregon Trail to ' Washington seventy-six years ago . He made the trip six times in all and was the last man to go in a prairie schooner . Within the last few years he founded the Oregon Trail Association to mark its important historic points , and to honor the trail-blazers , of whom 20,000 lie buried in unknown graves along the 2,000 miles between the Missouri River and the Pacific Coast . Four years ago , at the age of ninety-three , he flew in twenty-four hours over the route that had taken six months in 1852 . Who could know his feelings and how could he tell them ? Some things are too deep for                     