@@490079

LAST week saw Spring coquetting on Fifth Ave-nue , but aside from that uncalendared escapade ( did you ever notice that sunny late-winter days on the Avenue always seem brighter and more gay with promise than anywhere else in town ? ) there were n't many events of interest to mention in my letter to Aunt Evelyn in Dubuque . Despite implications of the catch-line of a certain new magazine most of the old ladies in Dubuque are most keenly interested in things that are supposed to interest only New Yorkers . However , I told her about the number of men popping up from the South for a few days with offensively tanned faces and the irritating information that they intend to go back again in a couple of days for another month of tropic ease . / thank my lares and penates that at least the time is not ripe yet for their insufferable farewells as they steam away for summers abroad . Ciro 's opened the other night with Mary Hay and Clifton Webb as the supper club 's dancing team and when they inaugurated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the place . I did n't go myself after an attache of the restaurant discounted the need of any further guests the opening night by declining , over the phone , to reserve a table for Aunt Evelyn 's nephew . I 'd have been obliged to forego the event anyway , it turned out , as a sudden call took me to Baltimore for the night . The Congressional Limited , I discovered , has put in practice the dining car booking system one finds on trains in England . Sittings are assigned by cards distributed by the dining car steward an hour or so before the diner is open . It 's a good system , as the English found out several years ago , though it was not functioning any too smoothly on the Limited . When three of us marched in , as our cards provided , at 6:15 , to take our places at Table A-8 , four individualists were firmly intrenchered . I hope , nevertheless , that the system can be put into practice over here as I know of few unhappier moments than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or six cars , that the corridor of the diner is packed like a six o'clock subway traiie . I hope that eventually the orderly arrangement of dining car sittings will be able to do away with the annoying no-smoking-in-the-diner rule . The sole reason for its existence to-day is its discouragement of the lingering passenger who likes a cigarette or cigar with his coffee . I should think the perfect working of the new system would allow the momentary comfort of tobacco in the minute and three-quarters consumed by the waiters in bringing change . I used to think that was the Height of Something in belles lettres but in that mist of the dawn ahead in which one senses Perfection an even higher monument to beauty has taken form out of the haze . It is the following from a new popular song entitled " My Kid " : I am told it is making thousands of better men and women in vaudeville and night club circles . The elderly matron with the lifted face has become so common that it must be a very good joke about her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mrs. Louise Conti , 83 years old , erstwhile bathroom maid at the Plaza , demands a pause in the day 's occupations . It seems , says the World , that Mrs. Conti has worked hard all her life . When she was 78 , Mrs. Conti was still able to stand on her hands . But a few months ago , despite her matutinal application to the programs of calisthenics in the newspapers , she found herself a bit stiff in one or two muscles when the day 's work of cleaning forty or fifty bath tubs was over . There were unquestionably wrinkles in her hands . So she accepted the invitation of a beauty specialist whose newspaper advertisement informed her that a free clinic was available for such as she . She tried to take advantage of the offer , but to her discomfiture and the amazement of the beauty-doctors her skin was fine and clear , her teeth were sound , her eyes were bright and from her conversation in fluent Italian , French , Spanish and English it was obvious that she was vivacious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They could n't do much about the wrinkles in her hands . Having held its ninety-ninth annual reception and ball the Old Guard has at once subsided into that lethargy which it maintains between these annual functions . However , it is nut quite fair to the Old Guard to intimate that it does nothing but give a ball each year , though to do even that steadily for ninety-nine years requires a certain amount of tenacity . In addition , the Old Guard has become a standard part of any New York parade . Lined up in their towering bearskin shakos , wearing their famous uniform of blue trousers and swallow tailed coats of white decorated with blue , red and gold facings , these doughy warriors are one of the few links connecting New York with its past . From the gold tassels topping off their prodigious shakos to the tips of their impressive boots the members of the Old Guard have not altered for a century . While the call to duty at parades or for the massing of the colors at the ball never finds the members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drills , which are not compulsory . Thus , although all members of the organization were once members of the Army , Navy or National Guard , there is often a lack of that precision which characterizes the marching of our West Point cadets . But the magnificence of uniform more than makes up for any slight technical lack , and it would indeed be a captious critic who would find fault with the appearance of the Guard . Back in the early days , the organization was known as the Light Guard and began its career on the Bowery . In the ' 3os it was merged with the City Guard and as such both continued until the Civil War when they were absorbed by larger commands . After that war the veterans of each got together and in 1868 the Old Guard was chartered by the State of New York . For many years the annual hall was held in the old Academy of Music , and I believe , was also at one time held in the Madison Square Garden . Still later it was transferred to the Metropolitan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the " wine balls , " a slang term applied to the large public dances to which the wine merchants of the city would send representatives to give away quantities of wine and champagne as advertisements for their products . Naturally , balls in those days were gayer and more lively affairs , but the Old Guard has managed to withstand even the rigors of prohibition , though many of the older members aver that the annual gatherings are not what they used to be . Theodore Roosevelt was a member of the Old Guard and at the time of his death was one of that venerable body 's honorary members along with such notables as King Albert , the Prince of Wales , Marshals Foch , joffre and Haig , Generals Pershing , Wood and Bullard , and until the election of President Harding , was the only President to be placed among such honored warriors . Rarely is there a big parade in New York which is not headed by the Old Guard , their massive shakos held in place by chin chains . During the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a guard of honor to the many visiting foreign dignitaries . Last year and the year before that the ball was held at the Commodore , where the long ballroom gave opportunity for a more impressive " massing of the colors " than was possible at the ' Waldorf-Astoria , where the ball took place this year on Friday night , February 6 . In fact at one time during the evening it appeared that a messing of the colors would be the only result . But the Old Guard , together with the representatives of similar veteran military organizations from nearby cities , managed to unscramble themselves in a somewhat unmilitary fashion . After hoarse commands and counter orders from perspiring commanders had proved unavailing , the members were shoved into place and reviewed by Governor Alfred E. Smith , and all voted the exhibition a " brilliant military display . " By the way , the oyster scare seems to be finished . Despite the sudden appearance of small cards attached to the cartes du jour in restaurants , which testified that the oysters in those restaurants were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouvres in the world , people refused to eat them . The oyster dealers , I 'm told , lost millions by the typhoid talk . Some restaurants even eliminated oysters from the cuisine . Clams held on to their social tone by great effort . But just as suddenly as they were tabooed , have their brother bivalves returned in favor . Have you observed , of late , how fastidious everyone has become in the matter of liquor ? Not only a particular brand , but a definite vintage and especially-shaped bottle are now almost always demanded . We sniff and scrutinize with the utmost care . What a change from the first year of the Eighteenth Amendment , when cocktails were manufactured out of anything liquid , and whatever had a kick passed muster . But we have become quite as particular to-day as we ever were in those dear distant times prior to July , 1920.                     