@@488322

1HE position that The Nation has taken in the present campaign against both Cox and Harding and in favor of a vote either for Christensen or Debs , has aroused considerable inquiry , much approval , and some dissent among our readers . Some have assumed , because we declined to subscribe in toto to either the Socialist or the Farmer-Labor platforms* , that we did not want to see either Debs or Christensen elected and were advocating a protest vote for them which we would not advise if they had any chance of success at the polls . But the choice is rarely poor this year and we would rather see Christensen or Debs or Macauley chosen than Cox or Harding . We do not accept all that any one of them stands for , but practical politics is usually a compromise ; few thinking men ever have had , or ever will have , a chance to vote for a party whose platform they accept in its entirety . The point is that the Farmer-Labor and the Socialist programs present at least the basis for more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet any of the demands of the new age which is upon us . It is obvious that the determining factor in this campaign is a desire to rebuke and put an end to the policies of the Wilson administration . So strong is this desire that many intelligent voters make no attempt to distinguish between the indistinguishable Governor Cox and Senator Harding . The state of war with Germany would probably continue longer under Cox and we might more immediately and uncritically be committed to the League . Harding , on the other hand , might easily lead us into war with Mexico or sponsor a high tariff measure . To the average voter , however , these possibilities are of no consequence beside his desire to get rid of Wilsonism . To do this he imagines the most effective way is to vote for Harding . We do not think so . By electing Harding the country will get rid of Wilson next March . But in his place will be an unenlightened and reactionary Republican machine , its face set flintily toward the past , totally out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it will be unwilling and unable to adapt itself . What the country needs above all , to borrow one of the Wilsonian phrases which have never been taken from their oratorical shelves for use , is to " give the government back to the people . " Something closely akin to this desire underlies the electorate 's purpose to rid itself of the autocrat in the White House . Yet the idea that this can be accomplished by voting for the self-effacing Mr. Harding seems ludicrous when one considers the prospect of Boles Penrose and the Senatorial clique as Mr. Harding 's collaborators in the task of restoring the government to the people . Who is against Wilson ? Nearly everyone , if one may exclude the solid South , where voting Democratic is as much a religion as a political faith , and those still considerable though steadily dwindling voters for whom party regularity transcends policies , facts , and the urge of a changing time . Lifelong Democrats and hereditary Republicans unite in their determination to shuffle off Wilsonism . Why is it that the opposite poles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the many shades of average American between , are linked in their detestation of Wilsonism ? Well , for one thing , because of its insincerity . Reactionary as * The Farmer-Labor platform is printed in full in this issue.Union League Club Republicanism , Wilsonism , with its spurious liberal professions , has never secured the confidence of American Bourbons . Moderate conservatives , liberals , and radicals on the other hand are the more- incensed because of the varying degrees of deception to which they were subjected by its erstwhile fine phrases and flowery rhetoric . Essentially there is no difference between the two major parties , but superimposed on the reaction that each spells the Democrats are accountable for conspicuous incompetence and glaring hypocrisies . That is the motif of the present campaign and the reason Wilson and all works will be overwhelmingly rejected despite the pathetic ineffectiveness of Harding ; despite the widespread antagonism to Old Guard control , dating from 1912 ; despite the Lusks and the Sweets who balance Palmer and Burleson ; despite the knowledge of millions who will vote for Harding that he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . It will be , as we have said , " election by disgust . " Recommend so gloomy a prospect to our readers ? Never ! To vote for Harding in order to repudiate Wilson is in effect setting the stamp of approval on the very system which quadrennially offers only so nauseating a lack of choice . " A yellow dog year , " was the boast last spring of the Republican Old Guard . Did the spectacle of Democratic mismanagement and wrongdoing stimulate the Republican powers to pick as good , as able , and as antithetical a candidate as they could find ? On the contrary . It impelled them to select as incompetent , as inconsequential , and as hitchable an Ohio politician as they thought they could " put over " on the writhing electorate . No ! The course for every one who values American tradition and ideals , who believes in the persistence of what was and is good in our national life , who desires the elimination of what is bad , who looks for progress and hopes for better things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is to vote against the old parties , except where individual candidates who have conspicuously and valiantly stood up against the tide of reaction deserve election on their personal merits . Eclectic voting is always preferable to blind party adherence . There are men running for Congress on all four tickets who could form a progressive bloc which might often tip the scales . But for President , the choice is clear . A vote for Cox or Harding means nothing ; only a protest vote will count . Neither Farmer-Labor nor Socialist parties will elect the President this year , but votes cast for them will have unmistakable political meaning . The Nation makes no recommendation of choice between Farmer-Labor and Socialist Party beyond the suggestion that in certain regions where one party 's prospects are unmistakably fair its choice would be logical . In South Dakota , for instance , where the Farmer-Labor has an excellent chance of carrying - the State , it is the Liberal 's duty to support Christensen . Finally , if there be those too timid to cast their political lot with a party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in large part indorse , who do not realize the crying need of new purpose and new vision in national politics , let them stay away from the polls this year and spend election day tramping the woods or the fields where the air is pure and the sky is clean . ? HE truth will out  --  even about Haiti , and despite the daily newspapers . Major General George Barnett 's report of " practically indiscriminate killing " in Haiti more than confirms the charges which The Nation alone in the American press has made about the foul record of our Administration in Haiti . The Nation has been maligned , abused , denounced , sneered at , for printing the truth about Haiti . Only three days before General Barnett 's report was published , the New York Times wrote that Mr. Harding got his information about conditions in Haiti from a weekly paper in this city which if not actually Bolshevist is so near it that the distinction is not visible to the naked eye . Will he get his information when he is President from professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that their own country is always wrong ? And will he continue to talk about " thousands " as he did of the Haitian brigands killed by our marines when the facts show that there were only a few hundreds ? Now that General Barnett states that 3,250 Haitians  --  even more than The Nation , and Senator Harding , using the data of The Nation , had charged  --  were killed  --  and time will reveal that the killing was in many instances deliberate cold-blooded murder  --  the Times does not apologize for its past prevarications or for its slurs at those who told the - truth ; it merely says : " The American people have not had the details . They have not known what was going on . " Whose fault was it if not that of the newspapers pledged to give " all the news that 's fit to print , " of the newspapers which denounced those who did tell the public what was going on as " professional admirers of Lenin and Trotzky , part of whose creed is that their country is always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Barnett 's revelations " a shock to those who have cherished the conviction that American military rule did not imitate the coercive methods of some more experienced and more callous governments . " But General Barnett 's revelations were no news to the editors of the Evening Post , who read The Nation regularly ; when Mr. Seligmann , three months ago , compared our record in Haiti to that of Belgium in the Congo , of Germany in Belgium , and of England in Egypt and India , the Evening Post remarked that " he only excites distrust of his own judg'ment . " None so blind as those who will not see ! The Nation hopes to print extended extracts from General Barnett 's report in a later number . The meager summaries published in the daily press give sufficient indication of the shameful data which exist in the files of the Navy Department , and throw a curious light upon- General Lejeune 's whitewashing report issued only a week before the Barnett report , and upon Secretary Daniels 's note published at the same time regarding his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his statement that , " with a very few exceptions , the officers and men carried out in letter and in spirit the order to set an example in helpfulness and kindness in the discharge of a difficult duty . " Thirty-two hundred and fifty Haitians killed , as against a total American loss of one officer and twelve men is a strange " example of helpfulness and kindness " ! General Barnett tells us that there are further records which have disappeared from the files of the Marine Corps , and further reports which have not been made public . The American people can not and will not permit these facts to behidden permanently . Their honor is at stake ; it is not helped by concealment of disgraceful truths , and can only be preserved by the relentless publication of the whole truth and the unhesitating punishment of those responsible , up to the very top of the naval hierarchy . They will not be satisfiedlo know that a Lieutenant Vrokaw , guilty of atrocities , has since been committed as insane ; they will want to know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of giving orders to shoot prisoners ; they will want to know why the Navy Department has systematically concealed and suppressed the truth , and lied about it when it leaked out ; " and they will demand that the wrong done to Haiti be redressed . The silence of our American newspapers regarding the news in Haiti and Santo Domingo has been one more proof of the low estate to which the press has fallen . The facts which The Nation has revealed and which General Barnett has confirmed are not new facts ; they are merely revelations of a festering canker which has existed for five years . Indeed , there are indications that conditions , in Haiti at least , are somewhat better than they have been . The big daily newspapers with their immense staffs of skilled reporters and highly paid correspondents have done nothing to tell - the American people the facts regarding the conduct of the United States Marine Corps . The evening edition of the New York World , thick and thin apologist for the Administration , sent a reporter to the island . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ edition attempts to deprecate even General Barnett 's damning report . The newspapers which boast of their freedom and independence have tamely acquiesced in the censorship and have cast slurs upon those who protested . It took the protest of a presidential candidate in a campaign year and the report of a major general to squeeze mention of the facts into their news columns . And if these revelations force the printing of more news than hitherto , we may confidently expect it to be of the apologetic and deprecatory character of the editorials on the Barnett report in the World and Evening Post . We shall watch the Republican papers to see whether their sudden interest in Haiti survives the election . For Haiti is as truly as Russia the acid test of our democracy , and it is the acid test of our press as well . A bumper harvest of excuses is sure to follow upon the Barnett report . The fact that men in American uniform have shot down Haitians en masse and in cold blood has ' been established beyond cavil or doubt ; we shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " niggers , " " bad actors . " It will be hard for the defenders of our course to continue their oft-repeated assertions that the shootings were in self-defense , or in retaliation for the murder of Americans . Thirteen Americans in all were killed : for every American killed , two hundred and fifty Haitians met death . This was not defensive warfare , it was not even war ; it was slaughter . Despite the statements of the New York World which must know better , we were not invited by Haiti to land our forces ; we forced ourselves upon Haiti . We did not prevent bloodshed nor have we increased the safety of travel in Haiti . The thing for us to do is to cease making lying excuses and to get out , and make such belated amends for our murders as we can . The China Consortium N the formation of the new China consortium , the bankers 1 of the United States have committed this country to a foreign policy beside which the ratification of the League of Nations covenant may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a working league of nations , whose officials are financiers and whose covenant is the agreement reached last week by bankers representing France and England , Japan and the United States . Whether this financial league is to be a league for peace or for war , for preserving the rights of a backward nation or for asserting the ambitions of groups and interests , depends upon the men who dominate it , and the methods they use . Mr. Thomas W. Lamont has said that the consortium is to be " an international partnership for the purpose of assisting China in , the development of her great public enterprises . " It may result in such a partnership or it may not ; but the first thing the bankers and the State Department should do to prove their honest intention is to publish the entire agreement . The public can not take any one 's word for the contents or intentions of that document ; too much is at stake and too many conflicting interests are involved . When , during the Peace Conference , bankers representing the four great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of State to negotiate a new consortium , the attitude of the United States  --  always humane ? and honest in its intentions toward China  --  seemed for the moment to prevail . It was not a time when selfish desires and dishonorable plans ' could safely be revealed . But elements of dissension were present , and after Japan had concluded her successful negotiations , after Mr. Wilson had even yielded up Shantung , the Japanese Foreign Office repudiated the action of the Japanese bankers in submitting to American domination at Paris and announced that Japan would enter the consortium only with certain " reservations . " Specifically it demanded that Mongolia , Manchuria , and  --  at that time ? Shantung be exempted from the operations of the consortium . The Government of the United States refused this demand , but Japan set to work , none the less , to spread the impression that the-Powers had assented to the Japanese reservations . Mr. Lamont 's mission to Japan and China was undertaken to induce the Japanese Foreign Office to withdraw its reservations and enter the consortium , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its propaganda . The delays and shifts , the promises and procrastinations of the Japanese Government made the final outcome a dubious victory . After endless conferences Mr. Lamont was assured that the Japanese Government would join the consortium without reservations . Official announcement of this action was to be made at a public dinner with Mr. Lamont taking part . Both Mr. Lamont 's and the Japanese representative 's speeches were prepared in advance , and submitted to both sides for approval ; copies were given in advance to the press . On the day prior to the dinner , the Kokusai ( the Japanese semiofficial news service ) distributed throughout China and Japan a version of the speeches that made it appear that Japan 's reservations had been accepted by the American group . From that time until the present , Japan 's press propaganda in China has maintained by innuendo and evenby direct assertion that . Japan 's reservations have been accepted as the basis of her entering the consortium . However , it has been announced by the group of bankers which has just consummated- the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consortium on equal terms ; that Chinese representation will be welcomed ( an ironical bit of liberality ) ; that the originally disinterested aim of the United States to keep the " open door " at least a crack open has been maintained . But more than mere assurance is needed . If the consortium should be dominated by Japan 's reservations it would become nothing better than an international agreement to rob China of her last shred of independence ; while even if it is not actually controlled by Japan , a widespread suspicion to the contrary in China would quite as effectively ruin its chances of usefulness . Sir Charles Addis , British representative at the New York conference , said : " Without the assent and goodwill of China the consortium is not only powerless to act , but has no desire to act . " The assent and goodwill of China can only be gained by throwing open every channel of publicity and proving by the terms of the agreements that the proposed domination of Japan is not being secretly ratified . The people of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only is American honor at stake , not only is the question of peace or war in the East involved in the terms of the agreement , but American money must stand behind any loan to China . Great Britain and France , and Japan , too , can lend money to China only by first borrowing it from the United States . There seems to be little doubt among students of the Far Eastern question that foreign intervention is required in the development of China . The United States is-in a position to insist that such intervention be sincere . We can force Great Britain and France and even Japan to cooperate on our own terms . We can insist that the foreign concessions be merged under the control of the consortium and prevent future incursions of greedy concessionaires . We can keep the door into China open . We can preserve to China at least what is left of her rather technical independence . We can utilize Chinese help in the administration of the consortium . The issue really amounts to this : Is the United States about to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy dictated in Europe and Japan , and to lend American money to sustain that policy ; or will the United States insist upon the adoption of its own policy  --  which has been formally assented to by all the Powers  --  and refuse credits to Governments which oppose it ? Only the publication of the consortium agreement can answer that question . A copy of the text of the agreement is certainly in the hands of the Department of State ; copies have presumably been sent to the Governments represented by the cooperating groups ; the financial interests involved have copies of their own . If public opinion in China is to be mollified and public opinion in the United States enlightened , if reasonable suspicions are to be removed , the text of the agreement should immediately be made public , for all of the public has not forgotten that on March 18 , 1913 , Woodrow Wilson said of the original proposal that the responsibility it involved was " obnoxious to the principles upon which the Government of our people rests . " The Ancient Hunger Strike rr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his I fellow hunger-strikers has become an international drama , its tension heightening week by week . This lonely and hideously slow adventuring into the Dreadful Valley is different from any other kind of martyrdom : it demands a courage which only scientific or religious fanatics have shown . Indeed the psychology of suicide as a means of defense , a method for justice , is hardly known today although every hunger-strike tends to establish this form of social protest more potently . The roots of this method go deep . It was practiced by ancient Hindu and Celt and in modern India survived to be condemned in the English penal code as " barbarous and immoral . " In Ireland today its recurrence takes on for those who know Irish legend the character of repeated episode in a long epic tradition . The " fast for constraint " as it was practiced in Irish antiquity has been learnedly dealt with in the Putnam Anniversary Volume of Anthropological Essays ( 1909 ) and elsewhere . Only a few examples need be given to prove the brotherhood , not only by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cork and his dying associates with those who have so long gone before them . The Brehon laws of Ireland , traditionally ascribed to St. Patrick 's fifth century day , give some curious details . Fasting upon debtors was evidently one way of getting swift settlements . If the faster died , his debtor owed not only his . original debt but also the death fine , a kind of Celtic wergild . If the debtor offered food to the faster but gave no pledge of payment , he owed , according to law , double the amount of his original debt . On the other hand if he offered the pledge and gave security and still the faster would not break his fast , the latter forfeited his legal rights . If the debtor would give no pledge , he was in the eyes of the law " an evader of all , " to be paid neither by man nor God . In old Irish literature the fastings are of the most picturesque character . Thus , a father fasts against three rebellious sons to make them grant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even on the Tuathade Danann until they are given a domain . St. Finnen and his followers fast on a recalcitrant pagan until he admits them to his home . Evil living men , whether kings or nobles , were fasted upon by the saints until ruin or remorse overtook the sinners . In their turn mere mortals made fasts upon saints to constrain them to grant victories or to intercede with God on their behalf . In such cases it was conceived that mortal will and mortal suffering created as it were immortal obligation . At need the saints might even fast upon God himself . In a recently published sixteenth century Life of Columcille ( University of Illinois , 1918 ) the story is told that St. Columba did thus so fast upon God that he obtained from Him a victory for his friends though the boon was so ill-pleasing to God that He required in expiation Columba 's perpetual exile from Erin . - There are many other beloved legends of a people always mystically minded , to prove that what has seemed an incongruous resistance to imperial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British empire itself . It is a dull heart , ' indeed , that does not feel something echo from " the hid battlements of Eternity , " before this spectacle of historic continuity . Sports and Arts T HE report that Man o ' War , having beaten Sir Barton on the great day that saw Carpentier knock out Levin-sky and saw the Indians take the World Series from the Robins , will now retire to private life and give up racing forever , has shocked all those who believe the report . This , say the eugenists , is asking too much of the present generation for the sake of the next ; it is like always getting ready for the millennium and yet never enjoying it . The true-blue sportsman naturally repines that so much sport is spoiled by the decision . The moralist complains that for the sake of mere money-making the toils of life are being avoided . And the poets twang their lyres and lift up their most elegiac voices . No more , sing they , will the keen hoof cut the flying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will the happy mane flash in the mad wind of the scamper . No more the paddock tingling with expectation , the grandstand a turmoil of hope , the familiar dust and the arousing glory of the races . After these felicities , the snuffy life of chores and respectability . Peace , poets ! It might not be a bad idea to wait a little until you can find out whether the rumor of Man o ' War 's retirement is really true . Do you not remember all the farewells which Patti made one after another in the country of her most profitable audiences ? And as men of letters yourselves , do you not understand the device by which books are issued in limited first editions so that they will ever have the special value of the rare and the precious ? What has happened is merely that the wiles of the arts have entered into the domain of sportsmanship . Patti came back , you will remember , after every last appearance but one . When the first edition of a book has been exhausted there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if the populace demands it vigorously . Man o ' War of course will never be three years old again , but there are more seasons yet to come , and something tells us that the horse is not finally tucked away under the extinguishing bushel . But if he is shelved forever , we anticipate for him something like the immortality which has recently come upon John Barleycorn since he left these shores for less pestered regions . Books about John multiply almost daily . The anthologists follow his trail through a thousand tomes of a thousand years and take down all his paeans and epitaphs to preserve them in graceful volumes assembled in commemoration . Now that he is dead there are more recipes for making him than there ever were while he was in the pride of his strength . Professor Saintsbury , whose erudition in matters literary is , like the sequoias of California , merely without an equal , now turns out to be what gossip said he was  --  as learned in liquor as in letters . His " Notes on a Cellar Book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world turn to perpetual drouth , as a monument of the day when things were different . Drinking , perhaps , though associated enough and too much with sports , was never itself a sport . But it and they are now making common- cause at least in their dexterous encroachments upon the art of the arts . Although they have so far progressed no further than through the initial stages , more will come . John Barleycorn will yet have his Homer ; some Carpentier will have his adequate Rembrandt ; and some Man o ' War his exultant Pindar.                     