@@468320

IF THERE were only one church in the world , " President Dwight of Yale used to say , " I should feel that I had a call from God to go out and start another one . " In every department of human knowl ? edge except religion the attainment of truth has now for a long time been regarded as progressive . In religion it was and is yet conceived as something Icing since fully revealed , fixed and final . There could be no progress . Newman , indeed , advanced the theory of develop ? ment , but this was merely the explicit formulation of what had already been know n implicitly . It is only in comparatively recent times that intellectual religious men have come to think of religious knowledge as being in the same category with all other knowledge , a matter of progress . How far they so regard it , is still un ? certain . But , since division is a neces ? sity of progress , they feel suspicious of the movement for a united and highly or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hibit progress , limit freedom of thought , hinder investigation . That is always the tendency of intrenched and settled authority , both in church and state . Division , even organized division , insures greater freedom . You can turn the rascals out ? or leave them . With its hundreds of millions of followers it is surprising that there is as much unanimity of opinion in Chris ? tianity as there is . There are racial divisions and cultural differences , college presidents and savages , statesmen and jailbirds , intellectuals and masses of unwashed peasants , all over the green world , and all alike claim a share in the benefits of religion as their most precious heritage . To each individual his re ? ligion is what it is irrespective of what others may have . There are similari ? ties , but there are also differences . Probably no two people have quite the same ideas on the subject . The problem is further complicated by the fact that religion is not merely an intellectual attainment . It is also a matter of the heart , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and above exterior and formal unity there is the question of spiritual unity , of brotherhood , the love of man as well as the love of God . Within the ranks of the same organizations envy , hatred , and malice , and all uncharitableness may destroy the spirit of unity which is essential to the idea . A rift in feeling is more apt to create schism than any intellectual differences . While good men who disagree can manage to keep to ? gether , a parochial quarrel often starts a new church . The ' tillage choir , the lay popes , male and female , clerical pro ? fessional jealousy , are divisive factors in Protestant churches , often more potent than theological debate . Browning 's " Soliloquy in a Spanish Cloister " illus ? trates the possibility among Catholics . Gr-r-r -- there go , my heart 's abhorrence ! Water your damned flower-pots , do ! If hate killed men , Brother Lawrence , God 's blood , would not mine kill you ! What ? your myrtle-bush wants trimming ? Oh , that rose has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hell dry you up with its flames ! Not this side of Paradise , therefore ? when the redeemed shall have attained to Ultimate Truth and walk in the white robes of irreversible charity ? is church unity , corporate and spiritual , a possi ? bility . Like communism its program implies a condition where men are as the angels of God . It is a Counsel of Perfection . How far are we moving in its direction ? Cardinal Newman , after his conver ? sion , felt that truth was to be found not in the Via Media but in extremes . Certainly the extreme positions in the matter of religion are more readily stated and easier to grasp . On the one hand there is the Roman Catholic position . This is , that unity consists in being in communion with the Bishop of Rome , commonly called the Pope ? the title of all bishops in ancient times , from papa , " father . " In the Roman Catholic Church the Bishop of Rome is the supreme au ? thority . He is the Vicar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , as head of the church , his decisions are final and indisputable . If it happens that you do not agree with what he says on matters of faith and morals you must either change your belief , get out , or be put out . This applies quite as much to the laity as to the clergy . It is true that there is some difficulty in determining when the Pope speaks ex cathedra as distinguished from his opinions as an individual . For example the decrees of Pius IX on the doctrines of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary and Papal Infalli ? bility are universally regarded as ex cathedra utterances . But I am told by certain Jesuits that the bull of Leo XIII declaring Anglican orders invalid is not ex cathedra , but merely the opinion of one Pope as a theologian . And it is well known that the very definite direc ? tions of the late Pius X on church music are utterly disregarded by large num ? bers of Roman Catholic clergy , presuma ? bly on the ground that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pope is the supreme court and ultimate sole authority in the Roman Catholic Church . He is the voice of tradition , the inter ? preter of conciliar decrees , the expounder of dogma , the judge in all disputes . To be sure , he operates through an elaborate system of delegated authority , the College of Cardinals , the various courts , such as the Rota , the Congregation of Sacred Rites , the Propaganda , a diplo ? matic corps , legates ( legati nati et a latere ) , Apostolic Delegates , Patriarchs , Archbishops , Bishops , and priests . And decisions on most matters have long ago been made and are readily available . Only great and very important matters come before the Pope himself , but he appoints the officials and can reverse their decisions , as history shows , when he will . Rama locuta est , mum finita est , was a medieval proverb which still holds . You will notice in this connection that one never sees nowadays in public print , books , magazines or elsewhere , any speculative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because Roman Catholic clergymen do not write well . It is because it would be extremely temerarious for them to express themselves publicly on religious topics except in the way of panegyric or apologetic . For practically every ? thing in that religion has been settled , and the cases of such men as the Jesuit Tyrrell and the Abbe Loisy , excommuni ? cated a generation ago for venturing to say what Protestant scholars everywhere accept in regard to Holy Scripture , give the most venturesome reason to pause . The Roman Catholic system has many practical advantages . It provides a living voice for all matters of dispute in doctrine and morals . As an authori ? tative system it is easily understood , simple , convenient , and effective . In a sense it is the religion of an individual . But that individual is the Pope , who theoretically merely pronounces the decrees of the universal church . For people of simple minds , for those who do not like speculative thought , for those who want problems in religion settled promptly and definitely , the value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the uniformity of the Ro ? man Catholic Church , its almost uni ? versal presence , the dignity and variety of its services , the extent and effective ? ness of its humanitarian institutions , the thoroughness of its organization add enormously to the attraction it offers to the masses of mankind . Its ideals of sanctity , of self-sacrifice are unexcelled . Its missionary enterprises are vast and effective . Its history is imposing . It is by far the largest of Christian sects . At the other extreme stands Protes ? tantism . But in dealing with Prot ? estantism a distinction must he made . There are two types of Protestantism . There is popular Protestantism and intellectual Protestantism . The recent American names for them are Funda ? mentalist and Modernist . The histori ? cal and Fundamentalist Protestantism is quite as definitely authoritative as the Roman Catholic Church . It bases its authority , however , not in a living man but in a hook , the Bible . The Bible , together with the rules and regu ? lations made by Protestant assemblies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period on , are the guiding rules of its faith and conduct . During its earlier period , often allied with the state , Protestantism , at least certain sects of it , maintained a severe discipline both of the laity and of the clergy . Of late years , since its dissocia ? tion from state control nearly every ? where , it has been able only to discipline its clergy . The laity do about as they please . Unfortunately for Protestantism of the historical type , the Bible is sub ? ject to a variety of interpretations . In consequence there never was a united Protestantism . There were as many sects as there were interpretations . Whenever a religious leader arose who felt the importance of some special emphasis on some particular aspect of the Bible , he formed a new sect . And in modern times the higher criticism of the Bible , both the Old and the New Testaments , has resulted in the division of most of the sects still farther . This critical attitude towards the basis of Protestant authority has , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Protes ? tantism , the Modernist or intellectual Protestantism of to-day . Intellectual Protestantism has some ? thing to say for itself . Practically re ? jecting all prescriptive authority in religion , it places the whole matter of religious knowledge on a par with all other knowledge , historical and scien ? tific . It accepts Scripture as it accepts any other writing , on its intrinsic merits alone . Much of the Old Testament it quite rejects as belonging to the cate ? gory of legend and poetry . The New Testament it regards with critical intel ? lectuality and discriminating study . Its advanced scholars doubt the authen ? ticity of any of the four Gospels . Still the figure of the Christ , his charac ? ter and life , dominate its thought . Intellectual Protestantism is pro ? foundly religious , but not in the in ? stitutional sense . It still takes the old attitude that the Pope is a mere hold-over from the Imperial pagan ages , a medieval ecclesiastical figure . But it is not vituperative and negative . it is scholarly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that form does not produce spirit . It insists that every individual must secure for himself the factors of his religion , and that no ? body can do your thinking for you . Religion is not to be handed out to men on a silver tray , even engraved with the papal arms . Religion is a work for men to do for themselves , and there is no substitute for individual thinking . Prot ? estantism believes in complete freedom for the intellect . Much that has been defined and measured by the ancient theologues it dismisses as beyond human knowing . It does not put its trust in external observances but in interior spiritual attainment . It functions in the spirit , not in the machine . It places human charity above correct theological ideas . Just how far it goes in the rejection of ancient values or in the feeling that the revelation of God is progressive , is uncertain . It is decidedly individualistic , and its adherents differ widely in knowledge and attainment . The old type of Protestantism is a dying cause . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not yet fully formulated and by no means organized . But between the extremes of Roman Catholicism and intellectual Protestant ? ism there is still the middle ground of Anglicanism and the Oriental Orthodox churches . Of these the second holds , as the fundamental background of the faith , to the seven Ecumenical Councils , those great synods of the early church , in which so many details of doctrine , discipline , and worship were settled . It interprets the Scripture upon that basis , conceiving truly that since the church existed before the New Testa ? ment was written and officially chose the books that compose it , the church is the sole authority and guide to its meaning , the creeds a compass in a sea of mystery . For the practical direction of its later affairs the Oriental churches have so much depended upon the direc ? tion of the emperors , tzars , kings , and princes of the nations in which they have existed that the Oriental Orthodox episcopate has virtually lost its auton ? omy and its structure is shattered in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I shall hold no brief for Anglicanism , since that is my own position . But it may be said that the Church of England and the English colonies and the Episco ? pal Church in the United States repre ? sent that peculiar quality of illogical structure that is characteristic of the race . On the one hand the Anglican Church is strictly liturgical and prides itself upon having the episcopate , the priesthood , and diaconate . On the other hand it professes the Fundamen ? talist Biblical position for its final authority . It is a creature of the state in the mother country and is controlled by the laity elsewhere . But its scholars are for the most part liberally Modernist and , though it clings to tradition , it is alive to the most advanced critical theories and freely speculative . There is little prospect that the world at large will accept the theory that Anglicanism is the middle ground ap ? pointed by God for the reunion of Protestants and Catholics ? the Via Media . Its position is too vague and indefinite . Men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrong , that can be easily understood and require little elucidation . A carefully balanced position , a yielding to both sides of the question , the compromising accommodations of diplomacy appeal only to the learned and the middle-aged . The Via Media is apt to become a line of cleavage . The Orientals , separated from the Western world since the eighth century , are so remote and exotic as to be out of the question . When Pope Eugenius IV , at the Council of Florence in 1439 , attempted to adjust the petty theological differences between Roman Catholics and the Orientals ? differences of a slight wording in the creed , of the use of un ? leavened bread in the Eucharist , of the kind of images to be venerated in churches ? the effort came to little or nothing . Orientals are very much set in their ways . And some of their ways are excellent . Now if Cardinal Newman was right and truth is to be found in extremes , I confess to a bewilderment of choice in the extremes of ecclesiastical ideals before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that make it a very desirable religion . For example , worship . At its best , Roman Catholicism presents a form of worship beautiful , symbolic , dramatic , rich in color and in meaning , hallowed by ages of use in devotion , supremely simple and dignified . Only the jaundiced eyes of race prejudice would hesitate to admire it , and only the tasteless and slovenly ministrations of a careless priesthood can mar it , while Protestant worship at its best is cold , colorless , dull , without inspiration . Why should it be expected , in an age when even the manufacturers of automobiles are compelled to include beauty in the structure of their machines , that people should be content to sit for an hour or more staring at the vapid pipes of a large organ , three impossible plush chairs , and an enormous open Bible on a commonplace stand , while a man in a frock coat tells God the events of the past week and preaches a sermon ? Yet this is what the Protestant churches provide as the chief act of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worse . It pushes vulgarity to the very extreme . Architecturally , too , the difference is all in favor of the Roman Catholic . Protestants profess a holy horror of Catholic superstition , of idolatry . Something of this is probably inevitable among the masses of ignorant worship ? pers . It is not of the essence of the faith . But what is more serious is the general intransigence of the theological position of the papacy . Roman Catho ? lic theologians seem to think it necessary to cling with pleadings and apologies to ideas in religion that no intelligent person at the present time can possibly hold . For example , the literal f all of man . The whole evidence of the study of biology is against the doctrine . Yet it is a matter of faith in that church . Just so , until the year 1829 , every book that said that the world was round was put on the Index Expurgatarius , Why cling to old legends that nobody accepts as literal truths ? " With fullness of knowledge , " says Lord Acton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pleader 's occupation is gone and the apologist is deprived of his bread . Mendacity depended on con ? cealment of evidence . i'Vhen that is at an end , fable departs with it and the margin of legitimate divergence is nar ? rowed . " These words were written of history . They might well be pondered by theologians . Religion may not be presented solely for the edification of the intellectual , but there is no use in alienating them . And the attitude of Roman Catholicism in this regard is perhaps the greatest obstacle to its success . The day is gone when religious obscurantism can avail to stop the free knowledge of mankind . It is due to the fearless and critical study of scholars defying ecclesiastical censure that nearly every advance in scientific knowledge for the benefit of mankind has been attained and given to the world . And this intransigence did not cease at the period of Galileo . It is still with us . The famous Eucharistic Congresses , held by Roman Catholics in some city of the world every year , began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to study the problems connected with sacramental ideas . But what free dis ? cussion there was at the first was soon put to silence . The Eucharistic Con ? gresses are now nothing but spectacles for arousing popular devotion and ad ? vertising the church . And if during them scholars read papers , they are lost in the clamor , or have become nothing but the most fulsome panegyric . But after all what has all this theologi ? cal clamor and ecclesiastical debate to do with actual religion ? It is not re ? ligion at all . It has perhaps to do with the method of presenting religion , but religion itself is something infinitely greater than churches . It rises over and above them . It is invisible , like the Kingdom of God that cometh not with observation . It belongs to the infinite and the eternal . It is a matter between God and the human soul . Protestants are right in declaring that spirit precedes form . And Catholics may be right in holding that if a man conforms to the ordinances of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shores of salvation , though the devil works days and sweats nights trying to destroy his soul . It is all one . The man who is to be saved must in the end conform himself to the laws of God , for he can not know that to which he has no resemblance . He must reach justice , mercy , and truth , or be damned . What ? ever waits on the other side of life , it is certain that here at least the kingdom of God within us can not be realized without our aspiration and desire . The particu ? lar theological tenets a man holds , the forms in which he participates , the church to which he belongs , count as nothing in comparison to the nature of his actual life in the everyday world . He is judged not by his creed but by his acts . His creed may inspire his imagina ? tion and affect his character . It must do that , or he is lost . Unfortunately it is the curious in ? infirmity of the human mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? tionalist and the ecclesiastic always seem to emphasize the church ratherthan God . The organization , the ma ? chinery of religion , too often take the place of religion itself . Professionalism is substituted for piety . Loyalty is felt to be loyalty to the formulated systems of men rather than to the truth of God . The religious mind , like the medi ? eval mind , looks backward . Progressive knowledge is strangled in a skein of meticulous and petty precedents . President Dwight ? he lived in a day when college presidents were still schol ? ars ? was right . If there were only one church in the world , it would be neces ? sary for somebody to go out and start another one . Ultimate Truth in re ? ligion lies far ahead , and we shall be a long time in attaining it . Centuries of patient labor . The clash of conflicting theories . The discovery of new ideas . The elucidation of mystical experiences . The blending of scientific truth with traditional religious emotion . An un ? derstanding of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implies divi ? sion . To attempt a synthesis of the ex ? tremes of recognized theological posi ? tions , to unite in a single authoritative body the churches , is a dream similar in kind to the schemes to eliminate poverty , to create a universal language , to destroy capitalism , to perfect governments , to make democracy safe for the world , to de ? termine taste , to reach Utopia . It is the delight of Secretaries , the despair of honest men . Clergymen , always in ? curable idealists on the lookout for sermon material , fail for it regularly . Its deficiency supplies the explanation for inefficiency . But it can not be done . The best that can be done is to aim at the ideal . It is well to remember that character is to be judged not by what it is but by what it tends to become . Let results take care of themselves . The World Conference on Faith and Order , held last summer at Lausanne , was a gallant effort to bring about corporate and spiritual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world for a discussion of the problem . Conceived about the same time as Mr. Ford 's Peace Ship , it was destined to have about the same results . Always in the past such appearances of church unity as existed were the result of compulsion by the state . Either persecution , as in the Imperial ages , forced the churches to hold together ; or the state itself , theo ? retically Christianized , as in the Middle Ages and down to modern times , made heresy and schism crimes . The old method worked badly . The thumb ? screw , the rack , the faggot did not suffice to compel the church to keep united . Always there were new sects arising . The Emperors of old Rome could not stop them . The medieval kings , aided by the Inquisition , could scarcely keep them down . There were Waldenses , Albigenses , Jacqueries , re ? bellions . There were even at one time three popes . Finally , the rise of na ? tions , the new learning , discovery , commerce , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western Europe into the fragments we see to-day . Men began to dig up the sources of religion . They have been examining them with microscopes ever since . But economic pressure , the falling away from religion of great masses of the population of the world , the confusion and dissatisfaction that exist at the present time , the inability of religion to control the waste and passion of life , to maintain peace , are exerting the same effect upon the churches as persecution did in the earlier eras . These things alarm and draw the churches together . The World Conference on Faith and Order was an historical event of the first importance , though it passed almost unnoticed in the public press of America . The ecclesiastical historians a century hence will acclaim it as significant . It symbolized a need , a condition . As was expected , the Conference ac ? complished no direct results . Its dele ? gates , drawn from some eighty sects throughout the world , had no authority to commit their churches . They acted merely as individuals . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positions as scholars and men of piety . The Conference was overwhelm ? ingly Protestant . The Pope refused to go . He not only did not go himself , but it was reported that he ordered that no representative of the Roman Catholic Church , clerical or lay ? with the excep ? tion of two " unofficial observers " ? should even attend as a spectator the meetings of the Conference . The Pope knows his book . Why in the world it should have been expected that he would attend passes understanding . At Lau ? sanne the meetings were held in a cathedral despoiled by Protestants at the Reformation , the Cathedral of Notre Dame consecrated in 1275 by Pope Gregory X , a place of papal memories . And who could expect the head of the greatest body of Christians in the world , outnumbering all the others put together , to heed the call to unity in an assembly arranged by the Protestant Episcopal Bishop of New York and presided over by the Bishop of Western New York ? If the commission had had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to preside over it , the out ? come might have been different . Cer ? tainly the world would have sat up and taken notice . Such reports on Faith and Order as the various committees made were naturally also Protestant . For example , the recognition as valid of any form of ordination that makes it evident that a man is ordained to the ministry of any church could not fail to disconcert the high-church Anglicans and to draw a formal dissent from the Orthodox Orien ? tals present . Here was a shock , indeed . For what is Anglicanism without the necessity of episcopacy ? In short , as in all democratic assemblies , conferences , pourparlers , round-tables , and similar talk-fests , where the object is to reach agreement , there was the inevitable necessity of compromise , adjustment , watering-down , concession , acceptance of the lowest common denominator of conviction . To assert that the courteous spirit and restraint of the members of the Conference in their speeches was an evidence of prospective unity is surely a mistake . The disgraceful scenes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's throats and anathemas were freely hurled , belong to the ages of bar ? barism . Civilization and the amenities of modern life sufficiently account for the better manners displayed at the meeting . But the tenacity of opinion , the unyield ? ing convictions , were even at a distance apparent . The majority of those present were able to agree ? to differ . The assembly , being Protestant with the exception of a few high-church Angli ? cans and the picturesque Orientals , was , it must be confessed , rather gray , rather somber , quite lacking in the color , spectacular splendor , pomp and ceremony such as appeal to popular imagination . Its deliberations , couched in the language of esoteric sentimental ? ism , failed to register in the public press . And since it was a foregone conclusion that every delegate knew beforehand exactly what his own position and that of his own denomination was , as well as what each of the others held , the value of such a conference may be questioned , except that it gave in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gorgeous junket to the commissioners and the secretaries . The conclusions could have been as well arrived at by correspondence . Except for the interest of clergymen and the edi ? tors of church papers , the Conference passed without notice . Any scheme of corporate unity , then , is beyond the diplomatic skill of even the most astute ecclesiastical leaders . It is not a matter of practical politics . If it is , as is so often asserted , the divine will , then it is on a par with the other great and ultimate ideals . " Be united " can only be compared with " Have all knowledge , " " Agree on Ultimate Truth , " " Sustain perfect charity , " " Be devoid of every prejudice . " It belongs to the eternal categories . It is an ex ? cellent aim , but a mystical attainment . The individual may have the feeling for it , but he can not materialize or demon ? strate it . To arrive even at the emotion as a spiritual experience is to transcend all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the problem in America that ought to be undertaken , not by im ? practical idealists , but by ecclesiastical statesmen . For in this country we have listed some 167 varieties of religion , and at least 40 more not listed . Besides the main and better-known divisions , such as the Methodists , Baptists , Pres ? byterians , Congregationalists , Episco ? palians , and Roman Catholics , there are many large communions of earnest Christians banded together and sepa ? rated from the others , in competition with them . The divisions rim largely along racial lines , it is true . The Lu ? theran , the Scandinavian , the Hunga ? rian , the Greek , the Serbian churches witness to the importation of religion along with the national waves of immi ? gration . And even in the Roman Cath ? olic Church the same strains of race are found in the Irish , the Italian , the German , and other groups . But in addition to such divisions , which tend greatly to prevent the assimilation of the foreign-born , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or conservative theories or upon the special emphasis of some particular tenet , that foster discord and stimulate destructive competition . We have , for example , such sects as the Six Principle Baptists , the Two-Seed-in ? the-Spirit Predestinarians , the Duck River Baptists , the Pilgrim Holiness Brethren . There are two sects of Brethren , Conservative and Progressive , split on the question of whether a man 's coat shall have one button or two , the two-buttoners being Progressive . We have the Zarephath , the Holy Rollers , with a female bishop , the Pillar of Fire . It is probable that nothing much could be done with the cranks who caricature religion by their extravagances . But with the greater and more respectable sects something in the way of unity ought to be accomplished . Their theo ? logical differences at the present time are little more than the differences between Tweedledum and Tweedledee . Yet they divide the Christian heritage , split up the faithful , confuse the outsider , and engage in a wasteful and expensive competition for members and money that greatly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ churches to a condition of poverty and social inferiority . The enormous cost of up ? keep , the extravagance of the missionary departments , the overhead of the boards , secretaries , field secretaries , archdeacons , bishops , presiding elders , and a swarm of paid officials who do no pastoral work but go about laying grievous burdens upon the ministers of all denominations in order that the competition may be kept up , are a few of the evils of the present divided state of the Christian churches in America . In most small towns a single church would suffice for the housing of all who desire to attend religious services . But you will gener ? ally find a dozen or more , where one would be fairly strong , struggling to pay their bills and cutting each other 's throats in the effort to make one proselyte . This condition is both disgraceful to America and injurious to our civilization . It presents religion without dignity . The very buildings , the houses of God , show by their inferior architecture the futility of the spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to heights of accomplishment , in this is failing wretchedly . Something practical should be done about it . Some practical attempts to bring about greater unity among the various Protestant sects have in recent years been made in Canada , Australia , and among the English missions in India . Of these the Canadian effort to unite the Methodist , Congregationalist , and Pres ? byterian churches is by far the most advanced . The union of these bodies has been only partially successful and is confined for the most part to the smaller towns , the larger city churches refusing to come in . But the United Church of Canada is at least an estab ? lished fact , though it may still be too early to hiow whether it will absorb the greater part of the confederating churches or whether , as some of the secretaries of other movements declare , it but adds another sect to the already fissiparous condition of Protestantism . The movements in Australia and India are as yet not much beyond the paper stage . In these movements the Anglican Church has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years there have been discussions , conferences , resolutions , and even some attempts to bring about at least some measure of reunion among Protestant sects . Little has been accomplished . Every business man interested in the subject realizes the economic value of a merger . The pastors , I think , would in many cases favor it . But the inherited nostalgia for customary forms and habits in religion of the laity , the vested interests , the suspicion and prejudice in relation to other aspects of Christian ? ity , are seemingly irremovable barriers . The varieties of cultural standards and - the divergences in moral theories also are obstacles . There is still the possibility that at some future time the state , in spite of our boasted theories about the separation of church and state , may take over the matter of religion . America may yet have a state church established by law . The history of every nation in the world in the past has shown the advantages as well as the disadvantages of such an arrangement . The state can give a unity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing else in the world except the papacy can give . And since the same people who compose the state compose the church , the arrangement is convenient and natural . At the present time the churches are impinging more and more upon the province of legis ? lation , insisting that the state put through their programs . The step may be easier than is commonly realized for the reverse process , in some emer ? gency , to take place . The churches may some day wake up to find them ? selves a department of the state , rather than its counsellor and guide . This has happened before in history and may happen again .                     