@@486210

F Voltaire were alive he might truthfully say that " it is 1 Anatolia today which illumines the Old World . " The Turkish nation has set up in Asia Minor a new form of democracy , a true government of the people for the people . This is by far the most important development of the Turkish Renaissance . During the last three years this new Turkish Government has given patent proofs of its efficiency both in military and civilian matters . Victories on the battlefield have only an ephemeral importance in the history of nations and in the evolution of mankind . Therefore we in Turkey consider with greater hope , if with equal pride , what we have been able to accomplish in the organization and administration of our country . While we were fighting against tremendous odds to secure the independence and freedom of our country we were also organizing a new form of government to consolidate the fruits of our victories by bringing about an administrative and social reconstruction of new Turkey on truly democratic principles . And the efficiency of this new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an impartial recognition by the Committee of Investigation sent by Admiral Mark L. Bristol , United States High Commissioner in Constantinople , into the territories recently liberated from our enemies . As reported by the American press the members of this commission have declared that only a few weeks after the redemption of our provinces the new lt111.101.1 brought quiet and prosperity out of chaos and anarchy . They further stated that the much-needed work of reconstruction in the territories devastated by the Greeks in their retreat had already started and that everyone , including even the Greek prisoners of war , was well treated and satisfied . These accomplishments deserve to retain the attention of the world , especially as certain European countries better equipped than Turkey are still , after four years of official peace , hysterically struggling through a muddle of so-called reconstruction work with which their cumbersome and out-of-date forms of parliamentary government are totally inadequate to cope . The forms of democracy of Western Europe are all based on the parliamentary system . Some are conservative in structure , but more or less adaptable to circumstances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republican in name , like France , are much nearer to parliamentary monarchies than to the form of republic known on this side of the ocean . Others again , while monarchies in name like Italy and Spain , are at times either verging on socialism or on conservatism according to the policy followed by the Cabinet in power . In all the executive powers are intrusted to a Cabinet which is at the mercy of political machinations and parliamentary intrigues . The Cabinet is jointly responsible to the Parliament . When one of its members shows himself incapable or undesirable the whole Cabinet is attacked by the opposition party and is often obliged to resign irrespective of the fact that the majority of its members may be the only politicians capable of carrying on the work started . At the fall of the Cabinet the politicians start once more their plotting and planning in which party considerations are per force above or at leaston par with national considerations . Job-hunting flourishes . All administrative and constructive work undertaken by the outgoing party is placed into new hands , often inexpert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And most of the time the new-comers destroy the work of their predecessors and start anew from the very beginning for the sole purpose of obtaining the credit of any work accomplished for their own administration and for themselves . The inefficiency of this parliamentary system is so well recognized in Europe that in times of war , in times of national crisis , parliaments are dissolved , suspended , or tacitly rendered useless by an agreement between party leaders . In other words , precisely when the nation is most in danger the parliamentary governments place a muzzle upon the mouth of the people and , under the pretext of avoiding the confusion of party troubles , hermetically close their ears to their constituents . During the Great War all European governments went through this process which finally brought about such an unbearable dictatorship of the few that reaction set in and many nations were almost thrown into the chaos of communism . The stringent measures adopted by the established governments staved this off in most countries . Later the example of Russia , where the failure of communism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obliged to discard certain of its extreme principles , estabhheii beyond doubi , in die eyes a all inuelligent , people Cite dangers of communistic experiments within their own countries . People realized that it was safer to stay in the frying-pan than to jump into the fire . Thus the Old World settled once more into its old form of government , and parliamentarism with its cumbersomeness , its inefficiency , and its party politics became once more supreme in all European countries except Turkey . The Turks realized that the fact that communism was unsuited to their own national traditions and was a form of government which engendered chaos and anarchy did not necessarily justify a return to the out-of-date parliamentary system . Turkish patriots set to work and devised a new form of government better fitted to the requirements of their country than any existing system , and more in harmony with the ideals and desires of the time  --  a real government of the people for the people . The Turkish Revolution of 1908 was brought about by the openly admitted intention of the European countries to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , Turkish leaders imbued with liberal and modern ideals took up the challenge of Europe and forced upon the autocratic Sultan Abdul Hamid the adoption of a parliamentary system of government which was to save Turkey . A Turkish constitution , copied from the constitutions prevailing in European parliamentary countries , was hastily adopted , and naturally resulted in party strife and intrigues . Instead of bringing about the reforms needed and desired by the people , the Committee of Union and Progress , the so-called Liberal Party , and others jumped into the fray and their leaders endeavored to secure or to maintain themselves in power . Then the World War came . And it had the same results on the Turkish democratic institutions as in other parliamentary countries . Even more so . The leaders of the Committee of Union and Progress then in power , realizing that the Turkish people were neither in favor of entering the war on the side of Germany nor even of remaining under the administration of a pro-war party , suspended the Turkish Parliament and adopted a more stringent dictatorship than their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country into the war on the side of Germany . After the signing of the Moudros armistice which definitely eliminated Turkey from the general war and caused the downfall of the Committee of Union and Progress the Allies reiterated their intention to proceed to the partition of Turkey and immediately endeavored to put their intentions into effect . Consequently the Turkish nation was once more spurred to patriotic exaltation as in 1908 . But the country found itself now in a peculiar position . The press and the publicists were clamoring that the war had been fought to make the world safe for democracy and the rights of small nationalities . But on the other hand all semblance of organized administration in Turkey was being systematically broken down by the continuous encroachment of the Allies on the armistice terms which they had agreed upon at Moudros . The very rights of the Turkish nation  --  after all a small nationality of barely fifteen millions  --  were being systematically trampled under the booted feet of the Allies . Instead of being made safe for democracy Turkey was being made safe for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Turkish nation was down  --  but not out . Turkey had to submit to slavery , or else to act . But her Sultan and the shadow of a government were under the very guns of the enemies in Constantinople . The Turkish nation took the burden upon itself , It made up its mind to live free and independent within its racial territories . Withdrawing first to the lofty plains of Anatolia , the Turkish people summoned their Parliament , which was at the time suspended . Thus their first act was to take into their own hands one of the constitutional prerogatives of their monarch . This measure was rapidly followed by other similar encroachments on the sovereign 's rights . Vested with full powers by the people , the duly elected members of the Parliament formed themselves into a Great National Assembly and assumed the right to defend the nation , to engage in war for the purpose of expelling the Greek invaders , and to determine the terms on which Turkey would be ready at any time to conclude peace with the Allies . Summoning the Parliament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the essential prerogatives of the chief of state in all parliamentary countries . These prerogatives were assumed by the Turkish people . The Turkish constitution had to be revised . Parliamentarism had proved a failure . The people were unwilling to take the chance of being once more  --  for so-called reasons of state  --  subjected to the dictatorship of a few leaders . A republic was not to be thought of . European republics had proved to have the drawbacks of all parliamentary governments . Besides , the proclamation of a republic in Turkey would have been too dangerous a measure to take with aggressive and powerful soviets on the Caucasian border . Furthermore the Sultan is a tradition in Turkey and a Sultan with no real power is not a danger but only a luxury . The general international situation of Turkey made this luxury a necessity . The Sultan of Turkey is recognized as Caliph , or Spiritual Chief , of all Moslem countries , and through this fact Turkey can at any time exert a telling influence over the whole Moslem world . On the strength of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and propaganda within her territory and even to force the modification of soviet policies in Asia . In her quality of leader of the Moslem world Turkey called upon the Bolsheviks and single-handed obtained more than the bulk of all the other nations of Europe put together . The Soviets agreed  --  and have since kept their undertaking ? not to engage in bolshevik propaganda in Turkey and to apply only such bolshevik principles as are not incompatible with the principles of Islam in the Moslem territories of Russia . And one of the basic Moslem principles is the recognition of the sanctity of private property . To evolve a new form of government which would reconcile all these different requirements and would at the same time satisfy the ideals of the people was a difficult task . But upon the initiative of Mustapha Kemal Pasha , the Great National Assembly  --  now a permanent Constituent Assembly  --  worked out a new Turkish constitution which not only has accomplished the purposes outlined above but has also given repeated proofs during these last three years of its efficiency and viability . Broadly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reverse of the theory of all other European constitutions in so far as it attributes all sovereign rights to the people and places all executive powers in the hands of the National Assembly  --  whereas in European countries sovereign rights are the attributes of the chief of state and executive powers are confided to the cabinets . Under the new constitution the Turkish people elect by universal suffrage , without distinction of sex or religion , representatives of either sex to the National Assembly . There are no electoral restrictions whatsoever except that both candidates and electors must be of age and mentally sound . Any Turkish citizen may become a candidate for any electoral district irrespective of residence . The representatives are elected for a certain number of years , but the length of their mandate has not yet been determined ; it was decided that this point would have to await the establishment of peace so as not to hamper by general elections the fight for freedom in which the country is engaged . The Great National Assembly thus constituted by the duly elected representatives of all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to safeguard the sovereign rights of its mandatories the Turkish people . It elects by majority vote its President and vice-presidents whose functions , duties , and prerogatives are simply those of the presidents and vice-presidents of any other assembly . Again through elections by majority vote it elects its members to committees and sub-committees whose duties are to discharge the specific executive powers of the different government departments . To conduct the administrative work of these different departments , the president of the Assembly chooses , after consultation with the different parties , one candidate from each party for each department , and the Great National Assembly is then called upon to elect in full session from among these candidates  --  who are all members of the Assembly  --  those which by majority vote are deemed most capable of discharging the specific administrative functions . The members thus elected are called delegates . Each is in charge of a specific government department . To coordinate their administrative work , the president of the Assembly again appoints , after consultation with the different parties , one candidate from each party for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session elects one of these candidates . The Council of Delegates thus constituted has no executive power but is only delegated by the Great National Assembly to conduct the administrative work of the government departments . And each delegate is individually responsible to the Assembly for the good conduct of the administration of his own department . The Assembly holds him at all times personally responsible for his administration , and should it by majority vote express its dissatisfaction with the administration of any department the delegate intrusted with it is obliged to resign forthwith . But the responsibility being individual and not collective for the Council of Delegates , such a resignation never precipitates the fall of the Council . The resigning delegate again takes his seat in the Assembly and the President appoints new candidates for the department left vacant . The Assembly then elects one of these candidates as the new delegate . All appointments for civil and military functions within the government departments , in the provinces , or even in the armies on the fields , have to be sanctioned by majority vote of the Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military , are directly responsible to the National Assembly . Thus the National Assembly exerts in full the executive powers for which it has received a mandate from the people . It can ask for an account delivered in person by any functionary and can vote the recall of any functionary whose account it does not deem satisfactory . This public interference in the actual running of all administrative and governmental functions , far from being unhealthy , has proved to be a boon even during the most critical periods of the last three years and has been strictly enforced by the Assembly even during the most acute crises and in matters pertaining to the immediate conduct of the war . For instance at the time of the second Greek offensive and when the Greek armies were almost menacing Angora , the National Assembly by a vote of censure caused t ? r - signation of the commander of the western armies wected a new commander in the field , with the result : , efet Pasha , the new commander , stemmed the Greek . e and changed a near defeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no national or international obligation , agreement , or contract can be entered upon or even negotiated outside the Great National Assembly . For each specific case the representatives of the people elect one or more delegates whose explicit duty is to consult with the National Assembly on all the phases of the negotiations and to enter upon any agreement however temporary only upon the specific authorization of the Assembly . This stringent restriction insures the total elimination of secret negotiations , the total sovereignty of the people is respected , and arbitrary actions on the part of one or more dictators is made impossible . During his recent negotiations with Franklin Bouillon at Smyrna , Mustapha Kemal Pasha in person gave an example of the inability of any Turkish official to bring his country into an agreement , even in principle , without referring the whole matter to the representatives of the people . In Mudania Ismet Pasha was in the same position , and while the Turkish delegate had to consult the Turkish people , represented in the National Assembly , throughout the negotiation of the armistice treaty the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their respective nations . Since the Turkish people through the Assembly were kept informed of all the turns taken by the negotiations , the Turkish authorities had no objection to the presence of their newspaper correspondents , while the Allied envoys endeavored to keep their own newspaper correspondents away even from Mudania . This feature of the Turkish constitution explains and justifies the Turkish demand that the coming peace conference be held in Smyrna or in some other place where the Turkish delegates can keep constantly and directly in touch with the representatives of the people . The new Turkish constitution has established in theory and in fact a totally new conception of government in which the people are placed and maintained at the very top . This system is undoubtedly the most thorough form of government by the people yet devised in the Old World . It maintains the traditions of the country without at the same time impairing or endangering the sovereignty of the people . The future will gradually smooth out its imperfections if practice shows that it has any . It most certainly will have shortcomings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stride made by Turkey is a long one .                     