@@152206

Indiana . The Hoosiers celebrated last week by holding the third primary of this election year . There were 13 Representatives involved ( ten Republicans , three Democrats ) and all of them were renominated . There are two Senators coming up for re-election-Senator Watson for six years , Senator Arthur R. Robinson , appointed some months ago to fill the late Senator Ralston 's unexpired term ( TIME , Nov. 2 ) , for two years . In the Republican primaries Watson was faced by a young lawyer , Claris Adams , supported by Postmaster General New and others who have no reason for liking Watson . Adams made a whirlwind campaign , excoriating Watson 's " sterile statesmanship " and " 30 years of deals , deals , deals . " Watson leaned back secure in the possession of an effective political machine , and made only one speech in the entire campaign . He was renominated by a majority of some 161,000 . <P> The Democrats had six candidates fighting for the nomination to oppose Watson . None got a majority and the Democratic nomination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the short term , Senator Robinson ran against four opponents and eked out a nomination by a majority of 64,000 . He will meet Evans Woollen , nationally known Indianapolis banker , who was chosen by the Democrats , unopposed , in the election . <P> Pennsylvania . The fourth primary of the season takes place in Pennsylvania next week , and , it being Pennsylvania , the chief interest is in the Republican choice . There are three candidates . Senator Pepper , running for renomination , is backed by the Mellons and the organization of the western part of the state . Cyrus E. Woods , former Ambassador , is managing Mr. Pepper 's campaign . He is Dry and his issue is support of the Administration . The second candidate is Governor Pinchot , fighting for nomination on the ground that he is Dryer than Pepper . He has a good bit of the church vote and also of the miner vote-important in Pennsylvania . The third is Congressman William S. Vare , boss of the Philadelphia machine , out and out Wet , who hopes to gain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote by his Wetness . The possible permutations and combinations arising out of this triangle make the issue difficult to predict and full of weight . Either , Pepper or Vare can be counted on to support the Administration if elected . If Vare should be nominated , however , it is not unlikely that Pinchot might run as an Independent , hoping to gather in those who supported Pepper in the primary and so beat Vare . If Pinchot should be nominated , there will probably be another Progressive , anti-Administration Republican in the Senate . So Republican eyes watch Pennsylvania closely .                     