@@164714

Foot Wrenched . Pain sharpened the lines of His Holiness ' usually serene and always amiable face last week . Descending from the papal automobile for his diurnal promenade in the Vatican gardens he wrenched his right foot . After a day in his private quarters he forced himself to give his usual audiences in the throne room . The pain continued . So public , but not private , audiences have been suspended for the present . Before his election to the Papacy he was a doughty mountain climber . Age , not immuration , is responsible for his present frailty . Next May His Holiness will be 72 years old . U. S. Numbers . To the Vatican , whose thick old walls fraction the blaze of Italian summer into cool nooks for the serene observation of world happenings , went the news last week that in ten years the U. S. Catholic population had increased by virtually 20% . In 1916 the numbers had been 15,721,815 ; in 1926 they had been 18,604,850 . These were finally authenticated figures of the U. S. Department of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roman Catholics . Bound " Bouquet . " News as pleasing , in a different sense , reached the Vatican also last week-that the Right Reverend John J. Dunn , bishop auxiliary vicar general of the archdiocese of New York had just departed for the antipodes , bearing a book containing 72 pages of illumined vellum , bound in white calf with a raised chalice of gold cunningly repousse , jeweled in French enamel and surmounted by a Host in white enamel . Inscribed on the vellum leaves were " flowers , " the record of 22,145,089,361 acts of devotion-masses said , holy and spiritual communions , benedictions , " little offices " and ejaculations . The " flowers " made up a spiritual bouquet , like the one offered to the Pope at the 28th Eucharistic Congress at Chicago two years ago ( TIME , May 31 , 1926 ) . This one Father Dunn is to present at the 29th Eucharistic Congress at Sydney , Australia , in September . Thence politic Cardinal Cerretti is to bear it to His Holiness . U. S. Politics . Cardinal Sincero must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cathedral of Montreal next month . So the Pope , circumspect about the present U. S. political campaign , commanded him last week as he was about to leave Rome for Canada . But Cardinal Cerretti , who intends to cross the U. S. from the Eucharistic Conference at Sydney , Australia , may wander about the states all he pleases . He will not arrive at San Francisco until after the election . Prince Rebuffed . The Governor ( mayor ) of Rome , Prince Ludovico Spada Potenziani , was refused an annullment of his marriage by the Tribunal of the Sacred Rota , * which rejected his contention that he is not really the husband of Princess Potenziani because their marriage ceremony was " performed without her full consent . " <P>                     