@@299622

The Boston Bar Association has introduced a bill in the Massachusetts State Legislature prohibiting trust companies from soliciting employment as executor , administrator or trustee by advertisement " or by such other means as would , if employed for a like purpose by a member of the Bar , be a violation of the standards of professional conduct recognized and enforced by the courts of this Commonwealth . " The Massachusetts Law Quarterly states the view of the proponents of this measure approximately as follows : <P> Many of the persons who call upon trust companies in response to advertising have no lawyers and ask the trust officer to recommend a good lawyer . The trust officer gives them a list composed of his friends or friends of the trust company and its counsel . The result is that a small group of lawyers is indirectly getting the benefit of expensive advertising and probate practice is improperly diverted from lawyers who are entirely competent to handle it . <P> One James H. Collins , writing in the current issue of Printers ' Ink says : " Fundamentally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If it is right , and a good thing for the public , the more it advertises and the greater the volume of business it receives , the greater the public good . If the trust company is wrong , why merely prohibit its advertising ? Why not have the state cancel its charter ? Finally , if a business has a legitimate reason for existence and yet can be advertisingly gagged through legislation that will benefit only a minority , where will the line be drawn ? Why not laws to prevent the advertising of automobiles because this advertising decreases the demand for postillions ? " <P> Criticisms by lawyers of trust company advertising is not confined to Massachusetts . The performing of legal services by trust companies is prohibited by the laws of Illinois , Louisiana , Maryland , Massachusetts , Michigan , Missouri , New York , New Jersey , Oregon , Rhode Island , Washington .                     