@@486375

Tiflis , Soviet Republic of Georgia , November 1 L ITTLE Georgia , mountainous , wine-drinking , the cradle of the Caucasian race if we are to believe the omniscient ethnographers , today furnishes an indispensable object lesson in the science of revolution . The recent uprising in Georgia , which the League of Nations dignified with its attention , was the inevitable result of an to develop a Communist or Soviet system on a which had not , like Russia proper , gone through the preliminary purgatory of a revolution . For Georgia , it may be recalled , passed d i re c t 1 y from capitalism under the Mensheviks to the New Economic Policy under the Bolsheviks without the intervening period of military communism which in Russia made possible stable politics under NEP economics . To the student of revolution and of social movements Georgia is a revelation . Its history since 1917 and its present give him a partial or perhaps complete answer to the much-mooted question : Can England , can Germany evolve peacefully toward socialism ? Can a labor government legislate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the land first be turned inside out and upside down by a revolution ? Soon after the power of the Czar collapsed , the Mensheviks set up a government in Georgia . In its early age the troops of the Imperial German Kaiser were its foster father ; in its old age it was watched over by well-meaning British Tommies acting on behalf of Mr. Churchill and Lord Curzon , who have always evinced a peculiar interest in Baku and its oil-fields and in the great Baku-Batum pipe line , which cuts through the heart of the Georgian republic . Meanwhile the Mensheviks were sending punitive expeditions to crush their restive national minorities , the Ossetinians , Adjarians , and Abkhazians . ; Unable to restrain the peculiar nationalistic ardor which distinguishes them , they engaged in petty wars with their neighbors , Armenia and Azerbaijan . By that time Moscow had rid itself of civil war . Wrangel was in Constantinople and the Poles were back within their swollen frontiers . It was then that Sirgo Ordjenekidze and his troops went to support the Georgian Communists and sweep the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of Kakhatia , Mingrelia , and Svanetia . He led the Red army over impossible mountain passes , meeting with no resistance until within sight of Tiflis , where ex-Czarist officers made a futile stand . In February , 1921 , Georgia had turned Bolshevik . The Men-shevik leaders simply fled to Paris and Berlin , taking art and museum treasures with them . For a week the mass of the people in the cities , which for Georgia with a proletariat of scant 90,000 means the bourgeoisie , hid at home awaiting the developments which had ruined the Russian bourgeoisie . But none came . Slowly they reappeared on the streets . They wore the clothes of yore and the diamonds . They flashed their evening dresses at the theater and opera . The Bolsheviks instituted no Red Terror in Georgia and no sudden expropriation of the propertied classes . Revolutionary measures which were the first acts of the Bolsheviks in the Smolny and Kremlin are only now being ventured in Georgia . The Singer Sewing Machine Company was nationalized by the Russian Government early in 1918 , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tchiaturi manganese deposits , deposits on which the American steel industry is largely dependent and for which , therefore , W. A. Harriman is now bidding , are still worked by their prewar owners , the only instance of such leniency in all the Soviet Union , with the possible exception of some minor enterprises not known to the writer . Even the land reform-in Georgia waited until 1923 . During the period of military communism in Russia the bourgeoisie was crushed . The war-weary soldiers had no sooner bolted from the Eastern front than they dispossessed the rich landowners , sometimes destroying their fine homes , often driving them from the neighborhood . The land barons and the nobility lost their wealth , their social position , not too seldom their lives . Many fought and died in the prolonged civil war through which Russia passed . Many , forced to go into exile , are now waiters and chauffeurs and unofficial advisers of foreign offices in the capitals of Europe . In fine , the effect of the upheaval in Russia was the extinction as a class of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outlawed for three years , of the city bourgeoisie . When the NEP came , the NEP which at least for some years after its promulgation in 1921 was a license to live to the bourgeoisie , the Bolsheviks had to deal with a new bourgeoisie without traditions and without roots . Experience shows that the task of combating such a deracinated bourgeoisie is , relatively at least , not difficult , though it is not always altogether pleasant or advisable . The picture in Georgia is different . The land-owning classes did not emigrate . The rural princes  --  and owing to peculiar circumstances they constitute 6 per cent of Georgia 's population of 2,400,000 ? were never violently expropriated and never forced to move from their premises . It is true that when the Bolsheviks finally redistributed the country 's meager land resources the holdings of the princes and nobles suffered serious diminution ; nevertheless , they managed in many cases to maintain an economic superiority owing to retention of their live and dead agricultural stock and of their personal property . The landed families which were not banished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their former greatness . They have been forced out of their class and into the peasant class . But in Georgia they remained a compact and rather large nucleus of disaffection . It matters little that some of the princes have become paupers . Without years of civil war and of active communism to shake the foundations of their existence and to impress them with their own futility , they remain imbued ' with a sense of class solidarity , cherishing the hope of rehabilitation . So also the urban bourgeoisie . Tiflis store windows were never boarded up as were those of Petrograd and Moscow . The luxury shops , the pastry parlors , the dispensers of fancy French perfumes , all private of course , operate in 1924 as they did in 1914 . The bourgeoisie remains intact . More than that , it has gained in confidence and arrogance . The Communists have not dared lay hands on them . Only in one respect did the Georgian Bolsheviks follow the radical road . They went the limit in the anti-religious campaign , closing every church in whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grown wiser . They justified the policy by submitting , what is true , that the average Georgian is less devout than the average Russian , yet they overstepped the mark , and today Ordjenekidze , the " big chief " in the Tiflis Government , is sounding the retreat . " To say that the peasantry does not want its churches , " he tells a party conference , " is self-deception . " Georgia joins Armenia and Azerbaijan to form the Trans-Caucasian Federation , which federation plus Great Russia plus White Russia plus the Ukraine constitutes the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics ( USSR ) . Officially , and in many respects actually , an autonomous republic , Georgia , sometimes with grace and sometimes without , usually takes the cue from Moscow . One marvels at the authority of the Kremlin . Its finger is as clear in Baku and Batum as in the very streets of Moscow . Now , when the intensive anti-NEP , anti-bourgeois crusade commenced a year or more ago , Tiflis followed suit , albeit with much caution . But whereas in Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Georgian merchants became the active supporters or passive sympathizers of the revolt . Thus the tradespeople joined the princes and priests to form the backbone of the insurrection . Few workers joined the ranks . In fact the proletariat of Batum and Poti and Scharipan suppressed the trouble without the aid . of the military . It was a tiny affair , the insurrection . At its climax it had mobilized no more than 4,000 persons . Some of these were peasants who jumped on to the bandwagon when the Mensheviks held Tchiaturi ( population 13,000 ) for ten hours , and Novo Senaki ( population 5,000 ) for two days . The Georgian peasants have as many good reasons to grumble as have the Russian . Nevertheless , most of the peasants turned a deaf ear to the Mensheviks ; some , as in the province of Kakhetia , reacted toward the insurrection by driving the princes out of their villages . Still others , however , plain peasants whose condition was steadilyyet only slowly improving were the victims of princely agitation and provocation . How natural this in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which only recently shed its feudalism , and where , until several decades ago , the peasantry submitted to the exercise by the princes of the jus primae noctis . The relation between the peasants and the princes in certain sections of the country is closer than that which the Communists have succeeded in setting up . Therefore the non-bourgeois peasants struck with the bourgeoisie . The insurrection was inspired and organized by the Mensheviks who live in Paris . Georgian Menshevism , it should be understood , is not the Menshevism of Martov , whom Lenin loved , nor even of Abramovitch . It has no kinship with socialism . It is tantamount to anti-Bolshevism . The Mensheviks who precipitated this revolt received foreign financial aid . A member of their own Central Committee , arrested by the Cheka , confessed the fact in testimony which lies before me . They were promised that if they succeeded in holding , power for three or four days British and French vessels would land troops in Black Sea ports and march to their support . I spoke to young men in western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who wondered why America had not sent tanks . These innocents had been drugged into believing that the Powers would aid their efforts . And not without reason did they believe so . Had not Doumergue received with pomp and music the " Georgian ambassador to France , " Tchenkelli , the Parisian copy of Bakhmetiev ? Had not Herriot received Tseretelli , a member of the Menshevik cabinet ? Had not MacDonald seen Tseretelli shortly before the rising ? And did not MacDonald and Herriot support the Georgian Mensheviks at the recent meeting of the League of Nations ? I think it can be stated categorically that the insurrection would not have occurred but for the encouragement which the Mensheviks got from abroad . The Mensheviks exploited the exaggerated nationalism of the Georgians . The Georgians are an excessively proud race , and Czarist attempts at Russification only fostered the spirit . Menshevism urges the slogan of national independence . But history has ? proved that an " independent " Menshevik Georgia was first a colony of Imperial Germany and then of the British Empire . Georgia is too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the road to the oil of Baku , Persia , and Afghanistan . It has the coveted manganese . With Georgia in British hands Russia 's , passive threat to India and Russia 's possession of the Caucasus would cease . Georgia 's choice lay and lies between British imperialism via Menshevism and Soviet Russia . It is interesting that the League of Nations lent its influence to the former . Was it an insurrection for national liberation from foreign domination , the domination of Russia , or was it part of a scheme to destroy the Soviet regime in all of Russia ? Between 1918 and 1921 the Menshevik Government in Tiflis fought the Armenians and the Turks in Azerbaijan ; they burned the villages of the Ossetinians and cruelly oppressed the Abkhazians . Now they parade in the name of the rights of national minorities . Be that as it may , what was the prime object of the Georgian Mensheviks ? Before me is a letter written by Noi Jordani , president of Menshevik Georgia , and intercepted by the Cheka . He outlines his plan to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Mountain Republic centering around Vladikavkaz . Finally Georgia . With the Caucasus thus detached from Russia they could prepare the downfall of Bolshevism . This is the " oil state " of which French papers wrote and which , it was suggested , would be under the aegis of the League . There was a military program . On such and such a day Baku was to be taken . On that day the Social Democrat and emigrant press of Europe reported that Baku had been taken . Daghestan was to hoist the White Guard flag on Wednesday . On Thursday the anti-Bolshevik papers knew from " special dispatches " that the Soviet republic of Daghestan had been smashed . Though the entire affair was liquidated in three days , Berlin and Paris dailies continued for more than a month to describe disturbances in places which I know were perfectly peaceful because I was visiting in them at the time when these supposed disturbances were being reported . Jordani , for instance , sitting in Paris , sent the London Daily Herald a wire to the effect that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reprisals on the population , massacring old men , women , and children . " Now I have been to Batum . I have had conversations with an American , the local representative of the Near East Relief ; with private storekeepers who mouthed fire and brimstone at the Bolsheviks , with port workers , with non-political hotel servants , and with Mensheviks . Batum is a small town . Had they seen Red troops who had disembarked or arrived in any other way ? No . Had anybody been massacred ? No . The revolt had not even touched Batum . Georgia is a pre-capitalistic country . The people weave their own cloth and make their own carpet dyes from nuts and fruits . You see women making thread from raw cotton and wool . There is little factory industry and therefore no very strong bourgeoisie . Nevertheless , that bourgeoisie has been able to offer passive resistance to the Soviet regime since its inception in 1921 and to participate in three troublesome , albeit puny , insurrections . The last uprising , quickly terminated though it was , forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will of the bourgeoisie nor deny the influence of the princes on the mood of the peasants . Measures tending toward the destruction of private capital were publicly renounced . Thus the state monopolies for cotton , silk , and wool were revoked , giving Nepmen a free hand in competing with the Government . Private shops boycotted for a year by the banks will now receive credits . The anti-NEP campaign will probably cease , certainly it will take on milder forms , while concessions will be made to the rich peasantry . Attacks on religion have been ordered stopped . This latest Georgian experience emphasizes the heavy cost of revolution and the tremendous responsibility of revolutionaries . For the Q. E. D. of three years of Bolshevism in Georgia is that the ends of socialism can not be approached , much less attained , as long as a counter-socialistic class has the weight and the will to bar the way . The Red cynic will even say that if civil war and foreign wars do not follow social upheavals , as they did the French and the Russian , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through which the destruction of this class , the bourgeoisie , could be consummated . I have put the question to many Communists only to receive an almost unvarying reply : No bourgeoisie will voluntarily relinquish its wealth and power . Nationalize its mines , railroads , land , real estate , factories , attempt a serious capital levy , and even the bourgeoisie which is the greatest champion of democracy will fight , though its enemy be a regularly elected parliamentary majority . No class submits to the guillotine without a struggle , not even so small and weak and unorganized a class as the Georgian bourgeoisie.                     