@@220031

These are the plays which in the light of metropolitan criticism seem most important : PEER GYNT-Ibsen 's fancy is permitted to wander all over a fantastic globe . Joseph Schildkraut , as the vainglorious Peer , has to pass from youth to age in two moves . ROMEO AND JULIET-Jane Cowl and Rollo Peters put new life into old romance . Juliet 's charm captivates not only Romeo but the entire audience . Moscow ART THEATRE-The Moscow players have bred in theatre-goers a fine contempt for barriers of language . The inspired realism of their acting conveys their meaning almost as adequately as words . In this last week in New York they are presenting a complete repertory . THE GOD OF VENGEANCE-The daughter of the keeper of a brothel succumbs to her environment in a powerfully explicit scene with a Lesbian . Rudolph Schildkraut gives a poignant performance as the agonized father . The producers and cast have been indicted because of its alleged immortality . MERTON OF THE MOVIES-Through no will of his own , a movie-struck youth becomes a film comedian . The process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the big stick missionary . Jeanne Eagel is the persecuted , somewhat unevenly virtuous instrument of the Rev. Davison 's eventual fall . Realistic rain falls intermittently . SEVENTH HEAVEN-There is a tremendous moment when Helen Menken , as the submissive sister of an absinthe-soaked shrew , turns on her with a courage restored by love , and beats her with her own , whip . LOYALTIES - John Galsworthy 's somewhat theatric demonstration that conflicts in loyalties may be disastrous . A wealthy Jew , persecuted by amiable clubmen , wins a doubtful point . KIKI - Aside from holding the Broadway endurance record , Lenore Ulric is as brightly captivating as ever in the part of the just barely virtuous little Parisienne . The best current musical shows : Caroline , Chauve Souris , Greenwich Village Follies , Little Nellie Kelly , Liza , Music Box Revue , Ziegfeld Follies.                     