@@467700

MAN to-day faces what is probably the most critical and hazardous moment in the entire period of his devel ? opment . He is confronted by a situation and an opportunity , both of which are unique in the history of civilization . The situation has followed a surprisingly protracted and startling series of dislo ? cations in the ordinary course of events . The opportunity to take the lead in the reorganization of society has been cre ? ated as the result of the urgent need in the world for a different kind of leader ? ship in the management of human affairs . A startling series of events has em ? phasized the fact that real leadership in human affairs should be expected only from those qualified to tell us how to use the human mind for constructive pur ? poses . Physicians , on account of their opportunities for observing the behavior of human beings in health and disease , and of studying the various factors re ? sponsible for changes in behavior , are in a better position than the members of any other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the constructive forces now required to stabilize , protect , and ensure the progress of civilization . It can be nothing less than disastrous if the members of the medical profession should fail to recognize their relations to the present situation , or to seize the present opportunity to lead the way in the reorganization of society on a more substantial basis . Indifference to situ ? ation and opportunity may well be the prelude to a great catastrophe . If phy ? sicians are satisfied to follow the example of the majority of people , who are notmaking any attempt to learn how to use their constructive forces effectively , they are virtually indorsing a form of social organization that to-day is responsible for the increase of physical and mental diseases on a scale which will ultimately cripple , if not destroy , our civilization . To-day , the members of the medical profession are confronted by the greatest problem ever forced upon the attention of man . Man must prepare to know himself sufficiently well to be able to con ? trol the forces he calls civilization , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is now sweeping him along . The war brought home to thoughtful persons the truth that , to be successful , any attempt at social reorganization must accomplish two things : an increase in the efforts to ensure the better protec ? tion of life against physical disease ; and of even greater importance will be the more intelligent attempts made to un ? derstand and co-ordinate the construc ? tive forces in human nature . For , if we continue to aim at the former , the pre ? vention of physical disease , while prac ? tically disregarding the latter , disease will win the final and decisive victory . Only a sane mind can devise and carry into execution an effective plan for se ? curing good physical hygiene . A heavy price has already been paid and the foun ? dations of society have been shaken be ? cause the problems involved in the pro ? tection of the body have been treated as separate and distinct from those in ? volved in the protection of the mind . In order to deserve at least even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be prepared to show how much can actually be done now to direct intelligently all the powers of man , those of mind as well as those of body , in the constant struggle to adjust life . The responsibility of assuming leader ? ship in the effort to teach people how to use their minds , how to be peaceful and sane , and how to cherish constructive and creative ideas and ideals , rests pri ? marily not with statesmen but with physicians . The rate of progress of civi ? lization will be determined not by the members of peace conferences or of courts of arbitration as at present con ? stituted , but to a very large extent by those who are familiar with the methods that have actually been tried and proved useful in bringing out the constructive forces of the mind . The prevention of disease and of war , together with the control of the destructive forces in human nature , depends upon such action as may be taken by those leaders of med ? ical thought who have become interested in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature of the existing world crisis , grasp the full mean ? ing of their responsibility , and possess the intelligence to rise to the present dramatic opportunity , there will be fewer plausible reasons for affirming the decadence of European civilization or for entertaining doubt whether , by what we have actually accomplished , we Ameri ? cans are entitled to inherit the land of our fathers . The medical profession to-day is on trial . Physicians have an enormous task to show that they can organize as ef ? fectively to save as they did to destroy life . The armies of the Central Powers and the Allied forces during the war con ? tained in round numbers 63,000,000 , of this number 35,000,000 were killed , wounded , or in some way disabled , while $300,000,000,000 worth of prop ? erty is said to have been destroyed . These armies could neither have been as ? sembled nor held together for active service had it not been for the assist ? ance given by members of the medicalprofession to prevent the spread of disease . By the irony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life have thus made war possible upon the present gi ? gantic scale . Tlie past century undoubt ? edly represents the most remarkable period in the history of medicine ; the list of discoveries relating to the nature of disease and to methods for its preven ? tion , as well as for its treatment , forms one of the brightest pages that has yet been written in medical annals . It should not he forgotten , however , that these remarkable discoveries played a role of immense importance in develop ? ing the machinery which was so very ef ? fective as an engine of destruction . Judged from the point of view gener ? ally adopted by the more intelligent public , the campaign to prevent the spread of physical disease in times of peace may he said to be successful . This success is , however , seen to be very lim ? ited when we recall the fact that there never has been any organized effort to save life comparable with that made by the members of the medical profession during the war to prepare and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions existing be ? fore the war , the results in the fight against physical disease did not give sure promise of final victory . The scales had not been turned decisively in man 's favor . The relatively meager data available did not seem , when analyzed by statisticians , to show that man 's ef ? fort to protect himself against the rav ? ages of physical disease had been suc ? cessful . The total rate of incidence of physical disease had not fallen so low as to justify the statement that it was being brought under control ; and the assump ? tion of the existence of evidence indicat ? ing that it would soon he possible to effect a still greater reduction did not bring much encouragement to those who remembered that in the estimates men ? tioned the scourge of mental disease had not been taken into account . The moment that we consider the question of mental disease the picture changes decidedly for the worse . When we add to the deaths caused by physical diseases the number of persons who are unable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actual life , we realize that this addition repre ? sents a menace to civilization far greater than war , as well as more insidious in its onset and more destructive to human energy and life . Unless the medical profession becomes aroused immediately to an appreciation of the danger arising from their indiffer ? ence to the problems of prevention and treatment of mental disorders , and to the still wider problems involved in as ? sisting the average person to make good use of his mind , the chances not only of losing the effects of the discoveries made in the prevention and treatment of physical disease but of actually jeop ? ardizing our entire civilization will be greatly increased . The campaign to find out more about our minds , and to apply the knowledge we already have , is the only rational basis from which the fight against physical disease can be con ? ducted successfully . Good physical hy ? giene depends upon good mental hy ? giene . The control of syphilis , tuber ? culosis , typhoid , typhus , and plague involve primarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phys ? ical disease would doubtless have been far more effective had the members of the medical profession devoted more time and attention to the cultivation of the art of forming good mental habits and observing the precautions essential for clear thinking . It will be a long step in the direction of obtaining conditions for peace more favorable than those now existing when the public begins to understand that the physician is in a position peculiarly ad ? vantageous to plan and direct the neces ? sary organization to find successful solu ? tions for many of the great social , economic , and international problems facing us to-day . He knows the bodies , and should know the minds , of humanbeings . It is only because he has not taken the trouble to supplement his knowledge of what constitutes a sound body with reliable information as to what constitutes a sound mind , that he is not prepared to plan and organize a campaign to save much that is best in our civilization . He is coming to realize , however , that he can not protect the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the catastrophic events of the past decade , he is coming only very grad ? ually to appreciate that , in order to un ? derstand the effective use of the body , a person must know how to use the mind , and that to use the mind to full advantage , definite knowledge of the body is required . To-day , mind is recognized as an ex ? pression of the activities of the entire human organism , not simply of the brain and nervous system . The physician un ? derstands the parts and relations of the human machine , but he does not know the machine engaged as a living organ ? ism , using the mind to overcome difficul ? ties connected with living . Like a good many other people , he is still inclined to think of the mind as a function merely of the brain and nervous system . He does not grasp the idea that the mind represents the reactions of the entire or ? ganism . This is a grave mistake that has been followed by very serious con ? sequences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas not only about the nature of our mental proc ? esses , but concerning the genesis of , and methods of treating , mental disorders . It is , of course , necessary in order to understand the functions of a complex machine to know something about the structure and relations of the parts . We must see the machine in the workshop , but we must also be prepared to take it out on the road and observe how it runs . The physician , unfortunately , has been satisfied to remain largely the mechani ? cian . Ile has taken the machine apart and put it together again in the garage , but he has failed to act as chauffeur . He has shown astonishingly little interest in running the motor along life 's highway or in making careful notes about what occurred when there were obstacles to be overcome . The old type of physician , now so rare , studied the personality of his patient , but unfortunately was ig ? norant of the new technic . The modern specialist is not particularly interested in recording @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a living organism , either running along a smooth track or over rough ground covered with ruts , or while engaged in crossing the Sloughs of Despond or climbing the Hills of Diffi ? culty . Once the physician becomes as much interested in trying to regulate the mind as he is in studying the functions of the heart and lungs , he must be pre ? pared not only to meet new problems but to assume added and far greater re ? sponsibilities . He should be ready to speak with the authority that is based upon definite knowledge , and not merely with optimistic eloquence , about the con ? trol of the emotional and mental symp ? toms responsible for the conflicts disor ? ganizing the human mind . He should have practical suggestions to offer about methods of procedure to find peaceful solutions for many of the individual , na ? tional , international , and racial prob ? lems responsible for provoking the in ? sane and audacious aggressiveness that makes life so precarious for a large part of the world 's population . Physicians , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the study of human behavior , are really better pre ? pared than are statesmen to give valu ? able advice at peace conferences in re ? gard to the methods available for pre ? venting the spread of the dangerous emotional and mental conflicts that dis ? organize human society . The psychiatrist realizes , as perhaps no other person does , that fear is prob ? ably the greatest single enemy of man ? kind . Fear has produced the hideous spectacle of disorder in Europe . It has resurrected a world of barbarism and anarchy . Fear to-day increases the dif ? ficulties in the way of creating a belief in the efficiency of law to produce order . We fear that the law will not be re ? spected because our subconscienee tells us the statutes were formulated to con ? trol the activities of imaginary human beings and not those of the people we meet . in actual life . We can not expect our laws to engender a law-respecting and law-abiding attitude of mind until they are based upon accurate knowledge of the real biologic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our laws take no cognizance of the deep-seated biologic necessities of living beings , we can not wonder that , as Chief Justice Taft has said , there is a steadily grow ? ing disrespect for the present legal system . Fear prevents man from recognizing his real self , and forces him to try to live largely in an imaginary world , so that the society he has organized is to a large extent a society adapted to the needs of an imaginary being . When ? ever and wherever circumstances com ? pel him to try to meet the conditions of actual life , interminable conflicts result . The constant fear of meeting his real self produces confusion and causes anx ? iety neuroses . Think how this state of unprepared ? ness fur life handicaps man when he is called upon to face critical situations . Quite naturally he is disturbed by the realization that he is unable to summon all the forces of his personality to aid in. the struggle . He has a vague but a highly irritating sense of his inability . The best he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primitive traits and react to various situations in life much as did his primitive ancestors . They too were afraid of life . The present for them con ? tained , as it does for us , many mysteri ? ous phenomena which they could not understand . Belief in magic and the miraculous symbolized their fears and illustrated how few hopes they had of finding by rational means the way out of difficult and trying situations . Mod ? ern men arid primitive men are very much alike in the manner in which they trust to luck and the miraculous to ad ? just their lives . When confronted by failure , both are driven by fear to find for their personal problems the kind of solution which makes thinking perilous . It is better not to think when the emo ? tional preparation for thinking does not happen to be the kind that is essential for sanity . As man does not know himself , is it any wonder that he is constantly domi ? nated by fear ? How can he be expected to know his own capacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes to the actual conditions under which he is compelled to live , and trusts entirely to primitive instincts and emotions to get him out of his troubles ? We do not have to go far to-day to find in the dis ? cussion of municipal , state , national and international affairs many evidences that fear plays just about as large a part in our lives as it does in the life of the savage . Throughout the entire scale of human relationships and in all classes of society , fear is often the chief driving force in the personality . Women , for example , in both savage and civilized communities , are driven by the primitive fear that they will lose their personal charm and attractiveness to adopt the use of paint and powder in order to make an appeal to primitive impulses in man . The fact that more money is spent for cosmetics than for education is evidence of the ex ? tent to which fear deprives us of our reason and keeps the veneer of civiliza ? tion down to a very thin layer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? tling , on reflection one begins to under ? stand that connections do exist between such apparently trivial fears as those that lead women to use paint and pow ? der and the other more easily recognized forms of fear that deprive man of his capacity to reason in emergencies . The fear of the loss of physical attractiveness in women represents one phase of the great human problem , while Germany 's fear in 1914 of losing commercial suprem ? acy represents another aspect . An-other extraordinary illustration of the insidious , and far-reaching influence of fear is exhibited in connection with Christian Science . The belief in the doc ? trines of this Faith is the result of an effort to forget the unpleasant episodes in life that a great many people have not the courage to face . The Christian Scientist has excellent reasons for not wishing to believe in the existence of the body , as he has failed at some time to maintain control over very primitive impulses . The real danger from fear is measured not by the object we fear but by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence , is supplying the motive force in our life . The moment we allow fear to control our lives we are in danger . The theologian 's fear of failing to save souls may be as dangerous a motive force as a nation 's fear of not maintain ? ing its commercial supremacy . The man who is driven by fear hands over to the savage , primitive self that lives just below the skin the regulation of life . This transference of authority under the pressure of disorganizing influences pre ? vents him from bringing to the accom ? plishment of his daily task a well-integrated personality . He is the slave of impulse . On all sides of us to-day we see evi ? dence of the increase of the difficulties and dangers created by man 's inability to find rational solutions for great prob ? lems . The cause of these failures in the majority of eases is undoubtedly fear . The capitalist fears the organization of labor that he does not understand ; the labor leader fears the mysterious system of capital that is incomprehensible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unbeliever ; and all no matter how different their formal and superficial expressions of faith may be ? are driven by the same impulse that nar ? rows character and seriously distorts the mental vision . Like the savage , we are haunted by and made slaves to the impulses gener ? ated by fear of the unknown . To-day in Europe , in the great tragedy being enacted there , France fears Germany ; Germany reciprocates ; both have a mysterious dread of England . Great Britain , too , has her fears , but fortu ? nately , on account of climate , tradition , and constitutional characteristics , fear does not play so great a role in shaping British policies as in the case of other nations . Fear is responsible for a great many of the bad mental habits that exert such a pernicious influence in our lives . American nervousness , to a large ex ? tent , is due to the fact that primitive fears within us keep us in a constant state of anxiety . We are nervous over the possibility of being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of not knowing how to occupy our time when the day 's task is done . When we have neither the inclination nor the intelligence to try to understand our inner selves , we are obliged to live largely in an imaginary world . Then when some crisis arises and strange , in ? explicable impulses assume control we are forced to rely solely on legal re ? straints . In this country , where we have an emotional interest in prohibition , and little intellectual interest in temperance , we have done very little to encourage temperance or to strengthen the habits involved in the rational control of be-. havior and conduct . Events of the past decade have been productive of fears of what the future may offer . The public sense of security has been violently shaken . People are greatly disturbed by the unknown fact ? ors in human nature that seem to be constantly adding to the complication of modern life . There is no sense of real values based upon a knowledge of what people are prepared to feel , think , and do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even dis ? cussed . We may call a spade a spade when dissecting the personalities of other people , but we have a horror of pitiless publicity if it involves our inner self . The constant pressure from within , the fear of the unknown , unrecognized self , are responsible for changing love to hatred , sympathy to suspicion , pleasure to pain . The unhealthy feeling of un ? rest prevalent in all classes of society represents an immense waste of human energy that might be devoted to con ? structive purposes . The general con ? fusion and anxiety are increased by too much stress upon the obstacles lying in the path . We have heard quite enough from the prophets of evil who have no constructive program to offer . The time has come to ask if some one is not pre ? pared to make reasonable and practical suggestions , which , if followed , will im ? prove the present condition of affairs . If it desires to do so , the medical pro ? fession is best qualified to indicate and draw up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body with precise information about the ac ? tivities of the mind , and they can lead in the great forward movement to re ? organize society on a sane basis . A brief mention of some of the essen ? tial features in this program is in order . The establishment of a research institute that would do as much to stimulate in ? terest and provide opportunity for the study of the problems of human be ? havior , as has been accomplished in other fields by the Pasteur and Rocke ? feller Institutes would be an indication that man at least was making a rational effort to know himself . In the next place , in our medical schools provisions , at least equal to those existing at the Phipps Clinic in Baltimore , or the Psy ? chopathic Hospital in Boston , should be made for studying the mind . These pro ? visions should include opportunities for investigating not only the genesis and source of specific mental diseases , but also the mental processes of persons who are not subjects of such disorders . In ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers , social workers , political leaders , statesmen , and all persons who have an immediate inter ? est in directing human energy . Special courses should be provided for instruct ? ors in our universities in order that they may be prepared to give every student before graduation some practical knowl ? edge ahout his own mind , to assist him to find the place nature intended him to fill in life , and to aid him in making the best use of his mind . One of the objects the late Dr. Pearce Bailey had in mind when he established his Classification Clinic in New York was to train teachers who would be competent to give this kind of instruction . Academic psychology , as taught at present , and in marked contrast to the new dynamic psychology , is of very little assistance in teaching us how to use our minds . What will be the comments of future historians upon our present civilization when they come to know that at the be ? ginning of the twentieth century stu ? dents were allowed to graduate from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinguish sanity from insanity , were generally ignorant as to the nature and genesis of obsessions and fixed ideas and of methods of preventing their forma ? tion , and did not even know how to go to work to curb pride , prejudice , and egotism , and to strengthen and co ? ordinate the constructive and creative forces in the personality ? We do not have to go far in any direc ? tion to find plenty of evidence of the deplorable need for even elementary in ? formation about what can actually be accomplished in preparing the mind to take peaceful , constructive attitudes . The " writer has in his possession notes of cases in which university students were assigned to Group A , as the results of the usual academic examinations and the Intelligence Tests , although at the time they passed these examinations their personalities were thoroughly dis ? organized by homicidal and suicidal im ? pulses , or failure complexes . Cases pre ? senting these symptoms are tragic re ? minders of the extraordinary indiffer ? ence of the average educator to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned in the organization of the personality . On all sides we see evidences of the urgent need in schools , colleges , and universities for physicians skilled in the art of studying the mind to assist students to measure their own emotional and mental organi ? zation and to acquire the habits best adapted to express their individualities . Think what an extraordinary comment it is upon the effect of the conventional attitude toward education that to-day not one in a thousand students gradu ? ating from schools or universities ever asks the question " What do I need to know about my mind ? " And if they did ask the question the average aca ? demic psychologist would not be pre ? pared to answer the question . If a different attitude toward the study of the mind were maintained in our universities it would be possible to give opportunities to those who later will represent the nation at international conferences to familiarize themselves with the processes concerned in the genesis of the obsessions and fixed ideas that keep alive the feelings of discord and hatred dividing nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognize the forces in the personality that make for peace , and learn how to substitute these for those dangerous emotional currents that stifle intelli ? gence and make us so often creatures of blind impulse . We talk it . We indulge in riotous emo ? tionalism , talk about outlawing war , and then do not take the simplest pre ? caution to regulate the mind so as to strengthen its constructive forces . As far as the writer knows and he has talked with several of the leading American statesmen and men of public affairs ? there never has been a simple straight ? forward statement made of the essential characteristics that distinguish the peace ? ful from the belligerent attitude of mind . This should not be a difficult thing to do , and a careful statement call ? ing attention to the peculiar qualities of the peaceful and peace-loving type of personality should be a positive step in the direction of organizing a rational campaign for peace without arousing the sloppy sentimentality that so often and rapidly deteriorates into distinctly bel ? ligerent tendencies . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is constantly forced upon our attention . Professor Elton Mayo and other investigators have shown that there are to-day ex ? traordinary opportunities in connection with industrial development for the services of well-trained and tactful stu ? dents of behavior . The problems of cap ? ital and labor are human problems , and the solutions of these problems can be found only by those who have some knowledge of the actual biologic needs of human beings . As we have already pointed out , the difficulties in finding satisfactory adjustments of these great questions are due largely to the fact that neither the capitalist nor the laborer un ? derstands the nature of the human problem , and therefore are not com ? petent to recognize the means to be em ? ployed in reaching reasonable agree ? ments . Think of what physicians , if they were so inclined , could do to assist opposing interests to agree in the settlement of labor or international problems . They could call attention to the fact that ob ? sessions and fixed ideas are never re ? moved by a direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fine phrases , and " optimistic eloquence , " and could Leach people how to cultivate a frame of mind favorable to the recep ? tion of peace-loving and peace-creating ideas and ideals . They could insist that the last thing to do in attempting to re ? store reason to a patient driven by in ? sane impulses is to begin an argument about the ideas upon which the con ? scious attention happens to be fixed . The emotional difficulties must be re ? moved before any change can be ex ? pected in the patient 's mental attitude . Most of the conferences , economic , social , and even international , that are being held in the world to-day with the object of bringing about a better under ? standing between people , nations , and races , have had the contrary effect of intensifying hatreds , and crystallizing fixed ideas . Public debates , as they are usually conducted , generally close , and do not open the doors of the mind . Al ? together too much attention has been paid to the conscious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively too little has been directed to what is going on below the surface of the mind . The time has come for physicians to take an hilelligent , enthusiastic interest in the study of man . Unless they do this , our civilization is doomed to de ? cline . We can not afford to put our faith in " Thou-shalt-Hots . " Real prog ? ress and creative thinking are only pos ? sible when the human mind is absorbed in evolving ways and means for doing and is not stupefied by the repressions engendered by Draconic excesses . We shall sooner or later come to realize that the present dependence of the public upon drastic legal measures to regulate human behavior is one of the most strik ? ing confessions man has yet made that he has not grasped the most elementary facts in connection with the organization of his own personality . Prohibition marks the victory of the emotionalists , and is a long step in the direction of the hopeless mediocrity that measures suc ? cess in living by what a person does not do . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of inferi ? ority , fear of self , and deficiency of the creative spirit . The physician is in a better position than the member of any other profes ? sion to acquire and direct the applica ? tion of this knowledge in introducing a new era of law and order , based on the recognition of the actual biologic needs and potential capacities of living human beings . If physicians had read the signs of the times correctly and had appreciated their own peculiar fitness to take a prominent part in the direction of human affairs , we should not to-day be looking about for men to assist in reorganizing our educational , industrial , and social systems so that they may satisfy the urgent needs of mankind . Peace . prosperity and the progress of civilization are literally waiting for phy ? sicians to recognize not only that the sound body is essential for the sound mind , but that to know and understand the organization of mind is the first step toward securing a really sound body , We need a race that is more stable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that is more rationally mate ? rialistic in the study of man , that has intelligent appreciation of the dangers of wishful thinking , that recognizes that the only hope of our civilization depends upon man 's interest and success in learn ? ing how to use his capacity to reason to better advantage than he now does . Is it or is it not the intention of the Medical Profession to assist mankind to acquire and apply the information needed to en ? sure the progress of civilization ? The issue is sharply defined and can not be avoided ,                     