@@468535

CAROLINE and I were late for the party . Her kindly intention of picking me up at my hotel at seven had been defeated by traffic delays and beauty-shop complications , and now , as she remarked rather excitedly , we must run for it . But as Caroline , in spite of her charming vanities , can keep her head and hold a job of which many male college graduates of her generation might be envious , this announcement scarcely sounded like a challenge to the municipal peace and order . Her efficient little roadster was , as a matter of fact , running less than ten miles an hour faster than the legal speed when we approached the red light of a through-street intersection . Caroline , with a quick look to right and left to make sure no one was coming , started energetically across it . A police whistle shrilled out of the November dark , and the roadster stopped with brakes squealing a fortissimo accompaniment to Caroline 's annoyed " Oh , damn ! " The traffic officer , seeing that he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of society rather than an obstreperous malefactor , accomplished his business in a tone of superiority reasonably polite . What did Caroline suppose a stop light at a through-street intersection was for to encourage speed tests ? " But , officer , I had a perfectly clear field ahead , " argued Caroline with rattled haughtiness . " You know perfectly well I did . You saw me look both ways to see if anyone was coming before I started across ; so what 's the odds if I did break one of your technical trafficordinances ? Everybody does it anyway , and do I really look like a person who would risk a collision just because she was late for an important business appointment ? " " The judge 'll have to answer that one for you in the morning , lady , " the officer retorted severely . While he wrote out the arrest card Caroline fumed confidentially to me , " This through-street business , when there 's no car around for miles and you use your common sense , is simply ridiculous . Why , there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or having a smash-up than there is of that policeman 's catching the moon with his motorcycle . I would n't care if I 'd been taking a chance ; but when they pull up a careful driver for every little thing like this , I think it 's an outrage . " All right , tell the judge it 's an outrage , " said the officer , handing her the card and dismissing us . Thanks , " said Caroline with the cold look of a victim of personal injustice , and we swept on . When we reached the dinner party , not noticeably late , she was still complaining that society had wronged her and had insulted her intelligence . In my heavy masculine way , I had intimated that a minor traffic violation was not a terribly serious matter , and that there was no point in taking it as a personal affront from an unsympathetic civilization if one happened to be caught . But since she received my gentle admonition with intimations that I , her partner in crime , had turned against her , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secret . Ever so slightly she reminded LADIES AND me of the first murderess in my reportorial experience who strode up and down her cell muttering to journalistic visitors and sundry that " killing that bum after the way he 's been spongin ' off of me all winter was the decentest thing I ever done in my life . " Ladies , I had learned through a fairly extensive experience with their vagaries , are best let alone when suffering from their nobler motivations to lawlessness . II Naturally , I recognize that exceeding the speed limit and running past stop signals are not behavior-phenomena peculiar to a single sex . If ladies are sometimes lawless in traffic , so even oftener perhaps are gentlemen . But gentlemen , when caught , though they may talk back to the officer , are inclined to accept the law and their guilt as inevitable facts in a naturally inconsiderate universe . They may stand ready to fight or lie their way out of the difficulty when the occasion offers , or to bemoan their luck when the battle or the evidence goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves as temporary members of the criminal class who have taken a chance and lost . Hence , their defenses are lamely delivered and , whatever berserk personalities may he indulged in during their private encounters with arresting officers , the public and judicial penalties are accepted without personal rancor . It is just this difference between the male 's shamefaced air of being caught in mischief and Caroline 's indignant sense of outrage which measures ? if I accurately gauge rebellious imponderables ? the superior vitality of feminine lawlessness . In it is the difference between a guilty conscience and complete selfjustification , moral and otherwise . The masculine attitude , for all its objectionable sides , is that of a sportsman who says , " Here 's a law that 's a nuisance so we 'll see if we can break it and get away with it . " The feminine reaction , on the other hand , is that of the superior person who complains , " Here 's a law that there 's no need for in the present emergency . It affronts my preferences and my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , and any attempt to enforce it against me is outrageous . " In short , here is the difference between challenging the law respectfully to catch you if it can , and , with anarchic and one hundred per cent self-righteous disrespect , placing one 's personality and one 's personal emergencies above it . But lest a single incident in the republic 's daily grist of traffic offenses may not seem to warrant such extreme pronouncements , I turn for confirmation to a friendly newspaperman 's file of ladies who have offended against the law by killing their husbands or lovers . Of these I select six who made no effort to deny their deeds , and who talked for publication or to the police before their lawyers reached them and began shaping their defenses along the lines of the male 's fundamentally law-abiding duplicity . Three of them conscientiously assured the world that their knowledge or suspicions of the man 's infidelity furnished absolute moral sanctions for exterminating him ? one adding , with possibly some stylistic assistance from the pollee reporter , that to kill a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society . " One , with an air of assurance that such lapses should produce instant exoneration , asserted that in a quarrel over wild-party doings and family finances her " mind went blank " until the shooting was over . Another seemed to feel that the emotional stress of having been in a rage and being " sorry afterward " justified the making of a personal exception in her case , and confidentially assured the visiting journalists that " they 'll let me off when they hear how this happened . " Only one seemed to have a clean-cut self-defense case against a husband who beat her and habitually threatened to kill her , and was in the act of menacing her with a bed slat when his domestic mannerisms were permanently chastened . Yet even this seriously aggrieved lady presented her side not as a legal defense , but simply as a matter of righteous personal privilege . In between Caroline and these extremes come certain less melodramatic but equally enlightening and possibly more typical transgressions . The law in my state , for instance , requires a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comity and certain definite allegations of cruelty , desertion , or infidelity before divorce may be sued for . Consequently , my lawyer friends frequently find themselves in this situation ; A more or less charming woman client comes to their office asking them to represent her in a divorce suit , and her request is politely declined for the present , because neither her grounds nor her residence qualifications fit the law 's requirements . She sorrowfully accepts their advice to have patience , but a day or a week later the case bobs up in the hands of a rival firm of lawyers to whom everything that is necessary to qualify her as a divorce petitioner has been duly told and sworn to . Still later , perhaps , if the case happens to be contested , a conference between the two sets of legal advisers brings out the fact that the lady has undoubtedly perjured herself in the matter of her length of residence and probably in her allegations of cruelty . A man under similar circumstances would either abandon his suit or suggest further explanations and perjuries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tactfully asked by her legal representatives what assistance she can give in extricating them from their embarrassment , replies as a rule ( I quote her exactly in at least one instance ) , " Well , of course . Did n't that other lawyer tell we I had to have lived a year in the state and say my husband had really hit me ? I 've got to have a divorce from that loafer , and I 've hired you to get it , so what 's all this got to do with it ? " In other words , far from recognizing the law as a rule that applies at least as often as you happen to be caught by it , the divorce-seeking lady contemptuously dismisses it as a loathsome and inconsequential obstacle to her personal convenience . For the essence of feminine lawlessness is that , in addition to being personal , it is almost imvariably moral . This peculiarity , incidentally , applies to fractures of the conventions of their men friends quite as much as it does to misdemeanors and felonies . Thus it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who in the recent political Sadowa wrote letters urging resistance to Rome-ridden and rum-ridden menaces in the Republic and made speeches urging the Methodists to use their sectarian strength in politics against the un-Volsteadian candidate , while their male co-partisans trembled at these defiances of the code which outlawed religious issues . The masculine strategists , in their law-abiding respect for the code , were all concerned that such contributions to the campaign should be made , if at all , privately and anonymously , and at least not by such P traditionally unoffending and tolerant fellows as professional politicians . But the women , being also professional politicians , were solely interested in seeing their side and the virtuous causes which had associated themselves with the Republican party triumph . If manmade codes of discretion and forbearance stood in the way , it was too bad for the codes , but , seeing that moral and religious issues were fundamentally involved , there were no apologies . It is , perhaps , fortunate that the gentlemen who were so terrified by these breaches did not demand apologies . If they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Willie Gardiner 's self-justifying clamor even more overwhelming than their appeals to sectarian loyalties . This sense that law and convention are mere immoral interferences with sacred personal privilege extends even LADIES AND LAWLESSNESS 815 to the taboos of the lawless lady 's erring sisters . Women are seldom prosecuted for adultery or other sexual indiscretions unconnected with more serious crimes ; and a society somewhat romantically dedicated to the theory of female innocence in sexual matters has placed the burden of defense in Mann Act and seduction cases exclusively on the male offender . Nevertheless , to prove that wrong has been done , it is usually necessary for the feminine party to the transgression to testify ; and my memory both as a reporter and a lay observer of social scandal reveals few women who by their own account have stooped to folly for other than the noblest and most personally creditable motives . The gentlemen in such cases prove their respect for the law which has caught them by pleading alibis , entrapment , the bewitching effect of their momentary passions , or by frankly begging for mercy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all for love , or pity ? either for themselves because their husbands are unappreciative of their finer feelings , or for him , because his wife is cold to him ? or for the night life of great cities which , as any jury knows , is every right-minded poor girl 's proper dream of social advancement . I do not profess to separate sincerity from persuasive posturing in these exculpations . No male , perhaps , knows any woman 's sense of realities well enough to tell when fooling herself ends and intriguing others begins . But I have seen no man in trouble with the laws or conventions regarding sex who did not , in one way or another , tremble and make himself ridiculous ; and few women above the class of frankly commercial offenders who have not maneu-vered to the best of their ability to put law and convention in their places as sordid interferences with the romantic idyll which , as every lawless lady knows , life in the feminine gender ought to be . Doubtless , my feminist friends could cite exceptions , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conventions , if not the laws of sexual conduct , in the name of pagan delight . But pagan delight among the post-war brood has become itself a form of moral justification . At the right pitch of self-persuasion it may put the law beneath one ? where the lawless ladies want it ? as successfully as a grand passion . However the fashions in ethics change , it remains woman 's fashion to find her misdemeanors and her felonies more ethical than jurisprudence itself . III Like all sex differentiations , this one I suppose , can be explained in terms of feminine history . The ladies have been so long taught to consider themselves our better angels that they find it difficult , if not impossible , to abandon the advantageous pose of moral superiority even when indulging in conduct suggesting quite the opposite . They have been encouraged by so many generations of poets and admirers to believe that romance is their special province , that anything which seriously hampers the full and rightful operation of their powers of allurement ? like traffic ordinances which prevent their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unappreciative husbands , and taking pretty clothes from fashionable department stores without paying for them ? seems to them an intolerable and unjust persecution . For even longer ages they lived in a state of legal and domestic subordination when the only possible way of securing for themselves any rights or privileges in the home or society was to treat the all-embracing legal supremacy of the paterfamilias as a man-made technicality of no morally binding consequence in individual emergencies . Thus , from the earliest ages , women learned through their very subjection to evade and trample down the law as something which men make in their moments of ridiculous pomposity down town . Out of this background of experience the lawless lady has created her peculiar , and peculiarly effective , technic of resistance . The law itself pays tribute to her habitual attitude of superior virtue by holding her guiltless in all sexual offenses except the obviously commercial . Her airs of injured and usually pathetic innocence ? fruit of her conviction that she is entitled to romantic indulgence ? get her off with cheerful frequency in mayhem and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more petty and personal restraints of an increasingly restrictive civilization as mere man-made follies of no more account than lodge rules or drinking rituals , leads the lawless lady to defy vested authority with zeal and conviction where her mate scarcely defies at all but merely dodges . I do not , of course , intend to present a twentieth-century Adam 's alibi that women invented the arts of cornercutting. smuggling , and repudiating orders to stock brokers . It is simply that in these and a score of other typically modern breaches of law and convention the woman rebel 's great assurance furnishes a more stimulating example to the congenitally obedient . Man , if let alone , I take it , would shun lawless conduct rather more frequently than his traditional reputation as a roisterer would suggest . His centuries of discipline in business , politics , and war have persuaded him that when he has declared the last of his dutiable goods , or scrupulously obeyed a no-smoking sign , or refused an invitation to a drink at a speakeasy , he is a rather nobler and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as they are , tend to be confined to highly special occasions and to be invested with the ritual naughtiness of college students sneaking a cow into the chapel belfry or of small boys smoking corn-silk cigarettes behind the barn . He may enjoy being a mischiefmaking oaf in his off hours , but his selfesteem is hound up with being a lawabiding citizen who breaks no police lines at public festivals . Consequently , when he smuggles a bit of antique jewelry through the customs at the end of his Cuban vacation , you will seldom find him talking about it . But his wife meanwhile is telling a circle of admiring women friends how she returned to the land of her birth so swathed under her clothes with Spanish shawls and serapes that , though it was midwinter , she almost died of heat prostration . He advises her ? or at least did once in my hearing ? to moderate such confidences in the interests of discretion , and she replies , with a tone of injured innocence , " But , my dear , you know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Her conscience is as clear as her concealment was perfect . The lawless gentleman has been temporarily criminal and knows it . The lawless lady , on the other hand , has been shopping expensively and is not interested in adding to the extravagance by supporting such obvious inconveniences as government and the domestic textilearts industry . Or , to consider an even more universally violated statute , the feminine spirit in prohibition nullification remains distinctive even though most of the illicit purchasing and possibly more of the drinking is done by men . The male , for instance , is at some pains to justify his conscience for his breaches of the Eighteenth Amendment . He drinks , he declares , because Prohibition was " put over while be was away with the army , " when his countrymen were in a condition of feverishly unsound judgment . He drinks because no preachers and longhaired professional reformers can tell him that he ca n't , or for any number of other reasons which reflect his belligerent independence . In fact , to hear him talk , one might think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did so reluctantly in order to assert his status as an abused freeman . Nevertheless , once he has taken this resolve , the lawless gentleman delights to make of his part in the for-hidden traffic a devilish and dangerous intrigue . His dealings with his bootlegger are conducted , when possible , with a clandestine secrecy . When he telephones his order , it is for " a dozen American beauties , " " a keg of rosewater , " " another dipper of that carbolic acid . " He might be a small boy again , plotting mischief with his playmates in a home-made cryptic alphabet . The lawless lady takes no interest in these subterfuges . She wants liquor for her dinner parties and bridge luncheons because these are occasions in her life when her glamour as a charming person will be judged among other things by her serving , or failing to serve , appropriate refreshments . The law forbids her to serve them ; therefore , the law is simply the low attempt of persons of no social standing to inconvenience her . Also , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her from serving what she pleases and rarely catches even her bootlegger , who gets paid for such risks . Therefore , unlike traffic offenses for which one sometimes is caught , it is not even worth moralizing about ; and her husband , for all the elaborate argumentation and jocosity with which he garnishes his breaches of it , appears to her masculinely ridiculous . Hence she makes no bones about telephoning him at his office and reminding him , " John , remember I 've got twelve people coming out for dinner Saturday night , and we 're down to our last quart . " Or " You 'll be home tonight in time to make some gin , wo n't you ? The Smiths have just ' phoned that they 'll be over for bridge . " Horrified at the thought that the switchboard operator and half a dozen of his fellow executives may be listening in , he may later and privately scold the lawless lady for her honest realism . But nine times out of ten all that he gets for his pains is the answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everybody does it " and that , as nobody knows better than he does , " a dinner without cocktails is a flop . " And if by any chance , as happened fairly often in the early days of prohibition , he has set his disciplined soul for aliteral course of law observance , his plight is even worse . " Tom , you know , is one of those conservative old dears , " a charming and essentially conventional matron entering the restrained forties recently confessed to a circle of her intimates . " For a long time he insisted on believing that a law was a law even if it was a monstrosity . It was getting too embarrassing when every place we went we drank our share , so finally I settled him . I went around before one of our dinner parties to Bob Jackson 's bootlegger and brought home a whole case of assorted necessities myself . " The challenging power of feminine lawlessness thus lies not so much in the bulk or seriousness of its transgressions as in the fact that , knowing no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hibernation . It would be ridiculous to assert that most men violate the taws because their women tempt them . But they break them with a less troubled conscience , a less humiliating fear of the consequences , and a less boyish delusion of their own devilishness because , by precept or example , the Lady Macbeths of their fireside have steeled them to it . IV It is hardly surprising that such total absence of scruple should extend into woman 's new and even more promising field of incitement to lawlessness , that of law-making . At first sight it may seem incredible that law-making should have so vital a connection with law-breaking . But I believe it may be fairly suggested that woman 's rapidly increasing influence in legislation , guided by her distinctive outlook and peculiar legislative experience , is giving it one . For the lack of scruple which betrays itself in the woman citizen in her assurance of a personal prerogative to break any law which interferes with her convenience , betrays itself in the woman law-maker in a certainty of her moral mandate to secure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her of being righteous and of good intent . With all their obvious deficiencies , male lawmakers have learned certain practical lessons through their political experience . The more successful despots and the radical reformers , as well as the legislators of the liberal democracies , understand that to enact Jaws which are practically unenforceable because they go against the grain of custom and desire is to challenge the lawless spirit and to create the administrative difficulties and social havoc which widespread contempt for the law fosters . These sane considerations , however , are precisely the ones which woman 's long and highly specialized legislative experience has trained her to ignore . For her fundamental training as a law-maker was acquired in the nursery . While men were learning through civil wars and police duty what restraints could and could not be put over on adults , women for thousands of generations , as mothers or school teachers , were practicing their Iaw-making talents on children . They were ruling and legislating effectively , no doubt , but for a class who , requiring despotic regulation in the most intimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time the normal adult 's sense of personal freedom as well as his fully developed capacities for evasion and resistance . Thus the suffrage movement turned woman loose in the grown-up law-making arena with a legislative point of view almost wholly fashioned by her experience in regulating the private morals of inferiors ; and in regulating them , furthermore , with rules framed to meet trivial emergencies and not , in the vast majority of cases , applicable to herself . Generally , such law-makers were capable of assuming that if federal daily apple or eight o'clock bedtime acts would promote the general welfare , they were entirely warranted , regardless of constitutional and judicial precedents , in using their new political power to place them on the nation 's statute books . Generally , they were confident that enforcement problems would solve themselves as simply as in the schoolroom or home . In short , the idea that a sincere desire to improve society 's private morals should be limited by constitutional precedents and the practicalities of enforcement was foreign to the average woman at her " emancipation " ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desires and convenience might he interfered with by the laws already enacted . So from the moment when the " woman vote " became a potential danger to politicians , we find her the decisive agent in the passage of many laws , lawless themselves in the discord which they introduce into the constitutional structure , and provocative of worse lawlessness in their assumption that adult . free citizens will submit to regulation and control like little children . The politicians ' fear of her vengeful purity-promoting complex is responsible for that admirable convenience to blackmailers and gold-diggers ? the Mann Act . Her delight in gestures of independence is responsible for the charming perjuries and evasions and the occasional cruelties fostered by the Cable Act , which prevents the automatic naturalization of alien women who marry American citizens . In their virtuous effort to inflict schoolyard morality on the adult population , the women of various Midwestern states a generation ago caused practically every tobacco shop in a thousand-mile area to equip itself with secret paneled compartments for the sale of bootlegged cigarettes . Yet to-day , in spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vanguard chiefly of feminine reformers is urging that its benefits be extended to the whole nation under an anti-tobacco constitutional amendment . Women have credibly claimed also the chief responsibility for introducing into the constitution its first strictly legislative amendment . For liquor prohibition may justly be considered typically feminine in its assertion of the right to break legal precedents in the interest of personal moral regulation , and a typically feminine product thus far in its failure to compel obedience among adults . Nor , in spite of the growing distrust of the younger generation of women for programs of uncertain uplift , is the end yet in sight . The 12,000,000 strong female army of improvement would blithely commit us to various peace agreements , careless of the possibility that their effect , when war emerges , may be to embitter the carnage itself with accurate charges of sacred treaty violation and to plunge at least 11,500,000 of their numbers into raptures of belligerent patriotism . Their various federated bodies would commit us to federal control of child labor regardless of the probability that the federal authority will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " educated up to it . " They urge the federal supervision of education upon us , cheerfully unaware how easily such supervision may become an iron-clad bureaucratic control capable of suppressing unorthodox methods of instruction , including possibly evolution instruction , and all sanely realistic study of American history in our schools and colleges . In the midst of the demanding chorus , the recently defeated woman mayor of Seattle rejoices in the Woman 's Journal that she has organized a corps of private volunteer informers on prohibition violators ? itself a typically feminine violation of the code against tattling ? happily ignoring the psychological fact that such measures tend to raise prohibition violation from the status of a private indulgence to that of dignified firing-line service in a holy war against talebearers . And on the fringes ? where were started most of the feminine law-making projects which provoke our present day lawlessness ? new and more magnificent absurdities still blossom . A Southwestern lady zealot writes to her newspaper . after her triumphant November referendum on prohibition , urging that purchasers of illicit liquor be punished with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vanguard comes a recommendation to the open-minded Dallas News that laws be invoked to save the republic 's morals from the contamination of too realistic lingerie advertisements in newspaper rotogravure sections . V But I have not . I trust , insinuated that all women are lawless . Everyone in the normal course of experience has known a numerous assortment of women who break no ordinance of town meeting or congress because , in the sheltered rectitude of their strictly homekeeping lives , no law offends them . Others still advocate no improvements , monstrous or otherwise , in the present body of jurisprudence for the excellent reason that their status in the kingdom of things as they are supremely contents them . It merely happens that in forty years of consistently pleasant research among the sex , I have yet to meet a woman who has refused to break an old law or advocate a new one when doing either suited her sense of present moral emergency or personal convenience . Nevertheless , I am convinced that the lawless ladies , both kinds , have an increasing civic usefulness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of excessive regulation in a confusingly complex society , the lawless law-makers put us virtuously on our mettle to defend our surviving liberties . The lawless law-breakers , not infrequently lodged under the same skins with the law-makers , meanwhile teach us how to preserve freedom with a gallantly individual insouciance more stimulating to practical free conduct than a whole library of liberal orations . Although men may dread the increasing shadow of feminine legal tyrannies , the lawless lady 's untamable indiscipline still stands between him and his complete subjection .                     