@@219980

In a recent address to the Prussian Diet , Herr Severing , Minister of the Interior , mentioned Ludendorff by name on several occasions . He charged him with what was tantamount to conspiracy against the Republic , and thereby intimated that Ludendorff 's part in the reactionist activities is understood but not appreciated . The aims of the royalist organizations are delightfully naive ; reestablishment of the monarchy , expulsion of the French and Belgians from the Ruhr , progressive negotiations with Poland in order to keep the front door to Russia wide open and suppression of all revolutionary elements in the country ! The aims of the Government are diametrically opposed to the royalists : consolidation of the Republic , war of attrition against the French and Belgians , negotiations when possible with Poland and suppression of overzealous reactionary organizations in the country . Between the two factions the whole of Germany is plunged into wildest pandemonium , which is in turn aggravated by the radicals fighting against all comers-for peace ! In a country gone sick with misery a solitary phantom strides the earth with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man is the leader of the monarchists . He moves but is not seen . From Munich he directs the operations of his reactionary adherents in much the same way that he directed the army supplies when he was Quartermaster General in the Imperial Army . He writes , make speeches , acts for the cause of royalism ; but in all this he makes sure that his pen , his tongue , and his actions do not betray him . A double interpretation can be put upon everything he does ; he moves for the restoration of the monarchical system of government , but he is always seen with legal eyes as a good republican . A storm is breaking above his head and , republican or monarchist , he is playing a dangerous game . As Henry II of England once said of Thomas a Becket , Germany now says of General Ludendorff : " Will no one rid me of this troublesome man ? "                     