@@299932

Equitable-Seaboard . To a Manhattan blase with bank mergers , the union of Equitable Trust Co. with Seaboard National Bank ( the unwieldy new name is Equitable Seaboard Bank &; Trust Co. ) created no furor . Yet the new institution ranked as fifth largest U. S. bank with resources of approximately 900 million dollars . The new bank will operate under a state trust company charter , thus marking the passing of another ( Seaboard ) national bank . Merger terms specified exchange of 1 shares of Equitable for one of Seaboard , the Seaboard share carrying with it a share of Seaboard National Corp. , the bank 's security affiliate . Seaboard 's President Chellis A. Austin continues as president of the merged bank ; Equitable 's President Arthur W. Loasby becomes Board Chairman . Said the official statement : " logical alliance . . . substantially multiply measure of service . " RKO-Proctor . " I am going to get right after this thing , " said , last winter newly-elected Radio-Keith-Orpheum Corp . ' s President Hiram Staunton Brown , onetime leather man ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it were last week evident with the Radio-Keith-Orpheum purchase of the F. F. Proctor theatre chain ( eleven vaudeville houses in and around New York ) . <P> In the retirement of Frederick Freeman Proctor , Manhattan lost its oldest vaudeville tycoon . In the early ' 90s , Mr. Proctor went into partnership with the late Charles Frohman , and from this agreement resulted the famed old Charles Frohman Stock Company . In 1893 , the Proctor 23rd Street Theatre ( then up town ) inaugurated continuous ( 10 a. m. - 11 p. m. ) performances . Before entering the vaudeville business , Mr. Proctor ran an unsuccessful Ten-Twenty-Thirty melodrama chain , and before that toured Europe as a circus acrobat . He was born in Dexter , Me. , and began his career in the extremely unhistrionic capacity of errand boy at Boston 's R. H. White Co . <P> *Larger : National City Chase National Guaranty Trust of Manhattan and Continental Illinois of Chicago .                     