@@488295

C ARL SCHURZ records that he once , in reply to a question from President Grover Cleveland as to what he considered the paramount issue , urged that the President take up the tariff . He adds : " I shall never forget what happened . The man bent forward and buried his face in his hands on the table before him . Finally he straightened up with the same directness and spoke : ' I 'm ashamed to say it , but the truth is I know nothing about the tariff . Will you tell me how to go about it to learn ? ' " Perusal of the tariff speeches of Governor Smith made at Louisville on October 13 and of Herbert Hoover at Boston two days later compels me to the belief that both of these men are just about in the position of Grover Cleveland as recorded by Mr. Schurz , only that they do not know it . Governor Smith certainly has the same excuse for ignorance . Like Mr. Cleveland he has been absorbed in State issues until his nomination and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training . Mr. Hoover lays claim , however , to being internationally minded , and as Secretary of Commerce has had eight years of supervision of American trade . Yet there is hardly one of the hoary old protectionist fallacies for which he has not fallen . Governor Smith is pitiable because he seems totally unaware that the Houston platform and his own words constitute a complete break with his party 's historic tariff policy . Governor Smith apparently does not realize that he has wiped out the distinction between the two great parties on this issue , and that so far as he can do so has made their respective tariff positions merely a question of the degree of protection . He has allowed himself to be bluffed into saying that he does not favor a wholesale downward revision of the tariff , that he is for a tariff commission and intends to rehabilitate it and to draw fine men to it by paying larger salaries , although that body has been only a sorry joke on the country from the beginning , and that he will put an end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Next , he assures the country that if elected " it will be the prime aim and prime purpose of a Democratic Administration to extend the benefit of tariff favors to all classes , and to spread prosperity generally throughout the United States . " This is such a farrago of utter nonsense that Governor Smith 's champions must wish that some economic school-marm had taken him on her knees and told him in a few words what the American tariff is . Had this happened Governor Smith would have learned that the tariff was originally introduced to protect the infant industries of the infant republic , - and that it was not until 1840 that the argument that it was necessary to protect American labor against foreign labor was heard ; that thereafter this cry was maintained by the protected manufacturers , who used it as a smoke-screen not only to assure themselves extremely high profits , but to extort from the public higher and higher prices ; that there has never been a Republican or a Democratic tariff which did not shelter " extortion and favoritism , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , as Governor Smith suggests , by banning a general tariff revision doWnward and reforming it schedule by schedule , but by laying the ax to the entiresystem . More than that , his own party 's history shows how absurd it is for Governor Smith to pledge his word that he would keep the tariff free from " extortion and favoritism . " Both Grover Cleveland and Woodrow Wilson were bent on doing the same ; both accepted villainous compromise tariffs full of extortion and favoritism  --  a quarter loaf instead of a whole one  --  rather than obtain no revision at all . The great truth which Governor Smith utterly overlooks here is that in the last analysis it is Congress that makes or unmakes tariffs , and not the President . Congress has permitted a tariff commission to come into being only because it knew that it would take forever to go through the whole list of rates and that it could cut off the commission whenever it saw fit . Only a handful of Congressmen or Senators has complained because to date the result of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only on Bob-White quail , Canadian-grown cherries , mill-feed , cresylic acid , and paint-brush handles . As for Governor Smith 's proposals of a non-partisan commission of five to be appointed by him in place of the present bipartisan commission , that sounds well , but in practice it could achieve very little . But if Governor Smith were to have a Democratic Congress to vote him his commission and if he got his five " best minds , " how could they eradicate the graft , the favoritism , and the overcharging of the American people that are synonymous with protection ? Again , somebody should have whispered into Governor Smith 's ear that until Hoover did so not even the wildest tariff maniac ever suggested that the tariff helped everybody . The Hannas and Quays , the Cannons and Allisons and McKinleys never did , at least with any enthusiasm or conviction . They were frankly out for the manufacturers and pretended to be for their employees . But they had to concede at least that the tariff blessings were only indirectly felt by the great masses of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Smith promised the workingman out of his utter ignorance of all these things that " the Democratic Party will not do a single thing that will take from his weekly pay envelope a five-cent piece . " In his next breath he promised the American farmer that " the Democratic Party will do everything in its power to put back into his pocket all that belongs there . " To this he added : " And we further say that nothing will be done that will embarrass or interfere in any way with the legitimate progress of business big or small . " He obviously does not dream that all of this is absolute party treason . He does not suspect that thereby he takes his party squarely over into the Republican camp , not only by forgetting  --  if he ever knew it ? Cleveland 's historic demand for a " tariff for revenue only , " but also because he accepts the Republican doctrine that it is the Government which is responsible by its acts for the prosperity of the individual . Against nothing else in its history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paternalism . At least someone should have tipped off the wearer of the brown derby to the fact that the tariff , since it is essentially a caste system , is in its very nature and origin a special privilege bestowed by the Government upon certain favored classes who for various reasons can not make any money , or as much money as they would like to make . It is , therefore , absolutely inimical to the doctrine of a square deal to all and no favors to any man . But what Governor Smith does not know about the tariff would fill volumes . As for Herbert Hoover , it is a curious fact that he , too , can not see the complete contradiction in his demand that the Government be kept out of private business and his insistence upon more and higher tariffs . What does the Government do when it , through Congress , votes a tariff schedule ? Why , it goes into partnership with each business man for whose benefit it checks or destroys free corn-petition from abroad , thus artificially limiting the supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposed a tariff on American automobiles because he saw that it created waste and extravagance in business . But Herbert Hoover , the apostle of efficiency in business , is for it at all costs . Let us take a specific example : the woolen and cotton industries in New England . They are down and out , . Mr. Hoover suggests in his Boston speech . Here is what he says about it : No tariff act is perfect . With the shifting of economic tides some items may be higher than necessary , but undoubtedly some are too low . This is particularly true so far as New England is concerned . New England has many protected industries . One important branch of them , the cotton and wool industries , have not for the past few years been in a satisfactory condition . They comprise about 26 per cent of New England 's industrial life . Their depressed condition has not been peculiar to New England . The same situation has prevailed throughout the world and is due largely to the same factors , style changes , production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of consumption . There has been less hardship , in the United States than abroad , and that fact has been due to the partial protection afforded in the tariff against inundations of foreign goods . Now , the existing cotton and wool tariffs were ' written by the Massachusetts protected industries themselves . They boasted of it . At last , they said , they had received just what they wanted . But Mr. Hoover suggests that their serious prostration is due to lack of still higher tariffs  --  although he also suggests the other reasons . May we assume that it was due to " the shifting economic tides " ? Partially , in so far as styles have changed  --  your zealous protectionist has not yet forbidden by law the changing of styles  --  but I do n't see why he should shrink from it to fill the dinner-pail . Still , Mr. Hoover explains that Massachusetts has suffered less than have other countries from style changes , thanks to the blessings of the tariff . Next , he suddenly admits that " both the world situation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if others have no tariff and we have ours ? More than that , there are , he says , " omens of much broader significance which sustain me in my beliefs . " Here the omens are in his words : As never before in the industry there is demonstrated a will to pool its best brain-resources in the solution of present and future problems in order that there shall be mutuality of benefit to manufacturer , worker , and consumer . Elimination of waste in production and distribution are ! in progress . Security and steady employment are more assured than for a long time past . How is this ? We had thought that it was the tariff which did it all . The industry has always said so , and Mr. Hoover has just declared that it was the fact that the tariffs were so low which made the mischief . Now he says that better brain work , cooperation , elimination of waste in production and distribution are of very considerable value and that , in consequence of these things and not because of the magic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in sight . He carefully forgets to add that the New Bedford workers have been driven back to work with a 5 per cent wage reduction . It is Southern competition , not foreign competition , that is shutting up the New England mills , and Mr. Hoover knows it . It is Southern low rates of wages , Southern low standards of living , Southern night work , combined with Southern natural advantages , that have worked havoc in New York and New England . Under the self-same New England-written tariff that has seen New England mill gates closing , Southern textile manufacture has gone on from strength to strength . Yet Mr. Hoover believes that the New England industry , if modernized by cooperation , by better brain work and machinery , and by the elimination of waste , can overcome this deadly , uncontrolled , and uncontrollable Southern competition . If he is right , what has become of the Great God Tariff , from whom all blessings flow ? Logically , of course , he ought to insist that New England be given a tariff against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinks of such a thing . Everybody knows that if the New England woolen and cotton industries can not compete with the South they will go under precisely as the iron industry of New England has yielded to that of the Middle West , and the farmers of the East have given up trying to compete with the large-scale farming of the West . Mr. Hoover declares that " the American protective tariff is the only good insurance to our 600,000 families who earn their livelihood in the cotton and wool manufacturing industries . . . . " Nonsense ! Nothing can insure their livelihood , and certainly the tariff is not doing it today ; for New England operatives walk the streets while the spindles hum in Southern mills . And suppose a new process or product should come in ? Rayon has just put many silk factories out of business . What did the tariff do there ? It could not protect them against an economic readjustment . All efforts to keep alive by subsidy an industry that can not stand on its own feet are wasteful , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you would calmly let a great industry with its huge capital investment and 600,000 families go down ? Kind friends , it happens every day  --  these incidents of the " shifting economic tides . " Were there not more than 600,000 families put out of business when the automobile arrived ? Where are the livery-stable keepers , most of the harness-makers , and the blacksmiths , where are many of the dealers in fodder and grains ? They have turned to other jobs , not without suffering and loss of capital . That is unavoidable as long as the world is economically constituted as it is . Any new invention , any new device , may work havoc any day . If the cotton and woolen industries of New England have sunk so low that they can survive only by reducing wages to an unbearably low standard , they ought to die , and their place ought to be taken by others that will utilize the peculiar advantages that New , England has today by comparison with other sections of the country . But it remains to be proved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the face of Southern competition by the right application of brains and enterprise , just as the textile industry of Old England has maintained itself for a hundred years in the face of the growing competition of other countries . Mr. Hoover knows this as well as anybody else , and his invocation of the tariff god is little better than a deliberate distraction of attention from the only thing that can possibly insure the future of New England 's textile industry , or indeed of New England industry in general . New England has weathered many a storm , but it has done so by using its brains , its ingenuity , its courage , and its hard work , not by beseeching the federal government to call off the hurricane . Let us take one more example of the utterly specious and misleading arguments which Mr. Hoover has advanced as to the tariff . He brings out the hoary old statement that " 65 per cent of our $4,185,000,000 of annual imports are admitted free of duty because they are raw materials , tropical products , and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument is one of those half-truths Which are worse than a downright misstatement . It does not in the least justify the inference which Mr. Hoover would have his hearers draw from it , that the tariff is really quite reasonable , and that foreigners have no ground for complaint . As a matter of fact , the tariff would not be liberal if it shut out all the present taxed imports by duties of 1000 per cent so that all our imports would come in tax free . Why should we tell the Europeans that 65 per cent of our imports come in free of duty when most of these free goods are the product of Japan , China , the Argentine , British India , the Malays , Egypt , while the agricultural and industrial products of Europe are taxed at prohibitive rates , at times as high as 500 per cent ad valorem ? Mr. Hoover 's argument here is pretense and humbug , and so is his extraordinary discovery that our tariff is not decreasing the ability of foreign countries to pay their debts to the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct barter of goods between nations " this would be a " sound " argument . But he devises the extraordinary explanation that our trade has become " polyangular , " that it is not barter ! How can a man who pretends to be an expert in trade and worthy to be President of the United States show himself so utterly ignorant of the history of trade ? Polyangular trade has been with us since we began to have overseas commerce . Were Mr. Hoover to study the history of our clipper-ship era , for instance , for only five minutes he would discover how they took American goods or food stuffs to England , carried British manufactured goods to China or India , and then returned to America with a full cargo from their Asiatic port . Does Mr. Hoover pretend that this was not polyangular ? The solemn spectacle of these two Presidential candidates making fools of themselves on the tariff in the hope of catching votes is enough to make an intelligent American blush when he gets over laughing . Fortunately forces are already powerfully at work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men to live by such nonsense . Meanwhile honest men can at least stand up unterrified for the truths understood by every economist since the days of Adam Smith , truths which every competent student today testifies are more important than ever before in history to the establishment of the peace and prosperity of the world .                     