@@493180

it was clear to anyone who was willing to face the facts . Not only was conference the only possible existing substitute for armaments and war but the Treaty of Versailles stood in the way of calling the substitute into real existence . The " preposterous " suggestion is now adopted in substance by the American government . The United States in co ? operation with such governments as Great Britain , Italy , Germany , Austria , Hungary and others will try it out . The first trial may well fail . But they will try it again and again until they obtain a sufficient measure of success . They must and they will . Publicity Without Candor HOWEVER much or little the Conference may finally yield in the way of positive ' achievement , it is certainly yielding in the mean ? time an immediate boon , which before it assem ? bled was loudly demanded as a demonstration of its good faith . It is yielding as never before in the relation to a delicate and momentous inter ? national negotiation , a veritable flood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some of it authorized and more of it unauthorized , some of it authentic and more of it unauthentic . Considering what has happened during the past few weeks , the earlier apprehensions that designing diplomats would conceal facts of importance from the public have become somewhat fantastic . So far as a sceptical observer can make out no facts which have any considerable bearing upon the processes and the decisions of the Conference are being concealed . On the contrary ' there is , if anything , too much publicity . The newspapers are throwing such a. glare of light on Washington that the eyes of the ordinary man who is used to groping around in caves and hollows are blinded . It is not always easy to distinguish such pitiless and frantic publicity from sheer obscurity . That publicity in superabundance is on the whole a popular benefit , we fully believe . It is a safeguard against betrayal even if it is not a posi ? tive help to understanding . Of one important truth the American , British and the Japanese people may feel quite assured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is going on , it is the fault of their own ignorance which disqualifies them from interpreting the news . In Paris some extremely important decisions such , for instance , as the grant of Shantung to Japan and the inflation of the in ? demnity with pensions and separation allowances Were reached without permitting public opinion any sufficient warning or opportunity to discuss and object . In both instances members of the American delegation uttered protests in private which if they had leaked out might well have rendered impossible the final consummation of these branches of faith . In Washington no betrayal of this kind will take place . The atmosphere of the gathering is different . The governments which are participating in the Conference recognize their obligations to the public more explicitly than did the feverish and fearsome officials who assembled in Paris . There is , of course , much that is going on in committee and other meetings which the newspapers do not and need not print , but whenever these secret negotiations tend towards a conclusion , they do not long remain secret . It does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts are concealed from the public , no deception is being practised . The public is in truth being constantly deceived by the ignorant or artful manipulation of the very medium through which it is supposed to be informed . A very large proportion of the " stories " which are being published about the Conference are not ' au ? thentic news . They are either innocent or de ? liberate lies . These lies originate from various sources . In some cases they come from over ? zealous correspondents who are trying to make a record for themselves and who take the chance of printing some wild rumor or ill-informed guess as authentic fact . More frequently they are com ? municated to the newspapers by official agents who seek to promote the interests of their own governments or protect them against damaging revelations by setting up a screen of plausible half or quarter truths . In still other cases the deception is traceable to the inability of the correspondent to place a correct interpretation upon an ambiguous or equivocal official announce ? ment . The net result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is very far from supplying the readers of the papers with a reliable survey of the-proceed ? ings of the Conference . The ignorant reader is certain to be confused or bamboozled . Except to a shrewd and well informed mind , news is to a large extent indistinguishable from propa ? ganda and from guess work . We are getting publicity to burn , but it is publicity which is to ? a large extent without accuracy and with ? out candor . The newspapers are playing an unprecedentedly important role in the deliberations and proceed ? ings of the Conference . It seems at times as if the Conference existed for the sake of the pub ? licity about it instead of publicity for the sake of the Conference . And the news is untrustworthy and the publicity is without candor largely because the newspapers are at once so important yet so irresponsible . Parties to the Conference who are doubtful about their success with the official jury try out their cases in the newspapers . It is in them that all manner of trial balloons are trusted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whisked away by some current to the frozen north . It is in them that all kinds of sham fights are carried on and all kinds of sham victories won . In fact the new diplomacy which is to such a large extent a new version of the old diplomacy guides its course by the light of one fixed star . No matter whether it succeeds or fails in actually , accomplishing its objects , it must always appear in public to accomplish them . It can never admit to failure . Whatever it actually does or does not do , its policy must at any cost march down the columns of the press , with the flag flying and the band playing , as a brilliant success . The diplomat is a general whose only possible line of retreat consists so far as possible in taking precautions that the public shall not be able to distinguish a victory from a defeat . A large part of the publicity without candor derives from the transfer from the East to the West of the art of face-saving as the one indispensable attribute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machin ? ery of the Conference has already been perverted to grind out publicity without candor , the object of which was to save the face of a prime minister and a nation . It was clear from the start that in so far as the Conference as a whole was sincere and successful , France was bound to incur moral isolation . The American object fundamentally is to justify disarmament by organizing a political substitute for military force ; and that is precisely what France will not do and can not do as long as she banks on the Treaty of Versailles . Her present foreign policy depends for its success upon the largest army in Europe as its instrument . When Mr. Hughes ' plan for limiting navies started the Conference off on an apparently sin ? cere and successful course , France immediately emerged as the one great nation which could not consider the substitution of conference for military force as a legislative agency in international poli ? tics and which consequently was divided from other nations in so far as they were ready to con ? sider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognize and publish it would have wounded the feelings and damaged the prestige of the French and pulled down the government of M. Briand . So M. Briand concocted a speech which was intended to prove for the public benefit how false the truth can be . Germany , although disarmed , remains an overwhelming military danger . France , although armed to the teeth , is as pacific and as inoffensive as a dove . She prepared for war only because she was passionately devoted to peace . Hence even though she refused to substitute conference for war , she still was not morally isolated among nations which did wish to disarm . Mr. Balfour , Mr. Hughes and most of the American news ? papers agreed with M. Briand and scouted the idea in public of the moral isolation of France . The speech and its reception may save M. Briand from defeat when he returns home , but it will not save France from moral isolation . He affirmed isolation in fact by the means which he took to deny it in words , and while he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inference from the incident . Many of them were boasting of the isolation which he was thrusting aside . As long as international politics , governments , newspapers and public opinion are what they are , these perversions of publicity are bound to occur . They have the great disadvantage of impairing popular confidence in foreign offices and in the newspaper press , and in the absence of popular confidence , in the newspapers and state depart ? ments a discriminating and self-possessed public opinion simply can not come into existence . The newspaper reader tends to become either a credu ? lous ignoramus or a cynic or both . Yet we should not take these perversions too seriously . In the long run they should and will correct themselves . The politician and the nation which save their faces by pretending to be something which they are not are sure to be found out . A slow but inexorable process of verification by the event takes place . Sometimes it is long before the event breaks through the screen of lies and establishes itself as truth , but if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the event becomes proportion ? ately high . Propaganda is a two-sided weapon . While it corrupts the propagandist as well as his victim , it appeals to a tribunal which will ulti ? mately render a verdict against it . It is essentially the tribute which the lie pays to the truth . It follows , however , that just because the aber ? rations and hypocrisies of publicity can not be suppressed , they should all the more certainly be exposed . It is the business of able and honest journalists both to publish a complete and accurate account of the facts , and to interpret them can ? didly and fairly for the benefit of the public . This is being done with more or less success by a certain number of American journals among which the Chicago Daily News , the New York Globe and World , and the Baltimore Sun deserve par ? ticular mention . Perhaps the best job of all is being done by the Baltimore Sun . But on the whole the American press is not yet capable of playing up to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transacts international legislation by conference rather than by war . It substitutes quantitative for qualitative publicity and it does not sufficiently protect its public against poor news and false news . Above all it allows itself to be made the accomplice of such a sheer imposition upon public credulity as that which M. Briand succeeded in practising . All these failures are failures of method . The newspapers of the country , if they wished and knew how , could supply to their readers an immensely better service with respect to the Washington Conference without adding a dollar to their expenses . It is entirely a matter of taking care to be better informed and because of this better information to report the news more accurately and to interpret it more candidly . England , Germany and Russia RECENTLY Hugo Stinnes visited London . Stinnes is a very rich man , the richest man in Germany , and that is saying much . For if the great mass of Germans have been impoverished by the war and the peace , a few Germans like Stinnes have been enormously enriched . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They have succeeded , in a measure , to the power of the kings . Therefore it arouses a Passing interest even in America when Stinnes visits London . But what do we think when Maxi ? milian Harden declares that this visit is likely to have more important consequences than those of the Washington Disarmament Conference ? Most of us think that Maximilian Harden is launching a piece of heavy German humor that does not float with us . And if Harden were to add that Stinnes has recently made arrangements for an extensive system of banking branches in Soviet Russia we should feel that the joke was more obvious , but worse . Let us add another item that comes to our unin ? terested eyes in the daily press . Some time ago the industrial association of which Stinnes is the leading figure proposed to raise two billions of gold marks with which the government might meet the next indemnity instalments . It was suggested that in return the government might turn over the state railways , not now a paying investment , to the industrialists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Any such quid pro quo , however , turned out to be distaste ? ful to the government and likely to arouse the trade unions to frantic energy . It was dropped . Never ? theless the industrialists are likely to lend their credit to the government . Finally we may note a plan for dealing with the indemnity presented to the Federation of British Industries by its retiring President , Sir Peter Rylands , reported in the World of November 24th . First , reparations should be transferred from the German government to German industry " by the creation of mortgages , or first preference interest-bearing shares , on big German industrial and commercial firms , banks , railways , canals , shipping lines . These would be given to the Allies to hold or sell to private persons as they saw fit . " German payments in kind should he made in goods and services not competing with British ; German construction work should be of such a nature that it would not pay as a purely business proposition , as for example , the restora ? tion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe . Are we dealing here with a chance assortment of news items , unrelated in fact and of no impor ? tant bearing ? Possibly . But first let us consider the economic logic of the situation . Everyone will recognize that if it were not for the accidents of political status England , Germany and Russia would be forming themselves into a fast welded economic chain . There would be huge gains for each and for all out of working together . And no two of them can work effectively together with ? out the third . But , it will be said , nothing is to be had out of Russia so long as the Soviet government remains . And only the most lamentable of the emigr ? s are now predicting the early fall of the Soviet gov ? ernment . Well , it is not the Germans who say that there is nothing to be got out of Russia . They believe that the man who knows how , can go into rural Russia , supply seed and farm imple ? ments to the peasant in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' either barter that share for other goods or carry it away for export , with the consent and goodwill of the Soviet authorities . It is a kind of business that can be carried on only by those who know the Russian language and the Russian character . That excludes the French , the British and above all the Americans . But ' Ger ? many has hosts of men who engaged in business in Russia before the war , and who are eager to try again . The Germans believe that they can set produc                     