@@430990

o plants feel ? One can not D give a direct answer to this inquiry , without being a plant . A man who loves his dog , believes that it has feelings and emotions which are almost human ; but when he goes hunting , he refuses to believe that the hunted creature has any feeling when it is being done to death . Some would extend consciousness and feeling to the quadruped , but not to the fish . At what point does consciousness enter the domain of life ? The philosopher Bergson says that it is by no means assured that a highly complex brain is indispensable to consciousness . The lower we go in the animal series , the more the nervous centers are simplified and separated from each other . If , then , at the top of the scale of living beings , consciousness is attached to very complicated nervous centers , must we not suppose that it accompanies the nervous system down its whole descent ? There are various tests of conscious life : the animal answers to a shock by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is spontaneous , like the automatic beats of its heart . An animal exhibits abrupt movement when it is struck ; an ordinary plant apparently shows no such movement . The nerve in the animal carries an invisible impulse which causes the distant muscle to contract . Until recently no such nervous tissue had been discovered in the plant . The heart of the animal beats continuously , as long as life remains , for the maintenance of the circulation of blood . Until recently no such pulsatory tissue had been suspected for the circulation of sap in the plant . Two streams of life were thus supposed to flow side by side , with nothing in common between the two . Is the world then a chaos where things happen by chance , or is it a cosmos in which the human mind is some day to discover a sequence of order and law ? Is there any fundamental unity underlying all the seeming diversity ? How did life make its first appearance on earth ? No life , as we understand it now , could have existed when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been suggested that  | the seed of life was imported to this earth by the cosmic dust from other worlds ; but this would merely transfer the difficulty backwards . Or perhaps matter itself is sensitive , so that at some critical period of the earth 's history , the surrounding conditions may have favored the appearance of life out of non-life . The results of my investigations , first announced in I900 at the International Congress of Science in Paris , have indeed shown that all matter is sensitive , and that it answers to stimulation by definite signs of electrical response . Over-stimulation was found to cause fatigue , from which there was a recovery after a period of rest . Prolonged rest made the substance inert and irresponsive . A strong shock was needed to wake it up into readiness for response . Other experiments showed that while stimulating drugs cause an enhancement of response of inorganic matter , poisons kill it altogether . Matter has thus within itself the promise and potency of life . With an enlarged cosmic sense , we may regard the million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to organisms , having a definite history of their past , and an evolutionary progress for their future . We may then come to realize that they are by no means insensate clods , locked in the rigor of death , but active organisms " whose breath is perchance luminous vapor , whose blood is liquid metal and whose food is a stream of meteorites . " Before passing into the subject of the inner life of plants , I will say a few words about the Eastern method of pursuit of truth . Nothing can be more vulgar or more untrue than the ignorant assertion that the world owes its progress of knowledge to any particular race . The whole world is interdependent , and a constant stream of thought has throughout ages enriched the common heritage of mankind . It is the realization of this mutual dependence that has kept the mighty human fabric bound together , and ensured the continuity and permanence of civilization . Although science is aeither of the East nor of the West , but international in its universality , yet India by her habit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generation , is specially fitted to make great contributions in furtherance of knowledge . The burning Indian imagination , which can extort new order out of a mass of apparently contradictory facts , can also be held in check by the habit of concentration . It is this restraint which confers the power to hold the mind in pursuit of truth in infinite patience . What of the fruit of knowledge ? The material advances secured by it , have no doubt brought great accessions of power and wealth . There has been a feverish rush , even in the realm of science , for exploiting applications of knowledge , not so often for saving as for destruction . In the absence of some power of restraint , civilization is now trembling in an unstable poise on the brink of ruin . Some complementary ideal there must be to save man from that aimless rush which must end in disaster . He has followed the lure and excitement of some insatiable ambition , never pausing a moment to think of the ultimate object for which success  | is to serve as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than competition , is mutual help and cooperation in the scheme of life . The ideal of giving , of self-renunciation in response to the highest call of humanity , must be the true object of knowledge . The motive power for this must be found not in personal ambition , but in the effacement of all littleness , and in the uprooting of that ignorance which is to be purchased at another 's loss . This I know , that no vision of truth can come except in the absence of all sources of distraction , and when the mind has reached the point of rest . According to the best traditions of ancient India , there can be no conflict between knowledge and religion , for the highest knowledge is religion . Therefore the house of knowledge is not a mere laboratory , but a temple . It was with this idea that my Research Institute was founded , where scholars devote their whole life to pursuit of knowledge for the common benefit of humanity . It was my further wish that , as far as the limited accommodation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open to all nationalities , to men and women alike , and for all time to come . In this I was attempting to revive the great traditions of my country , which as far back as twenty-five centuries ago , welcomed scholars from all parts of the world within the precincts of its ancient seats of learning . Entering the Institute , the visitor finds to his left the lotus fountain with a bas-relief of a Woman Carrying Light to the Temple . Without her no light can be kindled in the sanctuary . She is the true lightbearer , and no plaything of man . The visitor then enters the vast auditorium where the discoveries made at the Institute are announced to the world for the first time . Beyond this is the Garden , which is the true laboratory for the study of life and its marvelous manifestations . There the creepers , the plants and the trees are played upon by their natural environment ? sunlight and wind and the chill at midnight , under the vault of starry space . There are other surroundings also , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different lights , to invisible rays and to electrically charged atmosphere . From this lofty point of observation , sheltered by trees , the student will watch the panorama of life . Isolated from all distractions , he will learn to attune himself to nature ; the obscuring veil will be lifted , and he will gradually come to see how , throughout the great ocean of life , community outweighs apparent dissimilarity . Out of discord , he will realize the great harmony . We hear little and see still less of the myriad movements and voices of life . But out of the imperfection of his senses , man has built himself a raft of thought to make daring adventures in the great seas of the Unknown . He is a creative being , and if his organs of perception are defective , he creates others which have no such limitations . When visible light ends , he still follows the invisible ; when the note of the audible reaches the unheard , even then he gathers the tremulous message . The real difficulty that thwarts investigation into plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the interplay of life-action is taking place within the dark profundities of the tree which our eyes can not penetrate . As the first step to discover the hidden mechanism in its interior , one has to become the tree , and feel the pulse-beat of its throbbing life . After this one must justify the correctness of the insight by experimental tests . For this , it was necessary to invent instruments of surpassing delicacy and sensitiveness , which could gain access to the smallest unit of life ? a single cell or life-atom ? and thus record its throbbing pulsation . The invention of the microscope , which magnifies only several thousand times , initiated a new era in the advance of biological science . My Magnetic Crescograph , which produces the stupendous magnification of fifty million times , is now revealing the wonders of a new world ? the plant itself being made to reveal the secrets of its inner life . Even in this path of self-restraint and verification , the inquirer is making for a region of surpassing wonder . In his voyage of discovery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that had hitherto been hidden from his view . That vision crushes out of him all self-sufficiency , all that kept him unconscious of the great pulse that beats through the universe . It was by the combination of the introspective and the highly advanced experimental methods that it was possible to establish the unity of all life . The barrier that divided kindred phenomena is now thrown down , the plant and animal being found as a multiple unity in a single ocean of being . We will now try to discover whether the ordinary plants are as inert and insensitive as they are supposed to be . The plant when struck does not show any movement , but this absence of movement is due to a quite different cause from that of insensitiveness . The living tissue is attached to wood , which is inflexible . To find out whether the plant perceives and reacts to a shock , the stem is placed between a fixed rod and a movable magnifying lever , the movement of which is further magnified by optical means to something like a million times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of world-famous scientists of the University of Vienna . A very feeble electric shock was sent through the plant , and through one of the leading physicians who was in the same circuit . The human being felt nothing , but the Contraction Recorder showed that the plant gave a shuddering twitch under the shock . Ordinary plants are not only sensitive , but they are able to register impressions which are far below the range of human perception . How blind we are , how limited our knowledge ! The little we can see is nothing , compared with the vastness we can not . What happens when the shock is no longer feeble , but terrible in its intensity ? ' The plant was strapped in the electric chair , with moist sponge to facilitate the passage of the current . The plant became quiescent after a while , as indicated by the stationary line of bright light reflected from the magnifying recorder . By switching a key , a high voltage current drones like thunder through the machine .  | This produces a convulsion in the plant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? it is not dead as yet . There is once more the growl of the destroyer , followed by another convulsion , the line of light having gone right round toward that from which there is to be no recovery . The plant is probed again . It answers no more , being stilled with the stillness of death . In simple vegetable life , where lies the plant-psyche , the faint copy of our consciousness ? I have been able to discover a nervous structure in plants , the characteristic reactions of which are likely to lead to a better understanding of our own psychic life . The characteristic of nervous structure is that an invisible impulse is sent along it to produce movement at a distance , or give rise to sensation at the perceiving brain . In the Mimosa pudica , when we apply a pinch on a leaflet , something invisible travels along the leafstalk and reaching its sensitive leaf-joint , causes contraction and gives rise to the sudden fall of the leaf . It has been wrongly thought that this impulse is not nervous but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I have , however , proved the erroneousness of this view by various critical tests . For example , the movement of water in a pipe will not be affected by application of cold outside . But when the conductive tissue or nerve is cooled , the impulse in the Mimosa becomes slowed down , and finally arrested . The pipe will not lose consciousness and stop the flow of water if it be chloroformed , nor will its conducting power be abolished by applying round it a bandage soaked in poison . But under similar treatment the impulse in Mimosa becomes arrested or abolished . I have finally been able to localize the nervous strand in the interior of the plant , by means of the Electric Probe which picked up the nervous message that was being transmitted along it . The following observations as regards the growth or degeneration of nervous activity through use and disuse are highly suggestive . A plant carefully protected under glass looks sleek and flourishing , yet in reality is flabby and decadent . Anatomically , the nervous tissue is present , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is very interesting to watch , in a plant in this condition , the growth of nervous power under the influence of stimulating blows . There is at first no transmission , but after a time the nervous impulse begins to be transmitted ; continued stimulation enhances nervous power to a maximum . Here we have displayed before us the modification of the organism by its environment ? the creation of the organ by the cumulative effect of stimulation . With us , too , it is not cotton-wool protection but shock of adversity that evolves true manhood . The nerve unstimulated lies inert ; it becomes energized only by the action of stimulus . Every moment of our present is enriched by the store of latent memories , which is nothing but the imprint of previous stimulation that we call experience . Stimulation by thought increases our power of thought , and it is by accumulation of stimuli that nervous matter ultimately becomes  | automatic ? a phase which is seen in many steps from the birth of thought to inspiration . Perhaps the most unexpected mechanism in the plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the coordination of various organs for the advantage of the plant as a whole . Different groups of living cells have thus taken upon themselves specific duties , certain peripheral organs being specialized for perception of external changes which may be either beneficial or inimical to life . A mere perception would be of little use , unless a message is sent , and effective action taken without the least delay . I find that an ingoing or sensory impulse is actually sent to certain centers in the interior which may be regarded as executive in their function . The most astonishing thing now occurs in response to the message . The energy that had been conserved , is now discharged with almost explosive intensity and rapidity . An outgoing or motor impulse is thus generated for the readjustment of the outlying organs to meet the crisis . There must always be a ceaseless alertness and immediate action in response , for the general good ; for any disharmony means the destruction of the commonwealth . An example of this will suffice . Mimosa pudica is a weed which covers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stems bear numerous leaves , so that the entire tract appears a mass of vivid green . The danger which threatens the life of the plant is from grazing cattle , the attack of which is followed by the sudden fall of the leaves . It has been suggested that the movement of the leaves serves the purpose of scaring the cattle , though they are already accustomed to the swaying branches of trees . Moreover , the cow is not sufficiently intelligent to notice the slight movement of the leaf of Mimosa , nor would it be frightened by it . The nervous reflex , however , subserves the protection of the plant in a different way . When one of the leaflets is trampled on or bitten , the excitatory impulse is immediately transmitted throughout the length of the plant . In regard to the behavior of a particular leaf , the sensory impulse causes it to fall so that it presses against the ground . The reflexes at the center give rise to motor impulses which cause upward closure of all the leaflets . Nothing could be more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of vivid green become transformed into thin lines of dull gray , unnoticeable against the dull background of the soil . The plant escapes danger by making itself invisible . A continuity is thus established between the simplest and most complex type of life , an evolution from rudimentary beings toward perfection . There can be no humiliation in our kinship with the lowest of the low . Rather is it a matter of pride for man to have risen through ceaseless efforts from a mass of formless jelly to his present state . In this ascent , the most important factor has been the ever growing elaboration of the nervous function . And man by opening himself at will to new areas of stimulation , is thereby determining his own higher evolution . It is one of the greatest of mysteries how we are brought into con- tact with the external world ; how blows from without are felt within . Our sense-organs are like so many antenna , radiating in various directions and picking up messages of many kinds ; these bear moreover a certain potentiality to induce in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The quality of the sensation is often affected by the intensity of the impinging stimulus . It is well known that while a gentle touch or moderate stimulus of light , heat or sound , may produce a sensation which may be described as pleasant , an intense stimulus of the same nature causes a sensation which is extremely unpleasant or even painful . The intensity of the impulse that reaches the central organ depends on two factors : the strength of the external stimulus , and the condition of the conductor that transmits the impulse . Under normal conditions , extremely weak stimulation gives rise to an impulse which is so feeble that it can not be transmitted , and therefore remains below the threshold of perception . Moderate stimulation gives rise to sensation not unpleasant ; very strong stimulation , on the other hand , causes an intense reaction of a painful character . Our sensation is thus colored by the intensity of the nervous excitation that reaches the perceptive organ . We are subject to human limitations through the imperfection of our senses on the one hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happenings which elude us because the stimulus is too feeble to waken our senses ; the external shock may , however , be so intense as to fill our life with pain . Since we have little power to alter the external world , is it possible to control the nervous impulse itself so that it shall be exalted in one case and inhibited or obliterated in the other ? Does science hold out the hope of any such possibility ? This question is plainly fraught with high significance . There is much resemblance between the conduction of electric impulse by a metallic wire and of excitatory impulse by a nerve . In the metal , the power of conduction is constant , and the intensity of electric impulse simply depends on the intensity of the electric force that is applied . If the conducting power of the nerve were constant , then the intensity of the nervous impulse and the resulting sensation would entirely depend on the intensity of the impinging impulse . In that case , modification of sensation would be an impossibility . But there may be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not constant , but capable of change , so that the facility for the passage of the impulse may be either decreased or increased . Should this surmise prove correct , then we arrive at the momentous conclusion that sensation itself is modifiable , whatever be the external stimulus . The thrill produced by stimulation of the receptive outer end of the nerve , is sent inward from point to point of the conducting thread , as a molecular disturbance . An acceleration or inhibition of impulse will evidently be produced by two opposite molecular dispositions . The , molecules may be visualized as a row of standing books . A certain intensity of blow applied , say to the book p 391 on the extreme right , causes it to fall to the left , hitting its neighbor and making the other books topple over in succession . If the books had previously been tilted slightly to the left , a disposition would have been given to them which would bring about an upset under a feebler blow and accelerate the speed of the impulse . A tilt in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a predisposition to retard or inhibit the impulse . Is it at all possible to induce opposite molecular dispositions in the nerve , so that in the one case a subliminal stimulus will be effectively transmitted and brought into sensory prominence ; and an intense wave due to a violent stimulus may be inhibited during transit and thus be come obliterated ? For this , the molecules of the nerve have to be coerced at one 's bidding into arranging themselves favorably or unfavorably for the passage o impulse . This was effected by elec tric coercion . The results obtained are of great interest ; by conferring on the nerve a favorable molecula disposition , a feeble stimulus pre viously below the threshold of per ception , now produced an extraor dinarily large response . Conversely an intense excitation generated by a violent stimulus was arrested during transit by the induction of an op posite molecular disposition of th nervous tissue . Thus under a par ticular molecular disposition of th nerve , the experimental frog re sponded to stimulation which had hitherto been below its threshold o perception . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irritation caused by application o salt , was at once quelled as if by magic . The foregoing experiments have demonstrated that two opposite molecular dispositions can be electrically induced in a nerve , accelerating or inhibiting the passage of the impulse . The question naturally arises whether or not the action of the will upon the nerves of the body may not be of a similar nature . Now , full scientific attention has not been given to the power of our will in controlling all bodily functions . Very few have realized how great becomes the power of will intensified by practice and concentration . There can be no doubt of the predispositions which can be conferred on the nerve by internal power of will in facilitating or inhibiting the nervous impulse . The effect of attention or expectation in enhancing perception is familiar , as also the power of suggestion . In the determination of sensations , then , the internal stimulus of the will may play as important a part as the shock from outside . And thus , through the inner control of the nerve , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The external , then , is not so overwhelmingly dominant , and man is no longer a passive agent in the hands of destiny . He has a latent power which will raise him above the terrors of his inimical surroundings . It rests with him whether the channels through which the outside world reaches him should at his command be widened or closed . It should thus be possible for him to catch those indistinct messages which have hitherto passed by him unperceived ; or he may withdraw within himself , so  | that in his inner realm the jarring notes and the din of the world no longer affect him . From the plant to the animal then , we follow the long stairway o the Ascent of Life . In the spiritua triumph of the martyr who willingly sacrifices his life for the cause o humanity , we see the higher and higher expression of that evolutionary process by which life rises above and beyond all the circumstances o the environment , and fortifies itself to control them . The thrill in matter , the throb in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the nerve and the resulting sensation ? how diverse are all these , and yet how unified . How strange it is that the tremor of ex citation in nervous matter should be not merely transmitted but trans muted and reflected like the image on a mirror , from a different plane o life , in sensation and in affection , in thought and in emotion . Of these which is the more real , the material body , or the image that is independent of it ? Which of these is undecaying , and which is beyond the reach of death ? It was a woman in the Vedic time who when asked to take her choice of the wealth that would be hers for the asking , inquired whether that would win for her deathlessness . Many a nation has risen in the past , and won the empire of the world . A few buried fragments are all that remain as memorials of the great dynasties that wielded temporal power . There is , however , another element which finds its incarnation in matter , yet transcends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burning flame of thought , which has been handed down through fleeting generations . Not in matter but in thought , not in possession , not even in attainments , but in ideals is to be found the seed of immortality .  |                     