@@430913

 | DESPOTISM finds its chief support in ignorance . Knowledge and freedom go hand in hand , " said President Coolidge in his proclamation calling the American people to observe Education Week in November , 1923 . More than a century ago , James Madison recorded a similar conviction : " Knowledge will forever govern ignorance ; and a people who mean to be their governors must arm themselves with the power which knowledge gives . " Thomas Jefferson had a sublime faith in the people and in their ability to govern themselves ? but it was an educated people that he always had in mind . He left us this ringing declaration , " If a nation expects to be ignorant and free in a state of civilization , it expects what never was and never will be . " Similar sentiments have been expressed by leading American statesmen , writers , and thinkers from the very foundation of our republic up to the present time , and yet development of education from the national point of view has been slow ? amazingly slow , when one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not the aim of this article to decry the progress that education has already made in portions of this country , for we are justly proud of it ; neither is it my purpose to attack the American ideal in education , for our nation is attempting to do in a truly democratic fashion for its 25,000,000 boys and girls , all the children of all the people , what no other nation on the face of the globe is seriously attempting to do , and what few have even dreamed of . My object is to point out the fact that education has lagged behind the other great national interests and that the facilities for education are in no wise commensurate with the results expected from it ; to substantiate these statements with a few incontrovertible facts ; and to cite a remedy for existing conditions that has been carefully thought out and conscientiously proposed and that is being earnestly and vigorously supported by several millions of public-spirited citizens in the United States and outlying possessions today . There never was a time in the history of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some of the peoples of the earth have recently achieved democracy , while others have had it thrust upon them , and they have recognized , one and all , that in every democracy , old or new , the one outstanding obligation and chief concern is the education of the rank and file of its people . Daily , America is being pressed for the solution of problems about which her people know little , and in the final analysis it is the people who must pass judgment upon them . From the hour of our Declaration of Independence America has been a beacon star in the firmament of the nations , and the peoples of the earth have constantly looked to her for inspiration and guidance in molding their own destinies . It is the cherished hope of our people that that light which has been shed to human beings in darkness in the far corners of the earth may never wane nor lose its luster . If America is to hold her place of leadership in the world ? more than that , if she is to meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there must be a speeding up of education throughout the United States , in which the local community , the state , and the ( Continued on page 164 ) 35  | nation shall be jointly responsible , such as we have never known before . The covered wagon of our forefathers has given way to the automobile even in the remotest parts of this country , yet one-half of our 25,000,000 children are going to schools but little advanced beyond those our forefathers founded . It is even worse than that , for according to the last census 1,437,000 children from seven to thirteen years of age were listed as not attending any kind of educational institution . The foundation that meals national strength and stability , or national weakness and insecurity , a few decades hence , is now being laid each day in our 275,000 public schools by 700,000 teachers , and the time has arrived for this country to take stock of its educational facilities to ascertain if they are equal to the great responsibility imposed upon them . An educated citizenry is the first great need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need of the new Republic in 1789 . That the schools are not equal to this gigantic task was pointed out during the World War and has been repeatedly called to the attention of the American people since the hostilities ceased . A Constructive Program The War served but to intensify the conditions in education that were already becoming acute throughout the country , and some program for the improvement and development of public education in the United States would have been necessary even had there been no war . Such a program was conceived and presented to the American people and their representatives in Congress by the National Education Association in cooperation with a number of leading national organizations of men and women , prominent among whom were the American Federation of Teachers and the American Federation of Labor . The principles for which these friends of public education stand are embodied in the Education Bill , known as the Towner-Sterling Bill in the last Congress , and now awaiting action in this Congress . Senator Thomas Sterling of South Dakota re-introduced the Bill in the Senate , and Honorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House of Representatives . In accordance with the provisions of this Bill we maintain : First , that the Federal Government should increase the effective operation of its existing activities in education by unifying them in a Department of Education under a Secretary in the Cabinet of the President . The creation of such a Department , we are convinced , will provide the sanction and recognized leadership necessary to the highest development of our public school system . Second , that the Federal Government should extend the established principles of Federal Aid to the States in order to encourage and assist the States in the development of a program which will eliminate certain recognized defects in our educational system existing quite generally throughout the country . Third . that these desired ends can be obtained without interfering with the rights of the states to control , organize , administer , and supervise their own schools . Sound and efficient administration demands the organization of a Department of Education . The present activities of the Federal Government with respect to education are scattered and unrelated . The Bureau of Education occupies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Federal Board for Vocational Education , a semi-independent organization , administers federal aid for industrial education and home economics , and other educational activities of the government are administered by several different departments . That there should be a reorganization and coordination of these activities is universally accepted . The Federal Government appropriated for education for the year 1920-1921 , $149,608,482 . The United States Bureau of Education , commonly recognized as the one governmental agency providing for national leadership , received for maintenance during the same year $162,045 . The creation of a Department of Education is thus amply justified upon the basis of the present educational activity of our National Government . The primary argument for a Department of Education is the manifest need for an adequate and comprehensive plan of cooperation between the Federal Government and the states for the promotion of public education .  | We recognize that the conduct of education is a state function , each state being primarily responsible for the support and management of its public schools . The Constitution of the United States reserved the sovereign power over education to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precaution has been taken to safeguard the rights of the states in this function . The Bill has been written in full recognition of this principle , and provides that " all the educational facilities encouraged by the provisions of this Act and accepted by a State shall be organized , supervised , and administered exclusively by the legally constituted State and local educational authorities of said State , and the Secretary of Education shall exercise no authority in relation thereto ; and this Act shall not be construed to imply Federal control of education within the States nor to impair the freedom of the States in the conduct and management of their respective school systems . " The creation of this Department is justified by the general welfare provision of the Constitution , by which the Departments of Agriculture , Commerce , and Labor came into existence . The Education Bill now before Congress provides a plan of cooperation between the Department of Education and the states in the training and development of the future citizens of the nation , without encroaching in any way upon the rights and prerogatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall undertake studies and investigations in the field of education and that research shall be undertaken in illiteracy ; immigrant education ; public school education with special reference to rural education ; physical education , which shall include health education , recreation , and sanitation ; the preparation and supply of competent teachers for the public schools ; higher education ; and in such other fields as the Secretary of Education may deem necessary . Education is not a static process ; continuous research must be made into its various fields that it may effectively discharge the great obligation placed upon it , that of developing a citizenship physically , intellectually , and morally sound , ready to meet the changing conditions of our modern life . Such a Department would be of the greatest assistance in the solution of complex problems in puolic education that are common to all the states . Manifestly it would be far more economical for the Federal Government to carry on extensive investigations in the . field of education through a Department of Education , as is now being done through the Department of Agriculture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A National Council That there may be the most effective cooperation between the states and the nation there is established a National Council of Education , of which each State Superintendent or Commissioner of Education shall be an exofficio member , together with twenty-five prominent educators representing the different interests in education and twenty-five citizens , not educators , to be appointed by the Secretary of Education " to consult and advise with the Secretary of Education on subjects relating to the promotion and development of education in the United States . " This Council , meeting once a year , will give the Secretary of Education the benefit of the advice of the leaders of education in all the states and provide an effective means of disseminating sug-@#  | gestions for the improvement of education based upon the results of research and investigation carried on by the Federal Department and recommendation of the Council . The recommendations of the Secretary can never be mandatory . His influence will depend upon the soundness of his recommendations and the strength and wisdom of his leadership . There is nothing new in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the states . From the very foundation of our government the nation has wisely aided the states in the development of their schools by grants of land and money , and the constitutionality of this procedure has been established for all time by the decision of the Supreme Court last spring in regard to the Sheppard-Towner Maternity Act. : President Harding , in his address to Congress on November 21 , 1922 , stated the case for federal aid as follows : " I believe in government aid becomingly bestowed . We have aided industry through our tariffs ; we have aided railway transportation in land grants ' and loans . We have aided the construction of market roads and the improvement of inland waterways . We have aided reclamation and irrigation and the development of water power ; we have loaned for seed grains in anticipation of harvests . It has all been commendable and highly worth while . " Dr. Frank Crane says , " If there is any one thing in which Federal aid is justified , it is education . " " That the aid thus far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the general welfare there can be little doubt . But there are present-day exigencies not within the scope of existing legislation , to aid in meeting which is , in my judgment , the imperative duty of the general Government , " argues Senator Sterling , one of the authors of the bill . The Education Bill grants to the Federal Government the power to extend aid to the states for five specific purposes : for removing illiteracy ; Americanizing the foreign-born ; establishing effective programs of physical education ; providing well-qualified teachers for all public schools ; and equalizing educational opportunities within the states . It is well to note here that the bill does not appropriate one dollar . It only authorizes the appropriation of certain sums for the five specific purposes named , " or so much thereof as may be necessary , " and it is not incumbent upon any state to accept this federal aid unless it so desires . Again , the complete autonomy of the states is guaranteed , for at the end of each section authorizing an appropriation is added the provision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specified " shall be distributed and administered in accordance with the laws of said state in like manner as the funds provided by state and local educational authorities for the same purpose , and the state and local educational authorities of said state shall determine the courses of study , plans , and methods for carrying out the purposes of this section in said state , in accordance with the laws thereof . " In other words , the Secretary of Education is given no mandatory power , nor is he permitted to establish any executive standards . What the States Must Do In order to make effective the purpose of the National Government , the bill provides that states which share in any appropriation which may be made for the equalization of educational opportunity shall provide : " ( a ) A legal school term of at least twentyfour weeks in each year for the benefit of all the children of school age in such state . ( b ) A compulsory school attendance law requiring all children between the ages of seven and fourteen to attend some school for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) That the English language shall be the basic language of instruction in the common school branches in all schools , public and private . " No one has suggested that these requirements are too high , or that they in any way interfere with the right of the states to control their own schools .  | The fact that there are 5,000,000 confessed illiterates in this country , over 3,000,000 of whom are native-born Americans , constitutes at once a national liability and a national menace . The further fact that one man in every four who was drafted and sent across the seas " to make the world safe for democracy " could neither read a newspaper in English nor write a letter home ? abilities which every democracy should provide ? will forever be a blot on our history . Of the 3,208,446 men under thirty who were examined between December - 15 , 1917 , and September ii , 1918 , 949,419 were rejected for general military service on account of physical deficiencies most of which might have been prevented in early life through a far-reaching program of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a right to draft its young men for military service surely has a corresponding obligation to see that they are physically , intellectually , and morally fitted to render such service . Millions of people wholly uninformed and out of sympathy with American ideals are living in our country today . One out of eight of our people were born in a foreign country ? 14,000,000 in all , of whom 8,000,000 came from countries in which from twentyfive to eighty percent of the population is illiterate . Children of the Foreign-Born In 1920 there were 16,784,299 people in the United States one or both of whose parents were foreign-born . These people , being nativeborn , have the right of the ballot ? the same right which the descendants of the Pilgrim Fathers proudly claim . How well are they prepared to exercise that sacred right ? That this is a national problem and a national responsibility of the first magnitude surely can not be questioned , and it is nigh time that constructive measures should be adopted to prevent this sore spot from eating further into the very vitals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dual nature ; a citizen of Tennessee or of Massachusetts is likewise a citizen of the United States . The National Government can no longer with safety place upon the forty-eight states the whole burden of the preparation of its citizens for their full civic duties .. Physical inferiority affects the whole nation and not merely those directly concerned . Hookworm in Alabama makes raw cotton more expensive in Massachusetts . Tuberculosis in Massachusetts adds to the cost of cloth in Iowa . Mr. Herbert Hoover 's Committee on Waste in Industry estimated that " the economic loss to the nation from preventable disease and death is $1,800,000,000 yearly among those gainfully employed . There is experimental basis for the statement that this loss could be materially reduced and leave an economic balance in the working population alone over and above the cost of prevention of at least one billion dollars annually . " President Coolidge has tersely said , " The need of civilization today is the need of teachers . " H. G. Wells places the responsibility for the future where it properly belongs , " The teacher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real maker of history ; rulers , statesmen , and soldiers do but work out the possibilities of cooperation or conflict the teacher creates . " This is the conclusion we all reach when we take the trouble to think it through , yet the nation complacently sits by in the full knowledge that the strength of the teaching personnel of our country is far short of what it should be . The fundamental weakness of our schools today is to be found in the immaturity , the brief tenure , and the inadequate preparation of an overwhelming majority of those to whom the future welfare of the Republic is entrusted . It is futile to speak of the public schools as the bulwark of American democracy when more than 100,000 of our teachers are less  | than twenty-two years of age ; when 30,000 have had no education beyond the eighth grade of the elementary school and 300,000 have had no special professional preparation for the work of teaching . Too high a tribute can not be paid to that army of high-minded , patriotic , self-sacrificing teachers ? men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the face of almost overwhelming odds , and who will by virtue of their devotion , courage , and wisdom yet lead us out of the national dilemma in which we have found ourselves . It will not detract from the service they have rendered to state that the 10,000,000 boys and girls now under the tutelage of these youthful , untrained teachers have no chance of arriving at maturity prepared for the responsibilities of citizenship . Since upon the knowledge , ability , insight , and ideals of these teachers will depend in the final analysis the contribution of the schools to the welfare of the nation , it is of the utmost importance that the National Government take steps in the immediate future to remedy this truly alarming situation . The Country School Equality of opportunity is the cardinal principle of democracy . Intelligence alone can preserve it and make it safe for the nation and the world . All the evidence produced in the last few years , however , shows that the country child in our democracy does not now have an equal chance with the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries , for education and preparation for citizenship in community , state and nation . He deserves it , and the safety of our democracy demands it . " The nation 's crop of children comes mainly from the farms no less than the food crops , ? " we are told by a recent report of the Department of Agriculture . The country school , then , has a double burden ? that of educating both the resident rural population and the increasingly large numbers who flock to the cities . A reliable authority estimates that five-sixths of the ministers , six-sevenths of the college professors of the entire country , threefourths of the men in authority in city churches , and about the same proportion of the influential men of affairs in the city ? merchants , manufacturers , brokers , lawyers ? were born and reared in rural regions . While this may be an exaggeration , it is sufficiently in accord with past and present observations to indicate that the city is largely dependent upon the country for the renewal of its population , for leadership in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and for the preservation of the best in its civilization . Truly has Emerson said , " If the cities were not reenforced from the fields they would have rotted , exploded , and disappeared long ago . " The supreme importance of rural education can not be questioned , and it must be dealt with in the future as an urban as well as a rural problem , as a national as well as a state and local problem . The ability of the states . and local communities to support education varies greatly . From the latest information available we learn that the per capita wealth in the several states varies from $909 to $7603 . The contrast is even more startling when we observe that the wealth per pupil from the age of five to twenty years varies from $2350 to $31,904 . The income derived by citizens of the wealthier states is dependent upon a market that is nationwide . Incomes and excess profits taxes and internal revenue receipts generally are collected very largely in the states engaged in the manufacture and distribution of goods . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout the nation . For example : during the fiscal year 1920-1921 the State of North Carolina paid $79,573,000 in internal revenue on the manufacture of tobacco . The product was used and the taxes actually paid throughout the length and breadth of the land . The struggle for tax-supported public edu- cation in this country has been long and diffi- cult and the battle is not yet won . We have come to believe that the wealth of the nation , wherever it is , must be taxed for the education of the children , wherever they are . Nothing short of this is equitable and in thorough accord with the principles of democracy we profess.  | The plan for federal aid in the Education Bill does not propose that the National Government shall pay one-half the cost of education in these five different fields . It does propose that Congress shall appropriate certain sums of money , provided the states will appropriate equal amounts to be used in remedying the defects we have specified . The end sought by the bill is the stimulation of the states to undertake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this work will result in great national benefit . It is but fair that the nation should help toward the payment of expenditures necessary to securing it . If a lighthouse can be built in Boston Harbor at national expense on the ground of national benefit , every expenditure contemplated in the Education Bill can be defended on exactly the same basis . Ample data are available to show that federal appropriations of this character have proved to be the stimulation their proponents claimed for them . In 1916 , twenty-two states provided $3,418,719 for vocational education . With federal sanction and aid forty-eight states had developed a program of vocational education in 1921 , which they supported by appropriations of $14,377,502 . For the same year the Federal Government appropriated only $3,097,932 . It has been argued by some people that the nation can not afford to appropriate the large sum of $100,000,000 or any substantial portion thereof for the promotion of education . The figures as to the expenditures of the American people for luxuries and non-essentials issued by the Treasury Department , June II , 1920 , prove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the things we want . A nation that can pay one billion dollars in one year for candy , two billions for tobacco , five billions more for luxurious food , and three billions for joy riding , races , pleasure resorts , et cetera , is not only able to pay for education , but can ill afford not to do so . These figures are so huge that it is difficult to comprehend them . Perhaps it would be clearer to most of us to state that the people of the United States spent , in 1920 , 173 times as much for luxuries and non-essentials as the maximum amount authorized to be appropriated under the provisions of the Education Bill . The time has come when the welfare of the nation demands an adequate recognition of its educational interests by the Federal Government . The program for the promotion and improvement of public education throughout the country is so fundamentally sound , so thoroughly inherent in the basic principles of our democracy , that it has appealed to a score of great national organizations of men and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education and who are actively supporting it with a combined membership of many millions . We find earnestly supporting this proposition an overwhelming majority of those engaged in the work of public education ? state superintendents , county superintendents , city superintendents , normal school presidents , and classroom teachers throughout the country . The Mother 's Part in Education The organization of the American home is such that the mother has a large part in the education of her children , For that reason , no doubt , women 's organizations have given to education a prominent place in their deliberations , and they are seriously and conscientiously devoting themselves to the study of it . Among the women 's organizations actively supporting this measure are : the General Federation of Women 's Clubs , the National League of Women Voters , the Daughters of .  | the American Revolution , the National Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teacher Associations , the National Council of Jewish Women , the National Woman 's Christian Temperance Union , the Woman 's Relief Corps , Order of the Eastern Star , the National Federation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Women 's Trade Union League , the National Board of the Young Women 's Christian Associations , the American Association of University Women , and the National Council of Women . From the very beginning the proposition has had the unqualified support of the American Federation of Labor . Great religious forces such as the International Sunday School Council of Religious Education have given the Education Bill their endorsement , and it is also supported by a number of fraternal organizations friendly to the promotion of public education , among which may be named the Supreme Council of Scottish Rite Masonry for the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States . Finally , the National Committee for a Department of Education made up of a number of leading public-spirited citizens , representing various professional and business interests , is giving effective support to the cause . During the past year there has been a unifying and solidifying of all of this support , and those familiar with the history of great pieces of legislation in this country predict a successful outcome of this great movement . The friends of America 's most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall no longer receive scant attention from the National Government , and they are prepared to wage a veritable crusade in its behalf . In the final analysis , the whole proposition seems to resolve itself into a question of money , for surely it can not be said that we , as a nation , would longer deny to our boys and girls through a Department of Education the benefits of research which we have so cheerfully given to livestock and farm products through a Department of Agriculture . The childhood of America is our most valuable national asset ; and yet with one million children in child labor today in factory , field , and workshop , and millions more deprived of adequate facilities for securing an education , we have still to prove that we treasure it more than our gold and our silver . In the words of Horace Mann , our first great educational statesman , " It is related of a certain king , that , when embarked on a voyage , attended by some of his courtiers and carrying with him some of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lighten the ship , whereupon he commanded his courtiers to be thrown overboard , but saved his money . How is it with parents who are embarked with fortune and family on this voyage of life ; when they need a better schoolhouse to save their children from ill health or a better teacher to rescue them from immorality and ignorance , or even a slate or a shilling 's worth of paper to save them from idleness , have we any parents amongst us or have we not , who , under such circumstances , will fling the child overboard and save the shilling ? "                     