@@493276

December 20 , 1922 THE NEW a general reduction of values is impossible . Therefore deflation means a reduction in the values of certain groups of commodities . Groups of nonagricultural commodities have been reduced in price , but only agricultural products have suffered a substantial loss in values , in buying power . It is therefore proper to say that deflation has been almost entirely at the expense of agriculture . Some day the farmers will want to know where and why the power to deflate commodities resides . Like the European collapse , deflation , as an explanation of the farmer 's difficulties , seems to be so obvious as to arouse suspicion that a still more fundamental cause must be sought . To what extent is the emergency tariff responsible for present conditions ? To quote from the London correspondence in the August 5th issue of the Modern Miller , a Chicago trade publication : " Trading in Australian flour is pleasing to the nation as a whole , as this prosperous dominion takes In return for its shipments of wheat and flour and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Proportion of goods manufactured in this country . Naturally this all works out in favor of the Australian mills as against the American mills . America has a tariff wall against products of this country to such an extent that there is practically no market for them in the United States , whereas her products of not only raw materials but manufactured articles are allowed free entry on these markets . " Is there need to say more ? Is the tariff at last the Unseen Thing ? Probably not . The tariff is probably only one of the claws or one of the tentacles of the Unseen Thing . The speculator in farm products looms large as one of the dragons to be slain . The long hunger of the speculator during the war when his vocation was unpopular found ample appeasement when g ? vernment controls were removed . Every opportunity and power of superior organization , knowledge of markets , control of capital were used to smash farm prices . This was not limited merely to American speculators , or to speculators on the boards of trade . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The sources of power are hard to trace . The subtle , automatic interrelations of industry involve the entire structure in all major price movements . The farmer is con- winced that the speculative marketing of farm Products with its chaos , trickery and swindle must he destroyed . Cooperative marketing of wheat throughout the west is being energetically driven to success against tremendous obstacles by Mr. George C. Jewett , on the basis of the binding pool , s developed by Mr. Aaron Sapiro . The pool idea 14 spreading rapidly to other commodities , and to practically every section of the country . The farmers , as never before , or rather for the first time , are crossing swords with the speculators of farm products . It is only a matter of time now before this field will be cleared of the obstructive accretions of rampant individualism . But will the battle then be won ? Can cooperative marketing force a satisfactory European settlement ? Can it enforce rational policies of international trade ? Can it Compel all factors of industry to exert themselves to the same full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Can it dethrone the wielders of autocratic economic power and enforce a wider distribution of economic successes and failures ? Perhaps it can do these things and more . Time alone will tell . In the meantime the masses of agricultural producers are reeling under the succession of blows . A few are grasping vigorously at the Unseen Thing in an endeavor to shake it off . The many are dazed and uncertain of their defence because they can not see from whence the blows are falling . A. RICKLES . David Did you go this way ? The alders trembled . All of a sudden the katydids kept still . Did you take the short cut through the dead tansy , And no moon to help you down the steep hill ? Hours together the panther on the mountain Has cried like a woman , sounding very near . I went down the lane once to touch the warm oxen . Did he go this way ? No , not here . The barn cat walked the wall along the cornfield , Hunting like a shadow . The owl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Did he go this way ? The corn shocks rustled . The field breathed No . The bats had gone . The horses never heard me Coming through the pasture ; they stamped in their sleep . Did you leave a footprint here in the lowground ? No one could find it ; the hardback 's deep . I-Iardhack and boneset , brown-tipped snakeroot , Paths that my feet know , help my sight ! Did n't you feel him ? Did he go this way ? Who else would stir you in the middle of the night ? A black frost is harvesting ; clips off the shagbarks ; Crumples up flowers with a crazy hand . He went past me with a face like silver And a word I could not understand .                     