@@486133

M Y dear M. Clemenceau : It is with great pleasure that I welcome you to the White House . Your trip to this country has gratified millions who admire the independence , courage , and fighting spirit you have displayed in crossing the seas , undaunted by the weight of years , to stand up and tell us exactly how you feel about us and the European situation . I rejoice that everywhere the cheers of multitudes have proved to you how quickly we have forgotten the irritations growing out of the drawing up of the Versailles Treaty and how steadily , despite various differences of opinion , we cling to our ancient friendship with your noble country , which , I believe , nothing can ever shake or shatter . The hospitality you have received in some of our cities would , I am sure , be repeated to you in every town and village not only for yourself , but in honor of your people . Here at the seat of government I welcome you with all of the respect and the genuine regard with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States to honor an unofficial ambassador . The very fact that you are an unofficial ambassador gives me the opportunity not only to greet you informally , but to speak to you more directly , more freely , and more frankly than would be the case if it were a matter of formal official relations . I , therefore , embrace this occasion both to comment upon your utterances as they have appeared in the press and to give you a message to carry back to your great and invincible people . To them you will , of course , repeat my assurance of the indissoluble character of the ties that bind us , and you will also , I am sure , be kind enough to say to them that the very frankness with which I shall speak must be the proof of the intensity of that regard and of my desire to serve them and our common interest . That affection compels me to say that , glad as I have been to have you voice your views on this side of the Atlantic , I find myself unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in my opinion that the present policy of France is leading not to the peace and settlement of Europe but to its further unsettlement and to acceleration of the process by which Europe is steadily approaching financial and economic disaster . Believe me , the motive which leads me to say this is primarily my unswerving love for France . It is a common experience of life , however , that men and women are compelled to address words of warning to some of those whom they hold dearest . In this case I and my countrymen regret the course of French policy because we are convinced that it is not aiding France to obtain the reparations which are rightly hers . On the contrary it is making less and less possible that stability in Central Europe which is absolutely essential if the orderly economic processes are to be carried on through which must be earned the needed sums to pay reparations . I am the more moved to say this because for a couple of weeks past we have been reading in the daily press distressing reports of an impending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to cut the Rhineland off from Germany . That , it seems to my Government , would not only not afford added security for reparations , but would so greatly add to the unsettlement of Germany and tend to disintegrate her industriallife as to make her still less able to earn the sums which she is bound in honor to pay , without paying which she can never again hold up her head as a self-respecting member of the society of nations . For months past my Government has been hoping , not for the report of fresh advances into German territory , no matter what the excuse , but for news of the withdrawal of your garrisons from Germany . It has itself been on the verge of withdrawing the last of its troops because it realizes that every day of their stay there uses up moneys which should be applied to the reconstruction of devastated France . We are strongly of the opinion that the present Allied territorial control on the Rhine is a grave injury to France itself , is totally unnecessary for the purpose of overawing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is only inflaming public sentiment there . All our observers report to us that the retention of these garrisons not only raises race issues , but makes for future war and inspires even the younger generation with dreams of revenge . In this connection particularly do we regret to read of the assessment of heavy damages against the German cities of Ingolstadt and Passau for attacks upon Allied officers ; the practice of fining cities for the acts of citizens was one of the wrongs of Germany in Belgium which was most reprobated by America and the whole civilized world . Again , the withdrawal of these garrisons would undoubtedly enable France to make a substantial reduction in her present active military establishment , something that would profoundly appeal to the American people . As their spokesman I may tell you that the whole question of a reduction of your indebtedness to us or its remission is gravely complicated by the fact that the military expenditures of France are still , according to the 1922 budget , 266 per cent higher than in 1913 . I am well aware of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to her safety , lest the horrors and frightful loss of life which she has twice within fifty years had to endure be repeated , and that you yourself feel it is the duty of this country to make good the promise of its former Executive to guarantee France against further German aggression . But this country did not support this proposal either in its Congress or at the polls . We are , moreover , firmly of the opinion that in this case a genuine effort to cooperate with our former enemies will be of far greater avail in achieving permanent peace than will the mailed fist . No country in Europe can show that its possession of a large army and a powerful navy protected it from war . In conclusion , may I , through you , give the assurance to your Government and your people that this Administration sees in the Treaty of Versailles the gravest menace to the peace of Europe and Asia , and that it holds itself in readiness at any time to take part in a conference which shall tear up this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in hate nor revenge , but with due regard to the economic needs of France in particular , and of Europe as a whole ? Until this revision takes place , a revision based upon justice , humanity , and the laws of political economy , it is our firm belief that Europe must continue to gravitate toward that moral , financial , and economic disaster which looms so near . No Longer Supreme T HE decline  --  one might almost say the debacle  --  ofthe United States Supreme Court is one of the impressive developments of recent years . Owing not merely to the unpopularity of many recent decisions but to a feeling that they have been out of key with progressive , political and industrial thought  --  that they have thwarted peaceful evolution  --  the reverence in which the Supreme Court was once generally held has been steadily waning throughout the present century . It seems to have remained for President Harding , however , to shake the tribunal by making appointments to it of a sort which , if continued , will make it impossible even to respect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The appointment of Mr. Taft as Chief Justice was the installation of a good-natured stand-patter , undistinguished legally and discredited politically , in what is in many ways the most powerful position in the United States . The nomination of Senator Sutherland was worse from the standpoint of motives , because the appointee was obviously a personal friend of Mr. Harding to accommodate whom the Supreme Court was used as a convenient place . There was this to be said of Senator Sutherland , however  --  he had a reputation as a manysided lawyer . As much can not be said of Pierce Butler , for he is not known nationally and his practice has been chiefly in the service of railroads and other corporations in the Northwest . In regard to his intolerance and unjudicial temperament we commented last week , while his case has not been helped in public estimation by Mr. Taft 's extraordinary action in going before the Senate Judiciary Committee to intercede in his behalf . There seems to be no excuse for Mr. Butler 's nomination unless , as some charge , Mr. Harding is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railroads in view of the vital questions in regard to them which are expected to come before the tribunal in the next few years . What makes Mr. Harding 's attitude toward the Supreme Court so important is that it seems probable that he will be able to alter the entire complexion of it during his term . In less than two years he has already appointed three of the nine members  --  as many as Mr. Wilson nominated during his entire two terms . Mr. Harding will have to appoint a fourth member shortly , as Justice Pitney 's health is permanently shattered and a bill has already passed the Senate permitting him to retire on a pension although he has not yet reached the seventy-year limit that is necessary under the existing law . Nor is Justice Pitney the only member that the Supreme Court is likely to lose soon . Justice Holmes is eighty-one years of age and in failing health , while Justice McKenna is in his eightieth year . It is argued that so long as the Supreme Court continues to exercise political functions by making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various political views in the country  --  that it ought to contain not merely Republicans and Democrats but also liberals as well as conservatives . This is a reasonable contention , although one that we can hardly expect to realize while human nature is what it is . But it is not too much to demand , and expect , that appointees to the Supreme Court shall have definite judicial qualifications that are recognized in their profession . If the Supreme Court is not to become an object of popular scorn , Mr. Harding must at least pay some attention to the sentiments of the American bar in regard to his appointees . If it is too much to expect him to nominate recognized progressives like Roscoe Pound of Harvard University , Judge Anderson of Boston , or Judge Amidon of North Dakota , he ought at least to consider men of the high judicial type represented by Judge Learned Hand of New York City or Justice Cardozo of the New York State Court of Appeals . Justice Cardozo 's appointment was a remarkable instance of a judge virtually selected by his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Court of Appeals while Governor Glynn was at the helm in Albany , the other justices united in asking him to appoint Mr. Cardozo . After considering for a time some political possibilities , Governor Glynn eventually made this excellent and unusual appointment . In any event it is certain that President Harding 's course with the Supreme Court will greatly increase the growing sentiment that the tribunal 's political powers  --  that is , its asserted right to declare legislation unconstitutional  --  be taken from it . The United States is virtually the only country in the world where such power exists  --  where the legislature is subordinate to the judiciary . This authority was arrogated by Chief Justice Marshall because of what he regarded as the implied powers of the Constitution , and during our early history the theory was backed by public opinion . Sentiment is now veering in the other direction . The American Federation of Labor is demanding a change and Senator La Follette has suggested , as an entering wedge , that Congress by a two-thirds vote be allowed to override any Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by a series of backward decisions , and President Harding , by a succession of unfortunate appointments , are daily augmenting the demand for a restriction of the power of a tribunal which today is supreme in name but no longer in popular respect . Academicians A LL our best writers jeer at the academicians . The pedagogue and scholar  --  alas that the two are nearly always convertible terms  --  must by this time be inured to contumely . Perhaps he bears it with a grin ; perhaps he bears it with indignation . It is certain that he has , so far , not spoken very articulately in his own defense . At meetings of scholars the matter is either not discussed , or else the scholars seek escape by trying to evade their own characteristic function and calling and merging into the universally respected realms of the practical and the efficient . One must not be severe on them . The proper defense of learning is a difficult one in America today . Even before the war the holders of notable professorships , especially in the humanities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unfortunate distinction . They defended the obviously outworn , celebrated the shoddy , closed their minds to the living humanities that were being reborn in the world about them . During the war there was here , as elsewhere , scarcely one saving voice among their ranks . Professors of German repudiated Goethe ; professors of philosophy suddenly discovered that Kant was a vicious fellow ; philologists were almost tempted to rename Grimm 's law on the principle which , for some years , turned sauerkraut into Liberty Cabbage . Today , then , the scholar has no friend . The liberal literati jeer , the really progressive students snicker , the public rests more firmly in its old , inane contempt . It is time for a protest , however gentle , to be raised ; it is time for a reconsideration of the matter . Permanent and precious values are at stake . They , like all others , have been contaminated by the world , by ugly passions , by loud prejudices and sordid ambitions . They remain in their essential nature uninvalidated . Merely to sneer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to youth ; it is in the last analysis dangerous to those living representatives of the humanities who have done it most . Not all professors are hundred-percenters , not all professors are academic overlords . There are the academic helots  --  helots against their will and vision , helots through the weaknesses bred of their very strength . In every seat of learning there are those who love learning , who do pass their lives of poverty and renunciation of the world in study and reflection , who are in truth what they are meant to be , the memory of the race . Where are their fruits ? it will be asked . These men are not often highly articulate ; their products , " pickled away , " in the words of a university wit , in the technical journals , do not make very alluring reading . Between " Babbitt " and the last book of Lytton Strachey it is not easy to become absorbed in a laboriously written article on the Old English Riddles , or variants on the last mystery transcribed in Paris , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the style and temper of the poet 's authentic works . It is not easy . But if you closely consider these ill-written and perhaps dull pages , there arises the vision of lives that are austere and not ignoble , that the world has always needed and will always need , lives that are profitable to the salvation of us all . The scholar 's study is shabby ; his books are many , but there is no pomp of binding or of first editions ; his table is in disorder ; his papers are stained by the ashes of his pipe ; there is a rag rug on the floor and the poor man has to sneak out now and then to " tend " the furnace so that his wife and children do not take cold . And yet , unless his salary is quite too pitifully small , he is usually a very cheerful mortal . Business does not allure him , nor common pleasures . He does not lust after power ; he is neither epicure nor aesthete ; the glories of this world seem little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as his vision can grasp it ; he loves the ripe and permanent things in literature and thought ; he seeks to add , however humbly , to the history and understanding of them . Yes , he tends to grow narrow , to love the " lEneid " less and his contribution to Vergilian exegesis more . Well , he is human . He does n't hustle or boost ; he stands by all ; he is against the forces of bigness and jazz , against the temptation of mere actuality , immediacy , speed , and glitter . By all means let us scorn as loudly as we please the presidents and deans and glossy masters of the academic mart , and laugh out of countenance , if we can , the fashionable professors who praise seventh-rate uplift literature in the popular magazines . But let us not forget the shabby fellow with grizzled hair and slightly stooping shoulders and slightly reeking pipe who spends his life with things beautiful and worthy of the mind of man , who , even while he is chatting with you , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered precisely why , one rainy day at Tibur , Horace broke off in the middle of a verse , or is aglow with a new explanation  --  suggested , by Heaven , in neither Smelfungus nor Oberwellinghausen  --  of a strangely obscure passage toward the end of " Beowulf . " Even the Klan Has Rights H YSTERIA about the Ku Klux Klan is just as bad as hysteria about the I.W.W. , the Communists , pacifists , pro-Germans , Sinn Feiners , Catholics , Jews , or any other group which finds itself for a time in popular disfavor . Suppression and intimidation are just as bad a method when applied to a really vicious organization like the Ku Klux Klan as when applied to the innocuous groups which have in recent years been victims of mob hysteria . To resort to mob methods to oust the Klan is to adopt its fundamental and most vicious evil . Intolerance when applied to the anti-Catholics , anti-Negroes , and anti-Jews of the Klan is the same disease as when applied to Catholics , Negroes , and Jews by the Klan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a peculiarly objectionable revival of the narrow-minded , ignorant , and intolerant Know-Nothingism which raged three-quarters of a century ago when the Irish immigration was heaviest . It is cowardly ; its members attempt to escape responsibility for their acts by hiding their faces and shrouding their figures . Every time that Klansmen take the law into their own hands and set themselves up in place of the officers of the law as guardians of the morals and patriotism of the land , every time they tar and feather or lynch , drive men out of town , or otherwise resort to violence , there should be the most thorough investigation of responsibility , and the most direct punishment . But there was violence and intolerance in the regions where the Klan is most active before King Kleagles , Imperial Klanvocations , Wizards , Klaliffs , Kligraphs , and the rest of the present-day nonsense were invented . The Klan is more significant as a symptom , as a product of a state of mind , than as a cause . When Mayor Hylan telegraphed to his police commissioner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as you would the Reds and bomb-throwers ; drive them out of our city as rapidly as you discover them , " he spoke with characteristic hyperbole ; but when Senator Walsh of Massachusetts , one of the courageous liberals who have stood out for civil liberties in recent years , indorsed a proposal to stamp out the Klan by the methods used to break up the I.W.W. in certain western States we were amazed . Senator Walsh quoted with approval a letter from a former Kansas district attorney , who wrote that " the national officers of the Klan at Atlanta , Georgia , should be indicted along with the local officers in Kansas , Texas , Oklahoma , or any other State where an overt act has been committed , just as we indicted Haywood and other national officers of the I.W.W. in Chicago along with the members and officers who had committed overt acts in this State . " Apart from the fact that the writer is mistaken in thinking that the I.W.W. were convicted for overt acts in Kansas , he is proposing a most dangerous theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for the acts of Oklahoma or Louisiana rowdies who happened also to be Klansmen would only give him an opportunity to pose as an injured martyr . We want no Ku Klux martyrs . There are enough martyrs to the Klan . Let the individuals guilty of crime be punished . There is law enough for that already , and communities which refuse to apply it are little likely to apply new laws . But let us not surrender to the fundamental evil of the Klan . We think its views wrong-headed , but the only way to meet them is by the force of facts .                     