@@486228

T HE British Parliament just elected can sit at once . It is absurd that the American Congressmen and Senators just elected will not begin to legislate for their constituents until thirteen months after their choice  --  that is , not until December , 1923 ? unless Mr. Harding calls an extra session . Meanwhile , if Mr. Harding has his way , the expiring Congress may pass laws totally repugnant to the spirit of the voters , and contrary to their action at the polls . Here is a state of affairs which by itself proves the need of a revision of our Constitution ; yet it is but a single example . It is one of the grave defects of our system which has led every one of the new nations to pattern their governments not after us but after Great Britain 's institutions . The new German Constitution even provides that the Reichstag must meet within thirty days of an election . Mr. Harding can defy the expressed wish of the leaders of the new Congress if they desire an extra session . Yet our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to put a finger to our hoary Constitution would be treason . W E are glad that Senator La Follette as chairman of the People 's Legislative Service has called progressive citizens to meet in Washington on December 1 to formulate immediate policy in and out of Congress . The impetus of the election must not be permitted to dissipate . The Conference for Progressive Political Action , called for December 11 in Cleveland , will not conflict with Senator La Follette 's conference ; its farmer-labor constituency knows that in union more than ever there is strength . As for the specific policies to be advocated many suggestions have already been made , notably by Senator Capper in behalf of the Farm Bloc . Any such platform to be effective must be drawn up in consultation with representatives of labor unions and farmers ' organizations . We have our own suggestions to make , and submit some of them herewith : 1 . Disarmament on land and sea . 2 . Defeat of the ship-subsidy bill . 3 . Radical downward tariff revision . 4 . Readjustment of internal revenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 6 . Passage of the Dyer anti-lynching bill . 7 . Release of all political prisoners . 8 . Unconditional recognition of Mexico and Russia . 9 . Evacuation of Haiti and Nicaragua . 10 . A constitutional convention to revise and modernize the Constitution of the United States . I T is a good thing when weeds are chopped off with a hoe before they go to seed , but the good does not last . The roots remain . It is a good thing that the progressive elections have forced Truman Newberry into tardy resignation , but the roots of financial influence are still strong and deep in the political garden . Still , by chopping off his own head Senator Newberry has made it easier for the La Follette group to do serious spade-work digging at the roots of trouble instead of wasting time attacking weed-tops like Newberry and Daugherty . It is just as necessary to swat such men as it is to cut dandelions before they go to seed , but there is always the danger of resting afterward in the comfortable belief that the weed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their activity in exposing Mr. Daugherty 's record  --  in two years in office he has obtained indictments in only two war-fraud cases and has not brought one important case to trial , and , while opposing the release of political prisoners and even misrepresenting them , he has obtained pardons for real spies and started an American Dreyfus case by persecuting Captain Rosenbluth . But impeachment of Mr. Daugherty would be likely to focus attention on an unimportant individual who is no better and no worse than hundreds of other shysters and lobbyists , and divert attention from the root-evil of financial control of politics and policies . EXICO is learning what little nations have to learn : that the only effective way for a small nation to fight a big nation is to make a loud noise unto the world . Big nations do not listen to reasoned argument , and have the undisputed power of more guns , but they are still sensitive to publicity . Fifteen Americans have been killed in Mexico since January 1 ? that , thanks largely to the State Depart-ment , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-six Mexicans have been killed in the United States in the same period . The Mexican Government 's protests finally forced Mr. Hughes to telegraph Governor Neff of Texas , and Governor Neff to send State Rangers to Breckenridge , Texas , to protect the Mexicans there who were being intimidated , as one of them had been lynched , by native Americans . The publicity given these protests will help offset the ill effects of months of anti-Mexican propaganda . Mexico has also taken the only effective step to counteract Mr. Hughes 's outrageous attempt to dictate her fundamental law . She has published Mr. Summerlin 's notes to the Mexican Foreign Minister , giving the State Department 's opinion on drafts of Mexican laws which had reached Mr. Hughes by circuitous paths even before they were presented to the Mexican Congress . Mexico , President Obregon announced , would send copies of the correspondence to all the Latin American countries . It will not surprise them ; they know too well the nature of American imperialism . But the action has forced the exposure of Hughes diplomacy on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of discontent that may do some good . R EPRESENTATIVE FREAR of Wisconsin is doing a public service in hammering away at Mr. Mellon , the Secretary of the Treasury , with a demand that he enforce a little-known section of the revenue act of 1921 , apparently adequate to prevent the evasion of individual surtaxes under the income-tax law through the method , increasingly popular among corporations , of stock dividends . Since the decision of the Supreme Court holding that stock dividends do not constitute income , and are therefore not subject to tax , the newspapers have been recording almost daily the intention of various companies to distribute stock dividends . Mr. Frear thinks that the manifest evasion of taxation which such dividends constitute can be met , and was intended to be met , by Section 220 of the Revenue Act of 1921 , which reads : That if any corporation , however created or organized , is formed or availed of for the purpose of preventing the imposition of the surtax upon its stockholders or members through the medium of permitting its gains or profits to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be levied , and collected for each taxable year upon the net income of such corporation , a tax equal to 25 per centum ; the amount thereof shall be in addition to the tax imposed by Section 230 . I T is good news that Dr. Wilhelm Cuno has succeeded in 1 completing a Cabinet for the German Republic despite Socialist opposition . A man of rare personal charm and great ability , sufficiently familiar with political life to be able to assume the high office of Chancellor , Dr. Cuno has the great advantage of never having been a politician or allied actively with any of the political parties . As a busiless man he has been a great success , and in his negotia:ions with Americans to bring about cooperation between the Hamburg-American and United American lines showed great skill and tact . The German situation seems to call for a non-political business Cabinet , fitted to deal with economic problems  --  for these are the only ones which can be grappled with today , and upon their solution the fate of Germany will depend . This kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least none of the professional politicians appear on Dr. Cuno 's list . A strong Ministry of efficient men of affairs  --  but not men of the Stinnes typedisregardmg all political considerations and meeting the Allies more than half way , may help to change the whole aspect of the tangled European situation . S O the Governor of a great American State finds it neces- sary to go to Washington to solicit the aid of the Federal Government in his up-hill battle against the Ku Klux Klan ! Well , this is precisely in line with the warnings which have appeared in these columns about the growth of our Fascist ' movement , fraught as it is with even greater danger than Mussolini 's . Governor Parker 's reports make the Louisiana situation much worse than had been realized here ; it seems that there have been numerous mysterious disappearances of those who have opposed the Klan . The Klan seems also to have invaded the State government . President Harding and Attorney General Daugherty are reported to have assured Governor Parker of the Federal Government 's moral support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of grappling with this evil . But Louisiana 's Governor feels that he can make no effective headway unless the Federal Government and the adjoining States cooperate with him . Since this vicious organization declares itself to be a " hundred per cent Protestant army " it is time for all Protestant clergy who do not believe in hooded knights , " invisible empires , " and midnight assassinations to speak out unequivocally . T T was a British automobile which slid up to the back 1 door of the Sultan 's palace , and it was a British warship which carried the cringing descendant of the Othmans away from the vengeance of his people . These facts are part and parcel of the drama of the Near East . It was Britain which held the puppet Sultan in Constantinople and made him sign the Treaty of S ? vres while his people were revolting across the Straits  --  the same old imperial Britain that for years tried to keep German capital out of the Bagdad Railway , the Britain that openly accepted President Wilson 's plea for open diplomacy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has long held Gibraltar , Malta , Cyprus , Suez , and Aden , and since the armistice has controlled Constantinople and the gateway to the Black Sea . It is that Britain which now , talking to the world about " minorities " and the " freedom of the Straits " ? just as it talked of other minorities and of the " freedom of the seas " in wartime  --  is lining up the Allies for a new dictation . The method of diplomacy which , applied against Germany and Austria , brought ruin upon half Europe , which , applied against Russia , failed to accomplish anything except aggravation of a famine , is now to be used against Turkey . And , obsessed by the fact that the Turks pray by the Koran rather than by our Bible , millions of good Christian Americans , including Mr. Hughes , indorse the British cause . G RADUALLY Russia begins to assume the shape and proportions demanded by the United States ; the " old " Russia , reaching from sea to sea across Europe and Asia , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her demands , the Far Eastern Republic has stretched its boundaries to Vladivostok and then joined its vastly increased territories to those of the Soviet Government as an " integral " part of Soviet Russia . In spite of the tendency of our press to look upon the Chita Republic as a Little Red Riding-Hood disappearing down the gullet of the great Russion wolf , it is probable that her position will be that of a federated republic and that she will retain her present democratic forms of government . Nor is her temper as remote from that of her soviet protector as the critics would have us think ; in the last elections for the People 's Assembly in the Far Eastern Republic , carried out freely on a basis of universal suffrage , the Communists won more than three-quarters of the seats . Chita did not obtain even the recognition of the other " democratic " Powers by standing alone and proclaiming belief in representative government ; perhaps it will fare better as a part of Soviet Russia . Internationally the importance of this combination lies in the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be encroachments on the territory of the strongest military Power in Europe . W HETHER the remaining racial and religious minori- ties in western Turkish territory have been ordered out or are going as a measure of prudence is not of practical consequence . The fact is that hundreds of thousands of Greeks and Armenians who have survived the frightful havoc of war and disease in the last eight years have fled or are expected to do so shortly . Refugees to the number of about a million , in tragic straits of distress and helplessness , are overrunning Greece and nearby countries whose economic resources are insufficient to care for them . Every dictate of humanity demands that America take a leading part in succoring these unfortunates , and there is no more practical way than to allow relatives and friends in the United States to support them or help them to employment here . This is now impossible under our immigration law because the quota limits are already exhausted . Owing to the comparative newness of such immigration the entire annual quota assigned to Turkey is only 2,388 persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and should at once , obviate this difficulty by emergency legislation doing away with , or at least modifying , the quota limits for immigrants from Turkey and Greece for the balance of the current fiscal year . If it is objected that such a course might open the country to disease , the answer is that exclusion would still continue on that ground and that existing law is ample to protect us if adequately enforced . Congress can not afford to starve our medical-inspection service with insufficient funds , but neither should it ignore a practical method of relief in a great emergency , one which would lay no burden upon taxpayers and would accord with our historic American policy of granting political asylum to the victims of political or racial persecution . H OW slowly the war-invoked spirit of hatred disappears in this country is apparent once more from the news that the California State Board of Education has denied the petition of 2,000 San Francisco teachers and students that the board permit once more the teaching of German in the high schools . It was forbidden during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Armistice the ban might be lifted , not only in response to certain Biblical instructions , such as loving one 's enemies , but because no one can deny the educational value of any foreign language . By no means all the treasures of German literature are translated into English , but , even if they were , the right to study these treasures , which are the heritage of all the world , in the tongue in which they were written ought not to be denied in any city in the Union in which it is demanded . It is inconceivable to us that any such stand would be upheld if referred to a vote of the California electorate . In Nebraska it is admitted that the overthrow of Senator Hitchcock was largely due to an antagonism to the laws passed in war time by Nebraska legislatures . One of these forbidsthe teaching of German and other foreign languages in the lower grades of the schools ; a second forbids teachers appearing in the garb of any religious organization , while a third compels all persons who speak in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . " Under this last law it would be a crime for Clemenceau or Foch to make a speech anywhere in Nebraska in the French tongue . T HE kind of journalism represented by Richard K. Fox , owner of the Police Gazette , died a good many years before he did . His publication is still found in barber-shops here and there ( it used to be as essential as bay rum ) , but its rivals of a generation ago are mostly extinct , and its own fame is only a memory . Have its functions passed elsewhere , or has the changing public taste outgrown it ? Both . The illustrated news of sport and the stage  --  especially of pugilists and of burlesque queens  --  which used to be sought in the Police Gazette is now printed by the pound in the daily newspapers . But publications like that of Mr. Fox had another appeal . Because of their pictures and stories of sensational and spicy episodes these journals had an admiring clientele of callow masculinity from the age of ten to sixty . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " nice people " did not go to theatrical performances in which the female figure was clothed in tights , and one spoke of a woman 's limbs , not her legs . Today , when women are permitted not only to have legs but to display them in knickerbockers , when one may take even his country aunt to a stage production that is mostly a billow of lingerie , there is no lure in a magazine merely because it shows women in tights or reveals the curve of a calf . The callow males who once hung about the Flatiron Building on a windy day are no longer excited by the revelation of an ankle , and the eclipse of publications like the Police Gazette is really a sign of progress in common sense . W HETHER the gift of Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. de Forest to the Metropolitan Museum in New York  --  a new wing to be devoted to American art of the Colonial , Revolutionary , and early republican periods of our country ? is to be $200,000 or $2,000,000 , it is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will everybody else who has understanding and appreciation of that time in our history when we were developing along original lines an art and architecture worthy of the country 's ideals and aspirations . Alas , no similarly valuable creative periods are to be recorded in our history , and the lessons of the early days need to be held before the American public at every opportunity . Already there is on hand a mass of matter to be exhibited . Mrs. Russell Sage has donated the Bolles collection of early American furniture , and the contents and setting of the exquisite Wentworth-Gardner home in Portsmouth are ready to be set up in the de Forest wing , which is to be built with a special view to their accommodation . None of Mr. de Forest 's many benefactions surpass this and none entitles him and Mrs. de Forest to greater gratitude . To George G. Heye , founder of the newly opened Museum of the American Indian , should likewise go the country 's thanks , for that most worth-while institution was opened in its beautiful new home in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it begins with the amazing number of 1,800 , - 000 specimens of Indian life on this continent . Even with far fewer it would still rank as one of the greatest cultural achievements of recent years .                     