@@487274

IKE a poor congregation 's church , the now general recognition of the Negro 's contribution to American music through his religious songs was a long time building . Mr. Fisher1 seems correctly to credit H. T. Burleigh2 with ushering in the good day when in. 1916 he published " Deep River , " but fails to note that not this , but certain of the examples in Krehbiel's3 study of two years earlier , constituted the first arrangements of spirituals for solo voice and piano ; nor does he mention the part played by Homer Rodeheaver4 in introducing some of these songs to Billy Sunday 's hundreds of thousands , scarcely habitu  --  s of concert halls . For the rest , thank an already waning fad which leaves behind a solid body of knowledge and beauty for the constant . Several myths have been dispelled ; others are tottering . Item : that the Negro merely filched , say , from the pale and flabby " gospel hymns . " Krehbiel commenced and Ballanta ' has completed the demolition of this absurdity ; Mrs. Burlin8 has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give to his the Negro 's music an interest . worthy of particular study are precisely those which differentiate Negro songs from the songs of the neighboring white man ; they are racial traits , and the black man brought them from the Dark Continent . It is becoming less and less easy to pirate the aesthetiC product of the blacks and simultaneously dub them " the most imitative race on earth . " Item : that the spirituals were " group compositions , " each a sort of monstrous coincidence . Not the accumulation of collections will dispel such a fallacy , but the repetition of even such qualified dissents as James Weldon Johnson's7 : My opinion is that the far greater part of them is the work of talented individuals influenced by the pressure and reaction of the group . Some , indeed , are too elaborate to have been born otherwise than in solitude . Item : such expressions as Henry 0 . Osgood's8 : - The spirituals have a great vogue today , one that is hardly justified by the aesthetic value of any except a very small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not taken the little trouble necessary to acquaint himself with more than a small group . More can be asked from no body of folksong than may be found among the spirituals . More , by the way , need not be aspired to by their admirers . Specifically , it is difficult to appreciate Mr. Johnson 's ' concern that Negro themes should be commonly employed in this country as material for music in the larger forms ; an anxiety underlaid by the idea which comes out in grosser form in Paul Whiteman 's " What folksong would have amounted to anything if some great writer had not put it into a symphony ? Dvorak 's use of Negro themes doubtless helped the spirituals toward recognition , but the weaving of an integral living thing like a folksong into the structure of a symphony may place , even invigorate , the latter only at the expense of * This is the first of several articles which will appear in the book numbers of The Nation on contributions to American literature and art from other than Nordic sources . the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " New World Symphony " will outlive " Go Down , Moses . " Item ( but this one still debatable ) : the theory gently questioned by Mr. Fisher : Writers ( usually not musicians ) speak of preserving the " original harmony " of the spirituals . Is there any to preserve ? The truth , as the writer then points out , is that two-collections which painstakingly record the four parts as sung by Negroes exhibit except for a few features the most conventional harmonizations , contrasting with the many and often striking peculiarities of the melodies themselves . But Mr. Fisher does not discuss in this connection the harmonies recorded with equal care in the new compilations from the little South Carolina island of St. Helena ; these indeed are often both alien and stirring in a harsh wild way , and coming from this isolated spot they help suggest the answer " some " to Mr. Fisher 's question . And while the possibly opportunist Snyder collection " demonstrates that the simplest voice-and-piano settings will pass , Mr. Fisher 's is a dangerous question , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permission not merely to discard such racial earmarks as are available , but to produce " spirituals " suggesting Les Six , or another blonde smiling at the front rows over her manuscript . Not every accompaniment in his own volume avoids such a horror . On the constructive side , through Krehbiel3 we have acquired as illuminating an analysis of this body of song as could be hoped for from a white man ; in particular , the classification of over five hundred specimens which revealed that the oft-mentioned effect of " sadness " derives not from the use of the minor mode ( actually uncommon ) but from the raising , flatting , or studiously avoiding certain tones of the scales familiar to us , intensifying by strangeness to Western ears a melancholy otherwise dependent on deeper secrets of melody , rhythm , and form . Krehbiel 's illustrations are a treasury of the weird , and while comparatively few , assay higher ( see " Dig Ma Grave , " the passionate and somber " You May Bury Me in de Eas ' , " and " Come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and uncannily suggesting a primitive English carol ) than any other substantial collection . Krehbiel 's method has now been applied to new material by Mr. Fisher , whose volume ' , with its historical and critical introduction , bibliography , and notes to every song , is a model for future editors . The songs themselves  --  the several work of no less than ten musicians  --  are naturally of uneven merit as arrangements , but many are excellent and a number new , while particular attention is due the heavenly " Sail Over Yonder " ( Grant-Schaefer ) ; Mr. Fisher 's versions of " Give Me Jesus , " " Do n't Be Weary , Traveler , " and " Troubles Gwineter Weigh Me Down " ; the majestic " Ride On , King Jesus " ( Gaul ) and " Walk Together , Children " ( Rosamund Johnson ) ; and two notable newcomers from Tennessee splendidly arranged by Charles Fonteyne Manney . With Krehbiel 's and Fisher 's must be considered a third work ' , in reviewing which a well-known sociologist ( himself coauthor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) permits himself to say : Ballanta 's foreword - is hardly the kind of foreword which the average person who is interested in Negro song could comprehend . His ultra-technical discussion of rhythm , scales , and tones , his theorizing on the characteristics of and differences between African and American Negro music are hard enough for a musician to digest , much less the ordinary devotee of Negro song . A few words about the people of St. Helena Island , their songs , customs , and thelike would have been much more appropriate for the sort of collection which Ballanta made . ? a winningly naive exposure of the mind of the specialist in A(1) contemplating an original and momentous excursion in field A(2) . It is true that this explanation by a native African of the racial concepts back of the rhythmical and melodic phenomena which Krehbiel merely noted and classified is abstruse , but any inquiring musician would welcome it though tacked on to a seed catalogue . Moreover , the hundred-odd songs in this book are presented in a form more adapted for students and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or more to great advantage ) than for the " ordinary devotee . " With a few exceptions their poetry is below the average ; the accompaniments uncompromisingly follow the parts in which they are sung in St. Helena ; this is a musician 's collection and most appropriately prefaced , although " I 'm a Runnin ' Fo ' Ma Life " as it stands would bring shouts of joy from most audiences , and though no arranger 's finger is needed to point out the stern beauties ( what bassoes must inhabit this islet ! ) of " Eagle 's Wings , " " Too Late , " " Way By-and-By . " The first Johnson volume ' has had the lion 's share of public notice and has deserved it as the first token of an attempt at something definitive , though as such both it and its ' successor exhibit the inexplicable defects of omitting any disclosure of the birthplaces and histories of the several songs . Mr. Johnson 's forewords are too nearly briefs  --  very excusably so , but the spirituals are their own best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to supplement such authoritative portions as the general discussion from the poetical viewpoint , with definite information about the tunes and poems themselves . Here must be confessed a disappointment with the arrangements in the first volume which may be largely due to the difficulty ( alone , at the piano ) of combining these accompaniments with the airs ; at any rate the writer found these settings , while always competent and sometimes  --  as par excellence in " Jacob 's Ladder " ? brilliant , often thin or distracting , while he found his judgment reversed as to almost every one he heard played and sung by the arranger himself and Taylor Gordon . In the second volumes , on the other hand , the keenest private pleasure is to be found , and it is unreservedly recommended to the voiceless pianist , especially for such examples of unearthly melancholy and charm as " Chilly Water " or " Death 's Gwineter Lay His Cold Icy Hand on Me , " such a creation ( the word is advised ) as " Daniel Saw de Stone , " for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Easy , " the tempestuous brief cry " My Lawd Says He 's Gwineter Rain Down Fire , " the finality of perfection in the version of the St. Helena Charleston-spiritual " Same Train . " Emmett Kennedy's12 text is not informative ; his arrangements are distinguished and uniformly imaginative and original . His material  --  found in Louisiana  --  is mostly unpublished elsewhere ( though it is amusing to find that our old friend " Frankie and Johnny " takes for Mardi-Gras the mask of " My Baby in a Guinea-Blue Gown " and deceives Mr. Kennedy himself ) ; and at least one song , air and setting , touches the heights : " If You Ca n't Come Send One Angel Down . " But too little , if anything , has been written about the two modest paper-covered Frey collections ' -3 , one the first of all the recent company . Mr. Frey , best known as the composer of such witty and melodious ragtime as " Shakespearean Love , " " Havanola , " " Calicoco , " thus meets one of two near-requirements : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Johnson , writer of " My Castle on the Nile , " meets both ) . If his work is properly light-footed , it displays also the feeling and understanding necessary to convey no less of dignity , sorrow , or exaltation than his subject requires , and while space permits mention here only of that free deep flow of rueful grace , " The Lonesome Valley , " his seems to the writer the outstanding collection by any white man , and his the happiest guises in which a number of these gracious airs have found themselves .                     