@@430985

ALL over the world , the thinkers and searchers who scan the horizon of the future are attempting to assess the values of civilization and speculating about its destiny . Europe , having just passed through a devastating war and already debating the hour for the next explosion , wonders whether the game is worth the candle or can be played to the bitter extreme without inviting disaster so colossal as to put an end to civilization itself . In America , where Europeans have renewed their youth , conquered a wilderness , and won wealth and leisure in the sweat of their brows , the cry ascends on all sides : " Where do we go from here ? " Vivere deinde philosophari ? the stomach being full , what shall we do next ? Far away in Japan , the younger generation , still able to see with their own eyes vestiges of a feudal order abandoned by their elders , are earnestly inquiring whether they must turn back upon their path or lunge forward with renewed energy into the age of steel and electricity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all nations are trying to peer into the coming day , to discover whether the curve of contemporary civilization now rises majestically toward a distant zenith or in reality has already begun to sink rapidly toward a nadir near at hand . It is not alone the philosophers who display anxiety about the future . The policies of statesmen and the quest of the people in circles high and low for moral values reveal a concern about destiny that works as a dynamic force in the affairs of great nations . In Italy the Fascisti repudiate both democracy and socialism , bring about the most effective organization of capital and labor yet accomplished in any country , and prepare the way for the co-operation of these two forces or for a class war all the more terrible on account of the social equipment of the contending parties . In Russia the Bolsheviki join the Italians in rejecting democracy but attempt to create a communist state which , if a success , would be a standing menace to all the governments of the world founded on different principles . Germany writhes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nationalists cursing international capitalism and longing for buried . things , with Socialists and Communists still active if shorn of their former confidence , and with the mass of the people once more absorbed in the routine of the struggle for existence , yet dimly aware that the Faustian age may not be closed after all . In an hour of victory , France reckons the terrible cost and stirs restlessly , wondering about the significance of the ominous calm . Likewise triumphant , England sits as of yore enthroned amid her Empire , with all her old goods intact and valuable additions made ; but the selfgoverning dominions assert an unwonted independence ; top-heavy capitalism , having devoured domestic agriculture , feverishly searches for new markets among the half-civilized and backward races of the earth , hoping to keep its machinery turning and its profits flowing , while American and German competition in the same enterprise presses harder and harder upon the merchants of London , Manchester , and Liverpool . Apparently secure between two seas , and enriched by the fortunes of the European war , America reaches out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoping with childlike faith that sweet things will ever grow sweeter ; but critics , foreign and domestic , disturb the peace of the new Leviathan . Einstein frankly sneers at American intelligence ; Siegfried finds here sounding brass , tinkling cymbals , noise , and materialism . If many are inclined to discount the aspersions of the alien , they are immediately confronted with a host of domestic scoffers . The age of Victorian complacency has closed everywhere ; those who are whistling to keep up their courage and deceive their neighbors merely succeed in hoodwinking themselves . II Given the liveliness of the present discussion about civilization and the confusion that reigns among those engaged in inquiries respecting the subject , it seems worth while and pertinent to the thinking of our age to take stock . Let us begin the discussion by recalling that a standard dictionary defines civilization as " the state of being reclaimed from the rudeness of savage life and advanced in the arts and learning . " In origin , it derives immediately from the Latin word ciritas , meaning in its concrete usage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figuratively a body of citizens , the state , commonwealth , or city . Now the rights and privileges of Roman citizens , as over against slaves and subject peoples , were realistic and economic , and it is of more than passing interest to note that in its deeper roots civitas comes from quies , repose from labor , perhaps that leisure enjoyed by ruling orders . Aside from all philological subtleties , civilization in its strict modern sense includes all these implements , devices , and practices by which men and women lift themselves above savages ? the whole economic order , the system of leisure built upon it , the employment of that leisure , and all manifestations of religion , beauty , and appreciation . Since the substructure of any civilization is the material fabric that frees mankind from the status of the savage , it follows that every civilization must depend in a large measure upon its geographical environment rivers , mountains , seas , and natural resources ? the state of its tools and industries , the occupations of the people , and the organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore , is not a garment that can be put on or off by intellectuals at pleasure , transferred from a Frenchman or an Englishman to a Matabele or Zulu over night . Apart from some of its minor decorative arts , civilization can not be borrowed without reproducing the accompanying economic order . And economic orders are not arrangements which nations can take on or discard at will without reference to their geographical situation or the  | competition of their neighbors . Japan , for example , if she is to survive , has no choice but the extensive adoption of the machinery and science employed by her rivals , and with that adoption go its social and artistic habiliments . If this pattern of thought conforms with the facts , then the classification of civilizations by mere reference to longitude or to chronology is hardly short of absurd . The cultural status of a people is not determined by the element of time or by its position east or west of Greenwich . Many primitive societies have remained in substantially the same condition for thousands of years ; where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization preserves the same social designs . In the backward places of Europe are to be found numerous village communities which have carried forward into the twentieth century the whole cultural outfit of the middle ages . Hence the distinction between modern and medieval civilizations , considered as the simple products of time , is intrinsically without meaning . Nor is the geographical case much better ? making astronomy rather than time the basis of calculation . In origin , the terms East and West are mere references to the dawning sun and its dusky resting place . Realistically considered , China and Japan , when compared with Europe of the fourteenth or fifteenth century , reveal more similarities than contrasts . Indeed , early Christian missionaries in the Orient were so struck by the resemblance between Buddhist religious ceremonies and their own that they ascribed the former to the devices of the Devil . No doubt a meticulous scholar can discover many fine points of distinction between the feudalism of Japan and that of medieval Europe , but for practical purposes the substance of the two orders was the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geographical areas . There were differences between the lines and colors of the castle at Osaka and the castle at Warwick but they were both built of stone , their purposes were fundamentally the same , and the mode of life of their inhabitants strangely alike . Proceeding from the definition given above and the argument thus sketched , it seems to follow that civilizations , apart from tribal and nomadic orders , when considered intrinsically , fall into three types : Agricultural ? slave , feudal , peasant , or freehold . Pre-machine urban ? handicrafts ; mercantile and political capitals . Mechanical and scientific . If it be urged that this is merely an economic classification which leaves out of account arts , religion , and learning , the reply is that these things are themselves bent to the order in which they thrive and have meaning and vitality only in relation to their economic substructure . Traces of previous orders no doubt survive or thrust themselves upward into new orders , but they thrive only in so far as they carry with them the soil that originally nourished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture of a peasant in a remote village in Spain and that of a peasant in a remote village of Japan than between the culture of a Christian priest of the upper Pyrenees and that of a Baptist clergyman in a thriving manufacturing town in Illinois . A Buddhist monk from Horiugi would feel perfectly at home with a Catholic monk from Ravenna : but neither of them would enjoy the hospitality or approve the religion of a Methodist parson in Zenith . III What is called Western or modern civilization by way of contrast with the civilization of the Orient or medieval times is at bottom a civilization that rests upon machinery and science as distinguished from one founded on agriculture or handicraft commerce . It is in reality a technological civilization . It is only about two hundred years old ,  | and , far from shrinking in its influence , is steadily extending its area into agriculture as well as handicrafts . If the records of patent offices , the statistics of production , and the reports of laboratories furnish evidence worthy of credence , technological civilization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and transform the whole globe . Considered with respect to its intrinsic nature , technological civilization presents certain precise characteristics . It rests fundamentally on power-driven machinery which transcends the physical limits of its human directors , multiplying indefinitely the capacity for the production of goods . Science in all its branches ? physics , chemistry , biology , and psychology ? is the servant and upholder of this system . The day of crude invention being almost over , ceaseless research in the natural sciences is absolutely necessary to the extension of the machine and its market , thus forcing continuously the creation of new goods , new processes , and new modes of life . As the money for learning comes in increasing proportions from taxes on industry and gifts by captains of capitalism , a steady growth in scientific endowments is to be expected , and the scientific curiosity thus aroused and stimulated will hardly fail to expand ? and to invade all fields of thought with a technic of ever-refining subtlety . Affording the demand for the output of industry are the vast populations of the globe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the machine routine . For the present , machine civilization is associated with capitalism , under which large-scale production has risen to its present stage , but machine civilization is by no means synonymous with capitalism ? that ever-changing scheme of exploitation . While the acquisitive instinct of the capitalist who builds factories and starts mass production is particularly emphasized by economists and is , no doubt , a factor of immense moment , it must not be forgotten that the acquisitive passion of the earth 's multitudes for the goods , the comforts , and the securities of the classes is an equal , if not a more important , force , and in any case is likely to survive capitalism as we know it . Few choose nakedness when they can be clothed , the frosts of winter when they can be warm , or the misery of bacterial diseases when sanitation is offered to them . In fact , the ascetics and flagellants of the world belong nowhere in the main stream of civilization ? and are of dubious utility and service in any civilization . Though machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order , it in fact differs from all others in that it is highly dynamic , containing within itself the seeds of constant reconstruction . Everywhere the agricultural civilizations of the pre-machine age have changed only slowly with the fluctuations of markets , the fortunes of governments , and the vicissitudes of knowledge , keeping their basic institutions intact from century to century . Pre-machine urban civilizations have likewise retained their essential characteristics through long lapses of time . But machine civilization based on technology , science , invention , and expanding markets must of necessity change ? and rapidly . The order of steam is hardly established before electricity invades it ; electricity hardly gains a fair start before the internal combustion engine overtakes it . There has never been anywhere in the world any order comparable with it , and all analogies drawn from the middle ages , classical antiquity , and the Orient are utterly inapplicable to its potentialities , offering no revelations as to its future . IV Granted that these essential characteristics of so-called Western civilization ? namely , its mechanical and scientific foundations ? are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pan , " a historical accident destined to give way to some other order based upon entirely different modes of  | life , lifting mankind " above the rudeness of the savage " ? Now , if the term " decline " in this connection means anything concrete , it signifies the gradual or rapid abandonment of the material modes of production prevailing in any particular age and the habits and arts associated with them . Conceivably , the Prussianism of the Hohenzollerns described so well in Spengler 's Prussianism and Socialism , may decline ? is declining . It is highly probable that the petty tenure system of the French peasantry , the now sadly diluted aristocracy inherited from the eighteenth century , the church of little mysteries and miracles may decay , but these things are not the peculiar characteristics of the West . They are the remnants of the agricultural complex which the machine is everywhere steadily subduing . The real question is this : can and will machine society " decline " ? It is generally agreed among historians that the decay of agriculture , owing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the chief causes for the breakdown of the Roman state . Is it to be supposed that the drive of the masses of mankind for machine-made goods will fail , that large-scale production will be abandoned , that the huge literature of natural science will disappear in the same fashion as most of the literature of ancient Egypt , that the ranks of scientific men will cease in time to be recruited , that the scientific power to meet new situations will fail ? An affirmative answer requires a great deal of hardihood . The scientific order is not recruited from a class , such as the patricians of ancient Rome : nor is scientific knowledge the monopoloy of a caste likely to dissolve . Unless all visible signs deceive us , there is no reason for supposing that either machinery or science will disappear or even dwindle to insignificance . And they are the basis of the present Western civilization . If Western civilization does not break down from such internal causes , is there good reason for supposing that any of the races now inhabiting Asia or Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process , peaceful or warlike , without themselves adopting the technical apparatus of that order ? No doubt , some of them are already borrowing various features of machine society , but slowly and with indifferent success . The most efficient of them , the Japanese , still rely largely upon the West for a substantial part of their mechanical outfit ? for inventiveness and creative mechanical skill . Unless there is a material decline in Western technology ? and no evidence of such a slump is now in sight ? then it may be safely contended that none of the agricultural civilizations of Asia or Africa will be able to catch up with the scientific development of the West . As things stand at present , none of them gives any promise of being able to overrun the West as the conquerors of Rome overran the provinces of that Empire . Certainly there is not likely to be , in any future that we can foresee , such an equality of armaments as existed between the best of the Roman legions and the forces of her conquerors . Hence the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the possibilities of the coming centuries . If , in due time , the East smashes the West on the battlefield , it will be because the East has completely taken over the technology of the West , gone it one better , and thus become Western in civilization . In that case machine civilization will not disappear but will make a geographical shift . Defining civilization narrowly in terms of letters and art , are the probabilities of a " decline " more numerous ? Here we approach a more debatable , more intangible topic . With reference to letters , taking into account the evidence of the last fifty years , there is no sign of a decay ? at all events , a decay like that which occurred between the first and the sixth centuries in Roman history . Indeed , there are many cautious critics who tell us that the writers of the past hundred years , with the machine system  | at a high pitch , may be compared in number , competence , and power without fear with the writers of any century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we have no Horace , Shakespeare , or Goethe , we may reasonably answer that literature of their manner has little meaning for a civilization founded on a different basis . Considered in relation to their environment rather than some fictitious absolute , the best of modern writers , it may well be argued , rank with the best of the middle ages and antiquity . If poetry sinks in the scale and tragedy becomes comical , it may be because the mythology upon which they feed is simply foreign to the spirit of the machine age ? not because there has been a dissolution of inherited mental powers . The imagination of an Einstein , a Bohr , or a Millikan may well transcend that of a Milton or a Virgil . Who is to decide ? The case of the arts is on a similar footing . For the sake of the argument , it may be conceded that the machine age has produced nothing comparable with the best of the painting , sculpture , and architecture of antiquity and the middle ages . What does that signify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an agricultural and market-city era ? The machine age is young . As yet it can hardly be said to have created an art of its own , although there are signs of great competence , if not genius , about us ? signs of a new art appropriate to speed , mechanics , motion , railway stations , factories , office buildings , and public institutions . Using the lowest common denominator in the reckoning , there is no evidence of a decay in artistic power such as appears in the contrast between the Pantheon of Agrippa and the rude churches of Saxon England . To say that the modern age has produced no ecclesiastical architecture comparable with that of the middle ages is to utter a judgment as relevant to our situation as a statement that the medieval times can show no aqueducts or baths equal to the noblest structures of pagan Rome . It may be that the machine age will finally prove to be poor in artistic genius ? a debatable point ? but it can hardly be said that it has produced its typical art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a more tangible subject , is it possible that machine civilization may be destroyed by internal revolutions or civil wars such as have often wrecked great states in the past ? That such disturbances will probably arise in the future from time to time can not be denied , and the recent Bolshevik revolution in Russia is often cited as a warning to contemporary statesmen . If the revolutions of antiquity be taken as illustrations , it must be pointed out that the analogies are to be used with extreme care in all applications to the machine age . When the worst has been said about the condition of the industrial proletariat , it must be conceded that as regards material welfare , knowledge , social consideration , and political power , it is far removed from the proletariat of Rome or the slaves of a more remote antiquity . The kind of servile revolt that was so often ruinous in Greece and Rome is hardly possible in a machine civilization , even if economic distress were to pass anything yet experienced since the eighteenth century . The most radical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of civilization ? not a destruction of technology . If the example of Russia be pressed as relevant , the reply is that Russia possessed not a machine , but an agricultural civilization of the crudest sort ; peasant soldiers supplied the storm troops of the November revolution , and the Bolsheviki are straining every effort to maintain their position by promising the peasants and urban dwellers that the benefits of a machine order will surely come . There will be upheavals in machine civilizations , no doubt , and occasional dictatorships like that in the United States between 1861 and 1865 , but the triumph of a party dedicated to a deliberate return to pre-machine agriculture with  | its low standards of life , its diseases , and its illiteracy is beyond the imagination . Finally , we must face the assertion that wars among the various nations of machine civilization may destroy the whole order . Probably terrible wars will arise and prove costly in blood and treasure , but it is a strain upon the speculative faculties to conceive of any conflict that could destroy the population and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vitality and science could not restore economic prosperity and even improve upon the previous order . According to J. S. Mill , the whole mechanical outfit of a capitalistic country can be reproduced in about ten years . Hence the prospect of repeated and costly wars in the future need not lead us to the pessimistic view that suicide is to be the fate of machine civilization . We may admit the reality of the perils ahead without adopting the counsel of despair . If Europe and America were absolutely devastated , Japan with her present equipment in libraries , laboratories , and technology could begin the work of occupying the vacant areas , using the machine process in the operation . For the reasons thus adduced it may be inferred that modern civilization founded on science and the machine will not decline after the fashion of older agricultural civilizations ; that analogies drawn from ages previous to technology are inapplicable ; that according to signs on every hand technology promises to extend its area and intensify its characteristics ; that it will afford the substance with which all who expect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ V Such appears to be the promise of the long future , if not the grand destiny of what we call Western civilization ? the flexible framework in which the human spirit must operate during the coming centuries . Yet this view by no means precludes the idea that the machine system , as tested by its present results , presents shocking evils and , indeed , a terrible menace to the noblest faculties of the human race . By the use of material standards for measuring achievement , it is in danger of developing a kind of ignorant complacency that would make Phidias , Sophocles , Horace , St. Augustine , Dante , Michelangelo , Shakespeare , Lord Bacon , Newton , Goethe , Ruskin , and Emerson appear to be mere trifling parasites as compared with Lord Beaverbrook , Hugo Stinnes , John Pierpont Morgan , and Henry Ford . To deny the peril that lies in any such numerical morality would be a work of supererogation . More perilous still is the concentration on the production of goods that will sell quickly at the best price the traffic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cheap goods ? rather than concentration on the manufacture and exchange of commodities with the finest intrinsic values capable of indefinite endurance . What the creed of " give as little as you can for as much as you can get " will do to the common honesty of mankind , if followed blindly for centuries , can readily be imagined . Finally , it must be admitted that the dedication of the engines of state , supported by a passionate and uninformed chauvinism , to the promotion and sale of machine-made goods is creating zones of international rivalry likely to flame up in wars more vast and destructive than any yet witnessed . To consider for the moment merely the domestic aspects of the question , the machine civilization is particularly open to attack from three sides . On aesthetic grounds , it has been assailed for nearly a hundred years , England , the classical home of the industrial revolution , being naturally enough the mother of the severest critics ? Ruskin , Carlyle , Kingsley , and Matthew Arnold . The chief article in their indictment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machinery are not creative , joyous , or free , but are slaves to the  | monotonous routine of the inexorable wheel . In a sense it is true that , in the pre-machine age , each craftsman had a certain leeway in shaping his materials with his tools and that many a common artisan produced articles of great beauty . Yet the point can be easily overworked . Doubtless the vast majority of medieval artisans merely followed designs made by master workmen . This is certainly true of artisans in the Orient to-day . With respect to the mass of mankind , it is safe to assume that the level of monotony on which labor is conducted under the machine regime is by and large not lower but higher than in the handicraft , servile , or slave systems of the past . Let anyone who has doubts on this matter compare the life of laborers on the latifundia of Rome or in the cities of modern China with that of the workers in by far the major portion of machine industries . Those who are prepared to sacrifice the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorable to the creative arts must assume a responsibility of the first magnitude . Indeed , it is not certain , so primitive as yet are the beginnings of machine civilization , that there can be no substitute for the handicrafts as aesthetic stimulants , assuming that mechanical industry is not favorable to the creative life . The machine regime does not do away with the necessity for designing or reduce the opportunities for the practice of that craft : it transfers the operation from the shop to the laboratory ; and it remains to be seen whether great esthetic powers will not flourish after the first storm of capitalism has passed . In any case , it must be admitted that the " cheap and nasty " character of machine-made goods , so marked everywhere , may really be due to the profit-making lust and the desire of the multitude to have imitations of the gew-gaws loved by the patricians , not to the inherent nature of machine industry . Possibly what is lost in the merits of individual objects of beauty may be more than offset by city and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vast , democratic basis . Certainly the worst of the aesthetic offenses created by the machine ? the hideous factory town ? can be avoided by intelligent co-operative action , as the garden-city movement faintly foreshadows . In a hundred years the coal-consuming engine may be as obsolete as the Dodo , and the Birminghams , Pittsburghs , and Essens of the modern world may live only in the records of the historians . However this may be , the aesthetes of the future will have to work within the limitations and opportunities created by science and the machine , directed , it may be hoped , by a more intelligent economy and nobler concepts of human values . Frequently affiliated with aesthetic criticism of the machine and science is the religious attack . With endless reiteration , the charge is made that industrial civilization is materialistic . In reply , the scornful might say , " Well , what of it ? " But the issue deserves consideration on its merits , in spite of its illusive nature . As generally used , the term " materialistic " has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to grasp . It is the fashion of certain Catholic writers to call Protestantism materialistic , on account of its emphasis on thrift and business enterprise ? a fashion which some radicals have adopted : Max Weber in Germany and R. H. Tawney in England , for example . With something akin to the same discrimination , Oswald Spengler calls all England materialistic , governed by pecuniary standards ? as contrasted with old Prussia where " duty , " " honor , " and " simple piety " reigned supreme . More recently , Andre Siegfried , following a hundred English critics , with Matthew Arnold in the lead , has found materialism to be one of the chief characteristics of the United States , as contrasted with the richer and older civilizations of Europe , particularly France . And Gandhi consigns every one of them ?  | England , Prussia , France , and America ? to the same bottomless pit of industrial materialism . When all this verbiage is sifted , it is usually found that the charge arises from emotions which have little or no relation to religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and nations . If religion is taken in a crude , anthropomorphic sense , filling the universe with gods , spirits , and miraculous feats , then beyond question the machine and science are the foes of religion . If it is materialistic to disclose the influence of technology and environment in general upon humanity , then perhaps the machine and science are materialistic . But it is one of the ironies of history that science has shown the shallowness of the old battle between materialist and spiritist and through the mouths of physicists has confessed that it does not know what matter and force are . Matter is motion ; motion is matter ; both elude us , we are told . Doubtless science does make short shrift of a thousand little mysteries once deemed as essential to Christianity as were the thousand minor gods to the religion of old Japan , but for these little mysteries it has substituted a higher and sublimer mystery . To descend to the concrete , is the prevention of disease by sanitation more materialistic than curing it by touching saints ' bones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than feeding it by a miracle ? Is the elimination of famines by a better distribution of goods more materialistic than prevention by the placation of the rain gods ? At any rate , it is not likely that science and machinery will be abandoned because the theologian ( who seldom refuses to partake of their benefits ) wrings his hands and cries out against materialism . After all , how can he consistently maintain that Omnipotent God ruled the world wisely and well until the dawn of the modern age and abandoned it to the Evil One because Henry VIII or Martin Luther quarrelled with the Pope and James Watt invented the steam engine ? Arising , perhaps , from the same emotional source as aesthetic and religious criticisms , is the attack on the machine civilization as lacking in humanitarianism . Without commenting on man 's inhumanity to man as an essential characteristic of the race , we may fairly ask on what grounds can anyone argue that the masses were more humanely treated in the agricultural civilization of antiquity or the middle ages than in the machine order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws ( brutal as many of them are ) , by its institutions of care and benevolence , by its death rate ( that tell-tale measurement of human welfare ) , by its standards of life , and by every conceivable measure of human values , machine civilization , even in its present primitive stage , need fear no comparison with any other order on the score of general well-being . Under the machine and science , the love of beauty , the sense of mystery , and the motive of compassion ? sources of aesthetics , religion , and humanism ? are not destroyed . They remain essential parts of our nature . But the conditions under which they must operate , the channels they must take , the potentialities of their action are all changed . These ancient forces will become powerful in the modern age just in the proportion that men and women accept the inevitability of science and the machine , understand the nature of the civilization in which they must work , and turn their faces resolutely to the future .  |     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       