@@486127

T HE collapse of the London Conference is the final proof , if such were needed , of the incapacity of the politicians who today head the British and European governments to solve the economic problems which are daily bringing Europe nearer to disaster . The English have bravely met the French insistence upon a further advance into the Ruhr but the result is a deadlock . In taking this position Bonar Law is fighting well the battle for civilization and he ought to be reinforced immediately by a White House declaration placing the United States squarely alongside the English . It would need nothing more than a single vigorous utterance from the White House to check Poincare . Sooner or later , we believe , that will have to be done , for any further advance into Germany or seizure of her territory will inevitably recoil upon France herself besides ruining the rest of Europe . Cabling to the New York World John Maynard Keynes declares that the " occupation of the Ruhr would throw the whole of Europe into chaos and rapidly lead up to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France seizes the Rhine provinces this act will be one so disastrous to herself , to Europe , and to prospects of future peace that the whole world , including even America , should do whatever lies in their power by protest and by inducement to disuade France from creating in Europe a situation at least as evil as any in former days . " This is the simple common sense of the situation . Yet if it is not followed the mostterrible consequences to all mankind may ensue . And the White House is deaf , dumb , and blind in the face of this contingency ! I T really looks as if the welter of conflicting greeds and ambitions at Lausanne were about to produce a more satisfactory solution of the Straits question than has seemed possible since the breakdown of Allied common sense at Versailles . The Turks are to have the city of Constantinople , which , with all its drawbacks , is well , for to grant any other Power possession would require the maintenance there of a perpetual standing army and leave a festering wound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission is to control traffic through the Straits , which are to be demilitarized . Ships of commerce are to have free passage at all times , which is as it should be . Ships of war are to have more freedom of passage than we might wish . The American spokesman , Mr. Child , was of course right when he declared that it would be as reasonable to exclude warships from every international body of water as from the Black Sea , but our Great Lakes provide a striking example of the practical benefits of a disarmament agreement , a policy that might reasonably be extended to all the seas of the world . The fact that other nations have not yet attained that degree of visdom need riot lead us to reopen the Lakes to warships . If the Black Sea could be disarmed that would be another great landmark on the path to peace , and for Soviet Russia herself to advocate it marked the end of a chapter of history , Russia 's ambition to open the Straits to her warships having been one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EANWHILE the real problem before the people of the United States is , What can we do to help the Near East refugees ? Our influence is happily making itself felt against the proposed deportation of 200,000 Greeks from Constantinople , but there are already a million refugees from Asiatic Turkey herded into old Greece and the neighboring islands . This is no time to waste words in denunciation . We have just fought the bloodiest war in history ; Christian peoples massacred each other during and after the Balkan Wars ; the Greeks left a burned waste behind their retreat across Anatolia ; the Turks have committed horrible outrages of which we have probably heard even more than the truth . Anathematizing will not help ; warlike threats would only aggravate the hate and fear that make men act like beasts . Perhaps these terrible migrations may even bring a readjustment that will make peace in the Near East easier in years to come . But for that there is a ghastly present price to pay . The world must help , and America , as ever , most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Red Cross ; but we can lend more permanent aid by lifting the bars at Ellis Island to refugees who have relatives in this country able and willing to support them . That is the purpose of Senate Bill 4092 , just introduced by Senator Keyes . President Harding did not find it in his heart to mention this help in his message ; but men and women of warmer hearts and longer vision can help somewhat by writing to the President , and to their Senators and Congressmen , that to pass this bill is the least which America in such a crisis can decently do . A T last the Nobel Peace Prize has gone to the right man . In honoring Fridtjof Nansen the trustees have honored themselves after having made the peace prize ridiculous by bestowing it upon Roosevelt , upon the Wilson who plunged us into war , and upon Leon Bourgeois . Ever since the Peace Conference , Nansen , who is personally one of the most commanding and one of the four or five noblest figures in the world , has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Europe . He has risked life and health in fever-stricken , famished Russia , and with all his powers striven to offset the folly of the anti-Russian intrigues of the Allies while endeavoring to save the lives of millions . For three and one-half years he has toiled incessantly in relief work in various lands besides being an outstanding figure at the League of Nation 's conferences . Now he has been called to act for the Allies in regard to the disposition of the multitudes of refugees driven out of Turkey . If there is any man on earth who since the armistice has worked more unselfishly and more modestly in the spirit of the Saviour than Fridtjof Nansen , we should like to hear of him . p RESIDENT HARDING 'S delayed annual message to Congress is heralded even in Democratic quarters as the best he has yet delivered . It does prove that the Executive has begun to make excursions into the world in which we live . Thus he has discovered that the old-world order is dead and can never be revived , and the recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pressing problems of the farmer but have enabled him to admit , as if he were the most radical member of the Farm Bloc , that it was the precipitate and uncalled-for deflation of the farmer which is responsible for the acuteness of his suffering . But the President does not add that it was the Federal Reserve Board which set in motion what has proved to be disastrous . There are indisputably excellent passages in the President 's address , such as his appeal to the country to obey the prohibition law as long as it is on the statute books and his pointing out to prohibition lawbreakers that they can not throw stones at other law violators if they themselves show no respect for legislation embodied in our organic law . Besides some worth-while recommendations as to our agricultural problems , Mr. Harding has some constructive suggestions to make as to the railroads , urging the merger of lines into group systems , the interchange of freight cars , and the consolidation of facilities  --  in terminal reorganizations there are possible enormous savings . These are valuable , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his message , which is none the less characteristically uneven in quality . W HEN the Progressive Conference on December 2 urged a Constitutional amendment to do away with the Electoral College , to provide for direct election of the President , and the prompt meeting of a newly elected Congress , Mr. Harding let it become known to the press that he was opposed to any further tinkering with the Constitution . That did not prevent his urging a week later two excellent amendments to the Constitution  --  one giving Congress authority over child labor , the other to restrict the issuance of tax-exempt securities . As for labor , the President is now for the abolition of the Railway Labor Board which he did more than anyone else to ruin and was praising to the skies only yesterday . For it he would substitute a labor division of the Interstate Commerce Commission and he still toys with the idea of forbidding strikes in connection with public utilities . As for immigration , he has yielded to the extremists and demands the registration of all aliens  --  a costly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the alien in the power of any local official and create another great government bureau . The President still trembles over the alien menace of revolution and sinks to bathos when he discovers that " there is the recrudescence of hyphenated Americanism which we thought to have stamped out when we committed the national life and soul to the World War " ? the last an admission that will return to plague him . Our Main Street President has still much to learn as to the bitter rifts the war created in our citizenship , as to how gravely it seared our nation 's soul , and how discredited it is among the masses who seek only to forget the very memory of it . But even on Main Street one learns something , and the White House training of Warren Harding at the country 's expense has indubitably progressed a step further . T HE Irish Free State celebrated its official birth and the appointment of Timothy Healy as Governor General by the midnight trial and the early morning murder of Liam Mellowes , Rory O'Connor , Joseph McKelvey , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one time or another had visited the United States , Liam Mellowes stood foremost in the quality of his selfless , mystical devotion to his God and to his country , and to his heroic courage added a quite unusual understanding of the economic needs of the peasants . Worst of all these men were prisoners of war after having been taken in open legitimate warfare . This is murder foul and despicable and nothing else . Conceived and matured in blood , the Free State is now so baptized in gore one wonders how it can possibly have any hope of an extended existence when it is ushered in by such atrocities  --  indeed , it begins to look as if it could not exist long . The executions were , it is true , reprisals for the assassination of a member of the Dail . But these men were guiltless of any connection with that , having been in jail for months . It was a butchery precisely like the massacre of hostages by the Germans in Liege and should equally be reprobated . Yet Kevin O'Higgins , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associates that " they knew no better means of prevention of the garroting of the Free State than those they had employed . " Precisely . That is what is the trouble everywhere . Ministers know only how to meet murder with murder and force by force . T HE situation calls for an Irish application of Gandhi 's principle of non-cooperation . Why should an imaginative , generous , and warm-hearted people have anything to do with rulers or aspirants for rule whose hands are red with innocent blood ? Irish labor and independent deputies could withdraw from all share in a government which persists in the policies on which the Mr. Cosgrave 's government is now embarked . For them to remain is to accept a responsibility for the guilt . Irish workers and farmers , who knew well enough how to boycott oppressive landlords , might try a boycott of native militarists . Then there is the church  --  above all there is the church . The Roman Catholic Church in Ireland was the principal force in averting British conscription during the Great War ; it has lately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will it be silent in the face of the atrocious crimes of the government it has supported ? What is at stake is the good name of the Irish race and the faith of mankind in the principle of self-determination . In the mouths of men , Irish deeds  --  not enemy lies  --  are making the Irish cause a byword and a hissing . Yet the Irish cause was just and the Irish leaders were idealists . The trouble lay with the inadequacy of the national ideal and the self-destroying nature of the violent methods which the Irish leaders not merely justify but glorify in . The only hope of Ireland lies in the capacity of her people by moral and economic pressure to establish a government which will have an elementary regard for the dignity and value of human life and the supreme worth of good faith in the conduct of human affairs . Until that is done no Irishman can go about his business without shame and sorrow . In the final analysis , despite all difficulties , the Irish are responsible for Ireland . T HINGS do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Mr. Hughes 's Central American Conference . Aside from the resignation of Costa Rica 's delegates , piqued with their government , the Hondurans are suggesting that the road to peace in Central America leads through a Central American Federation , and several of the delegates appear to fear that Mr. Hughes 's moral principles look better from afar than from close at hand . The announced purpose of the sessions is to take steps toward Central American peace . But the Central Americans , under the joint auspices of Mexico and the United States , took long steps toward that end in 1907 , and set up a Court of Arbitration which functioned well enough until in 1916 and 1917 it adjudged the three-million dollar Nicaraguan treaty with the United States an infringement of Costa Rican and Salvadoran rights , since which it has , because of the attitude of the United States , lapsed into innocuous desuetude . Mr. Hughes has not given any hint of penitence for that . Three of the Central American states took another long step forward by establishing the Central American Federation last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States which caused the break-up of that federated republic is not without basis , as Mr. Warner 's article in The Nation of June 21 , last , set forth . Recent American policy in Caribbean waters leads us to fear that if the Guatemalan legislature had not rejected Blair and Co. ' s loan contract , if Minor Keith had not recently negotiated anew settlement of Salvador 's finances , if there were no suggestion of a " Pan-American Development Syndicate " in Honduras , and if Brown Bros. and J. and W. Seligman were not interested in Nicaraguan finances , the concern of the present Administration for safeguarding peace and the status quo in Central America might be less . S HANTUNG returns to the bosom of China under dubious conditions . For over a week before the formal transfer of the territory , the city of Tsing-tao was overrun with bandits , leading citizens and officials were captured and held for enormous ransoms , refugees left the city in hordes , and the bandit leaders , taking heart from the example of the Fascisti perhaps , even demanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over to them rather than to the Chinese Government and the local authorities . An unpleasant aspect of the situation was to be found in the insinuations and open charges exchanged by the Japanese and their Chinese successors . The Japanese intimated that the failure of the Chinese to cope with the situation boded ill for the future government of the province , but said it was quite impossible for Japan . to stay longer to put down the trouble . Chinese officials , on the other hand , directly charged that Japanese " subordinates " in Shantung were in league with the bandit leaders and that Japan had failed to deliver to the Chinese police a promised supply of guns , while it was asserted in press dispatches that the bandits had been gathering in the province over a period of many months . Whatever the unpleasant truth may be , Shantung is now in the hands of the Chinese , polite toasts were exchanged when the transfer was made , guns were fired , and no violence has since been reported . The Government at Peking announces that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of $100,000 on their promise to refrain from violence , and that one thousand bandits have been incorporated into the Tsing-tao police force ! T HE Sultan 's life , the old song tells us , is full of jollity . His wives are many as he will and all of them are safely inclosed in a world-tight harem . Three hundred thousand college boys for generations have melodiously and plaintively wished that they the Sultan 's throne might fill . But few of them have done it . It remained for the one man in the United States really fitted for the job to step into the Sultan 's shoes as he scuffed them off and fled down the back stairs and out through the kitchen garden . That man is Florenz Ziegfeld . We do not mean to say that he has taken on all the responsibilities and dangers that go with the position of Sultan . He has not even taken on all the wives . But when the abandoned beauties sat mournfully watching the departing back of their protector and lord , Mr. Ziegfeld stepped courageously into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the beauties to adorn the next instalment of his Follies . And so , being generous and opposed to the Oriental idea of concealing and secluding the female sex , Mr. Ziegfeld not only becomes a sort of Sultan in his own right but gives us all a chance to achieve Sultanhood . We can sit and listen to the most languishing of Turkish love songs from young women reclining on the Sultan 's own best sofa cushions , and do it all for a price that , high as it is , falls short of the cost of being a real Sultan . The American college boy 's wish may yet come true .                     