@@493376

The New REPUBLIC A Journal of Opinion The Week JUST about a year ago the United States was hesitating on the edge , if not of a war with Mexico , at least of a break , which , had it occurred , Would have resulted in a revolution in Mexico and a fair chance of ultimate war . But the break was averted , and when the revolt came the Mexican government was strong enough to suppress it . Today and the United States , instead of being on the verge of war , are expressing with effusion their affection and good will for each other . There is no sufficient alteration in the facts of the relationship between the two countries to account for this alteration in emotional attitude . It has been brought about exclusively by the substitution as the ambassador from this country to Mexico of a man who was sympathetic in the place of a man who was unsympathetic . Mr. Coolidge 's appointment of Dwight Morrow as ambassador was assumed to indicate a more conciliatory attitude towards Mexico on the part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought of getting Lindbergh to fly to Mexico City as a symbol of the dove of peace and reconciliation . The plan has been a brilliant success . Both governments are exhibiting a change of disposition towards each other which should make it possible for negotiations to iron out the immediate differences . After the Calles government has been not only recognized , but beatified by having the hands of the popular American angel Gabriel laid upon its chief , a long time will elapse before a President of the United States can decently threaten to demote Calles or his successor . AMERICAN patriots have every reason to be devoutly thankful for this result . The Mexican problem is the worst liability which the foreign policy of the United States presents . It has not been completely neutralized by President Coolidge 's happy change of attitude , but the grave dangers which overhung the welfare and the good repute of our country are exorcised for the present . It would have been an appalling and probably an irremediable mistake , if a government which represented what the Calles government represents to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the government of the United States . In spite of its faults and mistakes , the Calles government is the standard-bearer of the Mexican national revival , and its destruction , with the connivance of its powerful neighbor , would have meant a generation of enmity between the two peoples . The Mexican government has , during the last few months , encountered a revolutionary protest on the part of the disaffected military chiefs , assisted by some outraged Catholics . It has triumphed , although at a terrible price . Obregon will succeed Calles , and while his policy will differ from that of Canes , he will carry on the Mexican national revival . If the Mexican revolutionary democracy remains in power for another five years , it should have confirmed the loyalty of the agrarian and wage-earning classes , to which it appeals , and built up sufficient popular resistance to the continuing threat of a reactionary counter-revolution . IT DOES not follow , however , that there is plain sailing ahead for the present regime in Mexico , either in its relations with the Mexican people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suppressed the recent revolt with a ruthless brutality which must have been the result of overpowering fear , and which always follows and is succeeded by abuse of power . The dependence of Calles upon such methods is a sure indication of the underlying instability of social and political order in Mexico . Manifestly , also , one should not depend too much on good will , as incarnated in Dwight Morrow or in Lindbergh , to get rid of the fundamental causes of dispute between the two countries . Friendly relations between neighboring people are brought about not by amiable sentiments , but by a realistic adjustment of interests . There was an ultimate political truth contained in the advice which Anita Loos ' Blonde offered to her friend in saying : " A kiss on the hand makes you feel very , very good , but a diamond bracelet lasts forever . " The hand-kissing is over . Both should now consider how much they will pay for the diamond bracelets . There is a serious difference of interest between the United States as an exporter of capital and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undeveloped country which needs capital , but seeds even more an industry , a finance and an agriculture under her own control . If the relation between the two governments should become extremely friendly and American capital should pour into Mexico faster than it can be Mexicanized , it is almost certain that the present good feeling would be succeeded by renewed friction and hostility . THE complete break between Russia and the Nationalist government in China was a natural result of the logic of events . It was hastened , but not caused , by last week 's abortive Communist revolution at Canton , which , if the news reports are even 50 percent correct , was suppressed to an accompaniment of the most shocking bloodshed . The Nanking government is now dominated once again by Chiang Kai-shek , who last summer declared war on the Communists . Chiang has been supported chiefly by loans , voluntary or forced , from the Chinese merchants of Shanghai and Nanking . These men are afraid of Communism , and have been paying Chiang in the hope and belief that he would purge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This he is now enabled to do . Whether the rising at Canton ever had any chance of success it is impossible for observers at a distance to say ; but in any case , it failed , and those responsible for it have played into Chiang 's hand . All diplomatic and commercial relations between Nanking and Moscow are ended . All Russian officials must leave China . Numbers of Russian and Chinese Communists , men and women , have been shot down with a ferocity which , however natural it may seem to an Oriental , fills a Westerner with horror . Probably Communism in China is not extirpated , since rigid measures of this sort usually succeed only in causing a movement to go underground ; but at least , it is unlikely to play any important part in Chinese affairs for a long time to come . IT is ridiculous for Chicherin to pretend , as he does in his official reply to the note severing relations , that since Peking signed the Russian treaty , of 1924 , repudiation by Nanking is of no importance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to himself the title , " Generalissimo of the forces against Bolshevism . " Russia 's hopes were with the South , and they have been shattered . The events of the past week have but completed the catastrophe which began last summer with the emergence of Chiang as Nanking dictator and the flight of Borodin . At least one Russian faction was realistic enough to accept the situation some time ago . In the past few weeks much has been heard about a German-Russian-Japanese alliance , against Western Europe . It may be taken for granted that this alliance is a product of the Russian imagination , and that the talk about it is intended as an offset to the loss of China . REPARATIONS Agent S. Parker Gilbert has called attention to the most important unanswered question in the Dawes Plan -- the question of how large the total sum of reparations is to be . Earlier negotiations on the reparations issue wavered between the attempt to fix a total and the attempt to fix yearly payments without naming a total . Every time the question of the total was raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never make it low enough to meet the possibilities of payment . On the other hand , it was argued that Germany could never settle down in an effort to pay unless she knew how much she was to be responsible for in all . The Dawes Plan , working out a practical method of determining and controlling German contributions for a term of years , left open the difficult question of the total amount . It is now becoming necessary , however , to answer this question because , if it is not answered , nobody will know how good German credit is in the market for Pr 's ' ate loans . Furthermore , the question is becoming easier to answer as it is demonstrated how much Germany can pay across her frontiers annually way of interest or amortization . The inference is plain that events are shaping themselves toward a final settlement through a foreign loan to Germany , based on her present capacity to pay . Undoubtedly , when this is decided , settlement of the Allied debts to the United States will be revised . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Levinson in the New Republic . THE naval program submitted to Congress is , practically , the billion-dollar one predicted last week . The plan , which has the approval of President Coolidge , calls for new building in five years to an extent of $725,000,000 ? twenty-five cruisers nine destroyer leaders , thirty-two submarines and five aircraft carriers . It omits necessary maintenance items of $80,000,000 more , as well as new battleships , to a value of $148,000,000 , which the experts are eager to get . It is impossible to believe that the fantastic sum indicated is needed , as the naval men insist , merely to " round out " the Navy so as to permit it adequately to perform its police duties in time of peace . While our present cruiser fleet is far inferior to Great Britain 's , there is no suggestion that it can not do all that it is asked to . What the naval men are certainly thinking of , despite all their denials , is a war in which the British and Americans Will not be allies . This does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might have a repetition of the case of 1914-1917 , when the British navy seriously impaired our rights as a neutral , and made the freedom of the seas a meaningless phrase . The situation was saved then by America 's joining the War ; but it might turn out differently on another occasion . The conflict of interest is real , and of great importance . It must be solved , and not primarily by the naval men . As long as they remain in control , we shall have an incessant demand for " parity " which really means superiority , " and the armament race will again be in full swing . THE story of the Hearst press and the Mexican documents is one to make every newspaper man hang his head in shame . Quite aside from the moral issue , the sheer incompetence with which Hearst handled his story is appalling . The papers were bought for $15,000 or $16,000 from a notorious professional spy of Mexico City , long known to be engaged in just this sort of shady business . Mr. Hearst and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not know that the manufacture of such documents is a long-established business . Not one of the ordinary precautions of Competent publishing was taken . No effort was made to verify the statements from other sources , and there is not an iota of such verification . Gross blunders in Spanish were noted , but ignored on the theory that government secretaries in Mexico probably would n't know any better . An abortive attempt was made to have President Coolidge and Secretary Kellogg read them , obviously in the hope of lending additional weight . Finally , after long thought , it was decided that the man from whom the documents had been bought should get into the Mexican Consulate in New York under false pretenses , and there seek to obtain further documents In corroboration of himself . Even this precious scheme was abandoned . Mr. Hearst still insists that he believes in his famous documents , but if so , he must be the only man who does . He stated on the witness stand that he did not believe the story that$1,200,000 had been paid to Senators Borah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ printed it , omitting the names to avoid a libel suit , but well aware that the men he indirectly accused would be named in the subsequent investigation . Mr. " earses conduct is sufficiently characterized in the open letter of Senator Norris , the most terrible arraignment of one public man by another in this generation . THE hospital to which the victims of the Colorado mine shooting were sent has refused , we understand , further treatment for two of these unfortunates unless cash payment is made . Meanwhile , thousands of striking miners and their families are freezing and undernourished , in this holiday weather , not only in Colorado but in Pennsylvania and Ohio . Because they are sufferers from industrial warfare rather than from international hostilities , they receive no help from the Red Cross ; no government sends a Hoover to relieve them . Contributions might , of course , strengthen their resistance to the policy of anti-union employers ; starvation , freezing and sometimes bullets are considered legitimate weapons in the fight against labor , the effectiveness of which might be destroyed by humanitarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be so " partisan . " Yet those who do not share this view have an opportunity to help the suffering by sending contributions to the Emergency Committee for Miners ' Relief , 156 Fifth Avenue , New York City . WE are accustomed to think that the workers re ? sent the machine , while employers , to increase production and reduce costs , strive to do away with handicrafts . A strike of neckwear workers proves that it is not so with neckties . Curiously enough , the more a man pays for his neckties , the more likely he is to have sweated labor around his neck . Let him be content with a dollar- or two-dollar tie and he may rest assured that it has been machine-made in a clean , bright , sanitary loft building at union hours and union rates of wages . But if his girl friend or fond mamma follows that impulse and sends him a five- or ten-dollar tie for Christmas , it is probable that the woman who finished it by hand did so in a city flat and under conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also , and here is perhaps the nub of the controversy , the hand-worker was paid about one-fifth the weekly sum received by the speedy machine operator . STUDENTS at Vassar and Yale who want to investigate at first hand this peculiar twist of modern economics have the opportunity to do so . Last September one hundred and twenty men 's neckwear manufacturers signed an agreement with the Neckwear Makers ' Union by which home work in New York City was to be done away with inside of eighteen months . New York is the center of the trade for the whole country . Four manufacturers refused to sign and moved their cutting plants to New Haven and Poughkeepsie . About 400 workers were called out on strike ; relays of these have been picketing the plants in these cities , seeking to bring the American-born local workers out with them or to force the employer to pay the union rates for ties cut in these factories and sent back to the tenements of New York to be " slip-stitched " and lined by hand . To meet the manufacturers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has cooperated in establishing a shop where only hand-workers are employed , sometimes on part time , and , of course , at union piece rates . For the women with little children or aged dependents who can not leave the home , the union has offered to inspect apartments to see that the sanitary conditions are complied with , provided , again , that the workers are paid the union scale for slip-stitching , and that children are not pressed into the work . This , because the present labor code provides only for the inspection and licensing of the tenement house , not of the individual apartment . The students may learn more of these things by visiting the picket-lines ; they can not do so , at least in New Haven , by reading the local papers , which are maintaining a barrage of heavy silence about the strike . HENRY L. Stimson is about as good a choice for Governor General of the Philippines as was to be expected . He is honest , a competent administra ? tor , and takes the post at a heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent Nicaraguan mission will not be such a handicap in the Islands as it was in the Central American re ? public . He is opposed to Philippine independence , at least until some indefinite date in the distant future : but so is Mr. Coolidge , and it is just as well that no false hopes should be raised through the ' exhibition of a liberalism at Manila which is not reflected at Washington . THE Massachusetts Civic Alliance , of Boston , is proud and happy as it reviews the results of its recent labors . A short time ago , there were fourteen states which did not use capital punishment . Now there are but eight . This glorious achievement the Alliance claims as its own . It proposes to continue its good work until every commonwealth puts criminals to death , and the United States takes its place , in this regard , among the most backward nations of the earth . The organization opposes laws giving a judge the power to substitute life imprisonment for death , at his discretion , in cases where the jury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alliance , for " recently three convicts killed the Warden of the New York Tombs Prison and six convicts slew the Warden of the Illinois Penitentiary in their efforts to escape . " Moreover , " solitary confinement means death deferred and causes insanity . It is more cruel than the one merciful stroke which immediately surrenders the offender against the Divine image in man to his Judge . " Opponents of capital punishment , the Alliance notes with regret , say it is revenge . " It is rather vindication of justice , a commonwealth 's noblest act . " It has religious value , too . " Experienced prison chaplains have found that respite or commutation breaks up the religious impressions . " Industrial Freedom Assaulted THE annals of American labor have seldom recorded , and may not for a long timeto come record , a more significant legal struggle than that now being waged between the Interborough Rapid Transit Company in New York on the owl hand , and the American Federation of Labor and the Amalgamated Association of Street and Electric Railway Employees on the other . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ application for an injunction , or that the employer has set up a " company union , " or that he has made individual contracts with his employees ( commonly called " yellow-dog contracts " ) . What is new is that these several anti-labor measures have been brought together in such a way , and carried to such an extreme , as to constitute an unprecedented attack on the workers ' industrial freedom . This challenge has interested distinguished legal scholars in the unions cause , and has led to a nation-wide cooperation of economists and social scientists in the preparation of a case which seeks to present to the courts , not , merely legal technicalities , but a realistic view of the important questions of public policy involved in collective bargaining , the status of the worker in modern industrial society , and the functions of the labor movement . The Interborough , some years ago , broke off relations with the regular traction union ? the Amalgamated Association ? and formed its own " Brotherhood of Interborough Rapid Transit Company Employees . " The forms of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the employer , were literally handed down by the company ? s officials . Every employee , to retain his job , was compelled to subscribe to these documents , and no new men could be employed unless they did so . The preamble to the constitution sets forth that it shall be " deemed to be a contract between the Brotherhood and each of its members individually and that , Interborough Rapid Transit Company . " The work contract , which each employee is compelled to sign , contains a clause forbidding employees to be affiliated with the Amalgamated Association or any other labor organization , and binds them to work for the company for two years . The company is now asking for an injunction to prevent the whole American Federation of Labor and each of its affiliated members , as well as the Amalgamated Association and its members , from trying in any way to organize its employees , on the ground that such action is an attempt to induce breach of contract . There is no strike in progress , and none is a prospect . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in support of this policy and contract , the way is open for every employer , if he so wishes , to enlist the police power of the state in an attempt to destroy the independent organized labor movement by preventing it from keeping or solic-.                     