@@487268

T HE results of the World War and the treaties which followed it and the position of the United States toward the European settlement are vigorously outlined by Samuel Untermyer in the following " Reflections on Armistice Day " delivered at the Temple Rodeph Sholom on November 11 , 1924 : When the agreement for the League of Nations was formulated it was found to be an agreement to perpetuate , by the combined force of arms of the great nations of the earth , the most brutal , despotic , and war-breeding " peace " in the annals of time . Then and then only did we learn that our dear country , under the guise of " a peace without victory " that was to make the world forever thereafter " safe for democracy , " had been made the pawn in the most treacherous game ever played in history . We , whose participation had changed defeat into success for the Allies , were repaid by a treaty that violated every promise made by us and which can not but perpetuate hatreds for generations to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( the armistice terms , the League agreement , the Treaty of Versailles ) differ from one another , the oppressive and destructive exactions that were added from step to step , have been so frequently analyzed and discussed that the outstanding facts are now well known to all students of the subject . Prefacing them by a brief chronological table , they may be summarized as follows : NEGOTIATIONS PRECEDING THE ARMISTICE October 5 , 1918 . German note to the President , accepting the Fourteen Points laid down in his address to Congress of January 8 , 1918 . October 8 , 1918 . President asked if he was to understand definitely that the German Government accepted the terms laid down in the Fourteen Points and his subsequent addresses and that nothing would be left except to discuss the practical details of their application . October 12 , 1918 . The German Government returned an unconditional affirmative to this question . October 14 , 1918 . Further communications from the President concerning submarine warfare and guaranties of the representative character of the German Government . October 20 , 1918 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that date . October 23 , 1918 . The President announced that having received the solemn and explicit assurance of the German Government that it unreservedly accepted the terms of peace laid down in his address of January 8 , 1918 , and the principles of settlement announced in his subsequent addresses , particularly in the address of September 27 , 1918 , he had communicated the correspondence to the Allied Powers with the suggestion that they ask their military advisers to draw up armistice terms . November 5 , 1918 . The President transmitted to the German Government the reply of the Allied Governments declaring their willingness to make peace on the terms laid down in the President 's address of January 8 , 1918 , and the principles of settlement enunciated in his subsequent addresses  --  with two qualifications , the one concerning the freedom of the seas and the other relating to reparations . The peace agreed to by Austria-Hungary with General Diaz in Padua was based on the same terms and principles contained is President Wilson 's addresses above referred to . IN WHAT RESPECTS THESE TERMS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : 1 . The first of the Fourteen Points relates to " open covenants openly arrived at and open diplomacy . " This was violated by the Treaty of the Trianon concluded with Hungary . The allotment of territory to Rumania , including all of Transylvania and a large piece of territory across the River Tisza with over 5,000,000 inhabitants , was based on the secret treaty between the Quintuple Entente  --  that is , France , Great Britain , Italy , Russia , and Rumania  --  concluded in August , 1916 . The allotments to Serbia and Czecho-Slovakia were based on the secret pacts of Corfu , Cleveland , and Pittsburgh respectively . 2 . The third point concerns the " removal of economic barriers and the assurances of equality of trade . " This was violated in every particular . Germany and her allies were required to obligate themselves by the treaties of Versailles , St. Germain-en-Laye , and the Trianon both with respect to imports and exports and as regards tariff regulations and prohibitions for five years to accord " most favored nations " treatment to the Allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years Alsace-Lorraine was made free to export into Germany without payment of customs duties , up to the average amount that had been sent into Germany from 1911 to 1913 . No such treatment was accorded German exports into Alsace-Lorraine . For three years Polish exports to Germany and for five years Luxemburg 's exports to Germany were given similar treatment under the treaty , without reciprocity . Luxemburg was permanently excluded from the German Customs Union . For six months after the treaty came into force Germany was prohibited , and again without reciprocity , from imposing duties on many imports from the Allies and associated states higher than the " most favored nation " duties prevailing before the war . This prohibition was continued for a further period of two and one-half years beyond the six months on such commodities as wines , vegetable oils , artificial silk , and washed or scoured wools . . . . The Allies also reserved special treatment on the left bank of the Rhine , under cover of which the French have tried to establish an independent republic under French clerical auspices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Allied countries into Germany and in transit through Germany stipulate a one-sided and " most favored nation " treatment in respect to rail freight rates , etc . The treaty has given over the administration of the Elbe , the Oder , the Danube , and the Rhine to international commissions . There were similar one-sided stipulations in the Treaties of the Trianon and St. Germain-en-Laye. 3 . " Reduction of armaments guaranteed . " This covenant has likewise been flagrantly violated by the treaties . Germany , Austria-Hungary , and Bulgaria have been disarmed and left to the " tender mercies " of the Allies while the states of the Allied Powers have greatly increased their armaments . On November 1 , 1918 , Czechia ( which at that time had not been allowed to annex Slovakia ) had 70,000 men under arms , Jugoslavia 60,000 , and Rumania 127,000 . Today , about five years after the peace , their actual military forces are at least twice as large as at the time of the armistice . The Hungarian army , on the other hand , has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consisting of about 7 mixed battalions . Czecho-Slovakia 's military force has 12 infantry corps , 3 cavalry and 4 artillery battalions , and 2 mountain batteries . Jugoslavia 's army includes 16 infantry corps , 2 cavalry corps , and 8 heavy artillery regiments . Rumania commands 14 infantry corps , 2 corps de chasseurs , 1 mountain corps , 3 chasseur battalions , 2 battalions of guards , and 7 mounted , 7 sanitary , and 7 reserve corps . The 3% Hungarian corps are in the proportion of 1 to 17 compared to the 59 corps of the Little Entente . Hungary 's 525 machine-guns are faced by 3,200 of Czecho-Slovakia and 560 of Jagoslawiw , and the 4,870 of Rumania . This means that Czecho-Slovakia possesses 6 times as many machine-guns as Hungary , and Rumania 9 times as many . As to cannon , Czecho-Slovakia has 800 pieces of ordnance , Jugoslavia 722 , and Rumania 1,822 , while 105 is the total of Hungary . Thus Czecho-Slovakia has 8 times , Jugoslavia 7 times , and Rumania 15 times more of these arms than Hungary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while Czecho-Slovakia is now in command of 1,400 aeroplanes as a result of the completion of the 1922 program . Jugoslavia has 70 and Rumania has 80 flying machines . Hungary is not allowed to mobilize . Czecho-Slovakia , according to the 1920 Army Act , recruits to a total of 2 to 3 million men . Jugoslavia with her 32 categories accounts for 1,600 , - 000 . Rumania with her 27 categories represents a total of 2,500,000 . That is a total of 6,400,000 men to be let loose on the comparatively defenseless population of Hungary . The Allied countries are allowed compulsory military service , while the former Central Powers are permitted only voluntary service . As to the fifth point , concerning the " impartial adjustment of colonial claims " : This was completely disregarded . All former German colonies have been taken without compensation . Austria-Hungary have lost their former settlements in China , without compensation . 4 . The ninth point , which assured the adjustment of Italy 's boundaries according to nationality , was also flagrantly disregarded . Millions of Germans and Austrians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austria ( including Bozen ) , and without plebiscites. 5 . As to the tenth point , promising autonomy to the people of Austria-Hungary : This , too , was violated in every particular . Instead of autonomy millions of people have been wrested from their mother country without a plebiscite and against their will . Hungary lost about 14,000,000 out of a total of 21,000,000 . With the exception of western Hungary no plebiscite was held anywhere . Here the population voted almost 2 to 1 in favor of retaining Hungarian rule , although the inhabitants are chiefly of German origin . 6 . The eleventh point provided that Rumania , Serbia , and Montenegro should be evacuated and the occupied territories restored . Montenegro was swallowed up by Serbia and ceased to exist . Serbia , now known as Jugoslavia , has been enormously enlarged at the expense of Hungary , Bulgaria , Croatia , and Bosnia . Historical allegiance and nationality were ruthlessly disregarded . This is true also as to Macedonia and Herzegovina  --  which latter province has never belonged to Serbia . Croatia never belonged to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirteenth point , providing for an independent Polish state , has been disregarded in the partition of Upper Silesia , the cession of eastern Prussia to Poland , and the establishment of Danzig as a free city . Refeering now to the principles laid down in President Wilson 's addresses : On February 11 , 1918 , he said : " There shall be Ito annexations , no contributions , no punitive damages . " Under the peace treaties there have been wholesale annexa-tions . Leaving aside Alsace-Lorraine , which it was always understood would go to France , there were annexed Moresnet , Eupen , and Malmedy by Belgium ; part of Silesia by Czecho-Slovakia ; eastern and western Prussia ( partly ) together with Posnania by Poland ; Upper Silesia partly by Poland ; North Schleswig by Denmark ; all the colonies of Germany by the Allied Powers . All German territory west of the Rhine is to be occupied for at least fifteen years . It remains to be seen how much longer this occupation or annexation will last . When writing to advertisers , please Hamilton Gibbs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared in The Nation for November 19 , has been reprinted for wider distribution . Orders should be sent at once , as the supply is limited . Five cents a copy ; $3 a hundred . Lower rates for large orders . The Nation , 20 Vesey Street , New York When writing to advertisers , please mention The Nation In the World War the result is far worse . Here we have succeeded in sowing the seeds of future wars by our impotent , amateur diplomacy , while the Allies have bagged the spoils in power , territory , and reparations . Our role has been that of the Lady Bountiful who after supplying man-power , armaments , and the billions of money that made victory possible , found ourselves at the end without indemnity for our sacrifices and without real participation or influence to make good our promises , based upon the assurances made by the Allies to us , in the carrying out of the terms of peace on which we induced the enemy to lay down their arms . Our diplomats are mainly untried men drawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and big business , without training in diplomacy  --  men who have been so busy with their private concerns that they go to their posts painfully ignorant of the conditions that confront them . What we need above all things in our foreign affairs is a school of diplomacy where the histories of the inner affairs of nations can be studied , supplemented by a system of promotions in the service that will assure these men a career and will give us a consistent , continuous foreign policy unhampered by political changes in our home administration of affairs . The latter has in recent years been assured to a limited extent in the minor posts , but the positions of great honor , power , and prestige are still doled out as rewards for political service . The worst feature of that system , unlike other countries , is that by the time a man has learned his way about and begun to gather friends and accumulate influence in the country to which he is accredited he is replaced by a new administration . So long as these conditions prevail we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our diplomatic affairs . We have in our brilliant Secretary of State probably the most superb , all-round , intellectual machine in America . But he , like most of our other high public officials , assumed that great office entirely devoid of experience in the subtle art of diplomacy . AMERICA AND RUSSIA Our attitude toward the recognition of Russia is an apt illustration of the incoherent , infantile brand of diplomacy in which we are engaged . For seven years the present Russian Government has maintained itself and gradually grown in strength in the face of incredible obstacles until it has literally forced recognition from other great countries . We recognized the Czarist regime , which was the most cruel and despotic form of government of modern times , surpassing even the kingdom of Siam and other countries that might be named , whose accredited representatives are members of our Diplomatic Corps at Washington . We have recognized Central and South American governments with their kaleidoscopic changes , brought about by internal revolutions that were so rapid that by the time we had recognized an existing government another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social and economic policies of a great nation are none of our business . If we were only to associate in friendly relations with those countries whose forms of government appealed to us we should have been living in isolation for the past century . If our reason for refusing to recognize Russia is based upon her repudiation of the debts of the Czarist regime , we should at least be consistent . Has Czecho-Slovakia or Jugoslavia recognized the outstanding obligations of the countries they have absorbed or any portion of them ? . . . Has Germany or Austria-Hungary assumed liability for the outstanding internal or external debts of those countries held in foreign lands ? Does not the treaty , in fact , prevent them from doing so by placing the reparations payments ahead of all such things ? Russia 's substance was poured out in the defense of the Allies on the Eastern Front . She lost millions of men and When writing to advertisera , please mention The Nation billions of treasure in that effort . When her government collapsed as a result of this intolerable drain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroyed , calmly proceeded to carve out her territory . Such pretexts for the non-recognition of Russia are the veriest hypocrisy . If we had a real sense of humor we would " tread rather lightly " in celebrating Armistice Day , beyond congratulating ourselves that we are out of the mess and vowing to forget all about the mortifying spectacle that we must present in the eyes of the trained diplomats of Europe . If America wants a real Armistice Day that shall be a source of pride rather than of shame and mortification , we should at least make an effort to correct or modify these wrongs , for which we are at least partly responsible , in so far as possible . As the first step in that direction , let us ask the forthcoming Disarmament Conference to include in its agenda the discussion of treaty revision . It would be a difficult task , but if it can be only partly accomplished it will open the way for us to become a party to a League of Nations to preserve a peace which we need not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               