@@467666

ONE who approaches the study of the problems of India would do well to bear in mind the saying of Sir John Strachey , himself a high authority on Indian civilization and institutions , that in reality there is no India . What we call India is in fact a vast mosaic ? a conglomeration of peoples of different races , languages , creeds , of sharply differentiated social classes and of widely varying stages of culture . The area of the country exceeds that of all Europe exclusive of Russia , and it contains within its far-flung boundaries more than three hundred and nineteen million people , or about one-fifth of the total population of the globe . There are said to be more than forty distinct races . Bengalis and Rajputs , Pa thans and Santals , Sikhs and Madrassis , Gurkhas and Mahrattas have lived together without fusing and without losing their physical or cultural characteristics . The encyclopedias tell us that there are some one hundred and fifty languages , twenty of which are said to be spoken each by more than a million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher education and its employment in the government service have gone far toward making it the lingua franca of the country , and Indians are not lacking who predict that it will ultimately become the universal tongue of the Indian peoples . Ghandi throughout his campaign of non-co-operation and agitation against everything English , advocated the replacement of English by an Indian vernacular , preferably Urdu or Hindi ; and through his influence the All-India National Congress at its annual meeting in 1920 ventured upon the experiment of conducting itsproceedings for the first time in Hindustani . But it is said that large numbers of delegates , especially from Southern India , were unable to understand the speeches . Whatever may be the facts as to this , the congress at its subsequent meetings reverted to the use of English . The languages of Northern India are as unintelligible in Southern India as they would be in England or America . It would not be difficult perhaps to introduce Urdu or Hindi throughout the Northern provinces , but for Southern India it would probably never be acceptable . The great majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposal to replace English with a vernacular ; they know very well that English is the key with which the treasures of Western science and culture can be unlocked and the door to public employment opened . Ghandi himself admits that the prediction of Raja Ram Mohan Roy that India will one day he an English-speaking country has " many stars in its favor . " Religiously , as racially and linguistically , India is a conglomeration . Some other countries , it is true , have a multiplicity of religious sects , but in India the lines of cleavage which separate some of them have a social and political significance which is largely lacking in Western countries . This is especially true of the two principal religions , Hinduism and Mohammedanism . The perennial " cow controversy " which , I was told , was one of the biggest questions in India ? Ghandi says it is the " greatest of questions for the Hindus " has pro-duced an antagonism between the two most important sections of the population and kept up a constant state of tension that has defeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At bottom , the question is , whether the cow shall be slaughtered and eaten by the Mohammedans as their religion allows and as they do in practice . As is well known , the cow is deeply venerated by orthodox Hindus ; she is regarded as the mother of millions of the human race , though Ghandi taunted his Hindu countrymen with the charge that nowhere else in the world was she so " ill-fed and ill-kept . " That a Mohammedan should be willing to slaughter and eat her very nearly puts him outside the pale of toleration among Hindus . Indian nationalists frankly admit that swaraj ( self-government ) can never he attained without the mutual co-operation of Hindus and Mohammedans , and that this co-operation will never be possible until the cow question has been settled to the satisfaction of both parties . To that end Ghandi during his campaign for nonco-operation appealed to the Mohammedans to desist from a practice which deeply wounded the religious sentiments of their Hindu brothers , reminding them that the cow was " as dear as life " to all orthodox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his appeal was successful , and he frankly confessed his disappointment at the result . On the question of home rule , the Mohammedans have never shown much enthusiasm , as Ghandi was compelled to admit , and when Mr. Montagu came out to India in 1917 to consult Indian opinion , Mohammedan memorials were laid before him urging that it be not granted . Mohammedans realize that they constitute a hopeless minority , and that home rule will therefore mean simply Hindu rule . Now their rights have been protected and their religious customs respected by the English government , whose policy has been that of a disinterested neutral , and they can not feel sure that they would be equally protected and respected by the Hindus . In short , home rule would mean for them Vol .. CXLVIL ? No. 881. - 81merely an exchange of masters for one perhaps less benevolent and tolerant . The racial , linguistic , and religious cleavages which divide the Indian people are hardly more sharp , though less numerous , than those which result from the caste system ? a system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more or less artificial , mutually exclusive social aggregates . A well-known English authority on Indian institutions , Sir Bampfylde Fuller , has remarked that " it is hardly too much to say that by the caste system the inhabitants of India are differentiated into more than two thousand species of mankind which in the physical relations of life have as little in common as the inmates of a zoological garden . " Socially , professionally , and to a large extent , occupationally , they are kept apart by rules which forbid them intermarrying , eating and drinking together and following certain occupations . The most regrettable feature of the system is that some fifty-two millions of the population ? about onesixth of the total ? are outeastes ? are " untouchables , " the " pariahs " who are forbidden to live in Hindu villages or to use the public wells and bridges . They are limited to the most degrading occupations , such as street sweeping , scavenging and leather working ; and in many communities of Southern India their very shadow still pollutes a passing Brahmin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beef and work hi leather industries . Ghandi , although a believer in the caste system himself , denounced the treatment which they have received at the hands of the Hindus as a " foul blot " on Hinduism and a " crime against humanity . " No charge of inhumanity , he said , could be made against the English , of which the Hindus themselves were not guilty in their treatment of the depressed classes . So long , he added , as they regarded untouchability as a part of their religion , swaraj would be impossible of attainment . The caste system has been equally attacked by leaders like the late Mr. Gliokale and the poet Tagore . Tagore in particular has pointed out that such a social system is glaringly inconsistent with the essentials of true freedom and democracy , and he- has reproachcd the nationalists with trying " to build a political miracle of freedom upon the quicksands of social slavery . " The influence of Hindu reform organizations like the Arya Samaj and the Brahmo Samaj and of newspapers like the Social Reformer , published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Certain conditions of modern life have also tended somewhat to undermine its foundations . Thus , the introduction of street . ears and railway trains as means of transportation has made impossible strict observance of the rules against intermingling . Increasing foreign travel and attendance of Indian students at foreign universities have more and more caused the rule forbidding caste Hindus from crossing the ocean , to be relaxed . The hundreds of thousands of Indian soldiers who broke caste by crossing the ocean during the world war were not even required to undergo purification upon their return to India . Educated young Indians assured me that the caste system was rapidly disappearing , and so far as intermingling among the upper classes is concerned I saw few evidences of it myself . Among the uneducated masses , however , the system still persists in its main essentials , and if it ever disappears it will certainly not be in the near future . Such are some of the cleavages which divide Indian society and which have prevented the development of any real sense of Indian nationality . They have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complicate the problem of home rule . From the outset , English opinion has been divided in respect to the moral duty of the British government toward the people of India . There have always been Englishmen who have considered that they were the best judges of what is best for the Indians and that it is their right and duty to govern them indefinitely in accordance with their own conceptions . On the other hand , there have always been some like Lord MacCauley who have considered that the English were in India only as trustees charged with maintaining order and guiding the Indian people until they were themselves able to stand alone . As time passed the number who came to hold this view increased until now it may be affirmed that it probably represents the view of the majority of the English people . Until the end of the nineteenth century , however , the British government of India was a benevolent despotism in which there was some show of deference to Indian opinion , but on the whole , it acted on the principle that its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisive . It preserved the peace , maintained order with reasonable effectiveness , and , in the main , governed the country wisely and efficiently . But before the present century was well on its way , Indian opinion had become restless and even militant and violent agitation succeeded passive submission . As a concession to the Indian demand , the Minto-Morley Reform Act was passed in 1909 creating councils in which the Indians were given some representation and through which they were afforded an opportunity to ventilate their opinions , but without any real responsibility or power , since the Indians always found themselves confronted by an official majority against which they were powerless to make their will prevail . It soon became evident that the concession thus wrung from the English did not satisfy the rapidly increasing political consciousness of India . For the moment , agitation became less violent , perhaps , but the signs of discontent and unrest multiplied , the intensity of racial animosity increased , and the denunciation of British " tyranny " became more subtle and widespread . At this juncture the world war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The response to the call of the British Raj was immediate and surprisingly spontaneous . More than a million Indians voluntarily enlisted a larger number than were furnished by Canada , Australia , and New Zealand combined . Hundreds of thousands of Hindus broke the rules of their caste , crossed the ocean , and fought with Europeans on the battle fields of Belgium and France , and there thousands of their bodies lie to-day . Mohammedans called upon to fight against Turkey and the Sultan , the head of the Mohammedan religion , responded with almost equal loyalty . Whatever may have been the dominant motive , the Indian response deeply touched English pride . The Empire could no longer deny to a people who had given such evidence of loyalty and who had made so many sacrifices for a cause which was only very remotely theirs at least a portion of that for which they asked . Accordingly , on August 20 , 1917 , the Secretary of State for India announced in the house of Commons that the government was in complete accord in the policy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ branch of the administration , but also of a gradual development of self-governing institutions with a view to the progressive realization of responsible government in India ? that is , government responsible to Indian legislative bodies elected and controlled by Indians themselves . This announcement , " the most momentous utterance ever made in India 's checkered history , " was intended to be a solemn pledge from the British government and people that henceforth India was to be held in trust for the Indian people , and that at last the great venture was to be entered upon of giving them a large measure of self-government and eventually full responsibility and freedom from English control and tutelage . In pursuance of this promise the Montagu-Chelmsford Reform Act was passed by Parliament in December , 1919 . This act increased the number of Indian representatives in the Viceroy 's executive council to three ( the total number is eight ) , established a legislative assembly at Delhi , a large majority of whose members are elected by the Indians , a council of state with an Indian majority and councils in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , except for the Viceroy 's council , all these bodies will be , and are now in fact , controlled by the Indians . Extensive powers were devolved upon the provincial governments . They are divided into two categories : " reserved " matters such as police , criminal justice , land revenue , etc. , and " transferred " subjects such as education , sanitation , roads , bridges , and other matters which are regarded as being primarily of local concern . In respect to this second group of matters , the Indians now have full self-government . Regarding the first group of subjects , the governor , who is practically always an Englishman ( Lord Sinba is the only Indian who has been appointed to a governorship ) , may override the will of the Indian councils . Thus , if they refuse to enact a measure which he recommends or to appropriate money which he thinks should he appropriated , he can himself enact the measure or make the appropriation through the process of " certification . " The Viceroy retains similar powers over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English , these concessions , coupled with the promise of ultimate Indian responsibility , were considered most generous ? so much so that they caused grave concern among the English population of India who were alarmed at the threatened " Indianization " of the civil service and the eventual transfer of control to the Indians themselves . To the extremist Indian element , however , they were highly disappointing . They complained that the local matters over which the Indian councils were given full control were few and relatively unimportant . As to other matters , the English governor 's power of certification and veto enabled him to override the will of the Indian majority and govern according to his own notions . It amounted to little , they said , to give the Indians legislatures of their own choosing and in the same breath to paralyze them by reserving to an English governor the power to overrule them and to pass such measures as he thought ought to be passed . In short , the Act gave the Indians only the shadow of selfgovernment and not the substance . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect the wishes of an Indian majority , the system leaves the Indians little more than the power of discussion and obstruction . Happily , however , two years ' experience under the Reform Act has shown that the fears of the Indians that they would be governed by the process of executive certification and veto against the will of their own majorities have not been justified . Fortunately for both sides , the Indian representatives chosen to both the legislative and provincial assemblies two years ago , in the face of Ghandi 's appeal to the Indians to abstain from taking any part in the elections , belong to the class of moderates and they have shown a commendable disposition to cooperate with the English governors and to refrain from obstruction or the insistence upon extreme measures which would necessitate the use by the governor of the extraordinary powers at his command . The English governors , on their part , have manifested an equal disposition to respect the will of the Indian majorities and to defer to their wishes , within reasonable limits , and in fact there have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veto . But Indian extremists are not satisfied , as I have said , with a system in which , legally , an Indian majority can always be overridden by an English governor ; they are unwilling that in fact the power to make their own will prevail must always depend upon the benevolence and deference of an alien executive . Recently there has been a succession of rather unfortunate occurrences that have served to accentuate racial animosity , to shake the faith of large numbers of Indians in the sincerity of the English promise , and to intensify the demand for immediate home rule . The more important of these were the Rowlatt Sedition Act , taking away jury trials in sedition cases ? an act passed against the united opposition of the Indian members of the legislative council , and , it must be said , against the judgment of many Englishmen themselves ; the establishment of martial law in various parts of the country ; the arrest and imprisonment of large numbers of so-called political offenders ; repressive measures against the press and a number of alleged outrages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in some of which large numbers of innocent Indians are alleged to have been shot without cause , subjected to shameful humiliations ( the crawling order at Amritsar ) , or otherwise inhumanely treated . Indian indignation was aroused to a high pitch , especially at the refusal of the government to punish those whom the Indians regarded as the chief culprits , or to punish them adequately . The government , however , justified the measures of repression to which it resorted as being necessary to deal with an extremely dangerous situation . If the military and police were sometimes unnecessarily severe and committed acts of cruelty , the provocation under which they acted was in some degree a justification . Such acts were extremely regrettable , but the ultimate responsibility rested with the agitators rather than with the government . It is impossible here to examine the question of actual responsibility for these occurrences or to evaluate the merits of the charges and countercharges made by each side . Whatever may be one 's view as to this , there can be no difference as to the result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces of discontent and hatred for the English , led to the organization of the non-co-operation movement and brought hundreds of thousands of recruits to its ranks . Ghandi 's program , as is well known , contemplated the destruction of English political power in India , not through violence , disobedience to the law or physical resistance to any command of the state , but through the exercise of what he called " soul force . " It was to be accomplished through the non-participation of Indians in all the processes and agencies of the government . They were to take no part in the elections or to hold any public office ; those who were holders of offices were to resign ; bearers of titles were to surrender them ; lawyers were to abandon their practice in the courts and litigants settle their disputes by arbitration ; Indian parents were to withdraw their children from governmentsupported schools , and send them to newly established " national schools , " and the people were to abstain from wearing clothes made of English cloth . The optimism of Ghandi concerning the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the courts alone , he said , would put the government of India out of commission in a day . A boycott of the councils would ultimately wreck the whole system set up by the Reform Act , and the refusal to use English cloth would not only save India sixty million rupees a year , but by destroying the English market , would remove one of the reasons which had originally brought the English to India . In the early days of the enthusiasm which the movement aroused there were bonfires of foreign cloth , large numbers of Indians appeared in Khaddar dress , some lawyers ( Ghandi says " hundreds " ) abandoned their practice , a good many students withdrew from the colleges and in some instances threw themselves upon the steps of college buildings to prevent others from entering , and some " national schools , " untainted with British money , were opened in various parts of the country . Large numbers of Indians joined the movement , but other large numbers , rea lizing that it would never prove effective , declined to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and dedared that it was the embodiment of " the doctrine of negation and despair . " Non-co-operating Indians followed the advice of Ghandi and refused to participate in the council elections , but enough " co-operators " were found who were willing to become candidates and they were duly elected . This was Ghandi 's first great defeat . It soon appeared also that the factories were able to produce an imitation cloth which could not be distinguished from Khaddar , and at less cost . In these circumstances many nonco-operators did what consumers do everywhere : they bought the less expensive article . Most of the lawyers who had abandoned their practice now resumed it ; the students returned to the colleges , and the national schools largely disappeared . No Indians surrendered their titles and few resigned their positions in the government service . Ghandi is undoubtedly a visionary , though he denies it and asserts that he is a " practical idealist . " Some of his proposals for the destruction of British power , such as the boycott of the courts , were childish , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools , as Tagore warned him , were suicidal . His distinction between civil and criminal disobedience and his effort to restrict the action of the non-co-operators to the former broke down in practice . He soon found that his preaching had unchained forces which he was unable to control and the violence which he condemned and sincerely deplored could not be prevented . And no amount of penance , fasting , and self-inflicted punishment on his own part proved effective to deter his followers from committing acts which he consistently disapproved and which were no part of his scheme . While the non-co-operation movement has failed to bring swaraj , it would be a mistake to conclude that it has been without result . Ghandi 's success in raising a swaraj fund of ten million rupees ( how much of it consisted of cash and how much of promises makes little difference ) through the voluntary contributions of his countrymen , was itself a striking illustration of their faith in his leadership . His stirring pleas for more humane treatment of the depressed classes , for the abolition of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he believes are degrading the Indian people , his appeal to his countrymen to live lives of abstemiousness , and his inculcation of the virtues of morality , of discipline , of self-reliance , and of courage , are not likely to be without wholesome effect upon the future conduct of the Indian people . Finally , it can not be denied that he has awakened a feeling of self-consciousness , a spirit of patriotism arid a sense of national unity among the conglomerate peoples of Indian , the like of which India has never before known . One who attempts to weigh judiciously the merits of the nationalist demand for immediate self-government will find himself in the presence of an array of argument . and a formidable bill of grievances . The nationalist leaders will tell you , first of all , that if self-determination as it was proclaimed by the allied statesmen during the world war and as it was given effect to in part by the treaties of peace in the political and territorial rearrangements of Europe , means anything at all , it includes the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million people inhabiting a country which is itself a continent should be ruled by a few thousand aliens is contrary to any reasonable interpretation of the doctrine of self-determination . Even admitting that government by the English has been efficient , economical , and in the interest of the Indian people , that constitutes no argument for its indefinite continuance ; for good government is no legitimate substitute for selfgovernment . In fact , they will not admit that the rule of the English has been economical or entirely in the interest of the Indians themselves . They complain of the large expenditures for the upkeep of an army for which , they assert , there is no real need ; for the erection and maintenance of costly government houses and capitals such as the slender resources and poverty of the people do not justify ( one hundred million dollars have already been expended on the new capital at Delhi and it is still very far from completion ) , and for the maintenance of an overpaid , overpensioncd , and largely anglicized civil service . These and other drafts upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , railway extension , and for social and economic improvement generally . In the administration of justice the Indians have long felt keenly what they regard as the discriminatory distinctions made between them and Europeans . A European offender , no matter what the charge , has the right to be tried by a jury , the majority of whom are Englishmen , and every Indian can cite instances in which English culprits are alleged to have escaped punishment through the leniency or sympathy of English jurors . It has always been one of the principal grievances of the Indians ; happily , as I now write , the press dispatches announce that the legislative assembly at Delhi has passed a bill abolishing the more important of the judicial distinctions between Europeans and Indians . When we turn from the inventory of Indian grievances to the British defense we find ourselves in the presence of the usual argument of those who have assumed the white man 's burden . First of all , the English will tell you that they arc in India largely by force of circumstance and that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? at least not yet . They went there originally , not as conquerors and colonizers , but for purposes of trade ? a trade which benefited the Indians as well as themselves . They became governors only by accident , as it were . They succeeded to the regime of anarchy following the dissolution of the Moghul Empire and from that anarchy they rescued India . They introduced law and justice , they maintained order within and protected the country from without ; and under their rule the Indian people have made immense progress along all lines . When the English took over the government of the country there were no roads worthy of the name ; no canals , docks , or harbors ; few or no schools , colleges or universities ; no police system ; and famine and plague were uncombatted . The country was like a vast domain in dilapidation with few of the appliances of a modern state . They can now point to the thirty-seven thousand miles of railway and telegraph lines which the government has built , a splendid system of highways , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a system of public schools , modern docks and harbors , many hospitals and dispensaries , a modern sanitary service , an extensive forestry service , a system of famine relief , efficient civil and police services , a modern system of justice and modern codes of law . Altogether it is a remarkable record and no one has told the story with greater pride and sympathy than an Indian himself ? Mr. N. N. Ghose in his book , England 's Work in India . If the expenditures for the support of education and other social and economic services have not been adequate , it has been due to no lack of interest on the part of the government , but rather to the immensity of the task and the slender resources of a country whose people are unable to bear the burden of heavy taxation . The very fact that the expenditures for public education have increased two hundred and seventy-seven per cent during the last thirty years is evidence of that . interest and of the progress that has been made . Every rupee of taxes collected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the country ; none of it goes to England in the form of tribute . The Indian complaint that an undue proportion of the revenues are devoted to the upkeep of the army is a familiar one in all countries ? even those which are self-governed . The maintenance of an army in India is a necessity , not only to keep the peace among thevarious races and sects , but to protect the country from the invasion of Afghans , Bolshevists , and the warlike tribes from the Northwest . The small size of the army ? Q00,000 men , of whom less than 80,000 are English soldiers ? one only for about every four thousand of the total population . is itself an answer to the charge that it is kept there to maintain English power . Englishmen point out that if the Indians really desire to put them out , . bag and baggage , they can do it ; that they have not done so is proof enough that English power rests on moral and not on military force . The English also emphasize that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable share in the government of the country -- a larger share indeed than most Indians are willing to admit . Indian members sit in the Secretary of State 's council at Whitehall ; three of the eight members of the Viceroy 's council at Delhi are Indians ; a majority of the members of the council of state are Indians ; they are in the majority in all the legislative councils of India , both central and provincial ; and there are Indian ministers in both the government at Delhi and in all the provincial governments . There are Indian judges on the bench of all the high courts ; the greater part of the work of the civil courts is now done by Indian judges ; and Indians are frequently appointed advocates-general of the high courts . In the district governments nearly all the local officials are Indians ; the district magistrate and collector , the health officer , the engineer and the members of the local boards . Altogether , it is said that more than a million and a half Indians , exclusive of those in the army , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this the Indian nationalists reply that the more important executive officials ? all the provincial governors in fact ? that is , those who really determine public policies , remain English . As to judicial positions , the Indians , considering the wealth of Indian judicial material , are very inadequately represented . As to their majorities in the councils , that amounts to little so long as they can be overruled by an English viceroy or governor . Finally , the English point out that they have solemnly promised to " Indianize " more and more the civil service , to develop as rapidly as possible self-governing institutions , and ultimately to transfer to the Indians themselves complete responsibility for the government of the country . With the existing amount of illiteracy and the Indian lack of experience in selfgovernment , the transfer can not yet be safely made . But the promise has been made and no honorable Englishman will ever repudiate it . In obtaining this promise the Indians have already won more than half the battle . Unfortunately for the Indians , they are themselves badly divided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went out to India in 1918 to consult Indian opinion clearly show . Among those who appeared in opposition to the proposed introduction of home rule were the representatives of the non-Brahmins , especially numerous in Southern India , including the untouchable millions , mho realize that home rule will mean Brahmin rule , that is , the rule of those who have refused to treat them as brothers . They therefore prefer English rule because they believe it would be less oppressive . Another group of memorialists , who appeared before Mr. Montagu in opposition to the home-rule proposal , were the larger landlords who in their conservatism took fright at the thought of a sudden political change of such magnitude that it might jeopardize their own economic position . Then there were the representatives of large numbers of Moslems who , as I have said , distrust the Hindus who , under a regime of selfgovernment , will be the ruling class . Finally , there is a large number of moderate Indians of different races and classes who , while they look forward to ultimate home rule as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel that the time has arrived when the experiment can be safely ventured upon . The most important division is that which has recently arisen between the nationalists of all races and creeds . There are the followers of Ghandi who believe that the most effective way of destroying British power in India is through a boycott , especially of the councils , that is , by having nothing whatever to do with them . On the other hand , Mr. C. R. Das , a leading Bengal lawyer , has organized a large following which advocates participation in the elections with a view to getting control of the councils and of destroying them through the process of obstruction . This done , the whole machinery set up by the Reform Act will collapse and Parliament will be obliged to replace it by an Act granting a system of real selfgovernment . The issue of " council entry " was brought before the All-India National Congress at its annual meeting during Christmas week last , and the Ghandi non-co-operationists won out by a substantial majority , whereupon Das withdrew and organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reversal of the decision in favor of council abstention . It has thus come to pass that the nationalists are divided into co-operators and non-co-operators and the latter are again divided into absolute non-co-operators and qualified non-co-operators . These divisions in the ranks of the Indians themselves have served to postpone whatever prospects there may have been for extorting in the immediate future further concessions from the British parliament . According to their own admissions. swaraj can never he attained until Brahmins and nonBrahmins , Hindus and Mohammedans , and the other important sections into which India 's conglomerate population is divided , are able to reach a common agreement and confront the British Raj with a united demand . This they have not yet succeeded in doing and it remains to be seen whether they ever will .                     