@@467696

The seaman 's movement has received a great deal of notice , but very little understanding examination . Even conservatively speaking , there are more than four million women in the United States organized , broadly speaking , to do good ? good to themselves , to their communities , to their country . Moot of us are unaware of the power and the scope of women 's organizations , and this article is a summing up of the clutracteristics of the principal groups in this great woman stream . These feminists of America , in greater number , in greater power and wealth than any sister movement in other countries , are unique in that their whole activity is toward a humanitarian and ? there is not one iota of self-seeking among them . And HARPEn 's is glad to present an article which for the first time in our knowledge makes an attempt to estimate the spiritual forces which animate these women 's organizations. ? THE EDITORS . I ACCEPTED the invitation to the Rotary club luncheon because until that moment I had not known there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and I was curious to see what it was like . There we sat at the honor table , the president of the club , the county superintendent of schools , the city 's treasurer , the state president of the women 's clubs ? all women , comely , substantial , worthy , and industrious , of middle age , with sureness written in each face . There we sat while the song leader , her ribboned hat slightly askew with excitement , rose from one of the many luncheon tables to cheer us into singing " Silver Threads Among the Gold . " On her beaming face there was love and pride and enthusiasm , and she stood , her whole body lustily extended , her booming voice leading our uncertain sopranos . " There 's a Long , Long Trail awinding into the Land of My Dreams , " we sang again , the young private secretary with the wistful eyes , the lean secretary of the building company , the buxom proprietor of the flower shop , the lady candidate for the Senate , blond and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The final content of the " nightingales singing and the white moonbeams winging " wound itself into the secret heart of each woman , however divergent her individual perceptions of music or life , the common longing reasserting itself as we trilled , " We 'll build a sweet little nest somewhere in the West and let the rest of the world go by . " I thought how much Sinclair Lewis would have enjoyed this . It was a page out of the woman 's Biz/kill , : except that I felt how much it would take the powers of sympathy and love rather than an attitude of satire to see that here was the whole round of a woman 's aspirations to-day . Here she had stated her task for a long time to come ? hers the heart-breaking task to combine her yearning for " some one like you , a pal good and true " and her pride and her achievement as a member of the Rotary club ? with all it stood for of individual courage and fruition and the respect of her community and her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the United States , I discovered , and many women 's chambers of commerce too ; and there are thousands of women 's clubs and women 's organizations of every possible political and humanitarian complexion . With every avenue of material and intellectual achievement open to women , with the vote , through which every aspect of sex distinction may be purged from their activities as against the activities of men , why is it that the organization of women apart from men continues and grows in emphasis ? We have in America the extraordinary spectacle of three , possibly four , million women acting in matters which are directly connected with the enrichment of the life of the nation through organizations that are distinctly feminine . We are so accustomed in rich America . to large gestures and loose phrases that when we say three million women we immediately drug the imagination ; yet nowhere on earth is there a social spectacle equivalent to this one of vast masses of women from one end of the country to the other , from lonely bayous to throbbing cities , educating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end that this may be a truer democracy , where social injustice shall perish , where poverty of opportunity or of vision shall perish , so far as is in the power of the women to accomplish this . We have been so accustomed to women 's organizations and have been so bored by them that it is a shock to discover , as one does in Washington , for instance , that the Women 's Legislative Council . in which sits a representative from each large women 's organization , is the most powerful lobby in the capital . Its reputation for disinterestedness and public service and shrewdness is such that any bill sponsored by it automatically ( with due deference to senatorial omniscience ) receives the cachet of responsible and sensitively attuned senators and representatives . To the politician , who outwardly must grin and bear it , these women are a despair and a menace , because they will not stay put politically . Their only consistency is that they act in the interests of women . To the student . of the woman 's movement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many countries , how weak and uncertain in most , how extreme in others , it is the sanity of American feminism that is unique , its power and its human ' variability of direction . This feminism of America is a kindly affair , there is in it little opposition to man , or hatred of him . It is an affair of millions of women moving on to a mass expression whose individual reaction is a sense of the fullness of life . Women for a long time to come will develop ? will organize and act as women in channels of their own , and not among men . For a long time they will compete with their own kind . In a world in which the standards of masculine accomplishment prevail a feeling of futility is all that attends the career of the most successful home woman . The growing power of the woman 's movement lies in the fact that within its scope women find compensatory activities which give them position and value in the community at large and enable them to battle more effectively for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sphere . The emphasis of all the activities of women 's organizations is on matters that will improve the position of woman in the home and in industry , in the sense of economic reward and independence that will protect and dignify her in her emotional investments in children and husband , that will provide security and honor for those concerns of the community which are an enlargement of her personal interests . For women always the underlying sense of life is one of suffering , is one of inferiority . Children grow up , and they are not thankful . Husbands arc a rich uncertainty , even the most loyal . For woman , unable to explain herself by systems of logic , rests always , beyond reason in the pain arid the mystery of life , in the pain and mystery of the creative force which is vested in her . In America in recent decades she has had to cope with an industrial society which by its very ingenuity and by its very prosperity has deprived her of her tasks ; and it is by tasks that she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human living for themselves , they are trying to End a human way out of the welter and chaos of a machine age , as step by step they gather up the wreckage of their normal concerns and follow their business as women out into the community life where it has become an object of men 's specialization . They first demonstrated to the country how effective was their organization for this purpose when through the Women 's Council of Defense they put over with amazing success and celerity the Hoover Food program and every other governmental program demanding concerted action of enormous masses of people . The greatest of these associations of women is the extraordinary Federation of Woman 's Clubs , which in the last three years has increased its membership under the presidency of Mrs. Thomas G. Winter from one to two million members . It is an organization unique to America , and we have been so close to it that we have not given it the credit it deserves . Here is an organization which , broadly speaking , takes in every wideawake woman in almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so isolated that it does not have its woman 's clubs to handle the civic , artistic , and social interests of the women , no community so small that it may not through its national channels keep in contact with the foremost cultural existence of this and other nations . The Federation has been censured for having too great an abundance of grandmothers in its membership lists . Well , grandmothers are n't necessarily doddering crones , quivering with senility . They can be , as indeed they are , in the Federation , rather young women , with a lively interest in the fine things of life , women who want to work , who want to know , who want to be of use to their country , to their communities , and to themselves . They are women with competenees , for the most part , and with empty hands ? women , who in their twenties , were marrying , in their thirties , occupied in rearing their young and managing homesand husbands , and in their forties , all this is taken from them through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Empty handed , their emotional crises over , with all their maturity crying to be used , what are they to do ? " We 'd commit suicide , " said one of them to me , " if it were n't for our clubs . They give us something to do , they give us a renewed sense of our importance in life . " Here is an immense organization which changes the greatest tragedy in the world , the tragedy of the middle-aged woman of to-day ? the average , cheerful homewoman ? into a serene accomplishment , into a greater fruition . And it is stimulating to realize that , once given the opportunity to release their energies and latent abilities , these average women become superior . A few months ago , at the Federation 's council meeting in Atlanta , I was sitting with Corm Harris on the platform during one of the sessions . She looked long at the two score officers round us , and then down at the women in the audience . " These are no ordinary women , " she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Faces with power , and restraint and knowledge and suffering written in them . Placed in a frame of appreciation and service , all that was fine in them rose and dominated the picture of their personalities . Moving in so great a mass , the Federation necessarily will express mass intelligence with all its faults and its virtues ? with the wonderful saving grace that in all women there is a wistful hungering for beauty they have not known , which makes the heart ache when suddenly some expression of it breaks out in a chance speech or action . So if the woman in the Federation has not the aristocratic keenness of intellect that characterizes the League of Women Voters , she has something which to the artist and to the poet is far more important and more potent . She is a simple , modest woman , seeking in her own way for richness and beauty in life . She is trying to realize through her club some of the dreams of her youth , and her club is a picture of that completeness for which she has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her in a life spent in the service of her loved ones . If she is happiest as a good citizen , there is for her the legislative department of her club with its ambitious program of work and study . But in the same club , if she yearns for aesthetic manna , she can hear an aria from " TannhUuser " or a sixteenthcentury c/unison and have its place in the history of music made clear to her . Or if in her youth she painted " flower pieces , " and they hang , faded in their frames , to remind her of her dreams , there is the art department through which she gathers the few pictures in her community together into a collection , and encourages and sends for loan exhibitions from the big art centers . It is a most important fact to the aesthetic development of America that , as a part of its program in this direction , the Federation in thousands of communities is encouraging young artists and young musicians by developing a greater appreciation in the community itself of what its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from home through rejection and ignorance . The Federation is the great artistic audience of the country , and it is conscientiously developing its powers of appreciation to a higher plane . Inadequate sometimes , but authentic , is its striving toward the great kinship of beauty . It is tempting to that sort of critic who wishes to bludgeon people into an immediate acceptance of certain ? and frequently his own ? style of art , to reproach so large an audience as this of the Federation for their subjection to other artistic patterns . Why creative writing of a quality which appeals to a scattered few thousands should he expected to be attractive to the hundreds of thousands in the Federation is hard to say , except that , being women and resting under a historical inferiority complex , they must be admonished andreproved . Being women , and wishing to please , they are distressed by this criticism . They have not the selfassurance to answer , " I like what I like , " which is the basis of a true enjoyment of anything , a picture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall say ? A blacksmith gets as complete an emotion of beauty out of the ninety-eight-cent chromo , painted while he waited in loose-lipped wonder , as does the most exquisitely cultivated young man from contemplation of a Derain . Ezra Pound questions if there exist three hundred people in the world worth writing to ? at the most a " half thousand exiles . " But the women are scolded because their conception of art does not happen to be the one of the particular cultural cudgel-bearer of the moment . The women are scolded because they like to hear second and third and even fourth-rate British novelists and poets in preference to the same species of native origin , who are also languishing for the shekels of the ehautauqua , and club circuit . In this the club women are no different from the most advanced intellectualists in the country whose small magazines print the works of Englishmen and translations from other foreigners . This demand for foreign art arises from a need of transfertilization , which is as vital in the world of the mind as it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of this inexorable law the clubwomen are as authentic in their part as the modernist in his . To rest in your own strength and in your own and true quality of perception , but with a mind open to change , and flexible , is the most that can be expected of any person of culture . And in woman that quality of wanting to understand is active , because her appreciations rest in her emotional fixations , which are continually , and paradoxically , in a state of flux . This attitude the clubwoman has , and how much more fruitful is that reaching out for the world 's treasure than the bridge-playing of her more worldly sister ? not that she does not play bridge upon occasion or don breeches and trek out into primitive spaces . For she is a jolly , hearty person , and in cities and country places she is at once the society and club woman ? conservative , but with the salty edge of progressive ideas eating into and warding off complacency . The club movement may have its periods of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is certain because it is a genuine and permanent organism in a growing and young country . It will survive because its underlying aim is the development of millions of women into intelligent and emotionally-colored human beings . While the Federation did not fight actively for suffrage , the enfranchisement of women brought to it a weapon they are learning how to use wisely through their civic studies . The peak of activity in this new and large school in citizenship is attained by the League of Women Voters . In the first days after their victory the women considered disbanding the organizations devoted to political emancipation , only to find after a year of indecision that they had a still more difficult task ahead of them . It was Mrs. Catt who first saw that , if the vote was only a political tool , it was one which women must be educated to use intelligently . Here was a task leading to the more subtle emancipation of women , with none of the emotional exaltation attaching to it that had so colored the fight for the vote . With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cn masse into the League of Women Voters , bound in high honor to make good on its beforesuffrage declaration that , if women were given the ballot , they would make a definite and constructive contribution to their country 's citizenship . " You young women have the hard work ahead of you , " Dr. Anna Howard Shaw said to them just before they got the vote . " Our part . was easy . " Hard work indeed it is proving to be , but the politically minded women have more than justified the existence of the League , young as it is . Headed by Mrs. Maud Wood Park , distinguished for her unswerving impartiality and her political astuteness , the League has steered an able course between the Scylla and Charybdis of partisan polities , and held straight to its course of training women on all matters which will make them effective citizens , to act as they will within their particular political parties , but to act as intelligent . citizens always . Their political sagacity is honored by statesmen and politicians alike . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It does not " resolute , " and then fade away in a fog of benignant well-wishing to this or that legislative need . It studies and analyzes hills and propositions that affect the interests of women , or of the nation 's government , and having come to a conclusion , it acts . How rightly it acts is evidenced by the fact that in Washington Mrs. Park is generally regarded as the most expert legislative tactician in the country . She is admired all the more by women that , charming as she is , with an extraordinary pale beauty and mental sensitiveness , she has never used this personality to sway susceptible lawmakers on their human side . She has won out by the logic , the justice , and the necessity of the measure she , and with her , the Legislative Council , have advocated . The Sheppard Towner Maternity law , the Cable bill reinvesting American women married to foreigners with their original citizenship , the Social Hygiene and Federal Reclassification bills are some of the measures the League has furthered into national legislation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on just as actively . The League bears almost the entire burden of pushing forward protective legislation for women , in their industrial and educational interests , in child welfare , social hygiene , in uniform laws , in efficiency in government , in legislating for moderate living costs . In every state it conducts study courses in legislation on all these matters . As a consequence , experts in every branch of government respect the League and give it the benefit of their researches , and the League in turn gives support to forward-looking public servants . At its last convention the League endorsed the World Court as the next effective step toward an association of nations , an endorsement concurred in by the most partisan Democrats and Republicans in its ranks , and immediately made its endorsement effective by commissioning Mrs. Park and a committee to go to Europe , study conditions there , and see what common ground of pacifist action they could find with the women of Europe . Armed with these findings , the League has begun its work for the World Court . A spirited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not fear ideas . They are not afraid to face facts contrary to their interests as leisure-class women ? for they are that largely . In the sittings of the League 's last convention I heard discussions of our international policies , questioning of our drift toward imperialism , of the real difficulties of disarmament , that might even have won the approbation of Sir Auckland Geddes , so keen were they , so informed . I mention the British Ambassador because it was he , who at their Pan-American convention told them that , if they really wanted to be intelligent citizens , they must find out something about world issues in terms of hard facts , not in the easy terms of large gestures toward the uncertain heaven of idealism . The Ambassador , discounting the easy way to their favor , paid them the finer tribute of speaking to them honestly about the fearful condition of the world . The annual meetings of the League are an auspicious event in national circles , and the great of more than one land , men and women , come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of comprehension , and possibly , of support . It was before the League that CXINTII. ? No. 883. - 16 Mr. Hoover came first , with the Administration 's advocacy of a World Court ; it was before the League that Sir Robert Cecil came : it was from the able leaders of the League that he learned American sentiment was for the League if it could be made to function in really vital issues , such as the Ruhr situation . It was the League which enacted a greater friendship between the women of all the Americas , and it is the League which through its counsel is training South American women in practical procedures of organization , giving them advice and support and encouragement in their projects . One questions whether there are human beings with enough enthusiasm for the ideal of a complete citizenship in a true democracy to permit the League of Women Voters to grow and prosper . Already the clever district leader finds she must leaven her civics with tea parties , after the ancient manner of the Ladies Aid . She must humanize her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large groups , but to the extent that she accomplishes this she has performed a truly noble task . In a country bulging with people careless of the unending vigilance which the healthful conduct of a democracy requires we can well be grateful for the existence of a watchful organization which realizes that the ultimate test of a democracy is the happiness and the freedom it brings to the human beings who comprise it . If the League is an organization which aims ultimately to depersonalize woman into the perfect citizen , there is another and an aggressive wing of the woman 's movement which attacks the problem from the opposite direction . It is the National Woman 's Party , and it wishes immediately to depersonalize woman so far as legislation is concerned , and then to reconstitute her in her special functions . The Woman 's Party is regarded by many women 's organizations as their common enemy , being as it is the radical wing of the woman 's movement in the United States . This attitude proceeds from the intention of the Woman 's Party to remove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against women on sex lines , and that destruction accomplished , to create other laws which shall give necessary protection in industry , marriage , and other legal and social relationships , to men and women alike as human beings , regardless of sex , but regardful of the minimum of physical endurance for both . To accomplish this it seeks to tear down the whole body of protective legislation which has been built up through years of painful struggle by the majority of women 's organizations , and the women 's organizations are therefore fighting its program tooth and nail . The women who have set themselves to accomplish this are young ? and led by a young woman . " I do n't dare mention Alice Paul 's name aloud among my associates or I 'd be anathema , " said a woman nationally famous . " She 's got no real party . But that lone woman sitting up there on Capitol Hill with her young girl organizers has made more trouble for us than an army . Those girls are good looking , they 're witty and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shoulders . It 's a pity we ca n't have them with us instead of fighting us tooth and nail . " I heard echoes of the fighting aL every convention : at the Women 's Industrial Conference , where logically they demanded a place on the program to explain their stand against protective industrial legislation ; at the League of Women Voters ' convention where delegates told how state legislators ignorant . of the divergence of aim , espoused proposals of the Woman 's Party , taking them as the will of all organized women . Opposite the Capitol in the magnificent mansions which house the Woman 's Party , the traditional feminism aroma of antagonism to men is still in the air . I understand Miss Paul frowns on shorthair as a symbol of a surface feminism which might misrepresent the aims of the Woman 's Party ; but the girls occasionally wave short locks to the conservative wind . By accident or fate , these bearers of the torch handed to them by an older generation are young , attractive , and enthusiastic , with the triumphant assurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the young women the country over who are winning their spurs as writers , artists , actresses , doctors , lawyers , real estate brokers , are enrolled in the lists of the Woman 's Party . I am hazarding a guess that it is not so much a clearsighted enthusiasm for the cause , as it is their absolute and worshipful faith in the genius and sincerity of Miss Paul which inspires them to leave homes of comfort and position to enter on the hard onenight-stand work of the Woman 's Party . If married , they have a tendency to keep their maiden names ; they have their own careers . Their splendid physique has not yet been depleted by their double burden of wife and career . The husband of one member was reading in the iiarty 's declaration of principles the clause concerning the separate identity of women in marriage . " What does it mean , " he asked his wife . " I suppose , " she drawled , with a twinkle in her brown eyes , " that you wo n't be mistaken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They 'd even want us to hear the children , " complains another masculine critic . Well , I do n't suppose they 'd object if that function were more equalized between the sexes . Fifty years ago at Seneca Falls suffrage was only one of the many rights that little band of fearless women demanded . The emphasis necessarily had to he placed on the vote , but that necessity was deplored because in their eyes there were so many rights equally vital to woman 's advance . The Woman 's Party maintains it is only going on with the original program . It declares that : " Women to-day , although enfranchised , are still in every way subordinate to men before the law , in government , in educational opportunities , in the professions , in the church , in industry , and in the home : " and that the Woman 's Party will work " to remove all forms of the subjection of women in law and in custom " ; that woman " shall in every way be on an equal plane in rights , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in responsibilities and obligations . " Miss Paul does not hope to see all this come to pass in her day , but she is carrying on a program formulated by pioneers of an earlier day . Miss Paul holds that economic independence is the next step forward . Yet it was profoundly significant that every reference to legislation intended to protect woman in industry in her interests as a mother , and in her home , met with prolonged applause from possessors of economic independence meeting in the Women 's Industrial Conference , called by the Woman 's Bureau of the Department of Labor in Washington last winter . Here were no theorists of feminism . Here were the daily practicers of it , in final tests of hard reality . No delegate here , no workingwoman , talked of work as a " career . " it was discussed in the light of a necessary evil . The facts which moved some hearers to resort to their handkerchiefs were statements of speakers that the ultimate end of motherhood , plus a day-long job , was enfeebled children ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessity , a mother and her mothering . Here was sympathetic comprehension of the fact that the great crises of childhood are psychological ; that children wither and die without the sun of their mother 's presence . Here was an understanding that a home from which the mother was absent , was an orphanage ; and if there was no mention of the bloom of womanhood that is forever destroyed in the women who have day-long jobs it was because work for bread and a roof over one 's head and for milk for one 's children is the most absolute fact of life , a fact which overrules every demand of the soul , aesthetic or spiritual . Another aspect of this concern with fundamental facts is the birth control end of the woman 's movement , which has enlisted many women who fought for suffrage . Remarkable has been the gradual growth in effectiveness , and the concomitant conservatism of the woman who single-handed , in jail and out of it , with no money , no aid , fought for the legal right of a woman to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by every variety and combination of hypocrisy and of vested interest , but with an astounding courage , she has come through to a mellow and steady effectiveness , her cause made respectable as women and men of consequence and position in the community came to her aid . The control of a woman over her job , the control of a woman over her person , the control of a woman over her amusements , over her wages , the control of a woman over her family 's morals , each of these has had some organization to make it a living issue . The Women 's Christian Temperance Union with its enormous power has as its accomplishment the unquestionably large part it played in bringing about the Prohibition amendment and the permanent abolition of the saloon . The Young . Women 's Christian Association has written a record of nobility in achievement for women whose magnitude it is difficult to grasp . Beginning with her spiritual needs and not ceasing until every normal activity of a woman has been included in its program , that organization has done more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign young woman than any other organization in the world . Animated by a true religious spirit which has discounted race , religion , and prejudice , if only there was the need to serve , it has stretched out the hand of love to women in every rank of life ? actress , artist , factory girl , housewife , clerk . The woman in the Y. W. has stood for the interests of the working girl , for the minimum wage , when these interests ran counter to the financial interests of her husband , and of her class . To attempt even to outline the story of the Young Women 's Christian Association would cover more pages than I am given in which to consider the activities of all women 's organizations . Certainly this running survey of the larger women 's organizations is enough to confound those critics who complain that in the two , three , or four years women have . had political power they have accomplished little . What more could they do than this activity in every direction spelling development for women ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human beings to happiness and to self-interest is the remarkable progress of the Association of Business and Professional Women , an association for the secretary , the advertising woman , the doctor , the newspaper woman ? an association through which women get the needed vitalizing experiences which come from comradeship alone . Here are women who , having made their way in the world , recognize that just to work is not enough ? the abundant , the beautiful life lies beyond . These clubs have a prestige and a power rightfully won , especially throughout the South where the woman who works is still in the twilight zone of social recognition , in the South where a woman can yet be gossiped about if she walks out into the street alone at night . This organization has meant much to lonely business women who find through it pleasure and riches and friends . The association has been aggressive in promoting the vocational interests of women in co-operation with the Federal Vocational Bureau and with women 's colleges , and has raised the standards of business women throughout the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit of fair play . They have learned to discard the pettiness that is a necessary corollary of a life hedged in by four walls and concerned with little things , which women could make important only by emphasizing them out of their true proportions . " It 's wonderful to come to a convention , " said a noted clubwoman . " No matter how much you love your family , you have a special kind of love for the women with whom you work . " And it is n't all hard work , it is n't all study sessions and legislative lobbying . The women have learned how to play together . They laugh more , and they see things more in their true perspective . No woman can persist in hugging her individual tragedy quite so vehemently to her breast when she is in company with many women with similar tragedies who have learned how to smile , how to become large and generous and aglow with life through transmuting their repressed love into some form of social activity , of social good . The mass of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual liberties , especially those liberties which spell harm to the propertied interest of women in their families and certain standards of virtue . On a convention floor this winter heard a woman relate the progress in her state legislature of a law designing the return of truant husbands and their punishment , and a rustle of approbation attended her words . Surely the desertion of a family is a greater crime than stealing some plethoric purse . It is hard to explain one 's repugnance to legislation for the permanence of man 's and woman 's affections , legislation which will blot the tragedy out of life , except by one 's instinctive feeling that it will at the same time legislate the mystery and the ecstasy out of life which are its concomitants as well . But nature is resourceful and abundant , and what is denied growth in one direction springs up and flourishes in another .                     