@@488301

rill-1E FAILURE OF THE JURY to convict the ex . ' . Attorney General , Harry M. Daugherty , and the Alien Property Custodian , Thomas W. Miller , is not as disheartening as it appears . It was an extremely difficult case because , the statute of limitations having run , these men could not be tried on the direct charge of bribery , but only on the charge of having conspired to accept bribes . That rendered the task of the prosecuting officer extremely difficult and this particular jury could not be convinced . We sincerely hope that the District Attorney , Emory R. Buckner , will not be deterred from moving for an early retrial . If so , we trust he will this time follow the suggestions made from time to time in these columns as set forth in the article by Mr. Mels elsewhere in this issue . No stone . must be left unturned to bring these men to justice , or to establish their innocence . They should be eager for a retrial . If the case is dropped now it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one kind of justice for men who can pay their lawyers $50,000 or $60,000 and another for the poor men who fall into the clutches of the law . It is , admitted that Daugherty destrOyed bank records to cover up his actions and that some of Merton 's Liberty bonds passed to Mr. Miller 's account . Shall people say that Republican politics prevented the bringing out of the truth and convicting these men ? O NE OF MUSSOLINI 'S COLLEAGUES , after denying assorted reports that Mussolini was about to undergo an operation and to declare war on Turkey , that the chief of the Fascisti had resigned and that Italy was buying up Portuguese colonies cheap , continued I am just about tired of denying reports such as these . If things continue in this way I shall have to establish a special office for denying falsehoods . His Excellency might find it cheaper to let the opposition press and the foreign correspondents function freely . As it is , with the responsible unfriendly press suppressed no one takes any denial at face value and any hostile rumor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth believed he must set the unfriendly truth free too . Censorship of a nation 's news is an admission ' of weakness and an invitation to liars . R USSIA in these days is not so much censoring the news as trying to censor the production of news . The statement of the opposition leaders within the Communist Party , repudiating their manner of opposition , is an extraordinary document . We disagreed with the majority of the Central Committee it said on a number of principal problems . These views we still retain . But we categorically repudiate the theory and practice of the freedom of forming groups and fractions . . . . We declare that we definitely give up fractional methods of defense of our views because of the danger of such methods for the unity of the party . Here is the doctrine of party discipline frank and unlovely . These men have fought for principles in which they still believe but , for the sake of party unity , they renounce the struggle . They would make of the party an inhuman super- , machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of crisis such a doctrine can be understood ; in the long run it can only lead to a deadening uniformity . As a matter of fact these men deny their own interpretation of history . Their opposition is not born out of their own heads ; it grew out of the changing social structure of the soviet state , and the same economic forces which have thrust them into opposition in the past ( as Louis Fischer will show in an early issue of The Nation ) will throw them or others into a new workers ' opposition in the future . Economics and personality have thrown Stalin and Trotzky into conflict before , and will again . Lenin foresaw their personal incompatibility with uncanny accuracy . Max Eastman has just revealed Lenin 's long-concealed " testament . " Trotzky , he said , was " the most able man " in the Central Committee , but suffered by his " too far-reaching self-confidence " and absorption in administration . Stalin , he thought , suffered from " administrative impulsiveness , " lacked patience , and was too much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trotzky 's second revolt has failed in its first attack . But permanent peace can not be built upon the cornerstone of bureaucratic autocracy . T HE WAR , IS OVER in Czecho-Slovakia . Germans have been admitted to the Cabinet . Hitherto ministries have been composed as nationalist coalitions ? Czech Socialists , agrarians. and conservatives uniting against similar assortments of Germans and Slovaks . It was ridiculous ; it was war . German schools and theaters were closed ; the use of the German language was proscribed . The years have dampened resentments born of Austrian rule and minimized racial self-consciousness . The new Czech Cabinet is a bourgeois coalition ; and Czech and German Socialists will fight arm in arm against it . This is common sense . Nearly a third of the young republic 's population is German ; under any normal regime its interests are as divided as those of the warring parties that make up Germany . If the new coalition means that the Czechs have given up their hope of turning German children into little Bohemians , they may end by finding themselves nearer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Czecho-Slovakia 's declaration of peace has a meaning far outside its borders . The Versailles provisions for the protection of national minorities have not worked ; Poland and Rumania still find diisonant groups of persecuted races at odds with the nationalist powers that be . The Czechs point the way out . C ANTON 'S CONQUERING ARMIES are sweeping on in Central China , to the consternation of those treaty-port foreigners who have cheerfully minimized the nationalist movement . Their successes , indeed , have reached the danger-point . Lesser militarists are tumbling out of opposition into alliance with them . This produces immediate victories ; but it dilutes the spirit which has made Canton . Have these patriotic Southerners leaders enough to train in Sun Yat-sen 's principles all the brigand armies that are falling into their arms ? Feng Yu-hsiang 's difficulties were partly due to similar successes in the North ; the Christian general found that allies Who came to him in moments of triumph could not be counted upon in the hour of trial . Chiang Kai-shek , the Canton general , after leveling the ancient walls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart of China , has moved down the great river and threatens Shanghai , the metropolis at its mouth . Revolts have weakened Sun Chuan-fong 's rear , and the students , always fervent nationalists , are organizing in the centers of opposition to Canton . This tactic , learned from the Russians , of winning civilian support to an army , is peculiarly effective in China . N AVY DAY is celebrated in the United States on October 27 , the birthday of Theodore Roosevelt , one of the navy 's staunchest friends . And while the Navy League urges an America " strong enough to gain respect for its ideals " the Reserve Officers Association of the United States pleads for action against the subversive organizations which are so unpatriotic as to be working for peace . The Association to Abolish War , the Association for Peace Education , the Intercollegiate Peace Association , the National Woman 's Christian Temperance Union , the Woman 's International League for Peace and Freedom , the Woman 's Peace Society  --  these are among the fierce and predatory organizations from which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course they have mellifluous and soft-sounding names ; but the dangerous fact is that these societies are really opposed to war ; they want war to be abolished ! Probably if these groups of wrong-headed persons had their way they would eradicate the army root and branch . " As a Reserve Officer , " pleads the president of the association , " do n't you believe it is your obligation tobe informed of the forces constantly working against preparedness ? " Indeed , and indeed . And in order to stop this dangerous trend in our modern society , why not follow the suggestion of Major General Mark L. Hersey ? The General wants military training for girls as well as boys ; not rough , manly drill , of course , but bugle bands or fifeand-drum corps . If you catch the female young enough and subject her to the advantage of military discipline almost from the cradle , will you not have fewer women 's societies working for peace , that un-American goal ? T HE BOTTOM HAS FALLEN out of cotton prices , due to the anticipated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from two to four million more bales than world markets can absorb at prices which net the farmer ? a reasonable return . At the ruinous prices forecast , a slump of $500,000,000 in the purchasing power of the South is inevitable , with a resulting backwash in the automobile , radio , furniture , textile , and other manufacturing industries . In these desperate circumstances a meeting was called in- Memphis of governors , heads of cooperatives , bankers , United States Senators , and business men . At the ominous hour of midnight , October 12 , resolutions were passed demanding that 4,000,000 bales of this year 's crop be held in storage . This was to be financed by the Federal Intermediate Land Banks , the last days of October being set aside as " acreage reduction week , " in which a drive for a 25 per cent reduction in acreage next year should . be made . The Government is being petitioned from all sides to aid both in financing and in acreage reduction . All of this puts the Administration in a most uncomfortable situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends have taken in respect to acreage reduction of rubber by the British Government . Rubber and cotton are not far from the same basic cost per pound to produce , but at the present writing the former sells for about four times as much , and the clamor of the cotton-grower for some of the same medicine is understandable . Restriction of production to meet requirements is rudimentary common sense . We hope it can displace , in cotton and many other things , the tragic chaos and waste of laissez-faire  --  provided always that ample requirements are allowed for in the budget , and that an artificial shortage is not created , raising prices against the ultimate consumer . W HEN WHITE MEETS YELLOW on the Pacific Coast it is usually the latter who is the victim . Hence one sits up and takes notice when it appears that the tables have been turned in Oakland , California . At least we read in the newspaper of the University of California , the Daily Californian , of September 30 that Parents of the striking students of the John Swett @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Hunter , superintendent of schools . The charge would be the violation of the State compulsory-education law . All but thirty-seven of the white students of the school have been removed by their parents as a protest against the continued refusal of the school authorities to deny the eighteen Chinese pupils entrance to the regular classes . A committee of the mothers of the striking students , armed with affidavits that the superintendent had promised the removal of the Chinese , have canvassed the district in an attempt to have the parents of the remaining thirty-seven white children withdraw them from the school . The school authorities are entitled to all praise for standing up so unflinchingly in behalf of ' the Chinese pupils , but are they wise in attempting to punish the outraged white parents ? A little studious neglect might serve better . The parents and their children are enough punished through deprivation of school privileges . Leave them alone , and , like Little Bo Peep , they will come home , probably not wagging their tails but carrying them discreetly between their legs . - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I politicians and pressmen and others whose favors they desired . Nowadays they do it only a little less crudely . The Daily Worker ( Chicago ) quotes from a circular sent by the secretary of the Illinois Press Association , before its annual meeting at the University of Illinois , to editors and publishers in the home State of Mr. Insull : Those who would like to do so can write to the railroads for transportation the same as they have done in the past . In other words , you go to the ticket agent and buy your ticket , take a receipt for the money paid for this ticket , send the receipt to the railroad company passing through your city and they will give you enough advertising to pay for the amount of the ticket . This applies to yourself , all members of your family , and any members of your newspaper staff . The number is not limited . The Worker calls this " plain and open bribery of the press arranged so as to evade the laws which prohibit the issuance of passes by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like to know what the Committee on Ethics of the Illinois Press Association calls it . ? T T TT A TT IT TTL1 %NATI A T n n sF Ttaffns.arsrurrilic . Indiana , to be precise . And all hail the pupils of the Jeffersonville school who are protected from subversive influences by the forthright action of their principal . The latter gentleman knows a pair of legs when he sees one ; he knows that legs are improper when they are female ; consequently , when a nine-year-old schoolgirl comes to school in knickers , revealing the fact that she is bifurcated above the knees , he knows that his duty bids him send her home , thus sparing the rest of the pupils the horrid sight . For three weeks Virginia Aleen 's mother , who seems to have decided that there was something not quite sound in the principal 's attitude , has sent Virginia , attired in knickers , to school in the morning and after lunch . And for three weeks , twice a day , the principal , strong in his righteousness , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who agree that a nine-year-old girl in knickers is a corrupting and dangerous spectacle will rejoice that our youth is to be kept pure in Jeffersonville at least , and that education progresses apace  --  but not on two legs . Never that . UR ESTEEMED CONTEMPORARY , the Philadelphia OU Public Ledger , has , or thinks it has , or thinks it might have a considerable number of Roman Catholic readers . Naturally , therefore , it takes no chances on hurting their feelings . During the World Series between the New York and St. Louis baseball teams a high panjandrum in the office of the Public Ledger noticed that the players of the latter city were referred to in a 48-point head as " Cardinals . " Never again , said he . It might offend some pious churchman , and orders were issued throughout the office accordingly . The next day , therefore , dispatches from St. Louis were edited so as to eliminate the dread word . The citywas said to be gay with " Card colors " and " Red Bird posters . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Our National Bird . ' " But somehow the cartoonist was forgotten . Innocently he made a drawing showing two figures , New York and St. Louis , in a race . St. Louis was distinguished by  --  a cardinal 's hat ! The cartoon got into one edition . Then a hurricane swept through the office beside which the late blow at Miami was a zephyr . The next edition contained another cartoon  --  by another cartoonist . It depicted a gnome sitting on the branch of a tree painting the autumn foliage . The caption was " Jack Frost . " We wonder if Philadelphia 's Roman Catholics are duly appreciative of the tender way in which their feelings have been coddled . A PLOT OF GROUND five feet by ten is not much for a garden . But to the children of New York 's East Side , where crowded tenements spill their contents of humans and animals and general house-furnishings all over the street , it can be a little paradise . Five feet by ten : but fifty square feet of earth uncontaminated by glass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  good dirt , not nasty dirt ; fifty square feet of property in the confines of which the temporary owner is his own master . He may plant radishes to eke out the family larder or American Beauty roses to soothe his own soul . He puts the seed in the ground and before his eyes the miracle is enacted ; the seeds sprout , the sprouts rise , the leaves open , the buds appear , the flower and fruit follow in their time . This cycle of the year , ignored as commonplace by more fortunate ones , is brought into the slums of New York under the auspices of the New York Plant , Flower , and Fruit Guild ; the gardens are on Rockefeller Inei , ii , uLe land , in Avenue A. iweive years ago , wnen the plan was first tried out , eighty children responded ; this year a thousand came and two hundred had to be turned away . But there are other empty lots and vacant corners in the city . Surely this is the most intelligent , the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ places , ordinarily the repository for every sort of refuse , could be put . W E HAVE WELCOMED the Crown Prince of Sweden , and Trudy , and Mother Corson , and Suzanne , and Queen Marie . Broadway has cheered , and ticker tape has feathered the air ; the khaki boys have marched , the bands have played , and Mayor Walker has welcomed the national guests with appropriate  --  brief  --  speeches . If only the Mayor could solve the subway problem as well as he solves the problem of welcoming speeches ! An historian might interpret American popular psychology by studying the Sunday-supplement photographs of these crowds . As a matter of fact , Queen Marie , despite the enormous blare of newspaper publicity that foreshadowed her coming , did not get a tithe of the welcome that greeted Trudy , and not as much as did Suzanne . We have a fondness for tinsel crowns in these days , but we love the laurel wreaths of athletic championship still more . There was a time when America would have hissed a king or queen ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was a passion for the men who fought tyranny in Europe which we might regain . We named streets after Kosciuszko ; we sent a ship down the harbor to greet Kossuth ; but in 1924 we refused to let Karolyi speak , and in 1926 we do not even know that behind Marie 's fifty Paris dresses are the groans of thousands of political prisoners clapped into jail without trial , and the cruelty of Europe 's rottenest " aristocracy . "                     