@@486118

S for peace , it is only necessary for your Government to cease to violate or set aside your own Constitution by your attacks on the liberty of the Irish people " ? thus Father O'Flanagan 's reply to Lloyd George 's assertion that the Sinn Fein leader has closed the door to peace . On both sides it is a lamentably weak ending to the parleys . The collapse of the peace negotiations now leaves Ireland in a worse plight than ever , with her complete economic ruin pending  --  chiefly because the British garrisons are not withdrawn and the stubborn unyielding pride of Lloyd George prevents a real approach to peace . Meanwhile Bishop Cohalan threatens with excommunication those who organize and take part in ambushes , kidnappings , and murders . But the situation gets steadily worse and bloodier . It is guerrilla warfare which is being carried on despite martial law and arrests , despite armored cars , despite a steady increase in the number of the troops . Sinn Fein , Father O'Flanagan declares , is a peaceful political organization using violence only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under any conditions . Passive resistance to violence is the wisest policy for it . That does not mean that the Irish should supinely submit . As one of the earliest advocates of passive resistance put it , " it is a state of activity , ever fighting the good fight of faith , ever foremost to assail unjust power , ever struggling for liberty , equality , fraternity , in no national sense , but in a world-wide spirit . It is passive only in this sense  --  that it will not return evil for evil , nor give blow for blow , nor resort to murderous weapons for protection or defense . " But whether the Irish see this truth or not , help must soon be sent from Americafor the wounded , the destitute , and the suffering . If the Red Cross continues recreant to its duty a new organization will inevitably arise , and soon , to help Ireland . " RISH Rebel Leaders to be Used as Shields " ? thus the word from Dublin . No , dear reader , this is not Sinn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general commanding the Kerry district is going to place twenty Irish republican leaders " as hostages with all transports moving armed forces of the Crown by road in the martial law areas . " Let us see ; how long ago was it that we were all execrating the Germans for using as hostages Belgian men , women , and children , at the head of their advancing columns ? We all rightly believed that this was pure fiendishness , cowardice , and an incredible inhumanity of which only Huns could be guilty . Does the fact that it is a British general who is today exposing unarmed prisoners to death at the hands of their people make it humane , wise , proper , and in accordance with the best Anglo-Saxon traditions of war-making ? T HE embattled Mr. Harding still labors under the delusion that he can find a middle-of-the-road plan which will satisfy the treaty Irreconcilables in the Senate , and yet preserve the treaty and something of the covenant , to please men like Mr. Taft and President Lowell . We venture to predict that he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaration that the treaty is dead will prove true . We look now for an attack upon the treaty itself as opposed to the covenant . Heretofore the bitter-enders have chiefly devoted themselves to the League of Nations . The wickedness of the treaty itself ; that it spells dishonor to America to accept it ; that it must be held chiefly responsible for the collapsed condition of Europe ; that it has been breached a dozen times by the Allies themselves as , for instance , by their violation of its obligations in increasing the armies of occupation from 70,000 to 130,000 men  --  all these things will now probably be dwelt upon by the Irreconcilables . They are no longer in fear of being called pro-German for so doing and they will meet a great popular response if they take this course . That men like Johnson or Borah or even Lodge will accept any modification of treaty or League we regard as absurd . If they do yield to party exigency they will lose their self-respect and the public 's belief in their sincerity . If Mr. Harding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irreconcilables stand fast , the Republican Party will be hopelessly split early in March and Mr. Harding 's administration ham-strung at the start . O THER news from Marion of hopeful import is Senator Harding 's repetition of his campaign pledge to urge a new department of social welfare with a Cabinet officer at its head , presumably a woman . It would be a most happy augury if this step forward should be taken as soon as the new Congress assembles . Not that a woman as Cabinet member is an indispensable part of the program . We should , of course , like to see one , but such a department of social justice  --  if we may revive a much abused phraseneeds primarily the most competent person to head it , irrespective of sex . For the moment we hear no further talk of a reorganization of the Interior Department to make it a great engineering and public works bureau combining within it reclamation , irrigation , the Alaskan and Panama railroads , all the river and harbor work now carried on by the army , and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureaus . Originally the plan was to get Herbert Hoover to head this new department , thus insuring its administrative success , its organization on the best possible lines , and the presence in the Cabinet of one of our really " best minds . " But talk of Mr. Hoover in the Cabinet wanes regrettably . Indeed , a group of Republican Progressives is at work to prevent his being asked or accepting . They wish to keep him free to be the Progressive candidate for the nomination in 1924 ? custom forbids a Cabinet officer to compete with a President who desires renomination  --  and they hope he will head a group of Progressives comprising such men as Gifford Pinchot and Everett Colby which proposes to use its group strength to prevent Hardingism from going too far . T HE whirligig of time has brought forth no more striking circumstance than the union of George Harvey and William J. Bryan in a plea for a referendum prior to a war . Of course , there are certain limitations in Col. Harvey 's proposal ; the referendum is not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offensive war ( ! ) . But the fact remains that Colonel Harvey and Mr. Bryan have now been urging upon Senator Harding at Marion the very thing that the pacifists and all true believers in popular government were urging upon Mr. Wilson in 1917 . Then it was replied that there could be no referendum as no machinery for taking it existed ( there was no trouble in creating a machinery for drafting Americans for the European slaughter ) and that , after all , the conduct of foreign affairs must rest with the Executive and Congress  --  a chief reason was really the knowledge that such a referendum would have proved that the country was as unwilling to go into the war as it was when it elected Mr. Wilson because he had up to that time kept us out of war . This is old straw now . But that the Republican President-elect is reported to be favorably considering the proposal is enough to make any one gape amazed who remembers the fierce outbursts of jingo rage when the referendum was first urged . A USTRIA , Bulgaria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are admitted to the great world league . So far , so good ; but a real world league , not under the pocket influence of the great Powers , would not have barred Germany and Hungary , Mexico , Russia , and the Baltic and Caucasian states . China is promoted to a seat on the League Council  --  a vantage-point whence she can watch the course of diplomatic events touching Shantung with more precision , and , we hope , more effect , than hitherto . This is greatly to the credit of the League Assembly . But the Assembly has also endorsed the anaemic world court scheme which requires no Power to submit its case , and binds no Power to accept the verdict . No , the first parliament of the League of Nations has not lifted the world toward a new era , nor demonstrated that this League can be an instrument of progress . Its most signal failure reveals the rotten core of the League covenant . When the Assembly asked to see the text of the mandates , the omnipotent Council which controls the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Assembly had to acquiesce . The world is left confirmed in its suspicion that the term mandate is but a hypocritical cloak for economic colonialism and financial imperialism . M R. J. M. KEYNES 'S review of Mr. Bernard Baruch 's book on the Treaty of Versailles is not only as brilliant as all his other writing , but it brings out clearly the fundamental difference in his point of view and of those Americans who apologize for this disastrous bit of peacemaking . Here it is : Where is it , then , that Mr. Baruch 's conception of the relations of men and nations fails us and dismays us ? Because he counts too low the significance of words  --  of words which he believes will be empty , and of professions which are disingenuous . It is dangerous to treat the living word as dead . Words live not less than acts and sometimes longer . The war , it may almost be said , was fought for words . Our victory raised the prestige of words , and the terms we promised enthroned them . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the curse which had destroyed her was inhaled by those who stood over her . The realism which taught that words were the tool of emperors , not their masters , has won after all , and the spirit which invaded Belgium triumphed in Paris . That is the true reason for the opposition in America to the whole treaty . If America ratifies the treaty the Kaiser 's spirit wins the war ; the solemn promise of Secretary Lansing and our Allies to the Germans that peace would be made on the Fourteen Points becomes another scrap of paper . Up to this time the cry of pro-Germanism against all who opposed the treaty has obscured the truth . But it will soon be clearer , just as it is daily clearer that the Reparations Commission  --  to which Mr. Baruch and others of the American delegation pinned their hopes for revision of the worst of the treaty ? " is not functioning and in all probability never will , " to quote Mr. Keynes , despite its present activity in hearing the German claims . Finally , Mr. Keynes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " one must be either ignorant , vicious , or an impractical idealist " to assert that a sound solution of the reparations problem could have been obtained in Paris , we are forced to believe that wisdom , virtue , and practical idealism dictated an unsound solution ! I T is unfortunate that Secretary of Labor Wilson , in ordering the deportation of Mr. Ludwig C. A. K. Martens as the agent of a movement which he held to be a menace to organized government , was forced at the same time to expel the sole representative in the United States of the Government of Russia , the person with whom all diplomatic or commercial business must be done . No evidence was adduced to show that Mr. Martens himself is interested in or engaged in overthrowing the Government of the United States ; it has been a matter for admiration that a man in his difficult position should have been able to keep himself so free from equivocal connections with radical organizations , and to stick so closely to his business of attempting to open trade relations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party . His only crime is his official connection with the Russian Government , and to all persons who have been hoping that the United States would eventually recognize that Government and open trade relations , the expulsion of Mr. Martens must come as a final disillusionment . It is a feather in the cap of the noisy followers of Czarism who have worked night and day in devious ways to perpetuate the present misery of Russia by preventing relief and trade , and who have supported the continued usurpation of the Russian embassy in Washington by that relic of the old regime who alone can accurately be called the " self-styled " ambassador of the " so-called " Russian Government . We hope that Mr. Martens , who is awaiting instructions from Russia , will carry his case to the Supreme Court of the United States . W HITEWASH was to be expected from the Naval Court of Inquiry which Secretary Daniels sent to Haiti . Secretary Daniels 's attitude throughout , the refusal of the Court to hear some witnesses and its bullying of others , made a whitewash @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a kind as that contained in the report and findings now made public is so arrant a refusal to face facts that it becomes a national disgrace . The navy officials discover only two " unjustifiable homicides " and sixteen other " serious acts of violence " during the entire occupation ! They tell us that " in every case the responsible party was duly . . . convicted and sentenced . " In direct contradiction of the testimony of the puppet President whom United States Marines installed in office , the Court says that the Haitian people would be unwilling to have the Marines depart . In the face of a period of sustained revolt provoked by American action and without parallel in Haitian history , they tell us that " for the first time in a hundred years tranquility and security of life and property may be said to prevail in Haiti . " The Nation charges that there has been slaughter of innocent Haitians , torture , robbery , oppression . A Congressional investigation , fearless and searching , will reveal these facts , the high officers composing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact to these crimes . R EPUBLICAN promises to repeal war-time legislation are not fulfilled by the Volstead bill which has passed the House and is before the Senate . The Lever law , which in spite of abuses has been useful in protecting the public in its food supply , is eliminated , while the passport restrictions  --  by which citizens are subjected to an unwarranted expense , delay , and censorship of opinion  --  remain , as does the infamous Espionage Act . It is true that the latter is suspended for the time , but as its provisions make it applicable automatically in any future war , it obviously remains in our administrative system to be invoked again at the first moment when executive tyranny is likely to want it . Meanwhile the right of free speech is still further invaded by the decision of the United States Supreme Court upholding the Minnesota sedition law , a measure going beyond the Federal act and making it a crime even for a parent to teach a child that one should not aid in carrying on a war . Chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Minnesota law interferes with the rights and immunities of a citizen of the United States which the Fourteenth Amendment specifically undertakes to protect against State action . B ANDITS with pistols and blackjacks invade the Hotel Astor at the dinner hour and hold up peaceable persons in their rooms ; bandits kill a jeweler in his office in the heart of New York in the middle of the day ; thieves and murderers of all descriptions roam the streets of New York until the city is hardly more safe than a mining camp in the up-roarious years . The wave of crime which of course followed the war and which has touched almost the entire civilized world , beats upon New York with particular violence , for the reason that the ancient lawlessness of the city is now allowed to go practically unchecked . If the police system has not utterly broken down , it is at least incompetent and corrupt to an extent hardly to be believed . Offenders are frequently not caught . It is as if the war-time habit of gathering up suspects by wholesale and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or other might possibly be made , had done away with the detection of specific crimes . Are all the competent detectives away acting as spies and strikebreakers ? One thing at least is true . Much of the blame for the disgraceful situation may be laid directly at the door of Mayor Hylan , whose administration has done nothing and appears to intend to do nothing to make the city safe . T HE new spirit of the agricultural consciousness of the nation was evidenced to a marked degree at the meeting of the American Farm Bureau Federation recently held in Indianapolis . The interest of 1,600 delegates from 40 States centered for the entire three-day session around matters having to do with the business side of farming  --  problems of marketing , finance , credit , revenue , transportation , and tariff . " Production " scarcely showed its head at this gathering . Those present had not come together to learn how to produce more food . They were there to consider from every angle the one phase of agriculture uppermost today in farmer 's minds  --  how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , business-like footing . Few persons recognize how effectively farmers are taking hold of what hitherto has been a neglected side of their business . Until comparatively recently the farmer has thought of increased income mostly in terms of larger returns through better methods of cultivation and animal breeding . He has been content to produce and give over into the hands of others the marketing of that which has resulted from his labor . The American Farm Bureau Federation now has a paid up membership in excess of a million farmers , and through it farmers of all organizations have been moulded together into a powerful unit which already has compelled recognition of its right to a voice in matters of far-reaching importance . It is highly significant , therefore , that 1,600 men , representing more than a million actual producers of food products , should come together to talk for three days of such things as taxation , the Federal Reserve system , rural credits , and exports . T HE National Consumers ' League has just published the results of its survey of women night workers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shows the same breakdown in the workers ' health , the same neglect of the children and demoralization of family life that was revealed in the League 's Rhode Island investigation of 1918 . A hundred women workers , taken at random , were visited by the League representative , and storekeepers , petty tradespeople , the superintendent of the largest woolen mill , and the secretary of the Wool Council were all interviewed . Of the hundred women only four were unmarried . The majority were from twenty-five to forty years of age , and had babies varying from one to three years . Thirty-nine of these night workers had four children , while the average was a family of three children , mostly under seven years . It is , therefore , the young married women , with young children , who work on the night shift , with a twenty-hour day at their home or in the factory . Of these hundred women over two-thirds felt themselves lucky if they got five hours sleep daily . Women work in the mills on the night shift right up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her child was born , and another only an hour . The most serious aspect of the inquiry is the large responsibility of the Government for the conditions reported . For nearly a year in 1918 the Alien Property Custodian had control of four of Passaic 's large textile mills . In December , 1918 , all but the Botany Worsted Mill were sold to non-German owners , the Botany being still under the Alien Property Custodian . Two inspections of this mill made by the National Consumers ' League , in 1918 and in June , 1920 , reveal unbelievable disregard for the workers ' welfare . We commend this report to that veteran admirer of the present administration , Mr. Samuel Gompers . N EWSPAPERS of New York and elsewhere announced recently that Jersey City had established a curfew order barring Negroes from the streets after nine o'clock . The large number of colored unemployed was given as the reason for this discriminatory piece of precaution . The colored citizens of Jersey City were immediate and vigorous in their protest , the National Association for the Advancement of Colored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the curfew order was equally agile . It vanished into the night . City officials disclaimed knowledge and responsibility . The Director of Public Safety announced publicly that he was " well aware that such an order would be unconstitutional , tyrannical , ridiculous , and incapable of enforcement , " and blamed his immediate subordinate , the chief of police , for acting without authority . It was this same Commissioner of Public ' Safety Mr. Charles F. X. O'Brien , however , who did not hesitate less than a year ago to promulgate an order that was unconstitutional , tyrannical , and ridiculous when he prevented former Congressman Victor Berger from speaking at a scheduled meeting , and caused him to be deported from Jersey City . The anti-Berger outrage apparently was capable of enforcement . All of which demonstrates the value of militant and organized protest against official injustice . F ROM the American Chamber of Commerce for Brazil in Rio de Janeiro we have received an appeal for aid in raising a fund of half a million dollars as an American gift to our sister republic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national existence , September 7 , 1922 . With the spirit of this offering we are entirely in accord ; we need no statistics showing that we do a billion dollars ' worth of business with her a year to move us to approve the proposal . Any chance for an offering of good-will to South America should be jumped at , particularly in view of the disrepute in which we stand today because of our wrong-doing in Haiti and Santo Domingo . But we object to the form suggested for this proposed gift  --  a monument . The world is far too poor to erect huge statues of liberty or what not . Let the fund be raised by all means , but let the income thereon breed good-will and mutual knowledge by an annual exchange of students and teachers between Brazil and the United States . There is no better way of promoting international amity and good-will . A monument would be mere sentimentality ; a living fund would be a blessing perpetually . N EVER before has the spirit of Christmas confronted such widespread need , nor brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the bickerings of diplomats have confused and obscured the desperate plight of peoples . France still needs aid . France lay in the tornado 's path ; she was the cockpit of war . For four years armies marched and counter-marched , and entrenched in the fairest soil of France , and the super-engines of war pulverized what a thousand years had painstakingly erected . The North of France is still in part an area of ruined towns and waste fields . The American Committee for Devastated France , 16 East 39th Street , New York City , is working to give the weakened population an opportunity to start life anew . This is constructive work of the highest order . This is the path that leads directly back to peace and civilization . The million dollars asked is , in these days of billions for armaments , not large . Still greater is the need in Central Europe . There , in Herbert Hoover 's words , 3,500,000 hungry waifs sit every day at America 's table . America alone in the world is in a position to save @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the European Relief Council , 42 Broadway , New York City . The immense sum is in fact but 5 per cent of America 's annual outlay for tobacco , cosmetics , and ice cream soda . But this is more than rescue from starvation ; as Hoover put it , " we are today displacing hate in the minds of children with affection . We shall never have peace unless we can eradicate the passions of the last five years from the minds of this next generation . " And there are , too , untouched by the great organizations , but reached by the American Relief for Russian Women and Children of 19 South La Salle Street , Chicago , and the American Friends Service Committee , of 20 South 12 Street , Philadelphia , the hungering millions of Soviet Russia . The Nation 's readers , we are sure , will once more give as generously of their means as heretofore . T HE discovery , in the junk of an old attic , of Cotton Mather 's copy of " Saducismus Triumphatus ; or , Full and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treatise by Joseph Glanvill which helped Increase and Cotton Mather to stand on the wrong side of the witchcraft controversy  --  will send many an ambitious collector up-garret again in the dim hope that something precious may have eluded the casual eye . Why has no hocus-pocus ever been invented for the finding of lost books ? With a witch-hazel twig you can test the earth for water ; with the leg of a daddy-long-legs you can find out where the cows have gone ; at the right quarter of the moon , with the proper ceremonies , you can dig for hidden treasure with the confident hope of finding it  --  if nothing happens to defeat your expectations . But with books the thing is different . There is , of course , the golden incantation practiced and encouraged by such wizards as the late George D. Smith ; but not many collectors can contrive that . There is also the long , long trail of the insatiable hunter who can give hours a day to the felicity of such research ; but he , too , is a creature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maddening luck of the man who finds great treasures without really looking  --  the man all true collectors disapprove of and envy . But the unfound secret , the adequate alchemy , the authentic witchery by which precious volumes may be discovered according to a system like that with which men break the bank at Monte Carlo  --  it still delays and no desire has brought it .                     