@@164693

Jose R. Capablanca , onetime world chsss champion , left by the Mauretania , predicted gloomily that in 15 years the game of chess will be exhausted , every combination of moves will be known even to amateurs . But he has a plan . Use a larger board , two additional pieces , four players . Mme. Halide Edib , Oriental feminist , sergeant in the Turkish army , once sentenced to death by a Sultan , arrived on the Aquitania , to address the Williamstown ( Mass . ) Institute of Politics . No Sultan-10ver , Mme. Halide divulged secrets of the Turkish harems , permitted herself a social slur : " The better class of Turks never practiced polygamy and men who had harems were socially in disfavor , despite the fact that the Sultans always had one . Public opinion in Turkey is against the harem . Polygamy is now bootleg . " Dr. Sven V. Knudsen herded 304 U.S. schoolboys aboard the Hellig Olav , bound on a goodwill tour of Scandinavia . What Pilgrim Knudsen told friends at the pier , what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The boy of today is the man of tomorrow . " Count Leo Tolstoi , venerable , charming son of the famed novelist , came on the De Grasse with two objects in view . One is to lecture during the Tolstoi centennial in August and September . The other is shrouded in deepest Slavic mystery . Emil Louis George Hohenthal departed on the Mauretania , weighted down by the titles of his high offices : Secretary of the European International Reform Association ; European Commissioner of the World Prohibition Federation . His - presence in the U. S. , he declared , is no longer needed . Reason : the U. S. is thoroughly dry . George Jean Nathan , dramatic critic ( Judge , The American Mercury ) , came down the gangplank of the Aquitania with a message : " All over France I found Pilsener at 12 a glass , and ice cold , too . " Capt . Robert Dollar , 84-year-old President of the Dollar Steamship Co . ( San Francisco ) , reached New York on the President Van Buren , rested from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told him his line will equip its new ships with airplanes . He wagged his square white beard with approval . " It 's a nice idea , " he grunted , " for people in a hurry . I have never ridden in an airplane . I do not intend to . " Widow Roosevelt , Parson Cadman , Producer Anderson , Editor Lorimer , with 1531 fellow-passengers , arrived on the Majestic .                     