@@493345

The Week THE keynote of President Coolidge 's message to Congress and , indeed , of his whole political and economic philosophy is summed up in one sentence of the first paragraph . " The country does not appear to require radical departures from the policies already adopted so much as it needs the further extension of these policies and the improvement in details . " This , of course , is practically the attitude which all American Presidents assumed from the end of the Civil War to the election of Theodore Roosevelt . During the Roosevelt and Wilson periods the atmosphere was different . From 1904 until 1918 there was an increasingly general anticipation in American public opinion , to which the occupant of the White I-louse usually con- tributed , that thorough-going changes were impend- i and ng , aria that the security and continuity of American national life depended not upon avoiding such changes but in technically and spiritually preparing for them . Mr. Coolidge represents a complete reversion to the earlier point of view . The institutions and policies of the American government as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are essentially and permanently right . Any improvement in popular welfare is more likely to " be retarded by government activity " than it is by the failure of the government to act . The first duty of the patriotic American is vigilantly to safeguard this system from change . It embodies a political truth , which Americans should impose on their future national experience and which they should consciously accept and proclaim as conclusive . TN one respect only does Coolidgism differ from the political philosophy of Garfield or McKinley . The early Republican Presidents were not afraid of the federal government . On the contrary they were disposed to increase its functions and to use it in many ways as a positive agency of the national economic welfare ? meaning by national economic welfare the enrichment of individuals . Mr. Coolidge is afraid of the federal government . He conceives of it as an agency which can not be invoked except for extremely limited purposes without impoverishing local responsibility and the vitality of local institutions . From his point of view he is , of course , wise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . His object is to protect vested interests and to enable them to enjoy for an indefinite future their existing opportunities and privileges undisturbed . The federal government at present is organized for the purpose of safeguarding these profitable privileges from attack and for that of making their exercise more profitable . Their regulation is for the most part left to the states , but the states are usually either indifferent or impotent ; and in so far as they might contribute towards a social policy the 14th Amendment as interpreted by the Supreme Courts clips their claws . There is no more effective way , consequently , of emasculating progressivism as a national political policy and issue than by positing , as Mr. Coolidge does , that the federal government can not assume positive social responsibilities without baleful results . DISREGARDING for the moment his general point of view , from which the New Republic en-tirely dissents , there are many of Mr. Coolidge 's specific recommendations to . Congress which arc sensible and businesslike . He argues ably in favor of the rapid reduction of the national debt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic proposal to delay by a generation the payment of the debt but against the slowing down of that process which is being brought about by the reduction of the super-taxes . He warns the public that federal expenditures are already deflated and are likely to increase in the future ? thereby providing another argument against the surrender of an important source of income . He asks for legislation along the lines recommended by the Coal Commission . He pleads with apparent sincerity and real force in favor of the entrance of the United States into the World Court . His references to a disarmament conference are ambiguous , but they do not forbid the dispatch of an American representative to a European conference to participate in at least some of the deliberations . It contains in all these respects no novelties , but in his attitude towards the nation 's business he gives the impression of a man who likes details and deals with them patiently , attentively and conscientiously . FOR the most part the language used by Mr. Coolidge in his last message is studiously moderate . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States to Utopia breaks through a presumably self-imposed moderation and reserve . But there is one passage in which his moderation deserts him , and this outburst , significantly enough , is provoked by the policy of the Republican party with respect to Muscle Shoals . " If anything were needed , " he says , " to demonstrate the almost utter incapacity of the national government to deal directly with an industrial and commercial problem , it would be provided by our experience with this property . " This passage indicates plainly what would happen to any proposal for the operation of Muscle Shoals by the federal government if it reached the White House , and it indicates also that the spectacle , of the performance by the government of any function which should in Mr. Coolidge 's opinion be left to private enterprise provokes in him the utmost irritation . What he calls a demonstration of incapacity is in this instance essentially absurd . He might just as well assert that the wrecking of the New Haven Railroad by unwise private management demonstrated the inability of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an inefficient agency for the conduct of any business about the purpose of which public opinion is divided , but it has certain advantages which private corporations do not possess in administering businesses such as the Panama Canal , the Post Office and waterworks , which are now admitted to be public services with an unmistakable function . Can the anthracite operators still maintain as virtuous a posture in the public eye as before their rejection of the Pinchot mediation terms ? We hardly think so , although they are doing everything that devious reasoning and high-priced publicity can do to justify themselves . The Governor 's proposal for a five-year agreement with a wage increase if it is reasonably possible without an increase in prices they reject because ( 1 ) it is arbitration of wages up but not down , ( 2 ) it involves ? they say ? fixing prices for a period of five years on the basis of present labor costs , and would thus put them in the same precarious position occupied by those bituminous operators who bound themselves to too high wages in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contract when prices fell , and ( 3 ) if there is anything to be squeezed from profits , why give it to the wage-earners instead of to the public in lower prices ? To any keen eye it is obvious that these are debating points , not reasons . For , ( 1 ) there is not the slightest justification for a reduction of anthracite wages now ? that point has not been at issue , ( 2 ) any wage agreement whatever involves a risk to the employer in changing prices , and there is no economic parallel between the risk of the bituminous operator in a chaotic , overdeveloped industry and that of the anthracite operator in a limited and virtually monopolized industry , and ( 3 ) the operators do not intend to reveal their profits if they can help it , and have no intention of sharing them with the public or encouraging the public to adopt any method of control by which it may secure lower prices . The operators say they fear the Governor because he called them a hard-boiled monopoly , and they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they are a hard-boiled monopoly and everybody knows it . And which is of greater value to the country , scotching Mr.- Pinchot 's ambition or getting the strike settled ? FORTY-ONE distinguished economists and industrial engineers have offered themselves as the next victims in the effort to bring enduring anthracite peace by addressing a homily to the miners and operators on the desirability of uninterrupted production , and the possibility of remedying the basic ills of the industry which give rise to strikes . They want " a continuing joint agency , " not to adjust grievances but to consider " the underlying economic and technical facts by which all questions of wages , working conditions and earnings must in the end be determined . " Joint effort in improving methods can raise wages and lower prices at the same time . This is good publicity in behalf of the salutary movement for cooperation between employers and unions in improving service , so that the public and the parties to the industry may all benefit . It can not be emphasized too strongly , however , that the essential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties , based on complete publicity for all-essential facts and . a willingness to operate the in industry as a public service . Obviously the time is not ripe for cooperation in the anthracite industry . Mutual distrust exists in place of mutual confidence because the operators , constituting an immensely profitable quasi-monopoly , will not admit that anthracite mining is a public utility , object to all forms of public control , and refuse standardization and publicity of their accounts . A decisive battle must - be fought and won by the public or the miners or . both on this issue before honest cooperation is possible . We think if most of the engineers and economists in question felt free to express their undiplomatic private opinions they would agree to this qualification . AS Senator Walsh remarked , it reestablishes confidence in the administration of justice to have the District Court of Appeals at Washington sustain the indictments for bribery , against the decision of the lower court , in the cases of Albert B. Fall , former Secretary of the Interior , and the Dohenys . The defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the department of Justice was present in the grand jury room at the time they were found , the contention being that as the case had been placed by the government in the hands of special prosecutors this official was an outsider . This view was sustained , suspiciously enough , by the District Court ; but Chief Justice Martin of the higher court holds that it is a labored ruling since the officer of the department of Justice was present at the request of the special attorneys in his capacity as expert in drawing indictments . It is to be hoped that Messrs . Roberts and Pomerene will be able to bring the cases to trial without further delay . It would further reestablish confidence in the administration of justice to have Fall and the Dohenys forced to give the court very explicit reasons why they should not be in stripes . NO more significant industrial event has occurred for a long time than the organization by the Amalga.mated Clothing Workers of America of the Nash clothing factory in Cincinnati ? the establishment of the celebrated " Golden Rule Nash @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to run his business on Christian principles , who en-gaged in all sorts of welfare work ? and who made large sums of money ? but did not recognize the union or engage in true collective bargaining with his employes . His factory was often pointed out as a model " open shop , " disproving the necessity of unions if the employer were well intentioned . But Mr. Nash has come to the conclusion that benevolent autocracy is no substitute for industrial constitutionalism , that mercy without justice is odious in a democratic society , that he needs collective relationship with a union organization in order to stabilize his business . The reputation of the Amalgamated and the intelligence of its officers ? based upon numerous hard-fought and realistic victories ? created a moral pressure which he could no longer resist . Thus the plant was organized without a strike and with the employer 's encouragement and consent ? an almost unheard-of development in American industry since President Hillman achieved the same result some years ago in the Rochester clothing market . If more of the same kind of conquest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great social gain " could be made and a great economic waste diminished . BECAUSE Frederick W. Taylor and some of his methods were bitterly condemned by organized labor for years , and because Mr. Taylor and some of his immediate followers apparently saw no place for the functioning of unions in industry , it was a historic occasion last week when William Green , President of the American Federation of Labor , addressed a joint meeting of the Taylor Society and the Management Division of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers in a friendly vein , and was warmly welcomed by the members of the societies . The engineers themselves deserve great credit for the more intelligent conception of industrial relations which made such an event possible . The late Robert Valentine was the first who foresaw the possibility , but he was a voice crying in the wilderness . Little by little , however , the idea of cooperative relationships spread , and the technique . of establishing them began to be elaborated , by such men as Morris L. Cooke , Robert Wolfe , and Otto S. Beyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in improving the condition of the wage-earner , could argue for the necessity of genuine trade union cooperation in a program of improving the technique of industry as a public service , and could offer cooperation to those managements willing candidly to accept it . The conception has now been officially recognized by both parties ? there remains the long and ardous task of establishing it in general practice . PROGRESSIVE men may be losing their faith and inventiveness , but progressive women evidently are not . The New York Federation of Progressive Women has recently made a beginning in what we regard as the most essential task of the movement ? real popular education as opposed to political propaganda ? by issuing a pamphlet questionnaire entitled Our Economic System . It is something of an achievement to suggest anything pertinent and accurate about such a gargantuan subject , in eight pages containing twenty-eight questions and answers , but the Progressive women seem to have done it . Necessarily the presentation is fragmentary and general , but we defy anyone who accepts the commonplace defenses of the capitalist system as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubts that it will be hard to quell . There is nothing sensational or ignorant about the attack , and most of the statements are so carefully guarded that few scholarly economists could raise strong objections to them . Nevertheless they constitute a pretty fundamental criticism of the present order and an indication of some means of its improvement . ONE of the great advantages of the report of President Coolidge 's Aircraft Board is its tendency to discourage further agitation in favor of a large expansion of aerial armament . The report effectively exposes the claim of Colonel Mitchell and others that America is in danger of attack from the air . The United States is at the present time practically impregnable against any attack from any source , and if we arm , our armaments should be considered less as an agency for the protection of the American continent from violation and invasion than an instrument of the foreign policy of the American government . The explosion of Colonel Mitchell was , so we infer from the report , caused by the stupid handling by the War and Navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aviators . They were entitled to more attention and more support than they were receiving , and they magnified their grievances into a national danger . There is no national danger , but these young gentlemen , who are serving their country at a considerable steady risk of their own lives , are entitled to improved equipment and to greater consideration in council .                     