@@457151

0 IIR main concern as a nation , our one possible offering to the cause of civilization , is the organization of a workable democracy . There are other forms of society to be experimented with , ? forms which in the end may prove to be better than those we are set out to perfect , ? but their development lies in the hands of other nations and other races . Our task here and now is to see what can be done with democracy in a country constituted , as ours is , of diverse peoples and traditions , and of great numbers of human beings distributed over a tremendous extent of territory . There are two activities which should be of profound ' , interest to our citizens . The first is the functioning of politics . The responsibilities of the electorate , the qualities important in the elected , the performance of their duties by those chosen to represent us , are intimate concerns of each one of us . On the wisdom and integrity of those we choose to rule over us depends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the promise of the corning in of better and finer ways of living together . Yet we have allowed the very names , politics and politician , to become an hissing and a reproach . ' We have absorbed ourselves in our personal affairs , and reserved a shrug of the shoulder for those who busy themselves , from motives noble or base , with our great heritage , sanctified though it has been by the services of a Washington and a Lincoln . The path of history is stained red with the blood of those who have died martyred in the struggle to place this privilege in oar hands , and yet we begrudge the modicum of time the duties of citizenship entail upon us . Our one hope of fulfilling the promise to humanity that cur type of government holds out is in developing in our people a consciousness of the primary importance and significance to each individual of this participation . For the potential citizen we have deliberately organized the machinery for effecting this purpose by the establishment of our public schools and the passing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between specified ages . This second important activity of our common life , the preparation of children for citizenship , has need of the best enthusiasm and the most discriminating attention of which we are capable . Education , in so far as it means placing the experience of the past in tire hands of the next generation , is of moment to all races and peoples . But in a democracy education has an even more extensive responsibility . Democracy is not a type of organization natural to undisciplined man : it is a society based on ideals which entail a heavy strain on the more elemental human instincts . Primitive man accepts the doctrine of all things to the strong and every creature fending for Itself . Democracy demands that man respect the weak and the strong alike , and that he safeguard conditions so Mat he may fend for himself without lira fighting off his worst enemy , his fellow being . The training of individuals to this mutual relation is the exacting task of the educational system of a democracy . Since reactions and attitudes so subtle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their imparting accompanies the passing-on of the experience of the race to the children in each generation . But drilling in the three R 's , or attainment in any other division of learning , must , in this country , be subordinate to , and receive its significance from , the part it plays in the preparation of a child for his place in a democracy . The criterion of a successful education in the United States will never rest solely upon the scholarship achieved , but must measure itself by the degree of loyalty and dedication to American ideals that it inspires . The common-school basic education may seem to the superficial observer a purely pedagogical process ; in reality it is essentially moral training , with a superstructure of intellectual exercises , built up on a profound and indefinable base of racial aspiration , ideals , and ethical concepts . American enthusiasm for public education has been one of our most distinguishing characteristics . No institution we could show has been of more interest to foreign visitors than our public schools . Educational institutions are no novelty to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all its citizens at the expense of the taxpayer is attempting a task whose significance has not been lost on serious students of Western civilization . When the Philippines fell into our reluctant hands , we invaded their shores , not with conquering battalions , but with an army of schoolteachers . We were the amusement of the chancelleries of Europe in our intent to overcome the Filipino with the spelling-book instead of with the sword . Those 612 THE DISSOCIATED SCHOOL experienced in oriental administration disparaged our efforts . But it was not a fantastic move on the part of the administrators of our new dependency . It was the logical carrying-over to the newer part of our country of the principles of democracy itself . We had to ask ourselves , how could the Filipinos , or any other people for that matter , be made fit for the burden of self-government to which we ultimately destined any people under our flag , except through discipline and training , one with another , in the common language , the common ideals , and the common responsibilities that they must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich and poor , high and low , were brought together to study the primer of that difficult subject , the technique of creating a democratic society . The results justify us in cherishing some pride in our achievement . Arducus as was the task , and imperfect and incomplete as was the work done , the foundation was sound , and we may look with hope to the future . We have given H the gift of public education as the best we had to offer to our new brothers in the Pacific . Are we within our own borders recreant to this groat ideal that we have attempted to realize on those distant islands ? What are the facts ? Is America , which has held the public or democratic school equal in importance to liberty and justice for all , as prerequisite to her very existence , ready to betray the one God , and erect many brazen idols in his place ? The spread of private and sectarian schools in this country in the last twenty years has gone along with a very great increase in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ midst . The withdrawal from the public schools of more and more of the children of those already Americanized greatly enhances the difficulty of making a unit of this inchoate mass of human beings that we call America . What does such a shift of large numbers of children signify ? One can think of it only as the recrudescence in this country of the aristocratic , sectarian , exclusive traditions of the older European chili . zations ? attitudes incompatible with belief in democracy , with groupings determined by individual ability and capacity independent of inherited class or religious associations . Are not these groups of children set apart for reasons antagonistic to the purposes , and inimical to the upbuild ing , of a democracy ? There seem to be three main currents of feeling which lie at the base of this apostasy ? all- three types of human exclusiveness . Exclusiveness as a moral attitude is singularly out of place in a country built up as ours has been ; and yet its disaffecting influence has penetrated into the very heart of our educational system . The type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is religious exclusiveness . In a land where religious freedom is supposed to be secure , specifically safe . guarded by both Federal and State constitutions ; where religious tolerance itself has almost the status of a universal creed ; where the fundamentals of the moral life ? honesty , loyalty , responsibility , consideration for others , respect for difference of opinion ? are ' natters of common agreement and are basic to instruction in the public-school system ; hundreds of thousands of future citizens are withdrawn from the public schools , and given an education with those of their awl faith , in parochial schools of different denominations . By the very nature of things such training can not fail to be narrowing . llowever noble the religious ideals taught , an American school which has failed to be first an instrument of democracy has failed fundamentally . Ina theocracy such schools would be appropriate ; in a democracy they are an anomaly . It is a sad commentary on the trust that religious leaders have in the holding power of their own beliefs , that they dare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for five days in the week , for nine months in the year , to a training for citizenship in company with the varied groups which go to the making of an American community , lest they lose the faith of their fathers . The second type of exclusiveness is social . Parents who fear for their children physical or moral contamination from the children of less favored families ; or who desire to have their children associate with those of a social status to which they belong or to which they aspire to belong ; or who wish their offspring to know only those whose walk in life will parallel their own , send their children to private schools , elected on the basis of the particular type of social exclusiveness that they desire or can attain . This group is largely reinforced by those who do not think at all , but merely follow the lead of those about them . Such reactions are not confined to democratic society . Wherever human beings congregate , the imitative instinct , the fear of being different from one 's group , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conduct . In a country Re ours , with large numbers of new and alien types being rapidly injected into our midst , the earlier immigrants and their imitators are separating themselves from the more recent : , m grouping themselves defensively . to preserve , not democracy , but the habits and customs which . they feel , can not withstand the onslaught of the aggressive and dominant peoples now invading our shores . Yielding to this kind of exclusiveness not only impoverishes the individual child involved , but it strikes at the very root of American life ; for it crystallizes and defines the class lines which , to our common gain , have been fluid in the past . The grandchild of the rich man of to-day may suffer from this calcifying of our social life , no less than the grandchild of the poor in our midst . These children of the immigrant are here . They can not be driven away . They will inevitably form a part , and an increasingly numerous part , of our citizenry . If America is to preserve the ideals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some way learn what these ideals are . But how can we Americanizewithout Americans ? The teachers can not carry the burden by precept alone . Our main dependence must be upon example , association , shared experience . And from whom can a child more readily learn such mysteries of human relation and attitude than from those of his own generation ? As it is now , differences are emphasized , rather than likenesses . The children of the prosperous miss the sympathy and understanding that come to the various racial , religious , and social groups through the discipline and fellowship of an education shared in common ; the children of the less prosperous miss the opportunity for a natural and certain assimilation of American points of view ; and the development of the whole country halts , and the problem of the foreigner in our midst becomes increasingly acute . In addition the community loses the chance to pick out , from every economic and social level , the children of superior ability in the total child-population , to whom it desires to give that special training and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service to the cause of democracy . The public schools are accused of disregarding the needs of the unusually gifted child . In varying degrees this is true of all educational institutions , since the needs of the majority of the children press so insistently upon the educators that their attention is distracted from the very dull and the very bright . But the public-school officials are as alive to this defect as any others concerned with the education of the young , and the machinery of the schools is being adapted to meet the country 's demand for trained leaders in all forms of activity . Those destined for leaders in a democracy , however , are destined to failure if trained in a totally different environment from those they are to lead ; for a prime requisite for leadership is an understanding of the diversity that is humanity . The third type of exclusiveness is intellectual . Enthusiasm for the so-called new education in this country is equaled only by enthusiasm for the new medical panaceas successively acclaimed by health enthusiasts ; and the varieties of the one are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs to know very little about education to develop a jejune fervor over schools for self-expression , schools for self-discipline , schools with free furniture , schools with no furniture , outdoor schools , fresh-air schools , schools for the cultivation of the impulses , schools for the development of the will , schools of correct posture , project schools , progressive schools , schools training the whole child through music , through the use of the large muscles , through deep breathing . To the novice they all sound alluring : so much so , that it is hard to choose among them , since they all seem to promise the perfect child , made out of the more or less nondescript material that we offer our educational systems in the form of our children . What the newcomer to the problems of education fails to observe is that these schools all alike ignore the purpose fundamental to education in a democracy . The public schools of our Republic are not designed primarily to train native ability , or to folios the pupil 's interests of the moment , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work or play . For I the preservation of the Republic the I potential citizens must be taught the I principles of democratic society , and learn to understand and to work with their fellow sovereigns . The one place to accomplish this is in the school , he . fore the artificial divisions accompanying maturity arise , while the mutual relations are simple and the conscious . ness of likenesses is keener than that of unlikenesses . An additional advantage is fur . nished by the fact that the school offers an opportunity for activity , supervised by trained persons , in an atmosphere favorable to bringing out the best rather than the worst of human nature . In this environment may be wrought those slow profound alterations of personality which make of diverse races and temperaments the true American ; and the children of our nation , in understanding companionship , may come into their own . Any refinement of educational method sinks into insig. nificance beside this great endowment , the quintessential quality of OUT public-school system . HI How do these various dissociated schools justify their existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious training is indispensable to the life present and to come ; that it is more important than training in democracy ; that the one does not exclude the other ; and that the religious and intellectual education of the child ore inseparable . In so far as they say that moral and intellectual training are inseparable , they speak as Americans . ' hen , however , they assert that sectarian and intellectual education lust take place together , they are aligning themselves against what we believe to be a principle ' on which this country was founded ? fundamental separation between Church and State . The danger to the advocates of sectarian education is as great as the danger to the country as a whole ; for the training of sectarian groups to think and act as groups means the emergence of religious prejudices and intolerance . The greater fellowship is sacrificed to the lesser , and these citizens of an . bilerica which was able to be a refuge for the oppressed of all nations are insidiously undermining the very foundations of their own security . The private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are a unit in acclaiming their belief in the public schools . Parents , principals , patrons vie with each other in praise of the idea of public education , and in declaring the importance of the activity of the public schools in building up American civilization . But their personal world bristles with exceptions . The parents believe in the public schools ? for other people 's children ; the principals think public schools the natural refuge for routine educators ; the patrons recognize the function of the public schools as the Americanizing agency for our large foreign population . They belong to that na ? ve group which IS convinced that a good textbook and a skillful teacher can perform the miracle of Americanizing the socially insulated alien . The reasons for sending individual children to private schools are as numerous as the children . A reluctance to impose the burden of the education of one 's own child on the community as a whole ; a professed willingness to use the public schools if they were still as good as they used to be ; a desire to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoped they will be ; an eagerness to send a child to the public schools as soon as everyone else does ; a conviction that one 's own child is too delicate , or too talented , or too sensitive , for exposure to the anticipated rough hurly-burly of public education and must have the special tenderness and consideration which , in the judgment of the anxious parents , can be secured only at great price , in a private school ? these are a few of the reasons that pacify the consciences of American fathers and mothers in their apostasy to democratic educational ideals . Some private schools are satisfied that their main purpose is public service , stimulating public schools by serving as competitors . This ingenuous assumption ignores the competition between public schools themselves , from school to school , from city to city , from state to state , which , in its intensity and fervor , leaves the sporadic educational achievements of the private schools a place of very minor influence . Only a blinded enthusiast could claim that the private schools are created to serve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , designed to serve a portion of society which , in this aspect of life , is willing to be indifferent to , if not actually in contravention of , democratic ideals . Still other schools feel that they serve as experimental plants for the testing out of new educational ideas . Some are undoubtedly able to emphasize , by superior methods of achieving publicity , educational procedure which it is well now and then to have brought into the foreground of . public attention . But grOups of enthusiastic parents who establish or back a private school , with the expectation that thereby they are going to make a contribution to educational reform , have an exaggerated sense of the accomplishment possible to an institution so constituted . Any educational development in this country , to be fundamental , must grow out of the soil of democracy.tIt can not be nurtured under exotic conditions , and then be expected to grow in any climate . Experiments , to have intellectual quality and staying power , most be tried out in schools connected with universities , or other similar institutions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data accumulated , and conditions approximating those of the average school provided . Results achieved with small groups , the criterion of whose selection is solely economic , are neither fundamental nor applicable to a true cross-section of society . The less militant reasons for the establishment of the dissociated schools are often accompanied by sweeping criticisms of the public schools . The teachers are condemned as ignorant , the instruction as poor , the pupils as dirty , profane , and prone to disregard the early symptoms of disease , the school curriculum as impoverished and narrow , the schools as crowded and tmsanitary . The system is accused of being rigid and inelastic , forcing the individual child into an - inflexible mould ; the school authorities are denounced as corrupt , allowing political influence to determine appointments ; and the whole organization is held up to scorn , as absolutely impervious to new ideas . It is no wonder that , in face of such a formidable arraign. moist , the timid hesitate to plunge their cherished- young into so degenerating an atmosphere . On whom do such criticisms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they are a tremendous challenge to the citizens of a community which could allow its citizenship to be corrupted at its very source . If the criticisms are unjustified , they are an equal challenge to the citizens to rise to the defense of . their institutions . Of course , as a matter of fact , such criticisms are neither all true nor all false . The per feet educational method has not yet been found , either in the democratic or in the dissociated school , and proha. bly never will be , since education , like other human devices , must be in a state of constant flux , a changing system in a changing world . But the important thing is that we , who are the source of all authority in our democracy , are the bearers of the major responsibility . Schools which the patron of the dissociated institution feels are net fit places in which to educate his children are unfit places in which to educate am American child ; and he and the rest of us are morally liable for the wrongs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As citizens , we are consenting to compulsory education for the children of people less favored by fortune than ourselves , in these school from which we turn with abhorrence . Every consideration which , we feel , justifies our withdraWal from the school is equally present-in the families of the poor . Precocity , feeblemindedness , delicate health , sensitiveness to crowded rooms , to defective ventilation , to long hours of eonfinement awl to working with large groups , are not the perquisites of the rich alone . AlQ superiority of educational envirmano which the prosperous family feels that it must have for its children is tenfold more needed by the children of the poor , to whom school is often the only window open to the light . IV The American parent is a person of conscience . Whether his child is in the democratic or the dissociated school , he wants to find a way out of the difficulty . His desire is not only to do the best he can for his own child , but to serve the larger purposes of democracy as well . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placing of his child in the public school . Everything else will follow . However he might assure himself that , though he withdrew his child , he would give his major efforts to the improvement of the public-school system , he could not do it with the same zeal and dedication that he would give to the cause if the fate of his own were involved . We inevitably understand the big things of life best through the small and the personal . We deplore the fact that our Country is becoming less rather than more democratic . We are alternately puzzled and outraged by the strange medley of unfamiliar tongues , alien ideals , and militant critics that we find in our . midst ; but , unlike the amoeba , which encircles and absorbs the foreign subance , roe are tempted to withdraw at , the first touch , and reduce our area of contact by every means in our power . This makes neither for understanding nor for concerted action . ' Yes , ' says the agitated parent , ' that is all very well ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization is a rigid , relentless machine , inaccessible to pressure from nom and meanwhile Ply own children are physically suffer- ! It and mentally starving . Must I ) cat sot my energies against hopeless inertia ? Shall my own children be sacrificed while I tackle the larger task , which is , after all , not my first responsibility ? You seem to assume that my children are onlya part of a greatwhole . But to me they seem of primary portance . If every parent thought of his progeny in terms of the national life , would not our race go to destruction ? ' Each parent naturally thinks of his own children as vitally important ; but their importance is associated in their parents ' minds with the personal affections . Biologically they count only as a portion of the stream of life , while socially their significance lies in their being a contributing element to the building up of a generation . One of the great gifts of parenthood is the opportunity it offers , through the emerging needs of the individual child , to realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and motherhood become privileged citizenship . Those without children can not know so intimately the awakening longings of childhood , do not feel the hunger and suffer the deprivation , are not so conscious of the incompleteness in the environment , are not actuated by the same incentive to alleviate , and can not see so promptly the needs , which must be met as they arise or the chance will be lost forever for that particular generation . The larger social view of one 's child is , after all , the only possible way of seeing a human being . We have all become so inextricably a part one of another , that our every act is determined by conditions remote from Os . A murder at Serajevo may tear our lives --  asunder , and yet be hardly noticed- in : the daily paper . The fate of oim children and ourselves is so tied up with that of our fellows , that we can not think of them as separate . What will determine the happiness , the dignity of life , the worth of living to our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence , even as children , flow from the fact that they are little Americans , a part of this beloved democracy of ours ? Other elements in their environment and opportunity are of subordinate value . To share from childhood true fellowship with the other children of their community , to be trained with them to take a worthy part in the upbuilding of their country , is to come from earliest youth into the fullness of their inheritance . If , through the indifference of the able and the well-to-do , the level of education sinks so low that democracy becomes a farce ; if , through the withdrawal of the older Americans from contact with the newer Americans in their one natural meeting-place , the public schools , class-divisions crystallize and inevitable suspicions and discontents follow ; if revolution rears its ugly head in the midst of groups with no clue to each other 's motives and purposes ? of what value will the religious and social affiliations , the intellectual finesse , be to our segregated and sheltered , our thought-for and protected children ? Their acquired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an avenging and destructive proletariat . V In the midst of the chorus of strictures against the public schools and justifications for the existence of the dissociated schools , one element is almost never formulated , which nevertheless stirs obscurely in the consciousness of every parent . As the unit of community life , both in the city and in the country , has grown larger , the parents have been more and more detached from contact with the schools and more and more alienated from part icipating in the education of their children . Much of what the childb formerly learned at home he is now 1 being taught at school . Some of the parents are , of course , glad to shift the burden , and hardly follow the child to school , even in imagination ; but the more enlightened see the change with regret , and are as eager to serve the I child in the school as they formerly were at those same tasks in the home . For this reason , many parents cherish an enthusiasm for the dissociated school , where they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a right to participation in the school activities which the more remote association through a tax-levy does not seem to their minds to confer . This cppartnership between the par . ' ent and the school is not only a natural accompaniment of the child 's educe , tion , but an essential part of the adult 's education . The school is the place not alone to train the child , but to develop , through the threefold relation of teacher , child , and parent , a community sense . But is it necessary to resort to the dissociated school to satisfy this parental yearning ? No institution in our democracy needs responsible in. terest on the part of our citizens more than the public schools . And no group holds so strategic a position as the parents . As voters , they are the authority for the establishment of the school system ; through the taxes , they are the source of the income for the support of the organization ; they become the clientele of the schools by virtue of the children they supply to be educated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out their hands to take what is , after all , their own ? The surprising yet easily predictable fact is the extreme sensitiveness and rapid response of the system to pressure from the parents . The one impediment is the likelihood that pressure will confine itself to criticism . Criticism by experts is stimulating , but chance condemnation by parents , who are very prone to hear ORO side only , is Opt to be unfair and to have a deadening effect on the cry system which it is hoped to turn to better ways . A mutuality of interest which finds its most natural outlet in indictment of whatever is does not hold out much promise of understanding service on either side . It is fatally easy to find fault , and to decide that stupid conservatism and reaction are responsible for the ignoring of , or opposition to , one 's suggestions . There are undoubtedly cases , when the children of a public school are suffering from stupidity , graft , or inefficiency , in which fierce criticism and unwavering assault on centrenched authority is the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffering from these menaces there are hundreds suffering from the indifference , inertia , complacency , or mere fretful faultfinding on the part of the citizens of the community . The responsibility can never be wholly that of the school-administration or of the teachers . A pat t of the blame must be borne by those who stand aside , expecting miracles to be performed upon their children , ? miracles that the parents have never been able even to approximate in the home , ? and who yet feel only reproach for a school that does not nuke scholars of dullards and paragons of the incorrigible . How can the parents be an integral part of the school system ? Two distinct movements , one within the school and one without , are evidence of the consciousness of that need on the part befit of the school authorities and of the parents themselves . The visiting teachers , who visit the homes and conffilt the parents and relatives in cases in which children are out of adjust- ment to the school organization , are already established in some schools , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child is found to be due to a failure on the part of the school and the home to understand each other sufficiently to work together and not at cross-purposes . The parent-teacher associations , beginning to be organized all over the United States , offer opportunity to both parents and teachers to meet , to discuss their common problems , and to discover how they can be most helpful to each other in their mutual care of the children . Both these movements are , it is to be hoped , but tiny beginnings , destined to a great development , bringing about more intimate relations between the home and the school . Their growth means enrichment in the education of the child and a more real content in the citizen 's consciousness of his place in the community . A hundred practical difficulties stand in the way of full and ardent cooperation between the parents and the school , but none that will not yield to a faith in each other 's right purposes on the part of the two groups involved . The school authorities , long the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often based on a supposed wrong done to an individual child , are justifiably wary of interference . Parents too often fail to realize that the professionals of the school system are , or ought to be , experts ; that , in so far as they are not , the responsibility rests upon the citizen , through his elected representatives , to see that they are ; and , in so far as they are , to recognize that it is a rare parent who is more informed on pedagogical problems or problems of administration than the expert . The expert knows also the limitations of the budget , the capacity of the teachers and the pupils to take advantage of innovations , the needs of the system as a whole , the potential attitude of a public which may be led but can not be driven , as the mere parent can not expect to know . On the other hand , the over-cautious , the apprehensive school official will welcome the aid that enthusiasm and cooperative effort from the parents will bring to the difficult problems of education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor ventilation is unable to open the windows and withstand the wrathful criticism of those parents , to be found in every school , who are fearful of a draft . But he will welcome a movement originating with the parents themselves , asking for fresh-air rooms or a new ventilating system , for he knows they can deal with tile nonconforming parent as he can not . Principals and teachers become weary in the long battling with ignorance and prejudice , and find fresh courage in an eagerness of parents to make conditions as favorable as they can be made . There are so many things that cooperation and a little money can accomplish . Paying the salaries of school nurses ; supplementing the alltoo-restricted budget for school supplies ; buying lanterns , slides , maps , pictures , expensive reference-books , unusual musical equipment , ample material for large project work ; all the types of expenditure that the school budget does not supply , or is not yet ready to authorize as a part of the regular equipment of all the schools ; establishing a fund , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enrichment of the school-life and curriculum these are services which lie ready to the hands of parents . They are services that not only fulfill an immediate purpose , but give courage and stimulus to the teachers , whose educational enthusiasms are so often restricted by limitations which the generosity and enlightened self-interest of the parents should spare them . How meagre the return from the invest . ment of one child 's tuition in a dissociated school compared with this giving ? not to the growth of the indis vidual child , but to the development of that part of his generation which lies closest at hand ! Enthusiasm for the dissociated schools as places for the educational ex. perimenters seems to ignore the fact that most institutions of learning war . thy of the name are eager to try out new ideas . The public schools are no exception to this rule . The superintend. ents , principals , and teachers alike chafe at the restrictions which the limitations of the budget place upon their ability to try improved methods of instruction . A tithe of the money poured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of public schools as money to be used for experimental purposes , would serve to advance education more rapidly , and on a sounder social basis , than is possible in groups as narrowly selected as those in the dissociated schools . Parents in each public school can band themselves together to aid such a movement on a small scale in their individual institutions ; and , in so far as they succeed , be part of an experiment which , in the end , will expand into a fully democratic and growing education , because it is built up of the efforts of the whole community , adjusted to the exigencies of public training of the children , and kept sensitive to changing conditions in the world outside , through participating interest by the citizens themselves . Many a new educational reform , enthusiasm for which has induced parents to put their children in to dissociated schools which advertise the reform , might be available for all the children of the community if the enthusiasts would put the same energy into arousing their fellow citizens to demand the new method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making it possible . Any improvement in the larger organization means , not a more privileged child , but a more privileged community . VI We are much given to oratory about the work of our army of schoolteachers , but we seldom trouble ourselves about the individual teachers who are bearing the burden of making Americans of the chance material produced within our borders and thrown upon our shores . They need us as much as we need them . If the quality of the men and women taking up the profession of teaching to-day is inferior to what it was a generation ago ; the blame must rest on our shoulders . We have failed to show the members of the teaching profession the high honor which is their due , and to give them the adequate remuneration which is their right . We owe them sympathy and understanding in the gigantic task which is laid upon linem . We must recognize that we belong to a great partnership , neither the parent nor the teacher for the service of the individual child , but all three for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the common will and our strength from the common effort . It is only an we see the teacher struggling with her problems in a chaos of nationalities , backgrounds , and habits , that we realize the moral , ignitieance of the public-school discipline , to which many of the less disciplined parents in our communities object . The very recognition of that discipline and the submission to its dictates are part of the larger moral adjustment that every citizen in a democracy must make . He must be ready to yield his lesser liberties for the sake of his greater . The parent ' s responsibility is an equal acceptance , and a wise interpretation to the child , of the dignity of consent . Richness of life and experience comes to the privileged in every community . But that enrichment derives its quality and meaning from its occurrence in a civilization where men are free , where opportunity is open to all , and where fellowship is above feuds and social antagonisms . Nothing that he has is his alone to enjoy . In part , it belongs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be happy and to delight in beauty . In part , it belongs to those who are to make the new world out of the old , and who need every treasure of the past to build into the structure of the future . Think what our schools might be if every citizen shared the beautiful things of his life with the children in those schools ! If every possessor of a rare picture , a beautiful Greek vase , a unique rug , a treasure from a far country , an ancient musical instrument , possessions with an interesting history , autographs of famous people , strange birds or beasts , costumes of other countries , would hold always in the background of his mind that he must share these things with the children of the community ; if every citizen made sure that the children of the public schools should never miss the chance to see distinguished visitors ; should always have available the services of the musically gifted ; should be able to call the hoarded historic treasures to their need , and , in so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be assured that nothing would be withheld ; if the manufacturers , the agriculturists , and the transportation agencies could feel a responsibility to the education of the next generation , inviting the schoolchildren to see improved technique and new methods of conserving life and energy ? then we might feel that the building of the Beloved Community had indeed begun . One can not think of our communities , rich in lovely things gathered from all the world , without sighing for the public schools so needlessly impoverished of beauty . A wise and discriminating use of the community resources is not something to be achieved in a day . They must serve as a supplement to the required work of the schools , and be fitted into the programme . In so fares the school organization is not devised to profit by what the community has to give , it must be modified , not alone for the sake of the child to be technically educated , but for the sake of the parent and the citizen , who need to be trained into the fullness of community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of bringing this about , particularly when it is a part of the school system ; for it gathers gifts and loans from the public , and puts at the service of the children not only such treasures , but the volunteer teaching abilities of travelers , nature-lovers , and experts of all kinds in the community . It has a special function as a medium between the community resources and the school needs . Such paths must be kept open . The unpaid advisory committees of experts , occasionally employed in connection with different educational departments , serve as another means of utilizing the abilities of the community for the benefit of the children , which mar well take on a very great extension In // Certainly , whatever we , as individu. als or in groups , pour into the public I schools comes back a hundredfold to I better life for us all . Interest in the schools founded in the spirit of exclusiveness and detach . I ment is a distraction from our pre . ponderating interest in schools founded in the spirit of democracy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an improvement of our public schools . The fact that some states have debated the subject Of the abolition of all schools other than public , and that one has r legislated to that effect , shows the direction of democratic thought in this country ' , and reflects an attitude to whose significance we must not blind ourselves . Is it possible that the time may come when , in sheer self-defense , a democracy will have to resort to so undesirable an expedient ? Meanwhile , the public schools are here ? the hope not alone of the children of the immigrant and of the poor , but of all the children of the Republic . What these schools teach , our country will be . No child can without impoverishment be deprived of participation in the training in democracy that they give . We parents of America have our unique oppor ? tunity to make ourselves partners in the great venture of public education ,                     