@@467523

THE right of free men to rule themselves by the ballot seems celestial in its sanction . All Americans boast of enjoying it . Orators passionately play the gamut of human emotions in praise of it until they reach the final note of ennui . On the Fourth of July we celebrate it proudly as our heritage and our portion in life . Indeed , most of us would die to maintain the right to representation in government . And yet on the rainy election morning , when " the fate of the nation hangs in the balance , " from a fourth to a half of us invariably do not vote . We either oversleep , and thus are too rushed to catch our train , or procrastinate until the afternoon and then completely forget about voting . Some of us even fail to remember that there was any election at all And many are so indifferent that they fail to place their names on the election lists by registering . We talk constantly of " pull " in American polities . It is an unhappy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " pull " that counts and rules ? is the tugging and hauling by the party leaders to drag the recalcitrant , oversleeping , procrastinating voter to the polls . Almost a majority of us are willing to disfranchise ourselves by letting the other fellow 's vote decide the election . What does one vote more or less matter , we lazily say . Most of us at heart are only schoolboys . We know we ought to vote ; yet the subtle elixir ? or poison ? of indolence and procrastination sways us . Because the sly politician , who supplies carriages and automobiles for the voter to ride in and henchmen to corral the voter and place him in the waiting conveyance , can almost always win theelection , we have hard-faced political bosses who rule us . We talk bitterly of corrupt bosses and jeer and storm at machine rule ? yet we regularly overlook the small detail of throwing the bosses out of power by voting . The bosses know too well that our bark is worse than our bite , so they provide the automobiles and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ openly defiant . Let some ambitious young man who has been placed in office by a boss set out to fight the people 's fight . Let him wage a spectacular battle and illumine the heavens with eloquence . Let him pride himself upon his vast achievements and rejoice , like another St. George , at his courage in assailing the dragon . Chances are , unless he is a Roosevelt at the right twist in public affairs , he will find himself , at the crisis , stabbed to death at the polls . The voters may admire and praise him . They may feel proud of him ? even grateful . Yet they will not walk a block to vote for hire . And the political boss who pulls his voters to the ballot box by his party organization calmly buries the people 's friend at the polls . Yet we tell ourselves that he was honest and independent and therefore the machine murdered him . " He has lots of friends , " experienced politicians often say about a candidate . What they mean is that there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but who admire him so strongly that they will not forget to vote for him . And it is votes that count . Here in America there has been too marked a tendency to view democracy as a sunlit , Arcadia . We have failed to give due consideration to human nature in devising our machinery of government . No educator or parent to-day overlooks the fact that if boys were left free to go to school or not as they pleased our whole educational system would collapse like a house of cards . Fortunately , men are older and maturer than our school children and show less of that delicious , lethal yearning for the primrose path leading to the everlasting bonfire . Yet if we desire to improve American politics , establish efficiency and economy in government , and thus reduce the crushing calamity of high taxes that is overwhelming us , we must increase the number of those who vote ? particularly at the less important state and local elections ? by penetrating beyond the romance and hopeful idealism of democracy and grappling with the naked realities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government is becoming a serious modern problem . Until recently most of us accepted our government as a noble abstraction . It did not penetrate intimately into our lives . Yet when the Selective Service Act was enforced , and the hand of the government reached into American homes and selected the youngest and fittest for the perilous duel with death , we suddenly came to feel the overwhelming and supreme obligation of the citizen in a free government . So , too , to-day when so many of us are paying income taxes to both state and nation ? and we often have to borrow the money in order to do so ? we have come to understand that government and the cost of government is a serious affair . After all the fond hopes that we had and the oceans of eloquence and promises with which Congress deluged the nation , the Federal tax burden has been reduced but little . It is probable that in the next few years taxes will increase rather than decrease . Our complex industrial life has made it necessary for the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attitude of mind of modern civilization requires so many conveniences , that VOL . CXLV. ? No. 870. - 94governmental machinery is becoming extremely involved and extremely expensive . Our street cars for example we consider an elementary necessity . It is probable that , if they are to survive , the taxpayer will have to contribute something to their support . In many places he is doing so already . The tendency of modern civilization is always toward greater complexity and involvement , and this in turn always requires a greater degree of governmental protection and aid . Such increased governmental aid , it must be remembered , will require an increased public expenditure . Unquestionably , our government today is run , on the whole , at an extraordinarily unnecessary expense and involves a dismal waste . The experience we had with the governmental control of the railroads and more particularly the wild orgy of the shipping hoard indicate this to us clearly . Of course , these were war expenditures and the ordinary machinery of government is not so distorted and voracious as were our railroads and our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unquestioned truth . We must , if we are to keep the burden of taxes at what it is , or reduce it in view of the constantly expanding government a functions , create efficiency and economy in government . Efficiency and economy are ideals that have been boldly promised in almost every election from the beginning of our government . To-day we must begin to translate these terms into reality . Otherwise we shall find ourselves so hardened that life will be intolerable . We can not have efficiency and economy so long as we are ruled by a class of bosses who exist by virtue of machines which they have built up and which enable them to exploit the public and reimburse their henchmen for their labor . Unless a greater number of the voters go to the polls , and vote without being pulled and hauled there by the bosses through their machine organization , we can not expect either efficiency or economy in government . Our present system of absentee voting ? of letting the other fellows ' votes decide the election because we are so lazy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not matter ? not only creates but demands a boss system . Our bosses are to be honored . They at least drag a respectable minority to the polls and thus prevent freaks and sinister cliques with no sense of morality from capturing our local governments . Political banditry is all too frequent in American politics . We are slowly accumulating a picaresque political literature . Men who have the ideals of Jesse James and use lung power and spurious promises instead of bullets . insults and vituperation instead of dynamite , holdtoo much power . Were it not for our wiser and more discreet political bosses , who are able to drive away and defeat the minorities supporting political bandits , by dragging a sizable minority of votes to the polls , we should- have a much larger army of unscrupulous adventurers , collecting even higher taxes from us as tribute and even ransom . Of course , at times the people revolt . They sweep out the bandits ? and even the bosses ? from power . And then , having roused themselves and walked to the polls , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Once more they forget or are too lazy to walk those few magic blocks . Government by political revolution ? as ours so often is in local affairs ? is dangerous and grotesquely expensive . Once create a means by which the vast majority of our voters will always go to the polls , rain or shine , at every election , whether a President or local board of water or gas commissioners are to be chosen , and we shall not only hurl into oblivion political bandits , who live by the vote of small minorities who always vote , but we shall also readily upset and even destroy the rule of our bosses . And if this is not thought desirable , consider the municipal government to-day of three of our largest American cities ? New York , . Chicago , and Boston . The salient objection to bandit and boss rule is not that it is tyrannical and immoral and undemocratic --  it is far too expensive . A political boss must compensate his henchmen who lead the voters to the polls on election day . He must maintain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only on election day but throughout the year . Only the amateur reformer thinks he can play politics on election day and forget " fences " and friends throughout the rest of the year . Now this vast political army maintained largely for the purpose of getting out the votes must be compensated . The political boss pays his Organization out of the public treasury . Since he can pay only when successful , he pays handsomely . Taxes , therefore , soar , and the voter who will not vote pays and groans . The luxury of not walking a few blocks to vote is far more expensive than he dreams . What is more , minority rule , or party organization , chills and decays that which is indispensable in free government ? independent idealism . The honest man who votes feels that his vote is destroyed by his honest neighbor who does not vote . He loses hope and talks of " pull " and " graft " and woodenheaded Congressmen . No man of independent instincts and clear vision cares to meddle with politics . He can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to drag voters to the polls ; and lie knows human nature well enough to understand that comparatively few men can be relied upon to vote regularly because of freewill and a mere sense of obligation . And not caring to be slaughtered at the polls . he dreams of Arcadia instead of entering actively into politics . No wonder our political bandits and bosses in private jeer and sneer at the voter . Public opinion ? They consider it comparable to a sleepy , hornless cow , or a decrepit elephant , unaware that it has so much power and strength . " The public ? It sulks and groans and threatens ? but almost always forgets to vote . So why dread the public ? " So speak our politicians , who perhaps have just come from a public legislative hearing on some problem of vital and moving public concern where only a few freaks and windbags have appeared . Thus our political rulers prepare foolish , threadbare political slander and gossip for election day in order to encourage those whom they can drag to the polls , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public and the slothful voter . The facts are significant . According to the last census , there are in America over fifty-four millions of men and women classed as citizens of twentyone years of age and over . In the last election of November , 1920 , despite the fact that we were keyed up by a great war , and despite the fact that the foreign policy of the nation at issue was of greater importance than any problem which had confronted the voter for a generation , and also despite the large expenditure of money by the two parties , only 26,000,479 voters went to the polls . In other words less than one half of those who could vote , voted . And consider what happens in a local election . On an average , not more than one tenth of our voters attend party primaries . In Boston less than one third of the registered voters cast their vote for city councilmen or school committeemen in a recent minor election . Multiplication of figures is of no avail . These illustrative figures indicate fairly well the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so bad as it seems at first glance . A great number of the women who had newly received the vote had not had time to register and vote in the last Presidential election . The electoral machinery in many parts of the country was not geared up to so large a representation . Moreover , the number of those men and women who are in our penalinstitutions or who are disqualified as paupers from voting is considerable . Again many of those eligible to vote were over seventy years of age and physically unable to go to the polls . A large portion of our population is constantly moving from residence to residence , or traveling about the country , and can not establish a voting residence . Yet if we deduct ten million voters because of these natural disqualifying qualities , we find that about a third of the remaining eligible voters failed to go to the polls . And the Presidential election of last year represented the high tide in political interest . When an off-year election is held or a municipal or local contest is involved , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority decides our municipal and state elections . in non-Presidential years in America . It is futile to speak of methods of enticing the voter to the polls . The time has come when we must cease indulging in the fond hope that we can educate the public through a sense of patriotism to vote . Putting aside the truth of the schoolboy , we must bear in mind the fact that taxes are not collected through patriotism but through compulsion . We found it inadvisable to raise an army in the recent war by voluntary choice . Our courts could not function a single day without our judges holding complete control over the bodies of those who disobey . The Boston Police strike illustrated all too vividly what would happen in any of our communities if for an instant we remove the police who are persistently and everlastingly suppressing the criminal element , and who are never able to do more than sit on the lid . Turn where you will in government , you will find that about the only function which is placed on a purely idealistic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon government and the right to vote as a serious obligation and place it upon a more practical basis . Indeed it is not fair to the voter to picture him merely as a slothful , procrastinating dunce who is moved by indolent impulses . Some writers have glibly marveled at the fact that the American public crowds stockrooms in order to watch the stock ticker , jams our streets to see the returns of a world 's baseball series , devours extras like a fiery dragon , and yet stubbornly refuses either to go to the polls or to study governmental problems . Yet on election night we always have a great crowd on the streets anxious to hear the results . When the President comes to town , everybody forgets work in order to see him . If the number of people who flock to see a Presidential parade would vote at a primary or a municipal election , the result would be widely different . Those who compare the eagerness of the voter to read the stock ticker or attend sporting events with his failure to vote , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , harrowing age , where a great strain is imposed upon us all . Monotony and nervous exhaustion are the twin demons of modern-city civilization . We cry out for relaxation , for relief , for excitement before all else . Watching the stock ticker affords us the gambler 's joy and relief . Watching the baseball scores and parades is a form of amusement that appeals to those of us who live under the blight of our modern cities . But voting is a duty . Like going to school , it is the right thing to do , but it is neither interesting , exciting , nor enjoyable . The voter to-day has problems and troubles enough hi order to fight off the undying wolf from his doorstep , and can not be expected to vote unless he is summoned to the polls in some unmistakable , vigorous manner . We must sadly remind him that he has one more duty - added to his burden . He must vote as well as pay taxes . Voting can not be continued as a side issue or an act of patriotism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than there comes toone 's mind the difficulty of putting over one half of our voters in jail because they will not vote . And nothing is more futile than to enact unenforeibie laws . Are we confronted with the hare wall of reality beyond which we can not go , and is it impossible by any device to bring the duty of voting in line with the force requiring attendance at school or the payment of taxes ? In a word , is there a practical way of enforcing the obligation to vote ? The practical experiment in other countries to increase the attendance at the pas casts a little light upon the problems . Belgium has had compulsory voting since 1892 . A voter who fails to go to the polls in the absence of a satisfactory excuse is punished for his first offense by a reprimand or by a fine of from one to three francs ; for a second offense within six years by a. fine of from three to twenty francs ; for a third offense his name is posted in a public place ; after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ list for ten years , be is fined , and he is held ineligible to hold any public office . Professor Leon Duprez , formerly of the University of Louvain , who has made a thorough study of this problem in Belgium , has concluded that this system has been very successful in Belgium . During the last twenty years only 6 per cent , and at times even as low as 4 per cent of the voters have failed to go to the polls . When it is remembered that many electors die or move or suffer from some other disability between the time that the election lists are made up and the day of election , the conclusion seems reasonable that from only 2 to 3 per cent of the voters in Belgium failed to vote . On the other hand , Spain has had a system of compulsory voting since 1907 , which consists of publication of the delinquent voter 's name for a first offense , and an additional tax levy of per cent upon his tax for his subsequent offenses , which has not tended to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Spain who have the right of suffrage do not vote . Yet a most significant distinction must be made between places like Catalonia , the Basque provinces , and Navarre , where the people are better educated and where 90 per cent of the electoral body attend the polls ? a surprisingly high average ? and such other regions as Andalusia where illiteracy prevails and where from only one third to one half of the people vote . In Austria since 1007 several provinces have adopted compulsory voting with fair success . In Switzerland , in the cantons of Zurich , Schaffhausen , St. Gallen , Aargau , and Thurgau , the system of compulsory voting by fining prevails , with the result that an average vote of 70 to 80 per cent is cast , which is a higher percentage than that which prevails in other cantons . It must be remembered that in most of the Catholic countries in Europe elections are held on Sundays , which makes it easier for the people to go to the polls . Yet the tendency to-day in America is to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation markedly . No country in Europe has such frequent elections as America . If the referendum , recall , and direct primary are to be applied as their advocates desire , we shall have frequent elections indeed in America . The duty of attending all these elections is an exacting but not a heavy burden . If we believe in the vote of the people , then we must be practical enough to be willing to expect the people to vote at all elections . Should we adopt a system of fines in this country , or should we adopt a system of publishing the delinquent voter 's name ? Illinois has a rather amusing provision that only those who refuse to vote are forced to do jury service duty . Yet the efficient administration of justice requires able jurymen . Such a provision adversely affects the courts and the administration of justice . In Kansas City , Missouri , provision was made that a poll tax of two dollars and fifty cents should be levied upon every male citizen of legal age excepting those who voted . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that seems without merit . The practical approach to compulsory voting is to link it directly with the payment of taxes . Those who fail to vote increase the cost of our government , and thus increase the taxes which must be paid by the conscientious citizen . The burden of taxes is getting to be a serious question , and the most desirable way to encourage more efficient government is to link such encouragement directly with the payments of taxes . To-day the income tax is enforced by the federal government and prevails in many of our states . It is rapidly spreading throughout the country . Under the income tax a certain amount , usually one thousand dollars in the ease of a single person and two thousand dollars in the case of a married person , is deducted from the taxpayer 's income before taxes are assessed . Would it not be simple to arrange to deduct , say , only one half of this exemption , or three fifths from the income of the taxpayer who does not vote at all elections simply because he is slothful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be great , because the tax collector could take the voting list , and in the absence of adequate explanation from those who do not vote , simply increase the tax bill . This procedure would seem to be more desirable than adding a penalty by way of a percentage of a tax , because taxes vary and it would be perhaps unfair to allow a wealthy man ten or fifteen times greater credit for his voting than a man of small income . To decrease uniformly the amount that can be deducted from the taxpayer 's income before the tax is assessed , is a simple , fair , and equitable method of enforcing the vote . It is also possible where a state income tax does not prevail , to follow the Missouri plan of imposing a poll tax which shall be paid by the voter who does not vote . The details of such a change in our electoral machinery must be altered in view of local conditions . For example , it would be impossible to apply compulsory voting in any form to primary elections , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a party and take part in a party vote . A uniform plan therefore should not be suggested . But the fact remains clear that if we are going to have compulsory voting in any form , it can best be worked out by a method whereby the voter who refuses to vote is denied certain exemptions under his tax , which should be enjoyed only by those citizens who walk to the polls and do their duty on election day . By some such method we shall greatly increase the number of votes cast and decrease the influence of our political bandits and bosses who are piling mountains of taxes upon taxes , because of their inefficiency . This burden in truth is tribute which they exact in order to maintain their political armies who get out the vote . Of course , bringing the voter to the polls alone is not sufficient . Intelligent voting is necessary . Voters must make themselves familiar with the issues and cast a helpful ballot . The question of information on political issues and the commercialism and venalism of our press are grave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the question of compulsory voting . Fortunately we have in this country a relatively small proportion of illiteracy . And patriotism is abundant , although sufficient energy to vote is not . As soon as the voter is forced to vote he will give some consideration to how he will vote and will study our public questions more carefully . There are those , needless to say , who will feel that voting should be kept upon a voluntary basis and that to make it compulsory or to link it up with the payment of sordid taxes will chill patriotism and destroy American ideals . Those who cling to that view are to be admired for their faith . They can only keep from being jarred by not observing who fails to vote . They refuse to face the grim realities of modern government . They cling to their ideals and thereby allow bandits and bosses to rule . The weight of modern taxation is becoming so great that it is beginning to be almost a spiritual problem in the effects that it has upon the individual 's life and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deaden ambition . It is the most potent force rushing us toward socialism , if any force can bring us there . So we are rapidly approaching the time when we must bring voting into line with all the other functions and duties of government , and thus rigorously and with grim determination , set out to decrease the cost of government . Government can only be made both beneficent and inexpensive when we strangle our political bandits and bosses and establish genuine free government . To do that we must have the ballot box represent the will of the majority no matter how uninteresting the problem may be . The voter may lag on the way to the polls like the schoolboy ; he may creep with snail-like pace . But when we force him to the polls instead of letting him turn into other paths , voting , like education , will have a firm basis founded upon the realities of human nature .                     