@@487252

ENATOR BORAH 'S clear-cut address , which we print / in this week 's International Relations Section , follows the outline of the foreign policy which The Nation has been advocating for more than four years . We urge our readers to study it . Too many faint hearts in America , we believe , cling to the Geneva League as " the only hope we have , " and overlook the immediate steps of a forward-looking policy . They tend to overstress the importance of paper and machinery . As Senator Borah says : " There is no hope for peace so long as the great and powerful nations will that there shall be no peace . . . . We confine our love of peace to paper ; our war spirit finds its expression in deeds . " The United States could do more for world peace by getting out of Haiti and offering that pitiful republic reparation for our crimes there than by joining the half-hearted World Court at the Hague . The League 's ban still maintained against Germany and Soviet Russia is more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since it was born in a flood of honeyed words . If we are to take forward steps on paper let them be whole-hearted , as Senator Borah urges , not hesitating gestures of timorous good intentions . If we join the World Court , let us make our action count- by insisting that it be made a , court of real authority . Let us not be afraid to move for the outlawry of war . The fact that Senator Borah has replaced Senator Lodge as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee of the United States Senate is one of the best New Year 's gifts which the world could have . M ITE PROGRESSIVE GROUP in Congress is not so cowed and dispirited as some observers believed at the beginning of the present session . Certainly Senator Norris is not hesitating in his magnificent fight against the scheme of President Coolidge and the Republican majority to despoil the rights of the people in the great natural water-power at Muscle Shoals . The Underwood bill does not give , as has in some places been stated , the alternative of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for half a century to a private money-making corporation , merely containing the proviso that if a bid is not forthcoming satisfactory to the Secretary of War the Government shall continue ( pending further legislation ) a control which it already has . In spite of the report of the Committee on Agriculture in favor of continued government control , the Senate majority is sponsoring almost without discussion or consideration a brand-new plan which Senator Norris describes accurately as carrying " a deed of conveyance to the electric water-power trust of America for one of the greatest inheritances of unborn generations of American citizens . " O NCE IN A WHILE a paragraph appears on the editorial page of one of the daily newspapers which so precisely and pertinently expresses our thought that we can only reprint it , wishing we had written it . Such an editorial is the following from the New York World : Zamboanga lies at the extreme western end of the Island of Mindanao in the Philippines . It is a port of entry and an important trading-point . A band of Moro outlaws raided a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the store . Since the scene of the crime is American territory , under the American flag , the killing of five nameless Chinese causes no great agitation in official circles in Washington . No one feels called upon to proclaim that the persons of all foreigners must be held sacred and in frantic haste to cable a peremptory demand for the payment of large indemnities . But change the scene from the Philippines to China across the sea . Establish an American trading-post or mission there . Then , if a pai by of Chinese bandits raids the Americans ' property , threatens to hold them for ransom or mistreats them , that 's another story . It 's an international incident that calls for the use of American gunboats in Chinese waters , for the landing of marines , and for official messages to the Chinese Government bristling with solemn threats . '                     