@@487257

' W E print below in condensed form the report of Dr. Joseph Rosen , director in Russia of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee 's reconstruction work . Dr. Rosen is well known in Russia and the United States as a revolutionary worker and as an agricultural expert . There are three outstanding features of the Joint Distribution Committee 's reconstruction work in Russia which give it a particular interest : ( 1 ) The work was entirely non-sectarian in character ; ( 2 ) it was carried on almost entirely through the medium of local peasants and workmen 's cooperatives ; ( 3 ) the aid given was not gratis , but the individual recipients had to pay the cooperative of which they were members for the services and help given . The A.J.J.D.C. is an American organization for the relief of Jewish war victims in Europe , but in Russia all its activities have been placed on a non-sectarian basis . Of the $7,800,000 spent by it in Russia since 1921 , about $6,500,000 have been devoted to relief , pure and simple  --  to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or religion ; to the feeding of 300,000 children ( on the same basis ) in the Ukraine during nine months of 1922-1923 ; to the distribution of clothing , shoes , fuel , etc . For its reconstruction program the A.J.J.D.C. provided $1,290,000 with the idea that an impetus could be given toward the economic recovery of the Jews in the Ukraine and White Russia , who had been particularly hard hit by the Great War , the civil conflicts , and the unparalleled pogroms . But it was understood that the economic recovery must be general if the Jewish population were to get any permanent benefit from the help given and therefore the reconstruction work , no less than the relief work , was done on a non-sectarian basis . The figures which are now available demonstrate quite conclusively how non-sectarian the activities of the A.J.J.D.C. have been to date . Of 100,000 acres plowed at least 70 per cent belonged to Russian peasants . Of 50,000 families on the land receiving agricultural aid , more than half werenon-Jewish . A. TRACTOR SQUAD WORK We purchased in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized ten squads in the southern district . It took a great deal of work to have these squads properly organized . The Soviet Government has greatly assisted us in this work by giving free transportation of the tractors , fuel , supplies , and men . The tractors arrived in Odessa and were delivered to the final points of destination good time . We purchased our kerosene and oil at the oil wells in the Grojny and Baku districts in tank cars , the Government supplying free railroad transportation from the wells to our tractor bases . Our tractors have not lost a single day on account of lack of fuel . To recover our expenses for kerosene and oil , we charged the farmers five poods of wheat per desiatin of land plowed , the grain to be delivered partly from the 1923 , partly from the 1924 crop . We plowed about 100,000 acres of land during the season , which is a very good acreage for eighty-six small tractors . The average work of such a tractor in the states amounts to about 300 acres a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subsequent issues the International Relations Section will print brief reports of the relief work carried on in Russia by the American Friends ' Service Committee and other organizations.days during the season . By continuous operation we accomplished about three seasons ' work in one . At the same time we taught the local people how to operate the tractors . Although we did the work for non-Jewish as well as Jewish farmers , we made it a rule that no plowing was to be done for any villages which participated in pogroms . From many of these villages we had petitions asking us to do some plowing for them , and expressing regret for the criminal activities of some of their villagers . All the work was done in cooperation with the local cooperative organizations , which are again functioning largely due to our assistance . The arrangement was that each local cooperative organization was to lay out plans and make all arrangements with the individual colonists . The land of the widows and orphans was plowed first , then the land of the people who had no horses or plows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of doing this work , we must say that tractor plowing under present Russian conditions is from 40 to 50 per cent higher than plowing with horses or oxen , but most of the land we worked had not been plowed for eight to ten years , and therefore was in such condition that the plowing could not have been done at all except by tractors . All the Russian agricultural organizations are extremely interested in our tractor work because this was the first time such work was done in Russia on a large scale , with a properly organized service , a thing almost unknown in Russia before . Several commissions delegated by the Department of Agriculture and by other organizations to observe our tractor squad have rendered reports which were flattering indeed . The general conditions are much better than they were a year ago . The winter crops were especially good . While there are still hundreds of houses without roofs or windows there is plenty of grain and straw everywhere , and life in general is more hopeful and even more cheerful . But the people still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we touch on the most important general problem of Russian life , namely , the difference in the prices of farm products and manufactured products . Farm products are below the pre-war level , while manufactured products are extremely high . To help the situation somewhat , the A.J.J.D.C. has made a special loan to agricultural cooperatives of $10,000 to purchase cotton and jute cloth to be used by the farmers for clothing . B. MULTIPLICATION OF ' PURE-BRED SEED The second line of work was the multiplication of pure-bred seed . Even to people superficially familiar with agricultural problems , it is self-evident that the quality of the seed used by the farmers is of the utmost importance . The quality of Russian seed has greatly deteriorated during the years of war and revolution . In this phase of our work we also had the fullest cooperation of the Moscow Department of Agriculture and the Ukrainian Improved Seed Society . They supplied additional quantities of seed and some funds , and placed at our disposal the staff and equipment of a number of agricultural experiment stations . We have organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from America , Germany , Denmark , and Norway was used for propagation and multiplication purposes . These breeding stations have produced sufficient quantities of seed ( corn , barley , wheat , oats , vegetables , etc. ) to be distributed among the farmers next year to plant not less than 3,000,000 acres of land . This work has received a good deal of attention in Russia , and the Department of Agriculture had a special exhibit devoted to this work at the All-Russian Exposition in Moscow . In addition to this pure-bred seed for multiplication purpoSes we distributed through the cooperative societies in our colonies and villages for planting in the spring of 1923 seed loans amounting to 170,000 poods of grain , 47,000 poods of potatoes , and over 5,000 poods of clover forage and vegetable seeds . We distributed for planting 100,000 grapevines brought from France and 150,000 seedlings of hops in the Volh5mia ( hop ) district . C. DISTRIBUTION OF LIVE STOCK The next step was the distribution of live stock . During the war millions of horses.were killed and died from disease . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stock , if not more , and it was the Jewish farmers especially who suffered in this respect . Before the war the Jewish colonists in the Cher-son and Ekaterinoslav provinces had about 12,000 horses , in 1923 they had only 3,300 ; the number of cows in the colonies decreased from 9,000 in 1916 to 4,400 in 1923. 1 . CATTLE We had an appropriation of $100,000 for live stock , and our plans were to purchase horses outside of Russia , in Hungary or Czecho-Slovakia , but after due consideration of the matter we decided to purchase horses in the Ukraine on the right side of the Dnieper River , in the Zhitomir province , where they were cheaper and more plentiful than in other districts of the country . The Russian Government has given us a good deal of assistance in this matter by granting free transportation for our men and the animals , and also veterinary service . These expenses were practically equivalent to the cost of the horses . Twenty special trains that had the right of way were placed at our disposal , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the horses from Zhitomir to Cherson and Nikolaieff , where it ordinarily would take from ten days to two weeks for a freight train to make the trip . The horses and cows were distributed through the cooperative societies . The societies would decide which members of the colony needed the horses or cows first . The horses were charged at the price of the actual cost , in terms of grain . Another arrangement was that a farmer receiving a horse could work for a widow and be credited , for this work as partial payment against his horse account . A good many farmers have paid for their horses during the season by doing work for others who had no horses . We also distributed over one thousand cows and fifty bulls for breeding . Most of these cows were given to families of widows with children . Cows are paid for in terms of grain or in terms of milk . 2 . CHEESE MANUFACTURING COOPERATIVES In most of our colonies we organized cheese manufacturing cooperatives , and our traveling instructors taught the farmers how to manufacture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperative was formed at Charkov to which all the cheese is shipped and this cooperative sells it for them at a profitable price . In this activity the Government has also given us assistance by placing at the disposal of the cooperatives refrigerator cars . These cheese cooperatives are a paying proposition , and the money realized from the sale of the cheese constituted the chief working capital of the agricultural cooperatives until the new crops came in. 3 . DISTRIBUTION OF FARM MACHINERY AND IMPLEMENTS The next item was the distribution of farm machinery and implements , outside of tractors . This was also accomplished through the local cooperatives , the implements to be paid for in terms of grain . Altogether we distributed 1,000 plows , 2,000 harrows , 1,400 cultivators , 400 buckers , 500 mowing machines , 500 seed cleaners , 300 wagons . In several instances we assisted in organizing cooperative shops for the manufacture of wagons , wheels , and small implements , also farm machinery repair shops . 4 . ASSISTANCE TO SETTLERS Another very important phase of our work was assistance to new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a means of making a living . Owing to economic conditions in Russia there is a movement among the Russian Jews to take up farming as a livelihood . For a time , when the new economic When writing to advertisers , phase mention The Nation policy was inaugurated , it seemed that Jews would go back to trading , but they soon realized that there is very little chance now for the small trader , and this movement to take up some productive work is still very important . Many thousands of Jewish families have taken up farming and are anxious to continue it if given the opportunity . The establishment of workmen 's cooperative banks , known as " loan kassas , " constitutes the reconstruction work for the city people . Eighty-two kassas to make loans to artisans for cooperative purposes were organized up to September 1 , 1923 . At present there is a stable currency in Russia , the chernovitz , which inside of Russia is much more desirable than dollars or pounds , as the rate of chernovitz in Soviet Russia is proportionately higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loans in this new currency , and this safeguards them from the loss of their capital through the depreciation of the ruble . The number of families benefiting from our kassas is not less than 20,000 . Some of the kassas have developed special lines of work , organizing producers ' cooperatives , such as the shoemakers ' cooperative in Vinnitza , woodworkers ' cooperative in Zhitomir , metal workers ' cooperative in Odessa , mill producers ' cooperative in Ekaterinoslav , etc . The majority of them have developed operations in cooperative buying of raw materials and tools , and others have organized cooperative selling of products . In August of this year representatives of all the kassas in the Ukraine held a conference in Kharkov and organized a central service bureau which acts as a clearing house for the purchase or sale of goods in every section of the country . 5 . TRADE SCHOOLS Our trade-school work was carried on in cooperation with the ICA ( Jewish Colonization Association ) and the ORT ( Society for the Promotion of Trade and Agriculture among the Jews in Russia ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have rendered assistance in this work to forty-two trade schools and three agricultural schools teaching a dozen trades to nearly 4,000 boys and girls . Italy 's Terror Goes On L ITTLE is heard of disorder or disaffection in Italy but occasionally an article is published like that printed below , indicating continued resistance to Fascist rule . To the Workers and Workers ' Organizations of all Countries : As reaction in Italy proceeds with its work of destruction , the breaking up of surviving syndical organizations continues along with the persecution and murder of workers , while the prisons are still being crowded with victims . The courts are overrun with comrades involved in cases which have been forced to trial by the police and judicial authorities during the last three years of close cooperation between the courts , the police , and Fascism . . . . Even in these last few days the Arezzo trial against the Valdarno miners and the Turin trial against the Minervino Murge peasants have both resulted in outrageous verdicts against our comrades , who were insulted with impunity in the courtroom by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caliphs , who in some cases even attempted to lynch the condemned men . During the last few days the comrades of Valdarno , Minervino Murge , and Cerignola have been sentenced to terms amounting altogether to more than fifteen centuries . The sentences vary from 10 , 20 , to 30 years , very few being granted easier terms . Comrades ! .. . Think of the victims . in. tbeie.life and death struggles ; think of theseeorandel wiihimay*Tertaps never leave their cells , be- : calsqlliet'alfinal to itsk.for parilon from the judges of bour-                     