@@486211

W ITH the inauguration of Emilio Fortes Gil as pro- visional President of Mexico a significant period in Mexico 's evolution may have begun . Or rather it would be more accurate to say , with the termination of the Presidency of Plutarco Elias Calles , for despite his withdrawal from public office he has been , is , and for the rest of his life will continue to be the dominant figure in the Mexican scene . If important transformation in Mexico may be expected within the next decade , it is due in a land where the individual still counts extraordinarily to Calles , last of the Sonorans . In discussing Mexico 's future it is necessary to guard both against the undue optimism that a few favorable symptoms in her public life seem to justify , and , likewise , against the pessimism that a longer acquaintance with contemporary Mexican events is apt to engender . Many  --  including chiefly Mexicans  --  who have lived through the seventeen years of the revolution and seen its repeated betrayals and relapses , its high hopes and crushing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cynical reference to the French proverb ? " Plus ca change , plus c'est la meme chose . " Nevertheless the deep ferment of revolution has brought results . To achieve them was needed a leader who could combine understanding of the nation 's needs , that is , sympathy with the revolutionary aspirations , inflexibility of purpose in materializing them , the political sagacity to maintain himself in office , and , above all , the character that would inspire respect at home and abroad . That leader has been and is Plutarco Elias Calles . The present tense in his case is quite as important as the past . For , by refusing further tenure of the Presidency , which could have been his again  --  perhaps indefinitely  --  for the asking , Galles acquires a prestige and assumes a role in the life of the nation which permits him to serve it fully as much in the future as in the past . What have these services been ? Three underlying revolutionary aspirations have been crystallized in the regime of Calles and lifted to a plane of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Begun under Carranza , it was a complete failure at the end of his term . It was carried further under Obregon , but was still so harassed by difficulties and the errors of its execution that four years ago it could not well be spoken of as much more than a hope deferred . While far more remains to be done than has been accomplished  --  indeed , it is the task of a generation  --  the feudal land tenure is dead , and a new system of small landholdings from which several millions of former peons are benefiting has been erected on ruins . Labor has been given a chance to organize freely . Whatever may be the ultimate evolution of Mexican labor , it has been set free of the political shackles which bound it . Its process of self-education has begun . Mexico 's autonomy in the family of nations has been established . It has been a bitter struggle . Successively the Taft , Wilson , Harding , and Coolidge administrations varyingly have impinged on Mexican sovereignty . Conversely credit must be given to each of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted or actual infringements by the United States . The proof of Mexico 's assurance of her position as a sovereign nation , entitled to all the attributes and prerogatives thereof , comes  --  oh paradox of parodoxes  --  in the unique and unprecedented praise of the United States Ambassador in the inaugural address of President Portes Gil . Recalling the succession of United States ambassadors and charges whose every move seemed to be the flaunting of a red cape before the snorting and sensitive toro of Mexican nationalism , it makes one rub one 's eyes . We seem to have a man in the arena who has walked up and stroked the bull 's nose . It may be taken for granted that the allusion to Mr. Morrow and his friendship was included in the Presidential message not merely with the consent but at the instance of Calles . Incidentally it should be recognized as a deserved tribute to the outstanding diplomatic achievement in United States history . Thus , in three fields of national activity  --  land , labor , and foreign relations  --  there has been definite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limited , development in public-health work , road-building , irrigation , and school construction in city and country , and a definitely increased administrative efficiency . The maintenance of peace despite the various attempts at rebellion has been an important if negative achievement . So much for the record of Calles the President . Viewed in the light of the immensity of his task , of the semi-chaos which he inherited in the wake of the De la Huerta rebellion , the obstacles that he faced in the militant hostility of the church , of the oil men , and of the State Department while its representative was Mr. James R. Sheffield , it is a great achievement . Contrasted against it , the errors in the matter of political favoritism , and the condonation of military violence , fade into insignificance . Excepting only the epochal Reform of the late eighteen-fifties , Calles 's term has been the most important four-year period in Mexico 's national life . In one respect only was there complete failure . " Effective suffrage and no reelection , " was the revolutionary device which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since . But it has been wholly denatured by political performance . Elections in Mexico , except such as were foregone conclusions , have been a farce . The state elections with rare exceptions have been burlesques of fraud and violence , in which loss of life has been almoht the rule . Only within the last month the state elections in Aguascalientes and Puebla have run bloodily true to form . In the face of such a record Calles 's refusal to run again and his declarations of the need of a new deal in politics are of vast importance . ( It should be remarked that through an amendment to the Constitution of 1917 , adopted by the Mexican Congress in 1927 , to remove all doubt as to the legality of Obregon 's candidacy , reelection of a President , after an interval , was legalized . Obregon had always contended that the prohibition of reelection in Article 83 of the Constitution of 1917 applied only to successive terms ; an election after an interval in private life , he insisted , was another election , not reelection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cataclysmic assassination of Obregon has in many respects been without precedent . The nation recovered its poise to an unexpected degree and almost instantly . The trial of the murderer proceeded with a judicial calm and leisure which would have done credit to the most firmly established " government of laws " on earth . The elimination of ambitious generals as Presidential contenders and the complete tranquillity which surrounded the choice of Portes Gil for the interim Presidency was a new and unheard-of chapter in Mexican politics . This orderly sequence of events was in no small degree due to the unseen strategy of Calles . In the momentary burst of grief and rage which followed the shooting of Obregon , Calles immediately moved the dead chieftain 's closest associates into positions of brief authority . They were given charge of the preliminary investigation of the murder . The resignation of Morones was accepted . In the excitement of the hour he was blamed by the unfriendly agrarian leaders , though quite unjustly , for the " intellectual authorship " of the crime . Though personally friendly to the CROM leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popularity had greatly diminished in office , to retire . For a brief interval , Obregonismo , even with its leader dead , appeared in the ascendent . None knew better than Calles that it was but a passing phase , and that shortly the group welded around Obregon would disintegrate . Almost with the removal of Obregon 's body to Sonora , and even before the election in Congress of an interim successor , Obregonismo had dissolved . All eyes were now turned on Calles . He was begged not to leave office . He was offered whatever amendments to the constitution were needed to permit him to hold over " in the crisis . " Public sentiment crystallized into the hope and belief that the method would be to have Congress elect ( upon the nomination of Calles ) an interim President and that in the special elections to be held fourteen months later ( February 5 , 1930 ) , Calles would be chosen for the six-year term . Congress assembled on September 1 , to be opened , according to annual custom , with the President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceremony President Calles invited not only every state governor , but every Jefe de Operaciones , the heads of the thirty-two military districts . All the political power of the nation was concentrated in the Chamber of Deputies upon that solemn occasion . The proverbial bombshell would have caused far less surprise than ' Calles 's emphatic declaratiom that not only would he not be a candidate either for the interim or for the regular term , but that he would never again be a candidate for the Presidency . The rule of the cctudillo , the chieftain , " the man on horseback , " was over , he declared . Henceforth the ruler of Mexico would be " the law . " This ideal that he held up for Mexico is , of course , none other than the oft-repeated Anglo-Saxon apothegm of " a government of laws , not of men . " Before the flabbergasted political cohorts could recover their breath , Calles entertained the generals at a conference in which they were carried away to fervent declarations of support of whomsoever the nation should elect . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or opportunity to formulate plans of their own . Having them all corralled in one room , Calles ventured the question whether they had united or were prepared to unite on one of their number . Of course they had nat . With the all-powerful Calles exhibiting such abnegation none ventured to propose himself as the nation 's savior . The candidacy of General Manuel Perez Trevino went by the board . The military 's indorsement of a civilian  --  of a figure who would symbolize not the chieftaincy of the past , but the projected reign of law  --  was the only course open to the assembled generals . The choice of Portes Gil , called only a short while before from the governorship of Tamaulipas to assume the portfolio of GobernaciOn , the head of the Cabinet , was assured . Viewed in its historic perspective , the proposal to substitute democracy by executive fiat is quite impossible of early realization . It will be recalled that Mexico , emerging from three centuries of colonial absolutism , sought to enter its national existence under a constitution modeled on that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " remained an abstraction . Government in Mexico , politically speaking , has from first to last been an autocracy secured by the strongest . The most repeatedly declared aim of the revolution has been to substitute democratic government . But the heritage has been too overpowering . In announcing his program , President Calles spoke of the need of a true government of parties , urged that a party be formed to embody and carry forward the ideals of the revolution , and suggested that even those opposed to the revolution should now be given their chance to be heard . Within subsequent weeks there have been hasty efforts on the part of not a few men prominent in government circles to acquire first-hand knowledge of the working of political parties in the United States . At least half a dozen independent requests have gone forth for literature bearing on our party organizations . It is the well-known " history repeats itself . " A little over a century ago , the Constitution of the United States was hailed by the Mexican constitution framers as their political panacea and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the eighteen-twenties as well as in the nineteen-twenties apparently failed fully to understand is that apart from the vast dissimilarity in the political heritages of Mexicans and North Americans  --  continued autocracy on the one hand versus a steadily widening diffusion of power  --  is the basic difference in local self-government . The growth of political institutions in the United States is an evolution from the self-governing settlement and the town-meeting . In Mexico the appointive official , or local chieftain , in colonial days a fusion of the Aztec cacique and the royal corregidor , continued after independence as the jefe politico though officially abolished by the revolution , still persists in fact without the title . Diaz appointed the state governors , though with the pretense of electoral forms . But under the revolution which was to abolish all that , governors have continued to strong-arm themselves into office . The cacique still rules lesser subdivisions by right of might and chicanery . The office as a spoil has remained the concept in municipality and state  --  though there have been gratifying exceptions . Of course , spoils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious mistake could be made in an effort at understanding the differences between Mexico and the United States than to find other than the remotest parallelism therein . Our municipal corruption in such cities as Chicago and Philadelphia represents the worst we have to offer . An Albert B. Fall is distinctly the exception in our Cabinets today . On the other hand , Calles 's arrest and holding for trial of General Jose Alvarez , the chief of the Presidential staff , for grafting , praiseworthy as it was , is still also distinctly exceptional . There have been , along with outstanding and strictly honest men in the Calles Cabinet , others who continue to view public office as a means to feathering their own nests . Certain reappointments in the Portes Gil Cabinet , and such appointments as that of Marte - Gomez to the Ministry of Agriculture and of Sanchez Mejorada to the Ministry of Communications are of the highest order . Marte Gomez was largely responsible for the efficient and enlightened application of the agrarian reform in Tamaulipas under Governor Portes Gil ; he then became head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico is better qualified for his new and responsible post than he . Sanchez Mejorada , comparatively unknown , likewise is a non-political figure , an engineer whose appointment spells public service . Of course , in our country purely political appointments to the Cabinet are not unknown . But with the continuity that exists in the departments , regardless of Cabinet changes , the secretaryships are , as a rule , relatively innocuous . They do not as in Mexico spell the difference between administrative success and failure . What Mexican executives need to realize is that at this juncture of Mexico 's development , and in the attempted transition to democratic forms , the example given at the top is of supreme importance . Granted that political reform can not yet spring from the bottom , and admitting the great difficulty of bestowing it from above , nevertheless the effect of a complete and unmistakable house-cleaning in all the offices within the reach of the national executive would be incalculably far-reaching . It is not true that Mexico lacks capable timber for high office , though it is naturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more closely identified with public service . There are , for instance , in Mexico men highly qualified for the important office of Minister of Industry , Commerce , and Labor , who have had practical experience in conducting great business enterprises and are yet not disqualified by the ( in Mexico ) fearsome label of " reactionary . " The head of the largest , most successful , and model tobacco factory  --  one which has kept well ahead even of the Mexican Federation of Labor 's requirements , in which all its workers are organized , is such a man . He happens curiously enough to have been a revolutionist since the Madero days , and at present is senator from the state of Mexico . One wonders likewise why so devoted and capable a public servant as Moises Saenz , sub-Secretary of Education for the past three years , was passed over in the selection for the secretaryship . The prospects for democracy from beneath are , curiously enough , by no means lacking , though not through the political channel which parallelism with the United States would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly through the agrarian cooperatives and urban labor unions , which are serving as training schools in citizenship of great value . The new political party , to be inaugurated under the sonorous title of Great National Revolutionary Party , does not by the mere gesture of coming into being offer any hope of political emancipation from the past rule of force , unless the spirit which actuated Calles in making his fine pronouncements on the need of " a government of law " is materialized unflinchingly in appointments to office . The appointees must spell " public service only " to the public eye . Apart from its relation to the large and long-distance establishment of democracy , this question bears immediately and overwhelmingly on economic reconstruction . If Calles , who now bids fair to be something which Mexico has never known  --  a political boss who is not the President  --  can make marked progress toward this end , he will add cubits to his already considerable stature , and make his life-term as a civilian citizen of even greater moment and service than his Presidency .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          