@@493352

December 9 , 1925 THE NEW Europe ? United and Independent " Locarno is the realization , " said Stresemann with grim earnestness , " that only cooperation between the European nations can save Europe ; that no nation can stand alone ; that realism and idealism must go hand in hand , and that , without peace , Europe is lost and every nation in Europe is lost with it . " WHEN the Locarno agreements were ini- aled , several of the friends of the late Mr. Wilson , including Mr. Tumulty , wrote to the papers and claimed a considerable part of the credit for the American war President . It was he , they said , who had made Locarno possible . The claim will not bear examination . That Mr. Wilson did much to popularize the general idea of peace by agree ? ment is assuredly true , but in his conduct of the negotiations in Paris he did not remain loyal to his own idea . The new treaties , although they do not legally supersede Versailles , are based on assump @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which were adopted by Mr. Wilson . At Versailles the Allies imposed by superior force a dictated peace on the Germans . Mr. Wilson was personally responsible for the failure to consult them . At the last moment Mr. Lloyd George was overtaken by conscientious scruples and proposed a genuine consultation . If Mr. Wilson had backed him up , the resistance of Clemenceau might have been overcome . But Mr. Wilson had by that time accustomed himself to the idea that Germany was a culprit . She must be punished and browbeaten rather than consulted . War with victory had ren ? dered peace by agreement impossible ? in his mind . France and Great Britain are now forced to try the method which Mr. Wilson refused in May , 1919 . For almost six years they ordered Germany about , and on two occasions they imposed costly penalties on her for failure to respond to what essentially were impossible demands . They under ? took this policy on the assumption that an emanci ? pated Germany , even if disarmed , would be a men ? ace to European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the policy prevailed the more precarious the peace of Europe became . The browbeating of Ger ? many instead of increasing the sense of security had precisely the opposite effect . At the end of 1924 Europe was shivering on the threshold of political convulsions and social dissolution . The League of Nations was impotent . It had no power to deal with the cause of the insecurity . The ap ? prehension , suspicions and animosities which were fomented in France and Germany by the latter 's oppressive treatment were irresistibly infecting the whole of Europe . If Germany had not taken the initiative and started negotiations for a security compact which pre-supposed the abandonment of arbitrary dictation by the Allies and the renuncia ? tion on her part of resentment and revenge , the history of western Europe would have fulfilled the sinister prophecies of its Bolshevist enemies . Mr. Wilson 's work in Paris had rendered Locarno not possible but necessary . In the light of the Locarno treaties and their origin one unpalatable truth is beginning to stand out . No matter how the War ended , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ican assistance , no matter even whether the Ger ? mans would have won , a similar policy of bullying and oppression of the vanquished by the victors would have produced a similar result . It would have undermined public order and forced , merely as a matter of European self-preservation , a sin ? cere attempt to set up a peace by negotiated agree ? ment . The result of economic exhaustion plus a policy of violence by the victors would in any event have been intolerable . The victory or defeat which the belligerents strained all their resources to ob ? tain or avert has proved to be of less importance than the enervation which overtook the whole of Europe as a consequence of such a hideous waste of its economic and moral resources . Once so much waste had taken place the fundamental European problem , whichever side was victorious , was the problem of physical and moral restoration . Unless increased mutual confidence and some measure of mutual help were forthcoming , the victors would be involved with the vanquished in a common ruin . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the contribution of the United States to the drama of the War and Peace is less consum ? mate than we Americans have imagined . The part which popular legend assigns to America in the World War is that of friend and savior of Eu ? ropean civilization who intervened to bring victory to the righteous cause and then , after the War was over , selfishly refused to underwrite the Peace . Eu ? rope 's instability and misfortunes since the Armis ? tice are from this point of view largely attributable to the withdrawal of America . As a matter of fact American military intervention seems in the light of existing knowledge much less salutary than it seemed at the time . It was the unnatural intrusion of an ignorant and clumsy but well-intentioned out ? sider into the affairs of Europe , brought about by the sheer fascination of the terrible drama and the inability of a romantic , sympathetic , credulous and decisively powerful people to resist the pro-war propaganda . But irrespective of whether they stayed out or went in , certain fundamental conse ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i determine the problem of Europe and its subse ? quent relation to America . By allowing the War to take place and to last so many years , Europe , as compared with America , had impaired its political prestige and compromised its economic independence . The United States could have most effectively assuaged the misfortunes of Europe by using its power to stop the fighting , but a policy directed to that end would have aroused the resentment of both parties to the quar ? rel . Instead the American nation with the best of intentions prolonged the War by intervention , and in this way added considerably to the final prostra ? tion of the infatuated victims . According to the processes of a capitalist economy the United States could not assist Europe in ruining itself without benefiting from the disaster and without charging a heavy bill for its services . The American gov ? ernment , it is true , labored mightily during the year and a half of its participation in the War to exhaust its own resources without delay , but its reserves were too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cient surplus with which to satisfy the imperative economic needs of Europe at a price , and to take over profitable responsibilities which its European competitors could no longer afford to assume . The relation between Europe and America dur ? ing and since the War is coming to look like an ironic comedy of errors . Throughout the drama Europe pleaded for or demanded American as ? sistance , but the plea was a symptom of weakness , and in so far as it was successful the weakness was encouraged and enhanced . The American peo ? ple finally returned a reluctant response to the in ? vitation . But they were not sure of themselves , and in order to conceal from their own conscience their ignorance and hesitation , they were obliged to in ? flate themselves with romantic and idealistic pre ? tenses . For a year or so they were more European than the Europeans . They were dedicated to the cause of setting things right in Europe , no matter what the cost to America . But they were European for a fighting purpose and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victory was won , they re ? covered their self-possession and seized the first pretext to withdraw . Their former illusory ideal ? istic pretenses made the withdrawal look like a be ? trayal , but it was really a deliverance . American assistance in carrying on European quarrels does not provide an effective cure for the sickness of Eu ? rope . The sickness must remain until the European nations cure themselves by pulling themselves to ? gether . American intervention on the prescribed conditions prevented them from making the effort . American withdrawal really removed an insuper ? able obstacle to future cooperation for peace be ? tween a United Europe and an America which recognized the proper limitation of her powers and responsibilities . At Locarno for the first time since the War be ? gan the European nations have acted as if they had learned this lesson . Only by union can Europe emancipate itself from blundering and debilitating American assistance , and the kind of union which it needs it must forge for itself . The original Covenant was too much influenced by the propa ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to impose on all its signatories and particu ? larly on the United States responsibilities which are born of the peculiar conditions of the Europeancontinent . Essential as American participation is in a League of Peace , the European nations can fairly be asked to provide by their own efforts against the causes of war which arise from the habitation of adjacent territory by many different national , racial and language groups ; and they can make such provision only by a system of public law which guarantees the protection of frontiers against violation and acknowledges a general responsibility for the safety and the free development of national cultures . While Locarno does not travel very far in this direction , it is a manifest and important be ginning . Yet it will amount to nothing if it is treated as an end rather than a beginning . The new treaties will not survive unless they are fol ? lowed by further provisions for the welfare of Eu ? rope as a whole , such as the surrender of existing privileges , the removal of existing indignities and the lowering of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is as necessary as Herr Strese ? mann asserts , much more of the same medicine is no less necessary . A really adequate union will concern itself with the careful husbanding and cultivation of European economic power and resources . In 19r4 Europe was the greatest reservoir in the world of fluid capital , but temporarily destroyed its ability to renew the surplus . In their efforts at recupera ? tion the European nations suffer from handicaps which are much more serious than before the War . Their armies are more costly than formerly and distract more workers from productive employ ment . Their national finances are disorganized to an extent which produces economic and social uncertainty . The area in which trade moves freely is more than ever circumscribed by protective tariffs . The wage-earners are underpaid and can furnish only a meagre demand for consumers ' goods . The United States , which is not embar ? rassed by any of these drawbacks , has become a more capacious and overflowing reservoir of fluid capital than the whole of Europe was before the War . As long as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this comparatively rapid accumu ? lation of capital . European business will be tempted to borrow the surplus , but if much of it is bor ? rowed , the burden of the debts will weakbn Europe economically and bestow on America too much power over European affairs ? the kind of exas ? perating power which is inseparable from the ex ? tension of credits on conditions advantageous to the lender . It is quite as necessary for European busi ? ness to unite in order to free itself from the bur ? densome price which it is paying and will continue to pay for American loans as it is for European governments to unite in order to free Europe from the need of blundering American interference . Only something like free trade among the European states , a large measure of disarmament , industrial reorganizatio/ ' .... J standardization , heavy expendi ? tures on plant equipment , and an advanced labor and social policy will enable them to escape the pay ? ment of a costly , irritating and enervating tribute to American money-lenders . In economics as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it remains divided it may become for a while a - dependency of triumphant American capitalism . Thoughtless Judges THE recent settlement of the strike of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers against the International Tailoring Company and the J. L. Taylor Company closes another chapter in the his ? tory of the reckless issue of injunctions in American labor disputes . The strike bore all the earmarks of a typical labor dispute . The employer , the owner of two large clothing factories in Chicago and New York , decided at the end of June to oper ? ate under non-union conditions . He refused last May to sign the union agreement which all his fel ? low union manufacturers in Chicago were then re ? newing . He sought , he announced , to escape " union domination " ; or , in other words , all those rules , regulations , safeguards , representing together a code of industrial law , which make the difference between a union and non-union state of affairs . The alternative before the union was either to sur ? render status and standards , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most civilized In the country , or to strike . It struck . As usual , the employer applied almost immedi ? ately to the courts for assistance . It requires no stretch of the imagination to believe that judicial aid was probably an important factor in the pre ? liminary calculations of this employer , as it has fre ? quently been with others . Nothing in the experi ? ence of American employers with their courts is designed to produce moderation and foresight in the avoidance of industrial conflict . If anything , the certainty of support , through drastic and far-reaching injunction orders , conduces to recklessness and carelessness which in the long run makes con ? flict inevitable . The situation turned out to be no different in this case . The courts responded to the employer 's plea for help swiftly and effectively ? except in Illinois , where , as we have previously * pointed out , a recent state law limited the action of the court . In New York , however , on July 18 and again on August 12 , Justices McGoldrick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ * participants in the strike by issuing temporary and permanent injunctions , whose literal enforcement would not merely have accomplished the reasonable purpose of suppressing the " threats and violence " alleged by the employer , but would have made the conduct of any strike impossible . They did this on the basis of affidavits by the employer solemnly averring , among other things , that the union was a conspiracy to ruin his business . Particularly drastic was Judge Churchill 's final injunction order which restrained the union " from picketing the plaintiff 's place of business . . . in any manner whatsoever , and from congregating or standing in the street within ten blocks in any direction from the said place of business . . . . " After nineteen weeks of one of the bitterest strikes in the history of the union , and three months after the hostile gesture of the court , the conflict was ended with an agreement restoring all previous union arrangements . This employer , whose dash for freedom the New York courts were so quick to protect , now issues jointly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " the differences between the International Tailoring Co. and the Amalgamated Clothing Workers have been amicably adjusted " in conference and that " it is to be expected that a sat ? isfactory and peaceful relationship will from now on prevail between the union and this firm . " Thus the hysterical intervention of the court to protect a business from the destructive practices of the union appears , at least , to have been premature . On the record the only effect of the injunction must have been to prolong the conflict , at great cost to all par ? ticipating in it , and to postpone the settlement that would not involve sacrificing those essential stand ? ards of work and life , which have been the union 's acknowledged contributions to its members . It is unfortunately not often that the story of an injunction is as clear and as complete as it is in this case . But the essential facts are nearly always the same , even though the outcome is rarely so happy . This , moreover , will continue to be the story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look successfully to the courts for aid and comfort , for moral and material support in their fights against organized labor . Until such time as American jurists open their eyes to the realities of industrial relations and weigh in the balance the indispensable and genuine social achievements of organized labor movements , they will be assisting in the establish ? ment of employers who seek profits and prosperity in their business through the evasion of those simple duties and obligations which more enlightened and generous employers have undertaken to assume . Red Grange in Business WHY did the story of Red Grange 's first pro ? fessional football game , in which he made $12,000 but no touchdowns , get on the front pages of the papers ? This was merely a detail of busi ? ness as usual . We do not see headlines reading : " President of Coleman 's Toasted Toothpaste earns $25,000 ; over 40,000 persons buy tubes at drug stores . " The story was as dull as traditional busi ? ness doctrine itself : public demand creates a mar ? ket ; the market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brings a high price . Now there would have been a startling story for a re ? porter interested in economics in many of Red 's                     