@@493396

More Myth than Man EVERY day it looks more and more as if , with respect to the Republican nominations for President , Mr. Coolidge were playing it both ways . He proposes to combine the credit for having refused the honor with the rare distinction of having it forced upon him . He hopes to find himself acclaimed as nominee by a chastened party and a sympathetic nation without himself asking for it , without laboring to get it and without paying any price for it . The obsequious Republicans are to hand the crown to him on a gold platter , admitting thereby that they can not get along without him , and their helpless subservience is subsequently to be ratified by an overwhelming majority of the American people . Such appears to be Mr. Coolidge 's program , which up to date has marched from one stage to another without a hitch . Whether it will continue to succeed we shall not risk a guess , but it certainly ought to fail . . If he disarms opposition and is carried into the nomination by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' phatic personal triumph for him , but it will advertise an increasing decay in the self-confidence of the Republican party and in the health of the American political body . Mr. Coolidge has not deserved such a tribute . If he wishes to be reelected , he i5/ in our opinion , fully entitled to ask his countrymen to consider his claims . He can not , in our opinion , be properly disquidified by the tradition against a third term . Mr. Coolidge has served as President a little over five years , and once only has he been elected . The third-term taboo is no more than partially valid in a clear case , but in a doubtful case it should not , in our opinion , rule out an existing President 's claim for reelection on the merits of his performance . But while Mr. Coolidge has every right to offer himself as candidate , he should do s ? in the open , which is apparently what he wishes to avoid . if he had come out and asked for the nom nation , he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party which finds Mr. Coolidge ; dispensable as a candidate will insist on nominat'i ' ' ht him for one of two reasons . His withdrawal conceivably provoke a contest over the selection of his successor which would become sufficiently bitte ? to compromise the success of the Republicans in th subsequent contest with their Democratic opponents . Or it might have the opposite effect . It might expose on their part the lack of any sufficient impulse to fasten upon a better substitute . In this second case , the intelligence of the party would shrink from the honest consideration of Mr. Coolidge 's failure and weakness as a party leader and as President , and from the effort to select an abler and more enterprising successor . Instead of rejoicing at the opportunity for a new deal which would tap other sources of Republican energy and statesmanship , the party would prefer to succumb helplessly and snobbishly to the prestige of an obviously second-rate man and a no less obviously inept and timid leader . F ? r the prestige which . Mr. Coolidge enjoys is a spurious affair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stagnation and intellectual lassitude . The welfare of the party and that of the interests which the party represents demands that the Republicans during the term of the next President invoke the services of an executive and a statesman with courage , initiative and vision . Mr. Coolidge 's very limitations , let alone his good qualities , have during the past four years contributed to his success . His frugality , his timidity , his conservatism , his immobility , his specious and loquacious optimism have all of them comforted a people who were apprehensive about social security and surfeited for the moment with public adventures ; but this state of mind is born of conditions ' which are passing , and it will soon disappear under the influence of the very different group of conditions which are now coming to Prevail . During the next four years , the American government can no longer continue to play safe , as it has done since 1922 . It will need , particularly In its relation with foreign countries , to try out more Positive , more risky , more responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs of the United States has been unobjectionable , whenever American interests de ? landed that he sit tight and do little or nothing , but it has been maladroit whenever , as in the case ? f the naval conference and of our relations with Mexico and Central America , circumstances compelled him . to act decisively . The years from 1928 to 1932 will be a period of decision in foreign Policy . If Mr. Coolidge proves to be his own successor , he will regret his failure to retire before the buffeting of less favorable surroundings and the de ? land for constructive statesmanship reveal the inePtitude of his good intentions . v , During the next four years , the President of the ' flited States will have to deal with two questions ? f major importance which , if they are wisely but 40t too cautiously handled , will correct and immenselyimprove the relations of the United States . ? Europe . During that interval , the modus vivendi which was adopted in 1924 in relation to German reparations will break down and will have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more responsible and official part in this reconsideration than it did in the making of the Dawes Plan . The success of any reparations will depend , among other conditions , upon its association with some plan for the prompt liquidation of the inter-Allied debts and particularly of the ' debt which the Allies in Europe owe to the United States . It is no exaggeration to declare that the healing of this bleeding economic and political sore without any additional infection depends upon the willingness of the American government to propose to Europe some ? such comprehensive solution as the ingenious and statesmanlike plan which Mr. Levinson outlines elsewhere in this issue . No less important are the negotiations which will have to be undertaken during the next few years for a revival and a modification of the naval agreement of 1921 with Japan and Great Britain . It must be remembered that this agreement involves not merely the question of future competition in naval armaments , but also the peace of the Pacific , the relation between military and naval armaments and their method of limitation , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the distribution of sea power really means . The Republican party , so it happens , contains two leaders who are peculiarly well qualified to conduct the American government through the labyrinth of difficult negotiations and doubtful decisions of the next few years , and both of them are passive or active candidates for the Republican nomination . We refer , of course , to Messrs . Hoover and Hughes . Mr. Hughes initiated and planned the group of agreements which the naval powers consummated in Washington during the fall of 1921 . According to the record , he is better prepared to deal with the vexatious and complicated question of their renewal , revision and supplementation than any other candidate far the presidency , Democratic or Republican . Mr. Hoover has not for many years participated in the , making of foreign policy , but he has rare qualifications for handling transactions with Europe . He understands the resources , the economic needs and the bargaining power of the European governments as does no other politically prominent American . He has the realistic intelligence , the courage , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best way out of the immensely difficult economic , political and psychological problem of liquidating the obliga tions which the European peoples incurred during the War . He is a man of larger ability and probably of more liberality and vision than he has had an opportunity of revealing since he entered the Republican Cabinet in March , 1921 . The New Republic is not , of course , indicating its own preference for the nomination and election of either Mr. Hughes or Mr. Hoover . It is only pointing out that , if the Republican party rejects both of them and chooses to commandeer a man like Mr. Coolidge , whose qualifications for the post are so much inferior , it will write into the record clear evidence of its deterioration as an organ of governrnent . It will have succumbed to the credulity and suggestibility which its leaders have tried to impose on American public opinion . It will have fallen a victim of the foolish and baleful myth that Mr. Coolidge is somehow a great man and a super-statesman in whom the shrewdness , the kindness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is supposed to possess were illumined and transfigured by a touch of genius . This myth originated after his extraordinary triumph in 1924 and as an explanation of it . Only a great man could have been so overwhelmingly elected . An orgy of puffery followed . For years the press and Republican politician publicists have industriously circulated the lie . But now when Mr. Coolidge is himself chewing the husks of the myth by pretending magnanimously to retire , and when the party would like to seize the opportunity to get rid of him , the carefully cultivated puff of his eminence and his political indispensability gets , in their way . Mr. Coolidge can invoke the mere inertia of the myth as a means of ruling out his competitors and of imposing himself on a party which would not overtly succumb to his pretensions without a stiff fight . The outcome is still doubtful . His competitors may , in the end , force him really to withdraw , or they may manage to interrupt the parade of his prestige , but , in any event , the lesson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excessively powerful office . It seems irresistibly to magnify a man unwholesomely , either in his own eyes , as with Roosevelt and Wilson , or in the eyes of other people , as in the case of Coolidge.                     