@@487299

C OMMANDER BYRD and three companions ? Bernt Balchen , pilot , Harold June , radio operator , Captain Ashley McKinley , camera man , with the Commander himself as navigator -- have flown over the South Pole . They took wing in a world of white clouds , white snow , white horizons ; they flew within an altitude of 500 feet for half their journey and then found it necessary to climb to 10,000 , through the narrow walls of a glacier , with no room to turn around in if the plane could not rise sufficiently . While they flew on , the four men were busy at the controls or were redistributing gasoline , taking moving pictures , dumping out food that had become too heavy for their ascent , and watching with desperate anxiety the instruments that told them where they were going , how , and whether or not they would make their goal . This is high adventure , and there is probably not a boy in the world who reads this story without wishing that he , too , could have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polar day was with them for twenty-four hours , that they were clothed in furs , that ice lay below them , and great ice peaks , some 15,000 feet high , pierced the sky around them makes the story more thrilling and picturesque . But it has its sober aspects , too . The Byrdexpedition was undertaken for solemn , scientific reasons ; it will give men more knowledge of the lands that lie at the bottom of the earth than has ever been available . The camera and the airplane will one day leave no parts of this planet uncharted . When that day comes , men of Commander Byrd 's temperament will have to find other worlds to conquer . T HE ANNOUNCEMENT that Dwight Morrow will within a few months be ' appointed United States Senator from New Jersey to succeed David Baird , Jr. , who now takes the seat made vacant by Senator Edge 's appointment as Ambassador to France , is extremely satisfactory reading . While The Nation is not of Mr. Morrow 's political faith , it rejoices that a man of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and such a praiseworthy public record may be the defender of his point of view in the Senate . That he will be opposed by some of the Old Guard in New Jersey seems already plain . But we have the faith that he will win in the primary if he contests for the full Senatorial term . If Mr. Morrow does remain in the Senate we venture the prophecy that he will be favorably considered for the Presidency in succession to Mr. Hoover by Progressives in that body . Which is a long way , however , from saying that he will achieve the nomination at the hands of the Old Guard . But he is a man well worth watching , whatever he does and wherever he may be . T HE PUBLIC-UTILITY executives called into conference with the President  --  so the story goes in Washington  --  had an unexpressed feeling that they could cooperate more whole-heartedly if the government would let up on them for a while . Very likely , ' but how about their letting up on the rest of us ? They never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The current report of that body finds no fault in them , and recommends local rather than federal control . We know what that means . F. E. Bonner , executive secretary of the commission , has managed , according to an Associated Press dispatch , to evolve a plan for having the Departments of War , the Interior , and Agriculture assign men to do accounting field work for the commission . This plan , however , was opposed by William V. King , chief accountant of the commission , whose good work we have noted before . Mr. King demanded specialized training for his men , and the commission finally gave him a free hand to select from the accounting personnel of the three departments such men as he desired . Senator Nye , in protesting against Secretary Bonner 's plan , called attention again to the ill-fated confidential memorandum dug up by the correspondents last summer and repudiated by the power executives . It urged the turning over of the commission 's accounting work to the departments mentioned , saying : " It is believed that these departments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least they will be removed from the direct supervision of Mr. King . " The forces at work for control within the Power Commission will bear sharp watching . Vat " argn- iristrtiment of national policy " is now a part of the law of the land which judges , district attorneys , and other federal officials are sworn to uphold . Margaret Dorland Webb , a Canadian-born Quaker who has lived for twelve years at Richmond , Indiana , has just been refused naturalization by Federal District Judge Hoelscher because of her unwillingness to fight even " if the law were changed compelling women " to do so . Asked if she would " be willing to use physical force " in defense of herself or members of her family in case of attack , she replied ; " Yes , but I would not take life in doing so . " Would she be willing for the government to " defend itself by force of arms under necessity " ? " But that is n't necessary , " she replied , " now that our government has renounced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counsel , Wilfred Jessup ; " We are not in the millennium , " he said , and in view of the decision of the Supreme Court in the Rosika Schwimmer case declined to press the application . The Beloit Daily News reports the refusal of naturalization to a Russian priest at Medford , Wisconsin , because his religious convictions forbade him to bear arms . We wonder what the Wickersham commission will have to say about these and similar cases when it comes to report on the lawlessness of the courts . T HE VIRTUOUS DR . BENES , Foreign Minister of Czecho-Slovakia , does not intend that Hungary shall recover any of the territory that Czecho-Slovakia acquired from it as a consequence of the World War . Eight years ago , he told a correspondent of the New York Times recently , he had thought that it might be possible , but in the interval Hungary has been resorting to propaganda , and a restoration of territory now would n't do at all . " To give Hungary anything , " this apostle of righteousness declared , " would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The concession , he added , " would simply be used as a stepping-stone toward the reconstitution of pre-war Hungary " ; and a prewar Hungary , apparently , would not be likely to kowtow to Dr. Benes 's darling , the Little Entente . Moreover , there is a practical difficulty : " with the restoration of 650,000 nationals to Hungary I should have to transfer 100,000 Slovaks who inhabit the same territory . " A six-to-one case against the Hungarians is , of course , conclusive . Meantime the Committee on Non-German Reparations which was set up by the recent conference at The Hague is reported from Paris to have failed to reach any agreement in the case of Hungary . At Sofia , too , there have been riotous protests against the reparations that Bulgaria is to make . What an enduring peace the Allies made ! O NE THOUSAND DOLLARS FINE and thirty days in the county jail is the sentence imposed on Alfred Hoffmann by Judge Cowper at Marion , North Carolina . The jury found Hoffmann guilty of rioting but not guilty of resisting an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ co-defendants were sentenced to six months in the road gang , with possibility of reduction of sentence for good behavior . Considering the state of tension in the locality and the fact that feeling has been running high against labor organizers and strikers , the results of this par-ticular trial are rather encouraging than otherwise . But they would be still more encouraging if the State could bring itself successfully to prosecute charges against certain of its police officers , also participants in the " riot . " The sheriff of Gaston County and his deputies are by no means absolved of a provocative share in the troubles of August 30 . Judge Cowper , before passing sentence , expressly reaffirmed the right of labor to organize : " No sentence of the court must be interpreted as opposition to the right of labor to organize lawfully . The sentence is merely for violating the law of North Carolina . " However , there are indications that this fair-minded attitude is not typical of North Carolina 's officials as a whole . A movement is under way to make rioting more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rumors that a statute similar to California 's anti-syndicalist laws will shortly be offered to the legislature . " POLITICAL SOPHISTRY " was the term with which Dr. Curtius , German Foreign Minister , charac-terized the so-called " Liberty Law " intended to prevent the acceptance by Germany of the Young plan which the Reichs-tag was asked to approve . The bill not only provided for the rejection of the Young plan in advance of any action that the conference at The Hague might take , but also im-posed the drastic penalty of penal servitude upon any official of the Reich who should approve either the payment of repa-rations or an agreement with any foreign government for such payment . Under the constitution the rejection of the Nationalist proposal , following a popular vote of more than 10 per cent of the electorate in favor of it , requires the sub-mission of the proposal to a plebiscite . The small number of votes , only about 8,000 , in excess of the required 10 per cent makes it reasonably certain that the plebiscite will fail , and the impressive majorities with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Curtius , rejected the various clauses of the bill indicate pretty clearly what the people may be expected to do at the polls on December 22 . T HE MACDONALD GOVERNMENT goes on strengthening itself at various points of its program , notwithstanding that some of the difficulties which it has to meet are serious . A preferential tariff agreement just concluded with Argentina is expected to give certain British textiles a decided advantage over American products in the Argentine market . The League of Nations has been reminded that international conferences are a lavr ; unto themselves , and that if the date set for the meeting of the naval conference at London , January 21 , happens to interfere with the date of the meeting of the League Council the Council may have to make other arrangements . The initial subscriptions to Mr. Snowden 's 5 per cent conversion loan have come in well . The pledge to abstain from propaganda in Great Britain , as a part of the agreement for the resumption of diplomatic relations with Russia , will be interpreted , according to Foreign Secretary Henderson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian Government . Conferences on the coal-mine situation have struck a snag , however , although the resignation of Herbert Smith , president of the Miners ' Federation , following the acceptance by a majority of the districts of the government proposals which Mr. Smith had opposed , has disposed of one important obstacle , and on November 28 the Government escaped defeat in a debate on the new dole bill only because of the absence of Liberal and Tory members . G ENERAL SMUTS put his finger on a vital spot in the reduction of armaments business in his speech at London on November 14 when he called attention to the special importance of aerial disarmament . " Aerial warfare , " he declared , " constitutes by far the most serious danger to civilization . It means ruthless warfare , not against the armed forces of the enemy but against his civilian population , with the consequent destruction of cities and the population behind the lines . " " With air forces rapidly growing in many countries , " he continued , the situation was one that should " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let his hearers at the Guildhall understand quite clearly that he felt no enthusiasm over Mr. Hoover 's suggestion about immunity for food ships in time of war , for the reason that the success of any effort to humanize war seemed to him very doubtful . There were plenty of " humanizing expedients " on hand when the World War began , but " as soon as the first shot was fired " they " went by the board . " The better plan , as General Smuts sees it , is to develop the method of conference between members and non-members of the League of Nations , since " the spirit of conference is the very soul of the peace movement . " Stranger things might happen than that the five naval Powers that are expected to confer at London in January should find , after they had agreed to reduce and limit their navies , that the development of air armaments would shortly render all navies comparatively useless . W HEN THE SUPREME COURT of the United States in 1923 invalidated minimum-wage legislation , it clamped down the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life  --  namely , the wages paid to great numbers of women workers . The Consumers ' League of New York , in its investigation of the wholly unorganized candy industry two years ago , cast a little ray of light into that darkness and then took positive action by establishing a white list of candy manufacturers who pay a minimum wage of $14 a week in addition to meeting certain sanitary and hygienic requirements . We are glad to note that the league is making efforts to extend this work to other large centers , Cleveland already having its own white list . In view of the approach of- the holiday season , we remind readers who want to buy candy made under approved conditions that copies of the white lists may be obtained by addressing the Consumers ' League , 289 Fourth Avenue , New York City . M YRON C. TAYLOR , chairman of the Finance Com- mittee of the United States Steel Corporation , at a celebration in honor of the birthday of Andrew Carnegie , has appealed to the public for courage and confidence . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following : These two examples of collective action may well make one pause in considering the problem of the nation 's ultimate destiny , for if such a tremendous operation , carried on in a period when the nation 's financial and industrial and commercial strength was at its highest peak , when the labor of the country was fully employed , and when confidence in the future was justified on every hand , should carry the community to such an unwarranted pitch of corn-petitive buying of securities of all sorts and as suddenly plunge it into the very depths of disbelief and fear , one must wonder whether the temperament of our nation makes it any more secure against the ravages of time and decay than were those great nations of history to which we have referred . Precisely ; we agree heartily with this compact and trenchant illumination of the problem under consideration , for we believe that it was really quite incredible that the public through ignorance , or eagerness to hazard , should have followed its imprudent course in the face of grave warnings by men dike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prove how dangerous it is when mass action gets out of the hands of the financiers and steel leaders and banking heads who are usually to be trusted to steer the country into proper channels , all of which , to quote Mr. Taylor again , " reminds one of a locomotive , driven at full speed over a busy line through populous districts , past all signs and signals along the way , headed for certain disaster " ? disaster as certain as that which ought to overtake those who inflict sentences like these upon an innocent public in elucidation of a national disaster " P ICTURES OF ROASTING SOULS in hell make more atheists than any other thing in the world . " Is this the latest pronouncement of the society to foster atheism ? It is not . These words have come from the lips of that respectable dignitary the Bishop of London , in no less renowned a place than Westminster Abbey . Had the words been uttered in those sacred precincts even a hundred years ago we know what charges of heresy and blasphemy would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Some say that people who rebel against God will be annihilated . I can only say , we do not know . " But if the Church of England is ready to confess its ignorance as to this possibility in our future life , how can it claim to know anything about our eternal salvation ? Finally , the Bishop announced that passages in the Gospel of St. Matthew " attributed to our Lord were not said by our Lord at all . " Good Heavens ! We hope that he will never undertake a trip to Tennessee or ask to speak in the church of the late Rev. John Roach Straton . To question one word of the New Testament is treason in all our fundamentalist circles whether the traitor be a bishop or a layman . To make matters worse the " Gloomy Dean , " Inge , of St. Paul 's , in London , similarly expressed his doubts at almost the same hour . He would " be the last to revive the terrible symbolism of hell torture , " but he is , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the New Testament be entirely banished . Now bishops and deans may worry all they please ; the fact is that sensible people and intelligent people everywhere have unanimously done away with that hellish figment of the imagination which was devised primarily to keep the masses in subservience to those who depressed and exploited them . 7 HE NATION takes pleasure in announcing the acces-sion to its staff as literary editor of Henry Hazlitt , for years in charge of the book pages of the New York Sun . Mr. Hazlitt begins his work on January 1 , 1930 . Miss Kirchwey , at present literary editor , now on a year 's leave of absence , rejoins the staff next fall , we are happy to say , as an associate editor .                     