@@430844

 | THE fate of Austria-Hungary at the hands of the Peace Conference tragically illustrates the fact that the " principle of self-determination " never was clearly defined and rigorously respected , nor were clear rules formulated for its practical application . President Wilson , in his message to Congress of February 11 , 1918 , stated : 1 . That each part of the final settlement must be based upon the essential justice of that particular case and upon such adjustments as are most likely to bring a peace that will be permanent . 2 . That peoples and provinces are not to be bartered about from sovereignty to sovereignty as if they were mere chattels and pawns in a game , even the great game , now forever discredited , of the balance of power ; but that , 3 . Every territorial settlement involved in this war must be made in the interest and for the benefit of the populations concerned , and not as part of any mere adjustment or compromise of claims amongst rival states ; and , 4 . That all well-defined national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accorded them without introducing new or perpetuating old elements of discord and antagonism that would be likely in time to break the peace of Europe and consequently of the world . This was the specific enunciation of the right of selfdetermination which received the platonic assent of all the belligerent Powers represented in the Peace Conference in Paris . This was the principle that awakened the slumbering national self-consciousness of " nations crowding to be born , " and encouraged the presentation of problems which could not have been anticipated by President Wilson , notably the claims of Egyptian nationalists , and also of the Syrians .  | It should be recognized that nowhere was the principle of self-determination asserted in anything but vague , general terms which could only have the effect of stimulating nationalistic aspirations the world over . The impression was certainly created that subject races were to be released from bondage . The precise rules to govern this excessively difficult task were never formulated , nor is there any evidence that the various commissions of experts dealing with such questions in Paris came to any agreement as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ map of Europe . President Wilson , in his speech of September 27 , 1918 , insisted that : The impartial justice meted out must involve no discrimination between those to whom we wish to be just and those to whom we do not wish to be just . It must be a justice that plays no favorites and knows no standard but the equal rights of the several peoples concerned . Granted that it was difficult to define clearly the principle of self-determination or to formulate rules for its practical application , nothing , however , can excuse the Peace Conference for having failed to be guided in its decisions by that spirit of impartial justice " that plays no favorites. ? On the contrary , the Peace Conference seemed guided more by the desire to reward faithful friends and show severity to the conquered foe . It was more concerned with the establishment of a new balance of power than in a peace of justice " or " a peace of healing . " The right of self-determination was invoked by the Peace Conference in many instances to justify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclusively by the Peace Conference itself , not by the peoples immediately concerned ! In the case of Schleswig and also of Klagenfurt , to be sure , provision was made for the taking of a plebiscite to ascertain the wishes of the inhabitants . The arrangement for distinct zones where the inhabitants vote according to districts or according to the zone itself , is most suggestive of the general problem . How shall the wishes of the inhabitants be ascertained in every instance ? Can the question be so framed , first of all , that they may intelligently determine their own destinies ? Can they always estimate properly the various factors that constitute a national community of interests ?  | Secondly , it is extremely difficult to establish a just territorial basis for the taking of a plebiscite . ' Where a race is in a minority in a given nation , what portion of the population shall be permitted to exercise the right of self-determination ? Shall the vote be taken on a broad basis or according to certain districts ? The claim for a plebiscite , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state , may easily create an unfortunate situation suggesting a political gerrymander . Thirdly , the problem of self-determination is complicated by the obvious fact that the wishes of a minority should not be permitted to militate against larger , and , perhaps , more vital interests . This is particularly to be noted in a situation like that of Fiume where the nationalistic claims of a small municipality antagonize the economic as well as the nationalistic claims of a vast hinterland . It is a dangerous thing to attempt to readjust historic wrongs by shifting populations and territories in accordance with academic theories . A state originating in historic wrongs may , in the process of centuries , have adapted itself to its own kind of existence . A state in its economic and social life may be regarded as a living organism which can not be dismembered or mutilated without grave consequence . To attempt to remake the map of Europe in accordance with a color scheme based on the ethnic distribution of population is likely to create fresh problems as dangerous to international peace as some of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case of the Banat of Temesvar , where the races are so blended ? as the writer can testify from actual observation ? that it is utterly out of the question to disentangle them politically . A Serb village adjoins a Roumanian village , a German village , or a Magyar village , and all on friendly terms without consciousness of racial grievances . And yet this rich province is to be cut out of the side of Hungary and divided between Serbia and Roumania ! Such a situation also emphasizes another fact of fundamental importance , namely , that in any considerable transference of territory it is inevitable that a large racial minority will be left under the control of another nationality . The cession of Transylvania to Roumania , for example , transfers over a million Magyars , and Saxons of the Sieben- burgen inhabiting the heart of this province , though the Roumanians themselves probably do not have more than three hundred thousand majority . The practical question then remains : whether it is more just to have Hungarians under the rule of Roumanians or to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situations of this character , it would seem as if the answer were to be found , not in transfer of territory , but in granting a large measure of autonomy . This would not only go far towards satisfying racial grievances , but also take into account the rights and the needs of the state threatened with mutilation , namely , Hungary in the present instance . Guarantees of autonomy , however , are not sufficient . Even if the nationalistic claims in a given instance are fully granted , the new nation is not fully protected in its separate existence unless at the same time its economic independence is guaranteed . A nation may be menaced by economic strangulation as well as by hostile armies . This is most obvious in the case of a country without seaports ? those " lungs through which nations breathe . " It was necessary to secure in the Treaty of Versailles a right of way for Czecho-Slovakia across Germany by water and rail , amounting virtually to what is termed an " international servitude . " But such concessions are not enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ products or to neighboring markets . Unless adjoining nations economically dependent on each other are willing to concede a large measure of freedom of intercommunication , racial independence or autonomy becomes something of an illusion . The nationalistic problems of Europe have been so varied and complicated that the economic foundations of peace have been almost entirely ignored . This is most lamentable , as the economic relations of peoples are extremely varied and complicated , presenting problems quite as baffling as that of self-determination . In fact these economic problems are of especially vital interest now by reason of the aims of Bolshevists , Socialists , and even of Labor in general . It may be fairly claimed that the economic has supplanted the nationalistic problem . In the light of the preceding considerations affecting the practical application of the principle of self-determi-  | nation , it is not to be wondered at that the decisions reached by the Peace Conference with reference to Austria-Hungary should appear unwise in certain respects , and even dangerous in character . It has long been obvious that something should be done in behalf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose policy was ? to quote Steed ? " to maintain an equilibrium of discontent . " The Bohemians waited long for the right of autonomy and now finally have achieved their independence . Hungary also has long been moving in the direction of independence . Moreover , the necessity of securing greater political rights for the various races dominated by a bare majority of Hungarians has long been apparent . Granting these unmistakable facts , is it not also a fact , however , that in the process of time , by reason of their neighborhood interests and needs , these various races of the old Austro-Hungarian Empire have grown to realize a vital community of interests ? Does not the Danube constitute a great artery of commerce and communication that compels these peoples to recognize at least their economic interdependence ? It would seem clear that they can not completely be divorced from each other , and that some form of a confederacy is a logical necessity . Consider , first of all , the case of Bohemia . In view of the bad feeling long engendered between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hungarians on the other , it was inevitable that Bohemia should insist on full independence . But the establishment of that independence in accordance with sound principles safeguarding the interests of all concerned and securing peace in this part of Europe was far from an easy task . The obvious desire to reward a valiant ally , and to institute a fresh balance of power to offset the German menace , made it impossible to obtain a peace founded on sound principles . ' Was it wise and was it necessary to include within the new State of Czecho-Slovakia more than three millions of Teutons in districts adjoining Germany and Austria , who had openly manifested their repugnance to such an arrangement ? Was it wise and was it necessary to cede to CzechoSlovakia , Pressburg on the Danube , the Grosser Schutz Insel , and a considerable block of territory inhabited mainly by Magyars ? Even in the case of the Slovaks ,  | the Slavic cousins of the Czechs , ? it would seem as if some effective method should have been devised to ascertain their wishes and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including the Magyars as well as the Czechs . So far as the right of self-determination was concerned , it has never been clear ? and recent reports of discontent among the Slovaks confirm the impression ? that the Slovaks ever desired to be completely incorporated with the Czechs . Take the case of the Russenes ? those " White Russians " or Ukrainians to the number of four hundred thousand south of the Carpathians , ? how were their wishes ascertained when they were allocated to Czecho-Slovakia ? The right of self-determination in their case , it appears , was exercised by a small group of their race residing in America , though it is by no means clear that the economic interests of these peoples would not rather require a closer union with the Hungarians than with the Slovaks and the Czechs . Without more than an allusion to the thorny question of Teschen between Poland and Czecho-Slovakia , it would seem clear that the latter begins its existence with territorial and racial problems certain to embroil it with all its neighbors . In not insisting on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of aggrandizement and of balance of power to control their decisions , the Peace Conference has rendered Czecho-Slovakia a most doubtful service , and has gravely endangered the peace of Central Europe . Decisions of this character can not be enforced by mere fiat . Whose bayonets are to carry them out ? Turning next to the new Austrian Republic , we find a tragedy , as well as a mockery of the right of self-determination . The lot of three million German-speaking Austrians in being annexed to Bohemia has already been considered . What of the fate of the Tyrol ? that homeland so full of historic associations and sentiments for all Aus-trians ? Little concern has been shown for the right of selfdetermination in allotting to Italy the German-speaking peoples south of the Brenner Pass . The cession of a small section of West Hungary containing a preponderance of German-speaking people can hardly be considered by Austria as an act of real justice if it should serve to embitter the relations of the two countries . Moreover , the same  | principle should have counseled the Peace Conference to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austria or Germany as they might prefer . Strict justice , in realizing the utter weakness and needs of the new Austrian Republic , with but six million inhabitants , and inadequate economic resources or outlets , should have conceded at least the right of these people to throw in their lot with Germany . Nor can it be reasonably affirmed that anything except brute force alone could prevent such a union . The Peace Conference , however , dominated by the bogey of balance of power , saw fit to prescribe in the Treaty of Versailles and in the Treaty of St. Germain that the right of self-determination might not be exercised by the Austrians , except by the express consent of other nations ! Granted that this fear that the balance of power might be seriously upset by the union of Austria and Germany was not without justification , it would be difficult to justify , however , so glaring an affront to the fundamental principles proclaimed by the Peace Conference , and particularly to the basic purposes of the League of Nations . The right of veto can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Treaty of St. Germain can hardly be viewed with pride as evidence of that " impartial justice that plays no favorites and knows no standard but equal rights of the peoples concerned . " Woefully lacking in men and resources , staggering under old debts and freshly imposed indemnities , and ironically guaranteed her " inalienable independence , " Austria stands today as a proud suppliant begging for food and a helping hand . It is a tragic situation to arouse one 's sense of shame . What Austria and what the whole of Central Europe demand , is not charity , but justice . And yet , in some ways , the case of Hungary is even more tragic . Acting in alleged deference to the principle of self-determination , the Peace Conference has attempted to liberate the subject races of Hungary , and in so doing , has produced an appalling result . Here was a nation with a long history , and , in spite of racial differences , possessing a well-defined unity . Blessed with a splendid variety of natural resources , including coal , iron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and rich arable lands ; boasting a railway  | system admirably planned and operated , Hungary finds itself dismembered and mutilated to such an extent as to render separate national existence excessively difficult , if not impossible . There can be little doubt that theorists as well as avaricious neighbors have sought to break up Hungary along ethnic lines without any agreement as to the practical rules for the application of the right of selfdetermination . Millions of Magyars and peoples of German stock are being transferred under the domination of Roumania , Serbia , and Czecho-Slovakia . No defence can he made for the stupid , as well as the unjust , policy of Hungarian leaders towards the subject races of Hungary . Nor can it be denied with reason that considerable changes in the frontiers might properly be required . But in all fairness it should be pointed out that the reactionary policy of the Hungarian magnates also oppressed the vast majority of the Magyars who themselves were politically disenfranchised . There is no satisfactory evidence that under this baleful regime racial antagonisms were developed . Candor compels recognition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permitted Calvinists and Catholics to flourish side by side , and of the genuine community of interests which existed between peoples of different races and religions . The true demand of these peoples was not so much for independence as for a greater freedom of self-expression , and for self-government that applied to all races rather than to any separate race . The granting of a liberal franchise and of local autonomy by the Karolyi Government came too late , unfortunately , to have any practical effect upon the decisions of the Peace Conference . If such a policy had been adopted ten years earlier , it is seriously to be questioned whether there would have been much justification for the dismemberment of Hungary . Abandoning fruitless speculation , we find that the results actually attained by the Peace Conference can not fail to arouse most serious apprehensions either as to the justice of this settlement , or the possibility that so artificial an arrangement can ever be expected to last long . Hungary is now very much like a man deprived of an arm , without a leg , blind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his vital organs badly diseased . It is incredible that anyone should seriously maintain that a state in such a condition could be  | expected to function properly as a healthy , political organism . It is of lamentable interest from the political and diplomatic point of view to note how egregiously the Peace Conference failed to utilize the advantages of the situation created by the establishment of the Hungarian Republic under its first President , Count Michael Karolyi . Even if it be conceded that it was inevitable that Hungary should be dismembered , an intelligent , generous , and just handling of this situation might well have avoided some of the regrettable results which have ensued , notably , the Bolshevist regime of terror under Bela Kun . It should be remembered , first of all , that Count Karolyi was a genuine liberal ? a refreshing exception among the reactionary magnates , and that he was in sympathy with the Entente , as indicated by the fact that he was permitted to return to Hungary from France after the outbreak of war . Furthermore , in spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outbreak of war , it can not truthfully be said that the disenfranchised people of Hungary had any immediate responsibility in this catastrophe . They themselves were victims of this mad policy , even though in the end they won the long fight for independence begun in 1848 by Kossuth , with the sympathy and moral support of the American people . Again , the establishment of the Hungarian Republic along most liberal lines was entirely in harmony with the aims protested by the Entente Powers and the United States to make the world safe for democracy . The reforms immediately introduced by the Karolyi Government , particularly the agrarian reforms providing for the distribution of the large estates among the peasants , and also the political reforms , already mentioned , were measures bound to accomplish beneficent results , and deserving the approval of all liberals throughout the world . The failure of the Peace Conference to recognize an entirely new status quo , and to hold out a generous hand to a new democracy , would seem to have been most shortsighted and lamentable . It indicated that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the desire for territorial aggrandizement by the neighbors of Hungary , and the intention to establish another balance of power in Europe .  | As a matter of historical record , it should be stated that not only did the Peace Conference fail to adopt a generous , wise policy , but on the contrary , proceeded to render it impossible for a liberal democratic regime to exist in Hungary . In violation of a definite armistice with the Karolyi Government fixing a military line of demarcation , the Peace Conference permitted successive encroachments of an extensive nature by Roumania , Czecho-Slovakia , and Serbia , which clearly foretold the future dismemberment of Hungary , and utterly destroyed the feeble prestige of the young Republic . The result of such a policy of bad faith and short-sightedness was inevitable . The Hungarians , completely despairing of any national future , in their desperation were thrown into the hands of the Socialists , who in turn found themselves , to their later disgust and horror , entirely dominated by the extremists of the school of Lenine . The four months of terror @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bolshevists ; the invasion of the Roumanians with their policy of vengeance and loot ; and the monarchical reaction that followed : all this was the logical result of the lamentable policy adopted by the Peace Conference . Hungary and Austria today present a spectacle calculated to arouse in the minds of all who have hoped for the reconstruction of Europe along generous and just lines , feelings of profound discouragement and chagrin . The cause of democracy , and even of humanity itself , has been sadly betrayed in Central Europe . The cause of peace has been gravely menaced . The task of any league of nations has been rendered practically impossible of execution . There is no assurance whatever that the Macedonian question which has been so long the disgrace of Europe has any prospect of solution in accordance with sound principles . The legitimate grievances and the fierce hatreds of Greeks , Bulgarians , and Serbs have in no way been lessened ; but have gained renewed vigor . There are no signs of a peace in the Balkans based on a sane realization of a community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , must rest on bayonets . The peace attained will not be a peace of friendship : but a peace of force . The Viennese have a saying that " the East begins at the River Leitha . " There was a good deal of truth in this observation , which now has a new and a sinister significance  | in the light of the decisions of the Peace Conference . The Balkans have been brought to the Rhine itself Fresh racial rivalries and hatreds have been aroused on so vast a scale as to make the Macedonian Question appear tame and trivial . A situation has been created in Central Europe of an unreal and unsound character which ignores the fundamental fact that no peace is of any avail that is not based on the frank and friendly realization of the mutual interests and needs of the peoples immediately concerned . They alone are competent to settle among themselves all the peculiar complex questions , economic and otherwise , that affect the intimate relations of neighboring states , and profoundly affect the larger question of peace in that part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vision at the Peace Conference , notably General Smuts , who urged that before final decisions were reached concerning Central Europe , representatives of all the former portions of the old Austro-Hungarian Empire should be summoned together in friendly conference and consultation to determine their mutual interests and needs . Except by the recognition of the Czecho-Slovaks as deserving allies , the Peace Conference ignored the wishes and the vital interests of the peoples of Central Europe . Great hopes were inspired during the Great War that out of so much suffering and horror we might realize high ideals for international peace and justice , The American people in particular , having no selfish ends to serve , were stirred with enthusiasm over the prospect of establishing the relations of nations on the basis of sound principles . Selfish aims were to be subordinated to general good . Secret diplomacy of the old sinister sort was to be discarded for open , frank negotiations seeking no ulterior ends . President Wilson succeeded in expressing these high purposes so effectively as to win the adhesion of all the belligerent Powers represented at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have been unwilling to believe that these high purposes could fail of realization . Optimism and faith were to be preferred to criticism bordering on pessimism or even cynicism . But a willingness to face facts courageously may compel us to admit that the Peace Conference has failed to justify the @#  | hopes which perhaps were irrationally entertained as to its power to establish international law and order on firm foundations . The attitude of many that the League of Nations must be trusted to rectify the mistakes of the Peace Conference would seem either Quixotic or the counsel of despair . To establish a definite status quo by treaty on the one hand , and to seek to revise it on the other would seem utterly incongruous and indefensible . To saddle the League of Nations with any responsibility for the lamentable situation in Central Europe would be a burden beyond its power to bear . The only hope in such an apparently hopeless condition of affairs lies in the inexorable necessity which must compel the peoples of the old Austro-Hungarian Empire sooner or later to disregard all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modus vivendi based on the recognition of their mutual needs and aspirations . Freedom , prosperity , and happiness are to be found only in common consent ; not in coercion . In self-determination of this character will be found the peace of the whole world as well as of Central Europe .                     