@@486270

DRAMA is returning to the technique of the chronicle and the methods of the allegory . The younger playwrights of Europe are in flight from life They are proclaimers and prophets like Ernst Toiler , builders of pessimistic apologues like the Capek brothers , exploiters of subtleties along the slanting edges of life like Luigi Pirandello In seeking to describe them , especially Pirandello , I am reminded of a passage in Johnson 's famous account of the metaphysical poets of the seventeenth century : " Their thoughts are often new , but seldom natural ; they are not obvious but neither are they just ; and the reader , far from wondering that he missed them , wonders more frequently by what perverseness of industry they were ever found . " It is easy to apply the test . The wildest paradoxes of Shaw , the infinitely twilit subtleties of Schnitzler awaken an equal recognition and answer in the well-attuned mind . They are not obvious , but they are just . I have read half-a-dozen of the plays of Pirandello , including " Sei Personaggi in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been at work the same feeble and febrile fancy as of a more forlorn and less intense Maeterlinck who borrowed the outer garb of realism to hide from himself the futility of his own imaginings . " Six Characters in Search of an Author " ( Princess Theater ) is the best of his plays . It is the most frankly cerebral ; it is less a play than a commentary ; it abandons the creative for the ratiocinative . Among the works of a powerful dramatist it would occupy the place that " La Critique de l'Ecole des Femmes " does among those of Moliere or " The Rats " among those of Hauptniann . It is , on the contrary , Pirandello 's best performance That fact defines the nature of his talent . It is true that characters powerfully imagined and projected in literature have a changelessness and permanence that outlasts life But it is curious and amazing rather than just and profound to illustrate that truth by letting six characters out of an unfinished play step on a stage during rehearsal and shame the mere theatric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their passions and the eloquence of their discourse For during the presentation of the piece these characters assume the nature of life ; the stage and the actors are deliberately reduced to a more shadowy plane of stiff convention . The criticism thus constructed is no criticism at all . There are no players in the world that would not be confounded by the intrusion of men in the grip of some instant anguish of the living nerves or flesh . Art does not seek to compete with life on such terms . That is no reproach . Mr. Brock Pemberton , whose uncommon artistic courage and insight is not diminished by such strictures on the play , has cast and directed it with the most delicate sensitiveness and the firmest skill . Mr. Moffat Johnston 's performance is masterly . I have seen nowhere on the stage so excellent and complete a union of passion and thought or heard philosophic eloquence delivered with such spontaneity . Miss Margaret Wycherly created the strange mood of her part with her accustomed beauty and completeness of execution and Miss Florence Eldridge redeemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " The World We Live In , " the " Insect Comedy " of Josef and Karel Capek ( Jolson 's Fifty-ninth Street Theater ) , strives to be a Swiftian fable . As the beasts mate and gather food and make war , so does man . He is as foolish as the butterfly , as grasping as the beetle , as cruelly wasteful as the ichneumon-fly , as supine and slavish as the ant . Thus the only wise man is he who , like the Vagrant that witnesses and interprets the crass allegory , desires neither to love nor to possess nor , therefore , to contend . The entomological parallels are close and striking , the imaginative working out of the fable is not without power , and the weak optnniern of the crowd is likely to find the play tonic and astringent . The more reflective mind will probably feel the mood of the piece as one of depressed irritation and miss that saeva indlgnatio which soars even while it burrows and which is , in essence , not so much a hatred of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mercy , truth . The Capeks deliberately omit the whole range of man 's consciousness of himself and his ways that produces art and science and history . It is the consciousness which can say . We are no better than the beasts that perish , that raises us above them , or , rather , differentiates us from them . Without a sense of that differentiation the allegory breaks down . For to have written it is to have refuted its conclusions The play is almost devoid of dramatic life . It is a morality and a spectacle . The Vagrant moralizes and the beasts go through their allegorical gestures . It would have been simply dull without this particular production which unites the utmost splendor with the most disciplined skill and has more poetry , rhythm , beauty by far than the play itself . LUDWIG LEWISOHN                     