@@430921

THE Bolshevik Revolution dazed the world in November , 1917 . During 1918 we in America never really sensed what the November Revolution was about and wherein it differed from its Kerensky prelude . Few were equipped to find their way through the revolutionary mazes which form the background of Bolshevism since the beginning of this century , and the rest merely rolled the strange and ominous word on their tongues until it finally inflamed their minds . The first clear reaction against Red Russia came very naturally from the German Social Democracy , in whose womb Bolshevism had been fertilized by Russia 's long and desperate revolution against czardom . During the armistice negotiations the new German Socialist Government suppressed communist uprisings with iron cruelty , but also with the lucidity that comes of mortal danger . The Eberts and the Scheidemarins appreciated the philosophy and tactics of the new Russian masters , who had been their comrades in the dim past . They knew that to Lenine the whole Western economy , from the international banker to the international socialist , was but one vast counter-revolutionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sophisticated , and , accordingly , the most dangerous oppo- nents . German " reformist " socialism communicated its fear to the whole of industrial society . And as this fear spread toward the " right , " it turned into bigotry and panic . Early in 1919 this Bolshephobia reached America . Here it was a genuine hallucination , for American social politics is quite immune to revolutionary socialism . And from then on until now we have been suffering from this delusion , marked in its earlier phases by fits of terrorism which shook our civil liberties to their foundations . What frightened us was the mirage which Bolshevism refracted upon the American scene ? across the space of a hemisphere , the difference of half a century in industrial civilization , and the complete disparity of national cultures . This fright , in turn , distorted the mirage . Bolshevism in America became a spectrum seen through a freak mirror . The politicians immediately began to exploit this phantom . Thirty-three States passed " criminal-syndicalist " laws ; under Attorney-Generals Palmer and Daugherty the Bureau of Investigation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of revolutionary tragi-comedies . Now this Bolshephobia is subsiding . And  | as it vanishes we can watch the Bolshevik spectrum in this country burst into a crimson cloud , partly because its Russian source is settling , but mainly because it can not last in the American atmosphere . Bolshevism is the rebellious child of Socialism . Both agree about the communist Atlantis of industrial society , and both believe that the only instrument for its realization is the labor movement . Their quarrel is in the use of this instrument . To Bolshevism , labor is a revolutionary means ; to historic socialism , it has become an educational agency ; and both fall back on Marx . The publication of Marx 's " Das Kapital " coincided with the rise of contemporary European nationalism , and the socialist movement adjusted itself to the inevitable by developing into nothing more insurgent than the Social Democracy . It was this long period of educational socialism , from the foundation of the German Empire to the World War , which gradually permeated the German trades-union movement , slowly spreading throughout European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century that its left wing began to stir , and from the very start the radical revolt within the Social Democracy was under the relentless and consummate leadership of Lenine . The Russian origin of Bolshevism was but natural . Revolution implies civil war , the weapon of the Terror ; and the Terror had no terrors for the Russian revolutionaries . With a selfless and fantastic courage which defies our smug imagination they braved one of the most degenerate autocracies in history . Lenine himself lived most of his life in a sort of idealistic underworld of bitter party dialectics , " underground " activities , fanatic devotees , and agents-provocateurs . As early as 1894 he saw that the Russian people were too agrarian , too vast , too " dark " to be educable into Socialism . Before his day the Russian revolutionaries were mainly " populists . " They " went to the people " and slaved to enlighten them into revolt . The " dark people " accepted with mystical inertia all this heroic devotion , which invariably led to exile , prison , or death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1898 , was not democratic evolution , but a professional revolution . And so he set himself the task of transforming the Russian Social Democratic party ? and International Socialism ? into a " scientific instrument of revolution . " Lenine led the first organized revolt in the Socialist Congress in London in 1903 . At least there the Bolshevik wing of the Second International began to molt . The abortive Russian revolution of 1905-06 , which was mainly under the leadership of the Social Democrats , hastened the leftwing movement . In 1912 the Bolsheviks virtually broke away from the socialists . In 1914 they federated with the socialist groups which objected to the war . The complete break came in 1917 , when the Social Democrats were satisfied with the democratic revolution of Kerensky , while the Bolsheviks pressed on to their " maximum " demand ? the proletarian dictatorship . On November 7 , 1917 , the Bolsheviks captured the Russian state , and soon developed into the astutest oligarchy in modern history . In 1918 the Bolsheviks " purified " their party and renamed it the Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full swing , with the communist oligarchy as the proletarians and Lenine in the dictatorship , which he grasped to advance his famous " program . " It is this program , called " Leninism , " whose propaganda is the sole function of the Third International in Moscow , with which our American Communist party is affiliated . To Lenine the socialist revolution is not a conflagration , but an enlightened arson . And accordingly his program is a series of incendiary " steps " on whose ruins he would build the " scientific " socialist society . His first dogma is the training of a professional , full-time , revolutionary expert group , organized into the Jacobin clubs of the Communist party , the elite of the " enlightened militant minority . " While the socialists , like all good missionaries , welcome converts , the Communists , like a religious order , stiffen entrance with revolutionary asceticism . This small , compact , revolutionary Montagnard guard then proceeds to revolutionize the working class into " class-conscious " industrial guilds . When the nation is sufficiently speckled with these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority " captures " the state and establishes the proletarian dictatorship , which must hold on to power by all means until the people become " habituated " to socialist existence . Finally , the state " withers away " into " utopian communism , " ? anarchism , ? in which the citizen is trained to economic liberty and from sheer social pressure eschews economic license . This is the famous Lenine program . Contemporary Russia is by no means becoming " habituated " to communism , but to state capitalism , the petty trader , the foreign investor , and the small peasant proprietor . Yet it is unquestionably true that Lenine read Russia far better than the Social Democrats . For his time and place he was madly right . And he was able to retreat sufficiently within his " program " to save his country from Chinafication by the great powers and to enable it to skip the savageries of the capitalist frontiersman . None the less , Leninism sounds absurd to us . And this sense of bizarre absurdity which we feel toward it is but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America . When Lenine hurled Jovian invectives against the counter-revolutionaries , he could enforce his maledictions against their by no means figmentary opposition ; but when the American communists aped his very diction in this country against our " counter-revolutionary yellow " socialists , they were nonsensical , for there was no revolution anywhere in sight , if one disregards the petty revolutionary behavior of Attorney-General Palmer in jailing them without legal warrant . In fact , they found it necessary to fight Palmer and later on Daugherty on the ground of constitutional privilege ; they had to hire " bourgeois " lawyers to defend them ; and they had to appeal to the liberalism of the despised " bourgeois liberals " to furnish their bail . ? 2 In America we lack the first prerequisite for the communist revolution . American labor never has been , and is now less than ever , socialistic . Lenine , in his occasional notes and comments on the American situation , indicated that this country was a good deal of a revolutionary conundrum to him , and  | no wonder . For our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class-consciousness , actually played the paradoxical role of a socialist antitoxin in American labor . The American Federation of Labor grew in anti-socialist trades-unionism in direct proportion to its successful struggle against its socialist opposition , which under one name or another partook in its parliamentary proceedings for almost forty years . During the third quarter of the last century the red and black clouds of European socialism and anarchism drifted over to this country , but the rough winds of our industrial frontier soon dispelled them . In 1872 Marx tried to save the First International from anarchist fratricide by transferring its seat from London to New York . But in the American atmosphere its red heart stopped beating altogether in Philadelphia in 1876 . It was then that the genius of Samuel Gompers perceived that the only way to curb the young and callous giant of American capital was by ever-vigilant guerrilla warfare . He helped to organize the strictly autonomous craft unions , which forged ahead during the next half-century on a purely catch-ascatch-can basis . Their weapons were the economic sniping of the strike and " non-partizan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to wrest a ray of sunlight from the workday , and to stem the inroads of automatic machinery on their skill . Undoubtedly this archaic Gompers method is passing . It is too primitive and unconcerted to balance the rights of labor in our complex industrial civilization . But instead of going socialist , the progressive wing of American labor is molting into trade-union capitalism . With the instinct of self-preservation it is adapting itself to our inevitable imperial career . Daily its struggle is becoming less revolutionary and more competitive . Hence arises what one might call the new economic policy of American labor . Even now it could not very well " throw off its chains , " for already these chains are worth close to one billion dollars in capital investment and business enterprise . Accordingly , American labor as a whole was no more conductive to the lightning of the Bolshevik revolution than the American trust . But by 1919 this lightning did strike its logical center of attraction in this country ? the Socialist party . It rent the party . The Bolshevik section bolted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not as a party , but as a mob ; while the old Socialist party remained a mere skeleton , retaining its executive committee , a socialist seminary in the Rand School of Social Science , an excellent labor library , and a dwindling daily newspaper , since dead and resurrected into a weekly . The American Bolsheviks then proceeded to draft the left-wing manifesto , declaring themselves the " enlightened militant minority , " whose function it was " to teach , propagate and agitate for the overthrow of capitalism and the establishment of socialism through a proletarian dictatorship . " They adopted the Lenine program in its entirety . During 1919 this left wing of the Socialist party split into several dissident groups , but in September of that year it managed to form the Communist party of America and immediately proceeded to organize " workers ' councils . " It aped the ideology of the Soviet dictatorship with incredibly naive  | irrelevance to American life . Soon afterward the Palmer raids scared the party underground . It was during the next two years in the catacombs of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Then arose the Proletarian party , one of whose planks was to attack religion ; then the United Communists ; then the committee of the Third International , of about forty members , who issued such fantastic pronunciamentos that they were soon satirized out of existence ; then the Workers ' Council , whose language was so scurrilous that it soon collapsed of neurasthenic bitterness ; the African Blood Brotherhood , a sort of Marcus Garvey communist club ; the Workers ' League ; the American Labor Alliance ; the United Toilers ; the Rummagers ' League , which " rummaged the field of history and science to develop the keenest intellect possible " for revolutionary strategy . It would be unfair to poke undue fun at these pseudoJacobin clubs of cruelly maladjusted and exploited workers . ? 3 In December , 1921 , the American Communist party reorganized into the open Workers ' party , into which some of the other communist groupings merged at the direct order of the Third International in Moscow . The Workers ' party adopted in great detail the Lenine program . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a small and unorganized faction in the I. W. W. To-day the Workers ' party maintains national headquarters in Chicago and district offices in other large industrial centers , It issues the " Daily Worker " and the " Workers ' Monthly . " The " Daily Worker " is an incredibly inaccurate , misinterpretative , and scurrilous sheet . Its references to American labor leaders , to the socialists and to every one else who is not in complete accord with it , are not merely malignant , but , sometimes elaborately lascivious . The " Workers ' Monthly , " on the other hand , is a fair digest of the international revolutionary labor movement and its reflection in this country . The party also has about a dozen affiliated foreign-language publications , a propaganda bureau for permanent auto-suggestion , and a completely unreliable research division . Far from hiding its Moscow affiliation , it glories in it , for the simple reason that its membership in the Third International is the only stock in which the radical worker might invest . The party has a membership of approximately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The largest constituent group are about 9000 Finns . The rest are fairly proportionate to our immigrant population , with possibly a slightly larger percentage of Russian Jewish workers , who have a fine revolutionary tradition against czardom . In its form of organization the Workers ' party is an exact replica of its Russian counterpart . The Russian Communist party is a highly disciplined political order , of ascetic revolutionary devotion , under the complete dominance of an inner machine of old and tried revolutionary intellectuals . There is no pretense of democratic management , and the inner college issues encyclicals and bulls which are unquestioningly followed at the risk of excommunication . The central executive committee of the  | Workers ' party strictly follows this Jesuitical procedure . Every so and so often the central executive committee " orders " its members to pursue certain " tactics " against " the reactionary officialdom in American labor . " To disobey these essentially contradictory orders is defined as " party treason . " These " orders " invariably direct " the left-wingers " in the trades-unions at one and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jeopardizing their membership by talk against the union leaders . Those who refuse are variously disciplined or expelled in a technical Bolshevik vocabulary , which is curious reading to the student of American labor . With the exception of William Z. Foster , the leaders of the party are virtually unlmown to American labor , for the simple reason that the old socialist leaders ? men like Debs , Berger , and Hillquit ? did not go with them in 1919 . For a while the Third International had a vocational adviser to the party in the person of John Pepper , a pseudonym for a member of Bela Kun 's short-lived Hungarian government . Comrade Pepper wrote copiously " interpretative " articles on American labor , which he diagnosed as profoundly revolutionary in spirit ; on the Ku Klux Klan , which he diagnosed as the American White Terror ; on the American Legion , which he diagnosed as corresponding strictly to fascismo ; and on the Third Party movement , which he diagnosed as a Spartacan revolt . These analogies he meant to be taken absolutely literally , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and impersonal , made his analyses extremely humorous reading . Pepper dominated the party from early 1922 to late 1923 , and almost wrecked it with his fantasies . Finally , his American comrades complained to Moscow , and he was recalled . His unofficial a successor is Alexander Bittelman , a far more intelligent man , who speaks on the European revolutionary movement with authority and on the American situation no more allegorically than is mandatory on a Bolshevik in good standing . Since the party is not really an economic or political , but purely a propaganda , organization , most of its leaders are not " proletarians , " but journalists . The editor of the " Workers ' Monthly " is Earl R. Browder . He is exceptionally well informed and widely self-educated . His native good sense reflects itself in his publication , and he manages to live in a world of greater reality than most of his comrades by the simple device of kindly humor . The leading editor of the " Daily Worker , " Louis J. Engdahl , on the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great catch of the Workers ' party was William Z. Foster in 1921 . Foster is by all odds the most outstanding , and was until his communist entanglement the most important , radical in American labor . A New England Yankee , he was born in the very year in which Gompers became President of the American Federation of Labor , forty-three years ago . He first entered the labor movement as a socialist , while a street-car conductor in New York City . Then he became a settler on government land in the West . But agriculture proved too tame for his arduous spirit , and he enlisted as a sailor before the mast of old square-rigged ships , visiting every  | nook and cranny of the globe , studying with fanatical interest the proletarian and labor movements everywhere . Later on he revisited Germany , France , England , Italy , and Russia , making contacts with the revolutionary and labor leaders in those countries , and perfecting his vast knowledge in the history and tactics of the international labor movement . In 1909 , Foster joined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement which deliberately cuts itself off from the mass organization of the workers can never hope to influence them . Accordingly , he left the I. W. W. and joined the American Federation of Labor . When the war broke out , he organized the workers in the meat-packing industry . In 1919 he led the great steel strike , during which he came in intimate contact with the leaders of American labor . But he found them far too slow , and late in 1921 he organized the ' Trade Union Educational League , whose program was to " bore from within " our craft unions toward industrial unionism . Unfortunately , however , his very revolutionary impetuousness drives him away from his conviction that he must stay within the labor movement and makes him an easy victim of the political adepts who control American labor . The Russian revolution completely hypnotized him , and in 1921 he made his pilgrimage to Moscow . There , at the Third International he threw his influence against the I. W. W. , who were negotiating a renewal of their affiliation , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Communist party , which was then underground . When he returned to America he tried to avoid and to disclaim his relation to the communists , and when they asked him to address them in the Michigan woods , he begged to be excused . But " revolutionary discipline " exacted obedience ; he went . He ' was arrested on the charge of " criminal syndicalism . " So far he has escaped conviction . But ever since 1921 the process of psychological summation drove him completely into the arms of the Workers ' party , whose national chairman he now is and on whose ticket he ran for the Presidency in the last campaign . His Trade Union Educational League is now virtually out of business for the same excellent reason for which he had indicted the I. W. W. Its affiliation with the Workers ' party has severed it completely from the mass movement of American labor . ? 4 The actual tactics of the Workers ' party are a confused reflection of the complex interrelation of the Soviet Government and the Third International -- a confusion worse confounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From 1918 to the end of 1920 the Russian Government was busy perfecting the essential new bureaucracy , building the Red army , and fighting the White invasions . All articulate opposition in those martial days was necessarily met with the weapon of the Terror . In 1919 the Third International was founded and caused the final split in the International Socialist movement , including ow own . The Third International vo cabulary was a terrorist ? a revolutionary ? vocabulary , and before the foundation of the Workers ' party the American communists aped this mar  | tial language , which made sense in Russia , but none here . To talk with an American Bolshevik from early 1919 to the end of 1921 was much like talking with an asylum Napoleon . But by 1921 Lenine had changed his program , strategically , but none the less profoundly . The civil war ryas virtually over . The Russian peasant , a congenital petty landowner , wanted his land back , most of which the state had had to return to him even before then . The lag of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universal . And the revolutionary government , under Lenine 's masterful retreat , began to compromise . The return of the land to the peasant was completed . Finally , in 1921 , Lenine instituted the new economic policy , which grudgingly legalized the small middleman ; which , indeed , exchanged the utopia of the socialist commonwealth for the actuality of government ownership of public utilities and large-scale production . And money , which had been watered out of use in the days of the Terror , froze back into a natural medium of exchange . Plainly , when the American communists formed the Workers ' party the Russian Government had completely adopted the slogan of " opportunism . " But as the Russian Government became ever more " opportunist , " it compensated itself for its revolutionary heterodoxy by letting the Third International indulge in revolutionary orthodoxy . But the poor Workers ' party became completely bewildered by this inverse ratio between the realism of the Russian Government and the utopianism of the Third International . In its confusion it aped both . But since Lenine 's strategy was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could do was to talk in opposite directions . Accordingly , from 1921 until the La Follette campaign , we find them talking " opportunism " ? and also talking red revolution . They were one hundred per cent . for a proletarian dictatorship ? and also for voting in " united front " with the rest of American labor in the Republican and Democratic primaries . They were reviling the labor leaders as " fakers , " " traitors , " and " cowards " ? and also offering these leaders their aid in times of strike and boycott . The week before Senator La Follette repudiated them in May , 1924 , they extolled him as a demi-Lenine , while the very next day they wrote lengthy and detailed " analyses " why he is an incurable " petty bourgeois " and " progressive fraud . " No wonder President William H. Johnston of the International Association of Machinists and Chairman of the La Follette campaign once remarked to me with the air of one making a discovery : " These fellows are n't really reds like the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crazy . " This diagnosis is not quite fair , I protested . They are Peter Pans , having a good time in a figmentary predicament . And their revolution is a grown-up Children 's Crusade . In conformity with the Lenine Program the Workers ' party made several notable attempts to break into the progressive wing of American labor . First , it tried to get into the Cleveland meeting of the Conference for Progressive Political Action . This standing conference was a non-partizan trial and error organization toward a third party . Its backbone were fifteen  | of the sixteen railroad brotherhoods , its flesh and bone were the farmer , labor , and liberal bodies , which finally coalesced into the La Follette campaign , and its spirit was old-fashioned American populism changed to meet contemporary conditions . But the leaders of the various organizations in the conference did not for a moment entertain the belief that the Workers ' party , which was bitterly attacking them in its press , was at one with them in their political program . Instinctively , they agreed with Lenine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and revolutionary socialism are natural enemies . Soon after the Cleveland meeting , the Farmer-Labor party withdrew from the conference for progressive political action . The leaders of this party were irritated by the Fabianism of the conference , and they issued a call for a regular third-party convention to meet in Chicago in July , 1923 . The big unions and granges conspicuously ignored the invitation . The delegates were mostly unattached liberals , unrepresentative labor radicals and unorganized tenant farmers . The only group which knew what it wanted was the Workers ' party . In accord with its Lenine program , it wanted to " capture " this gathering of American " workers and peasants . " The " capture " of paper organizations is not very difficult . The new party was christened the Federated FarmerLabor party , a name too long to go on the ballot of most States . The few responsible trades-unionists , who had called the convention , had no choice but to bolt it . And so the Workers ' party " captured " in the end nothing more substantial than its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the gradual dissolution of the communist mirage in America began . From July , 1923 , until May , 1924 , the Workers ' party tried to use the fictitious Federated Farmer-Labor party as a wedge with which to break into the " united front of American labor . " But American labor refused to " unite . " It gathered around Senator La Follette , and he repudiated all communist support . The communists were forced to tear up their paper Federated FarmerLabor party and nominated Foster to head their national ticket of the Workers ' party . The party could not muster enough signatures to get on the ballots of most States . The majority of its members have no vote . Foster polled a national vote of about 18,000 , about 7000 in New York City and not quite 6000 in Chicago . The communist faith proscribes quiescence . " The enlightened militant minority " must at least be militant . Being unable to " capture " American labor , it has been reduced since last November to an inner struggle against " Trotzkyism , " which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up socialist meetings , which have to be restored to order by the police . The present slogan of the Workers ' party is its own " further Bolshevization , " a slogan which supposedly represents the victory of pure Leninism , but in fact is a perfect apothegm of its quixotic predicament . And American labor , no longer fearful of the " red menace , " is watching this burlesque with unholy joy .  |                     