@@486041

T HE collapse of the London Conference is the final proof , if such were needed , of the incapacity of the politicians who today head the British and European governments to solve the economic problems which are daily bringing Europe nearer to disaster . The English have bravely met the French insistence upon a further advance into the Ruhr but the result is a deadlock . In taking this position Bonar Law is fighting well the battle for civilization and he ought to be reinforced immediately by a White House declaration placing the United States squarely alongside the English . It would need nothing more than a single vigorous utterance from the White House to check Poincare . Sooner or later , we believe , that will have to be done , for any further advance into Germany or seizure of her territory will inevitably recoil upon France herself besides ruining the rest of Europe . Cabling to the New York World John Maynard Keynes declares that the " occupation of the Ruhr would throw the whole of Europe into chaos and rapidly lead up to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France seizes the Rhine provinces this act will be one so disastrous to herself , to Europe , and to prospects of future peace that the whole world , including even America , should do whatever lies in their power by protest and by inducement to disuade France from creating in Europe a situation at least as evil as any in former days . " This is the simple common sense of the situation . Yet if it is not followed the mostterrible consequences to all mankind may ensue . And the White House is deaf , dumb , and blind in the face of this contingency ! I T really looks as if the welter of conflicting greeds and ambitions at Lausanne were about to produce a more satisfactory solution of the Straits question than has seemed possible since the breakdown of Allied common sense at Versailles . The Turks are to have the city of Constantinople , which , with all its drawbacks , is well , for to grant any other Power possession would require the maintenance there of a perpetual standing army and leave a festering wound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission is to control traffic through the Straits , which are to be demilitarized . Ships of commerce are to have free passage at all times , which is as it should be . Ships of war are to have more freedom of passage than we might wish . The American spokesman , Mr. Child , was of course right when he declared that it would be as reasonable to exclude warships from every international body of water as from the Black Sea , but our Great Lakes provide a striking example of the practical benefits of a disarmament agreement , a policy that might reasonably be extended to all the seas of the world . The fact that other nations have not yet attained that degree of visdom need riot lead us to reopen the Lakes to warships . If the Black Sea could be disarmed that would be another great landmark on the path to peace , and for Soviet Russia herself to advocate it marked the end of a chapter of history , Russia 's ambition to open the Straits to her warships having been one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EANWHILE the real problem before the people of the United States is , What can we do to help the Near East refugees ? Our influence is happily making itself felt against the proposed deportation of 200,000 Greeks from Constantinople , but there are already a million refugees from Asiatic Turkey herded into old Greece and the neighboring islands . This is no time to waste words in denunciation . We have just fought the bloodiest war in history ; Christian peoples massacred each other during and after the Balkan Wars ; the Greeks left a burned waste behind their retreat across Anatolia ; the Turks have committed horrible outrages of which we have probably heard even .                     