@@493241

War in the Clothing Industry CLOTHING strikes in New York come with the regularity of eastern epidemics . Their recurrence makes it important to analyse the sources of the trouble , especially since the industry affects immediately about a half million people Who are dependent upon the earnings ' of the workers ? And not only New York , but indirectly , through the contagion of industrial unrest , the whole country is concerned . William James used to say " By plucking a feather , you do not get a chicken . " Nor is the truth about the New York clothing strike to be ? Iptained by a stray fact or two touching the imillediate controversy . An understanding of this winter 's trouble depends upon knowledge of the . othing industry for at least a generation , and the relation which the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America has to the industry . The " sweat-shop , " with all that it connotes , is lair summary description of the New York cloth- ng market before the organization of the workers in the Amalgamated . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unsanitary shops . Prior to 1915 , when the union began to increase its organization , 35 per cent of the clothing workers were earning from $io to $15 a week , 27 per cent from $5 to Sic ) a week , and only 3 per cent were earning more than $25 a week . These earnings are an index of the level at which the clothing worker was forced to live . With the progress of the Amalgamated organization , under the leadership of Mr. Sidney Hillman , the union successively crowded out the more notorious abuses , and progressively lifted the level of life . Thus , while even after the first two years of union activity the per capita weekly wages of its workers were lower than the average per capita in twelve representative industries , from 1917 on , the per capita weekly wages of clothing workers began to approximate a worker 's needs as estimated by the authorities . Similarly , the union was effective in decreasing hours , so that by 1919 , 85 per cent of the industry was on a 48-hour basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout the country went on a 44-hour basis . These ameliorations ' of sweat-shop conditions and the adoption of sanitary standards were merely concrete manifestations of more fundamental changes . The evils of the clothing industry had grown out of the circumstances of its being . Neither the wickedness nor the incorrigible exploitation of manufacturers were responsible , at bottom , for the sweat-shop , but the highly seasonable and morbidly competitive nature of the business . During slack seasons the manufacturers had the workers by the throat , and during busy seasons the workers exerted what economic pressure they could . In other words , the New York market was controlled ' by economic forces which none of the many sma4ll employers by himself could overcome . Profiting by the experience ' of industrial peace gained in Chicago at Hart , Schaffner &; Marx 's , the union sought to introduce the same methods into the New York market . Early in 1919 , a machinery of government was set up in New York . The essence of the machinery consisted in subjecting the entire market to a control which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made both submit to a rule of industrial law which promised stability , minimized brute economic power in a highly seasonal occupation , and safeguarded the public interest as well , by enforcement through an impartial ? tribunal . 1919 was an abnormal year for such a plan , involving as it did , subordination of temporary individual interests to the permanent good of the entire industry . Last year was a year of heavy buying and corresponding labor shortage . Yet the attempt proved its value despite the turbulent strain of , the year . Without the joint control exercised by the impartial machinery , a chaos of unbridled competition would undoubtedly have resulted , production would have been lower , wages would have risen earlier , and to a higher pitch , and these disruptive forces could hardly have avoided a complete breakdown . It will no doubt surprise the general public to know that the union leaders succeeded in resisting the appetite of workers for increased wages when economic forces favored the worker . Still more surprising is it that the union leaders had to resist the advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and covert competition among individual manufacturers for individual workers . President Hillman fought this demoralizing tendency in an effort to break away from the irresponsibility of a ruthless competitive system which fundamentally means a , gamble with the security and welfare of the thousands ? of dependents of the industry . Experience shows stability in the industry needs more of the machinery , as well as the spirit , of control , in order to curb self-interest , when through inevitable periods of business depression , it becomes too great . Since seasonal unemployment is one of the industry 's main sources of difficulty , as well as the haunting dread of the worker , it was recognized that a system must be devised by which the industry would bear the cost of its workers throughout the year . It was equally demonstrated that nothing so undermines the security of the worker , renders so uncertain the financial forecast of the manufacturer and so ignores the public interest as wage , fixing through economic power , regardless of production costs . Basing his position upon the maxim that nothing can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not good for the industry and the public which it serves , President Hillman secured from his convention acceptance of a policy favoring production standards . Anyone familiar with the suspicion labor unions traditionally have for any aspect of " scientific management , " will realize the constructive attitude thus assumed by the Amalgamated . Before these constructive policies could be worked out the business tide turned . Two alternatives thereupon confronted the manufacturers . One was to strengthen the forces of control through impartial machinery , secure more effective obedience to the common rule of the industry , encourage Hillman in his program , and thereby to evolve steadily out of the sweat-shop traditions , which still survive partly in practice , but principally in the psychology of its victims . The other alternative was a reversion to the old anarchy of a Kilkenny fight among the manufacturers , divided on all questions except the policy of recouping a fall in prices by a reduction of wages . In the beginning of the negotiations some months ago , both the Manufacturers Association and the union looked towards a program of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order . But with the increasing business depression some ' of the leaders of the industry reverted to their old traditions . There was unmistakable evidence of an effort to break down the impartial machinery which bound the manufacturers and union . In September a leading firm made a scrap ' of paper of its obligation to submit any controversy to peace ? ful adjustment . Economic pressure again placed workers at the mercy of the manufacturers and the more reckless were ready to turn the screw . To do so they first had to rid the association of its own labor manager . Major Gitchell , a scientific student of labor who achieved signal success dur ? ing the war in the administration of industrial re ' lations , was bent on saving and improving the machinery . He was scrapped therefore , and sup ' planted by a notorious union-baiting lawyer . From then on the destructionists took charge . An ultimatum was issued to the union demanding as the basis of any further negotiation acceptance by the union of a piece rate instead of a week rate basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages to the level of competing markets . This ultimatum was tantamount to a declaration of war , By seeking ft ? impose the will of one side upon the other it vi ? ' dates the essence of collective bargaining . The manufacturers claim that it is necessary to increase production and decrease costs . The union leaders agree . The union , responding to the suggestion of the Impartial Chairman , asks that a joint cony mittee of the industry , representing manufacturers and workers , under the guidance ' of the Impartial Chairman , representing the public , should study the situation , determine the extent to which production can be increased , cost lowered and the means by which these ends can be obtained . The union the binds itself to secure the enforcement of a produc ' tion program thus worked out . " No , " saystheMa ? facturers ' Association , " we know all the facts , we know how to secure increased production , and yoll , the union , must obey us when we tell you so . " the association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase production and cle ' crease costs . It disregards the necessity of enlisting ' the workers ' consent in a new policy of production . The output per man in the clothing industrit has probably decreased in the last few years . must be remembered , however , that in New Y ? r the industry is still ' so near the sweat-shop days that its traditions linger as a standard of comP ? P ison . But in truth , the factual claim of the mane facturers has no scientific foundation . We do not know ; we can only make a guess as to product ? rates in the New York market . There are no data of the variations of the market , nor of the production of the individual worker ; nor do we know what constitutes a standard for a fair day 's work . But it is known that the New York clothing manufacturers have not taken advantage of the economies that are possible with modern equipment and planning . It is idle to throw the responsibility for increasing production and decreasing costs solely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of control over the basic conditions that determine production in New York . There is only one way out , ? an assumption of responsibility by the entire industry . Only through a representative committee , studying the facts , inventing means of meeting the difficulties , enforcing the law of the industry upon every member , whether manufacturer or worker , educating the Public to its share of the responsibility , will the Clothing industry of New York permanently meet the difficulties which have now again summoned it to warfare . That is precisely the way of peace and of sanity which the Amalgamated is eager to take . It is the manufacturers who insist on war .                     