@@488303

S ENATOR WILLIAM M. BUTLER of Massachusetts , Silent Cal 's silent partner , is petitioning the people of his State to renew his lease on the Senate seat which was vacated two years ago by Lodge 's death and given to Butler by a follower who then occupied the Governor 's chair . Butler has none of the sporting blood in his veins that frequently rushes to the heads of his distinguished namesakes , Smedley D. and Nicholas Murray . Fertility of intellect , glibness of tongue , and an ingratiating manner are a few of the qualities which this successful lobbyist and mill master lacks , but as ? the cause is a noble one , to spare President Coolidge the humiliation of being repudiated in his home State and ? to perpetuate the grip now held by the New England textile interests on the United States government , Butler is carrying his yoke manfully and piously . Hitherto , Senator Butler 's political career has been under cover . A lobbyist by instinct and training , Butler is in his own element when he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favors for public-service corporations and the textile interests . In emerging into the murky daylight of American politics , Butler probably reasons that if Calvin Coolidge can run the gantlet of public scrutiny , anybody can . In this , Butler 's first trial as a campaigner , the opposition is annoying . David I. Walsh , Democrat , is an earnest and vivid spellbinder who expounds the benign principles of Thomas Jefferson with rather blunt and disconcerting references to page and paragraph in the record of the corporation-controlled Administration at Washington . Walsh has a phenomenal record as a vote-getter . Thousands of Republicans indorse him whenever he enters the field . In 1918 , in the contest for the United States Senate , he defeated the late John W. Weeks . Walsh made his most amazing run two years ago , though he was beaten for the Senate by the venerable Frederick H. Gillett . Butler had then been threatening to oppose Walsh . But Harding died and Calvin Coolidge , who like Butler received his political training and advancement under the political banner of the late Senator W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elevated to the Presidency . Butler was immediately called to Washington to steady the strong Presidential right arm . Subsequently , Butler proved his political ineptness as director of the Cleveland convention which nominated Coolidge , and as a reward for his clumsiness was made chairman of the Republican National Committee . He had to postpone his Senatorial career , and in 1924 the President drafted Gillett , then Speaker of the national House , for the Massachusetts fight . How dangerous Walsh turned out to be , even in that year , may be judged by the balloting for Senator which resulted as follows : Gillett , 566,188 ; Walsh , 547,600 ; Gillett 's plurality , 18,588 . As there were 12,716 vales cast for the Socialist candidate , and 22 scattering , Gillett 's plurality over all was a slim total of 5,850 in an aggregate of more than a million ballots  --  this in the year when Coolidge 's plurality over Davis in Massachusetts was more than 400,000 . Butler asks his constituents to observe the wave of prosperity which has descended on the land , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trust magnates and faithfully recorded in the faithful press . A slightly discordant note is apparent from the New England textile centers , including Senator Butler 's home town of New Bedford , where the workers in Mr. Butler 's four cotton mills have been out on the pavements much of the time for the past year . In order to improve the condition of his mill employees , Mr. Butler was one of those who strongly urged that the cotton schedule in the Fordney-McCumber Tariff be raised to 45 per cent . The immediate benefits of this measure were reflected in the extra and stock dividends declared by Mr. Butler 's companies , until the buying public went on strike against high prices , when it became necessary to curtail production . In intimate talks to the unemployed textile workers , the Senator is assuring them that everything will be all right as soon as he is elected and can induce to use his executive control over the tariff to jack the cotton rates up still higher . Assembling the incidents in Mr. Butler 's life story in an orderly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hill , " New Bedford , sixty-five years ago , the biographer finds nothing remarkable from the time , at the age of five , he sat on the knee of U. S. Grant , whose Administration held all records for corruption prior to Harding , until our hero arrived on BeaCon Hill , Boston , a youthful member of the legislature . Butler was a success from the start . In early youth , he was a bookkeeper . A cashbook and ledger were the primer of the preacher 's son in the struggle for fortune and fame . Later , he studied law  --  and hung out his shingle in the old whaling town of New Bedford . It was as a fledgling lawyer that he went to the legislature . He played the game , and so ingratiated himself into the esteem of the public-service ' corporation and big industrial interests , with private axes to grind , that they moved heaven and earth to elect him to the State Senate , and soon had him installed as presiding officer of that body . It is on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to kill all legislation which the House passes that they regard as inimical to their pocketbooks . The corporations have always controlled the upper body and have used great discretion in the selection of its presidents . William M. Butler proved eminently satisfactory , and so later did Calvin Coolidge , who also once presided over the Massachusetts Senate . In tirpe Butler , though unknown to the general public , came to be regarded among the gentry who make politics their business as the most powerful under-cover politician in the State . For more than thirty years he did not aspire to public office . But Butler , whose corporation-law practice grew more and more remunerative , had a ' finger in the political pie all the time . If " Uncle " Murray wanted a politician 's head , Butler saw to it that the decapitation was neatly performed . If there was a Speaker of the House , or a President of the Senate to be chosen , " Uncle " Murray made the selection , and Butler saw that it was accepted . Upon the death of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Crane forces . The Crane crowd never liked Lodge , with whom for many years it had to divide control of the party in Massachusetts . In their later years , Crane and Lodge were often out of step , notably on the League of Nations issue . Nobody denies that , in his own furtive sphere , backstage State politics , Butler was a skilful worker . He was introduced to national politics as soon as Coolidge , following the death of Harding , returned to the Willard Hotel as a temporary White House . Butler flitted in and out of the Presidential suite for a few weeks , then retired to his private yacht and awaited his , appointment as the Coolidge convention manager for the approaching campaign . c Coolidge had no opposition for the nomination . Corraling enough delegates to assure this required no special sagacity or aptitude . In his first real test as a political manager on a national scale Butler was a total loss . He tried to boss the job of nominating Coolidge 's running mate by the domineering methods in vogue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a nervous frenzy in abortive attempts to nominate first Borah , then Lowden , for the Vice-Presidency , with both men refusing to accept , Butler then trotted out the aged keynoter of the convention , Representative Theodore L. Burton , and he was rejected . When finally the White House telephoned the suggestion that Dawes be nominated as the only way out of the dilemma Butler accepted with bad grace . The delegates named Dawes . Butler grabbed his hat , turned his back on the convention , and left the hall . In only one objective did Butler succeed at the Cleveland convention , and this was by virtue of his influence as the new party boss in his home State . He showed his vindictiveness against Lodge , inherited from Crane , by handpicking the Massachusetts delegation and relegating the senior Senator from Massachusetts to the background , thus humiliating a better man . Echoes of the Butler-Lodge feud are heard in the pre6-ent campaign . Wilfred W. Lufkin , Collector of the Port of Boston , was appointed through Lodge . The collectorship is the biggest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the present Administration because Butler feared to antagonize the remnant of the Lodge following on the eve of election . The story is that if Butler is elected , every Lodge man will walk the plank . The death of Lodge occurred a few days after the last Presidential election . Prominent Republicans of the State and nation turned out for the obsequies . One of the cynics among them was heard to remark : " It looks like another landslide for Lodge . " Among the professional mourners was Brother William M. Butler , sworn enemy of Lodge in life but very friendly toward him in death . Services were held in the old Unitarian Church facing Harvard College . Butler and Governor " Cunning " Cox were caught by a photographer of the Boston Post emerging from the edifice . The Governor was smiling happily . The two hurried back to Boston together , Butler going to his business office , the Governor to the State House . And almost before the undertaker had time to arrange the floral tributes on the grave of Lodge at Mt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Upon Cox 's subsequent retirement from public office he was made a vice-president- of the biggest national bank in New England , although the outstanding failure of the Cox administration on Beacon Hill was in the management of the State finances . Butler is sharp enough not to run on his own record . This is a rimless doughnut in the matter of constructive legislative achievements . As a young legislator on Beacon Hill thirty years ago he opposed every progressive bill that came his way . He twice voted against giving women the vote in municipal elections . He voted against the direct election of United States Senators . He voted against a bill to reduce the hours of street-railway employees from twelve hours to ten . No bill that Butler has ever introduced in the United States Senate has been acted- upon , nor have there been many serious enough to merit consideration . Among the Butler bills and resolutions were one " To purchase painting entitled , Our Glory  --  the Battleship Oregon ' " ; another " to survey Inner Oak Bluffs , " where he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appropriation for reconditioning the , U. S. S. Nantucket . " He alsd introduced resolutions " for the participation of the United States in the Third World 's Poultry Congress " and " for display of our national flag in United States courts . " This is the positive side of the Butler record in the Senate . The negative side is somewhat more imposing . He voted against the Walsh report on the oil scandal and in favor of whitewashing Teapot Dome . He voted against the motion for a Senate investigation of Mellon 's aluminum company . He voted against a resolution for investigation of the alleged monopolization of electric energy by the General Electric Company . When the President nominated Charles Beecher Warren , one of the chief agents and promoters of the beet-sugar trust , then under investigation by the Federal Trade Commission , for Attorney General , Senator Butler not only voted for confirmation but made a feeble and futile effort to lead the Administration fight to save Warren on the floor of the Senate . Butler voted to untax wealth right down the line when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lease the Government 's $150,000,000 plant at Muscle Shoals to private interests ; in other words , for selling out to the power trust . When the resolution was first introduced to consider appointment of a Senate committee to investigate campaignexpenditures , Senator Butler voted against it , but switched later , when it was obvious that the measure would pass , reluctantly giving his indorsement to the investigation in view . Later , when Senator Neely , West Virginia , introduced a resolution denouncing the primary scandals in Pennsylvania and Illinois and proposing to put the Senate on record against campaign expenditures of more than $25,000 by a candidate for the Senate , Senator Cameron , Old Guardsman , talked this measure to death , orating on the Verde River irrigation scheme until the gavel fell . The New York World reported next day that the first Senator to grasp the hand of Cameron and to-congratulate him on his noble effort was Senator Butler of Massachusetts . But reactionary Senators no longer make their records an issue . If the opposition asks Butler about his record , he solemnly warns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God-fearing men and women they are . As Butler remarked in the Methodist Tabernacle at Oak Bluffs : " Now is the time to show that righteousness exalteth a nation . "                     