@@486239

o OUR READERS a Happy New Year ! May it be given to them to be eyewitnesses of true political and social progress in 1929 , and may we be the fortunate chroniclers of it ! We can not let this issue , the last to bear the date of the old year , speed on its way without a warm word of gratitude to all those friends who made the tenth year of the present editorship the most successful in our history , To have seen the circulation figures touch , and go above , 40,000 has been to all the editors a profound reason for gratitude and inspiration , though it has not decreased their own sense of inadequacy to their task or blurred their vision of the kind of outspoken weekly they would create were unlimited means theirs . To them the rise in ten years of stress , misunderstanding , misrepresentation , and often bitter opposition , from 7,200 readers to 40,000 spells a growth of tolerance ( especially for journalistic shortcomings ) ; an increasing demand for more political thinking ; and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material success alone . To those who made the tenth-anniversary subscription campaign a possibility and a success go our special thanks . We record with particular pleasure the formation of clubs of Nation readers in a number of communities , not merely because they seek to serve The Nation but because they certify to the rising desire of liberals to know one another and to come together again for progressive political action . The editors realize that The Nation 's road to definite establishment and prosperity isstill long and arduous ; that they are leagues from the point at which they will be able to build the larger and better weekly they seek to create . But they would be less than human if they let this opportunity pass without recording their profound gratitude for the innumerable evidences from all over the world of good-will , good cheer , generous support , and warm approval which have for them made 1928 unforgettable . W HILE WE ARE DISTRIBUTING New Year wishes we desire to congratulate the owners of station WMCA of New York on their recent victory before the Federal Radio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air with station WNYC . Not many large radio stations in America would give to an editor the unconditional right to say what he pleased without preliminary review or censorship , but such is the privilege which has been extended to the editors of The Nation by station WMCA for a number of months . Radio listeners who have tuned in on The Nation hour once a week can bear testimony to the fact that the most controversial matters have been discussed with the utmost frankness . Station WNYC , which asked the Federal Radio Commission for WMCA 's time , and was refused , came before the commission with much public support because it is owned and operated by the city of New York . But municipal operation of a radio station does not mean freedom of speech ; in the case of station WNYC it has meant quite the opposite . While New York is seething with governmental scandals which cry out for public exposure , the programs of the municipal radio station are limited to colorless , non-controversial " education . " If publicly owned radio stations are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be multi-partisan rather than non-partisan , allotting their time proportionately to majority ' and minority groups . Such an opinion is growing in England where government control has proved irksome and repressive . Meanwhile the editors of The Nation will continue to say what they think every Wednesday night over WMCA . B OLIVIA 'S ANNOUNCEMENT that it has ordered a halt to hostilities in the region in dispute between it and the republic of Paraguay increases the hope of a peaceful settlement of the difficulty through the mediation of outside nations , though the Bolivian population is in a hysterical state of mind and is using all the stupid old shibboleths about patriotism and national honor to justify the murder of its own young men and those of its neighbor in a war over something which is n't of the slightest concern to either of the countries , or even to purely selfish commercial interests within them . Fortunately Paraguay is more pacific and , whatever the degree of its fault in the original clash , it has since showed a praiseworthy desire to avoid war . Its acceptance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbitration conference puts it right with public opinion and will win for it world sympathy if Bolivia fails to take a similar course . Incidentally it is not a little ironic that Bolivia is able to spit fire with such gusto largely because it was a recent recipient of a large loan from United States bankers . The purpose of this loan , which was internal development , will of course totally miscarry if the country wastes its substance in war or even in preparations for it . N ATURALLY THE BOLIVIAN-PARAGUAYAN out- burst has taken the edge off Mr. Hoover 's " good-will visit " to South America , but although it is bad for his publicity it may be good for his education . And Mr. Hoover ( and the United States ) need education much more than publicity . Persons familiar with South American conditions watched with special care the account of Mr. Hoover 's reception in the Argentine , partly because Argentina is the most Europeanized and among the most powerful of the Latin-American republics , but also because it is the chief center of antagonism to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conference in Havana last winter because of resentment against our domination is still fresh in memory . Naturally economic causes are the chief source of ill-feeling . Our tariff on agricultural products , though of small benefit to our farmers , is regarded in the Argentine as unfriendly and reprisals have been proposed . The official reception to Mr. Hoover in Buenos Aires was , of course , as gracious as could be devised , but the newspaper dispatches report a distinct lack of popular enthusiasm . Mr. Hoover was happy in seizing his visit in Buenos Aires to declare through the columns of La Nacion that he is opposed to intervention by the United States in Latin-American affairs . We hope his Administration may prove the declaration more than wind blowing across the pampas . T HE OUTCOME of the meeting of the Council of the League of Nations is in doubt at this writing . There are various rumors as to what has finally been decided upon in regard to the evacuation of German territory . One of these stories is that the Germans are to pay $400,000,000 for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of reparations , will use to pay what she owes the United States for the army supplies purchased by her after the armistice , and will then consent to the floating of a German loan in America , Berlin to transfer to Washington an unnamed amount of gold . This may be mere gossip , but the fact is that the Germans seem to have returned to Berlin much encouraged in spirit , especially by Stresemann 's vigorous opposition to the Polish Prime Minister , Zaleski . The latter said that the action of the German Volksbund of Upper Silesia was " treasonable and a danger to the peace of Europe . " To this Stresemann replied with high passion that the Germans in Polish Silesia were right in appealing tO the League for redress , declaring that " one of the strongest pillars of the League would be destroyed " if for one moment it forgot its duties to racial and national minorities . In this he was upheld by Briand , who declared that " nothing whatsoever can happen which would cause the League to abandon its solemn duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ BE SAID about the Boulder Dam bill as it passed the Senate is that it is better than nothing . The men who fought for this bill against the power lobby for eight years deserve the thanks of every good citizen , but it is a rather sorry disappointment to the advocates of public ownership . It provides for flood control and irrigation through the erection of the highest dam in the world , but the vital questions of public or private development of the power plants to be erected at the dam areleft to the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior . Senator Borah 's amendment to make the government construction of the power house mandatory , as the House had already provided , was withdrawn because the advocates of the measure feared a Coolidge veto if this provision was included . The man who inherits the mantle of Albert B. Fall , Hubert Work , and Roy West is permitted to turn over the erection of a power house to private companies or to lease power from a government plant to private companies on terms which will permit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one guaranty  --  and a very important one  --  that the electric power will be used for the public interest is the provision that States are given preference over private corporations in the purchase of current . Meanwhile , the Boulder Dam bill has gone to conference for final revision by the Senate and House committees , and after that hazard it still must face both Houses for final vote and then be rats fled by the quarreling States of the Colorado basin . Ths power lobby has at least half a dozen more chances  --  in the White House , Congress , and the State legislatures  --  to smother the frail infant . q1HE TRIAL OF PERRY HOWARD , the Republican is Negro committeeman from Mississippi , and four codefendants , all charged with the sale of ofnces , has resulted in their acquittal . Howard , the dispatches report , made an admirable witness in his own behalf , being frank , straightforward , and good humored throughout his cross-examination . The jury simply would not believe the chief government witness , A. P. Russell , a former United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $2,000 for his office , $1,500 of which was given to Perry Howard in the latter 's office in Washington , where he has been assistant to the Attorney General of the United States . An amusing touch was that some of the jurors declared-they thought the Negroes had been " exceptionally good " to Russell and his brother and " they did not have much respect for informers anyway . " This verdict is accepted as ending the efforts of the white Republican faction in Mississippi to get rid of Howard as the Republican national committeeman . Incidentally , it again puts up to Herbert Hoover the question of the reorganization of the Republican Party in the South . Leading Negroes have been distinctly on the side of Howard , not that they believed that he was above and beyond the time-honored methods of securing delegates and hawking officers to the highest bidder , but because they felt that he had been picked upon as a scapegoat largely because of his color . Meanwhile the Brookhart committee is sitting in Washington and bringing out more and more facts about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case , it appears , one man " gave up " $500 for a postmastership . When he failed to get the job it took the leveling of a revolver to get his money back . MPLOYEES OF THE AUSTRIAN postal , telegraph , 11.4 and telephone service , who number about 50,000 , have invented a new technique for labor struggles . They demanded an extra month 's pay as a Christmas bonus , asserting that though living costs have increased 200 per cent since the war , wages have remained practically at the prewar level . Parliament replied that the bad financial situation applied to the - whole country and not alone to state employees ; it offered a bonus of 30 per cent of a month 's wages . The workers refused the offer and began a campaign of " passive resistance . " Instead of refusing to work , they appeared as usual  --  but proceeded in a leisurely and cheerful fashion to obey to the letter the somewhat obsolete regulations covering their departments . Since the telegraph office permits only a certain number of syllables in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operators , in an unprecedented desire to avoid mistakes , politely ask customers to repeat numbers several times . As a result the post office in Vienna shows all the animation of a slow moving picture . Four days after the " strike " began , a million letters were piled up , telegrams were arriving one day late , and telephone service had so slackened that customers were making personal calls to save time . Efforts to end the situation have resulted in a deadlock . Parliament refuses to enter into further parleys until " passive resistance " ceases ; the employees threaten to do their work with even greater precision . Meanwhile , the postal employees of Vienna are probably the only ones in the world who are taking the holiday " rush " calmly . T HE DEATH of Admiral von Scheer , commander of the German High Seas Fleet at the battle of Jutland , will doubtless precipitate anew the discussion as to the winner of that battle , a debate which is certain to continue as long as history is written . It is interesting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's fleet " returned home after inflicting far greater losses than it had suffered , " that he was the best man that could have been picked in the German navy for the chief command , and that he " had made himself an absolute master of a system of leadership that consists in smoke-screens , mass torpedo attacks , outbursts of fire , and Kehrtwendungen " ( reverse turns ) . There is no doubt that his fame as a commander will grow with the years ; that he showed very great qualities in the battle of Jutland and in his withdrawal from the action . If he did not win a victory , neither did the British . His English rival certainly showed no greater skill or daring or determination . What might have been complete disaster , he well averted . It is unfortunate to have to record the fact that he was constantly egging the Kaiser on to unrestricted submarine warfare . It is pleasanter to add that , as the Times puts it , the tone and purpose " of what he wrote , or what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and modest . " He devoted his last years to demanding proper care for Germany 's maimed and disabled victims of the World War . O NE MAN by manipulating the keys of an electric typewriter in New York or Washington can set up in type the articles in a hundred newspapers scattered over the continent . This amazing advance in the art of publishing has been made possible by the new teletypesetter which was invented by Walter W. Morey and exhibited in Rochester on December 6 by Frank E. Gannett of the Gannett newspapers . The new invention adapts to the linotype machine the principles of the ticker-tape and the player-piano . An electric typewriter perforates a roll of paper , with symbols for each letter and number desired , and these perforations are transmitted by wire to another city where they are duplicated on a roll of paper and fed into a linotype machine which transmutes the perforations into type . The teletypesetter can be used for mail as well as telegraphic service , since the rolls of perforated paper can be fed into the linotype machine at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ automatic Urne4tting is said to be swifteP *dricr : iveireccMate itzbaea. ; kV human variety . Moreover these perforated " kollg VearrPf:can be used by publishers for the multiple editions or books in place of the cumbersome and expensive process of storing type . These tremendous gains in the mechanical features of publication may be offset , however , by certain social losses . The new invention increases the advantage of the chain newspapers and makes more difficult the survival of the small independent publisher . E LINOR WYLIE 'S SUDDEN DEATH deprives American literature of a uniquely gifted writer . Mrs. Wylie , whose " Nets to Catch the Wind , " " Black Armor , " and " Trivial Breath " contained some of the most exquisite of contributions to modern poetry , was perhaps more widely known as a novelist . But her novels were the work of a fastidious and fanciful poet , as her prose style had all the manner of her brittle-tempered verse . She was famous for her manner both in prose and verse , and there were those who found it excessive ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave us in " Jennifer Lorn , " " The Venetian Glass Nephew , " " The Orphan Angel , " and " Mr. Hodge and Mr. Hazard , " four highly original stories that had much to do over the last few years with undermining the ponderous realistic tradition in contemporary fiction  --  a tradition which the successes of Thornton Wilder , Ernest Hemingway , and others have latterly shown to be losing favor . Mrs. Wylie was possessed of an appetite for knowledge which some readers of her novels may not have appreciated , since the labor of her researches was ably concealed beneath surfaces of fine precision . She had , in addition , pride and wit ; and the current scene is poorer for her passing . W HAT IS THIS WE READ ? Why , that W. L. Mellon 's magnificent new yacht , the Vagabondia , has arrived in New York , successfully concluding her maiden voyage . Where from ? From Germany where she was built . By whom ? Why , no less objectionable a company than Krupp 's which , a bit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shell to be used in killing American soldiers . Could the Vagabondia not have been built in the United States ? Why , yes , indeed , just as well ; but she would have cost her owner a few thousand dollars more . Is her owner poor ? He is not ; like his brother the Secretary of the Treasury , he is one of the richest men in America , probably the richest in Pennsylvania . But does he not believe in protection for home induitry ? Oh , yes , indeed , like his brother , the Secretary , he believes that protection is the foundation stone of American prosperity . He has a good many millions of dollars in protected industries . Why then did he go abroad for his yacht just when our ship-yards were in dire distress for lack of orders ? Because when his protectionist theories and his pocket-book came into collision his patriotism and protectionism both faded away . The American ship-yards could go hang . Then he is not 100 per cent patriot ? Indeed , Mr. Mellon is . He is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , men who stand by the flag  --  until it gets in the way of their profits or their purses . They usually rank high in nationalistic circles and may be counted on to denounce anybody who comes out against the American protective system , or the happy American custom of government by and for the rich .                     