@@486159

I T is difficult to avoid the conclusion that by its execution of Erskine Childers and its severity toward Mary MacSwiney , holding her in jail through twenty-three days of hunger strike , the Irish Free State has dealt itself blows from which it can not completely recover . The execution of Childers was a piece of savagery the more inexcusable because no man ever fought more vigorously or bravely for a truly free Ireland . An Englishman born , and a man of intense , unyielding prejudices , he refused to accept anything less than complete independence and sovereignty . So he embarked with De Valera upon what seemed to us the very wrong course of not only opposing the Free State but opposing it by encouraging the resort to arms among brothers . For the worst kind of civil war that is now raging in unhappy Ireland he bore a chief responsibility , as he did for giving cynics and disbelievers in the Irish the world over a right to say : " We told you so ; the Irish can not govern themselves . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet what does the Free State do when it captures this man ? Why , instead of being generous and noble and remembering his great services to Ireland in the past , it acts precisely like the former British misgovernment of Ireland ; it shoots him out of hand on the absurd , technical charge of having a pistol in his possession . This , it is explained , is " being firm . " Even so good a friend of Ireland as Mr. A. G. Gardiner , long editor of the London Daily News , avers that it was necessary . Necessary ? Why the death of Childers , like the long imprisonment of one bearing the name MacSwiney , will merely infuriate the irreconcilables the more . We shall be surprised if it does not lead to bitter reprisals , shocking murders , executions , and counter-executions , a continuance of the eye-for-an-eye and tooth-for-a-tooth policy which is daily bringing Ireland nearer to despair and to destruction . Must it be said that the greatest opportunity which has ever come or could ever come to Ireland was frittered away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears as if the frailty of human nature were leading to no other end . It seems as if the new Irish Free State government in taking over Dublin Castle took over the spirit as well of the men who occupied it for so many centuries against the will of the Irish people . What is there that so obsesses men who come to power ? What poison is it that enters their veins and makes them believe that the very acts of violence they condemned in others are justifiable at their hands ? How , after all the slaughter of the last eight years , can any one believe that a government may today be carried on by force and by blood ? A government which resorts to such measures confesses its incompetence , it strengthens the hands of those who say that the human being is rare indeed who can assume power over his fellows without his soul deteriorating . Talk about the primitive lusts making themselves felt among the rowdies of the docks , the savages on the Congo ! If the veneer of humanity can anywhere be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who achieve great power over their fellows , we have not seen it . So we can only make one more appeal to the Free State to reverse its policy while there is yet time . We hope that the long-delayed release of Mary MacSwiney may mark the beginning of a new era of reason and reconciliation . Y OU say you want more than America 's money  --  you want our hearts and souls . But , M. Clemenceau , France had our hearts and souls , and more than that . It is not easy to give again that which has been offered once , and tossed aside with contempt . You accepted our money and our men , but our ideals , our hopes , our dreams and visions , the things of heart and soul , you refused . We meant the Fourteen Points , M. Clemenceau ; you jested that God was content with Ten Commandments but that Mr. Wilson asked fourteen . You may have chuckled knowingly when Mr. Wilson talked of open diplomacy , of a world made safe for democracy , of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things , and they are left with a sense of bruised disillusionment . You say France had friends in 1914 but stands alone today ; does it never occur to you to look for the reason in French policy ? Since you have come , M. Clemenceau , to talk frankly and explain away the misunderstandings which have grown up between two countries once bound by a romantic friendship , let us tell you some of the things which have turned those romantic bonds into realistic suspicion : 1 . Secret Diplomacy . We did not know when we went to war that France had bound herself by secret treaties to defy the principles which we had preached , which you seemed to accept . You sent us your Joffre , but he told us nothing of them . We hardly believed the Bolsheviki when they revealed texts of secret treaties , and were amazed when you insisted that they stood above the Fourteen Points at Paris . Nor have you repented . Only the other day the spokesman of France spoke once more for the old hidden ways , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Africa . You are introducing conscription and teaching modern warfare to the peoples of the Dark Continent . You are saving your own sons by bringing these poor , helpless , and ignorant dusky sons of the tropics into Europe to fight your battles for you , and you have posted them to guard the Rhine for you . 3 . The Huge Army on the Rhine . When you talk to us of reparations we remember the billions of marks which have been squandered in maintaining your generals in luxury in castles on the Rhine , in establishing brothels for your soldiers , in building great brick barracks to house your armies , in supporting 90,000 French soldiers in the Rhineland  --  more than Germany maintained there in the " armed-camp " days before the war . 4 . Failure to Disarm . We can not forget that France has steadfastly refused to ratify the Washington treaties for naval disarmament , that a Frenchman ? Barthouopened the Genoa Conference with a protest against discussion of disarmament , and that France today , face to face with a disarmed Germany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as large as before the war . 5 . Policy of Alliances . You have realized our fears that 1 This is the figure given in the official French statement to the League of Nations . Some weeks ago we stated that the present French army was larger than the Kaiser 's army at the outbreak of the war This was , it appears , erroneous , although Senator Hitchcock declared in the Senate on November 23 that the French army of today is the greatest peace establishment ever maintained by any nation and there is difficulty in arriving at the correct figures The present French army is larger in proportion to the French population than was the Kaiser 's in proportion to the German people , but according to German official figures the absolute number of the Kaiser 's army was greater by more than 125,000 General Buat of the French army has made the significant statement that " France alone was at the beginning of the war at least equal if not superior to her formidable adversary in the number of principal units " the League of Nations meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by using it as a tool and building within it a series of alliances . You have used Poland as a pawn ; you have supported the White Terror in Hungary with one hand , and with the other have sought to build a great cordon of vassal states across Europe . 6 . Coal . You have starved industrial Germany by forcing her to deliver coal to you at the rate of 24 million tons per year , pleading that you needed it to compensate for your own lost production , and then , unable to use it all in France , you have sold back to Germany her own coal at more than the price you paid her for it . You have credited Germany 's reparation account with less than the market price of coal in France , and have returned the difference in price as a bonus to your industrial financiers. 7 . Reconstruction . You have cried to the world that your northern provinces were in ruins , but have refused the German labor and materials which Germany offered you , despite the protest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You yourself , M. Clemenceau , have just confessed that you urged annexation of the Rhineland upon Mr. Lloyd George and Mr. Wilson  --  do you expect us to give you our hearts and souls for urging what would surely mean another war ? M. Loucheur 's recent speech and the secret Dariac report to M. Poincare , which we publish in the International Relations Section of The Nation this week , reveal that responsible French statesmen are still plotting to dismember Germany and create a Rhineland state as a part of the structure of French imperialism . 9 . Saber-rattling . Need we repeat the pitiful history of these chaotic post-armistice years , of the threats of your successive prime ministers , of the occupation of Frankfurt in 1920 ( when you quartered your least civilized troops in Goethe 's house ) , of M. Briand 's mobilization in the spring of 1921 , of the occupation of the Ruhr ports which you have deliberately prolonged long after the alleged occasion , of the continual provocations which have kept Europe in nervous excitement and uncertainty and have doomed her to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , M. Clemenceau , if it is not reliance upon military force ? Reread your own speeches ; you stand convicted out of your own mouth . France is not the only sinner in the world today . The Nation has not shown itself unaware of our own American economic imperialism , or of British imperialism . But you are appealing for aid for France ; apparently the " heart and soul " you ask means a military alliance . And it is only fair that in addition to the chorus of newspaper praise some journal should frankly speak out the things which have cut so deeply into the American heart and soul that a resumption of the old warm and unquestioning affection is today impossible . You have shown flexibility in the past , M. Clemenceau . In your youth you were so red a radical that many of the men who cheer you today would howl for your deportation were they to read your early writings . Can you not show flexibility once more in your old age ? The greatest service you could do your country would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speeches which have greeted you , but these things which have driven America into suspicion of all Europe , and in particular of France . The Professor 's Wife O F course there are college teachers who have , so to speak , imparted a sort of " jazz " to their profession ; who address " institutes " and forums on the integrity of the Constitution , and write articles in the popular weeklies on Post-War Morals : A Process of Decay . But these moneymaking professors , immune from the ordinary stresses of their arduous professions , must not be allowed to divert us from a problem which is social and educational and domestic and ethical . The fact is that college professors as a whole are a class of underpaid , overworked , thoroughly cowed wage slaves . They receive too little money to live on , and for the life of them they do n't know what to do about it . If anyone came along and offered to tell them  --  anyone who knew , like W. Z. Foster , for example  --  as likely as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Public Meetings of the Committee on Buildings and Grounds that he should not be permitted the use of any college hall . So much for the professor . What about the partner of his fairly unmitigated sorrows ? So far she has gone no further than he in forming unions or proposing any sort of a joint agreement with the trustees , but she has at least analyzed the problem ; and that is the first step toward revolution . A reprint has recently come into this office from the University of California Chronicle for October , 1922 , which is pointedly headed " What Are the Prospects of the University Professor 's Wife ? " It was written by Dorothy Hart Bruce in collaboration with eight other women , and it is the most persuasive human document that has come to our desk in many months . By a truly eloquent use of family budgets , salary estimates , household lists , the authors show that there is no economic reason why the professor 's wife and his family , and the professor himself , should stay alive at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " prospects . " This study was made as an answer to the president of the University of California who , in a recent article entitled What Are the Prospects of the University Professor ? drew an enticing picture of academic life : the professor free from the " anguish and humiliation of debt , " adding books to his library , rearing his family in comfort , providing for his old age , and all the while developing " the field of teaching and research which most fully represents his capacity and enthralls his imagination . " The women who answer him scratch facts and figures all over his sketch . They leave the professor to his own devices and , considering only the situation of his family , they describe a life in which comfort and all opportunities for mental expansion are forfeited ; in which economy is carried to the point of drabness and shabbiness and ill-health . " Yet all this is not enough , " say the authors . " The only economy which in time enables us to live on our salaries is for us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wife , even presupposing freedom from illness and from dependents , must choose between childlessness on the one hand , and on the other the anguish and humiliation of many years of debt , the never-lightened burden of too great physical labor , the inability to give her children the things which she knows are important , the inevitable choking of her intellectual and artistic qualities . These realities are her life day by day and year by year . These are her prospects . " The authors pass over rather lightly the possibility that the professors ' wives might contribute by their own labor to the family income and improve their lot at the same time . The opportunities for such work are , however , likely to be limited in a university town ; and in any case the authors ' immediate task was not to suggest to the president simple modes of escape from his obviously ludicrous position . But certainly the whole study brings into a startling glare of light the pitiable situation of a woman , educated and competent , tied to a life of unremitting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ university should be warned that in this situation is a breeding-place of feminism in its most virulent and pugnacious forms . It may not appear in the pamphlet , but it is present on the university campus none the less . On his own ground the president is refuted ; he is , perhaps , squelched ; conceivably , he is even convinced . But when this much is accomplished , what is accomplished ? Will salaries be raised to a decent level ? If such a miracle occurs our faiths will have to be made over ; we shall begin to believe that a closely reasoned argument will improve conditions in the steel mills and a few tables set things right down in Somerset County , Pennsylvania . If good comes of this statistical drama it will come , we believe , not directly but through the stimulation of the " faculty husbands . " Eventually they will have to fight their own battles , and with sharper weapons than they have ever learned to handle . They will have to learn the feeling of being parts of one another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will have to take the facts that the women have gathered together and dramatized , and make them into hard demands . They will , in short , have to organize and fight . And they will have to do this , not only in the University of California , but in very nearly every college and university in the United States . Even a sacred idol like professional dignity should in the long run come to look less important to college teachers than the health and happiness of their families , than the very possibility of having those families . The Critic and the Cobbler Cy ES , " said the critic , " literature is the expression of life ; life grown articulate ; life 's highest form . I have said it a hundred times . I shall go on saying it . It is true ; it must be true . Metaphysically and practically it is not to be doubted . And yet . . . . Yes , I have moments of doubt and of dismay ; I have hours when I can no longer integrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sinks to the level of an amusement , when the artist takes on , as Stevenson said long ago , the aspect of a prostitute  --  of one who lives by merely furnishing pleasure . " Why ? Look through that grimy little window into the cobbler 's shop . The cobbler , an Italian with a grave , massive Roman head , sits , awl in hand , bent over a disreputable-looking shoe . There is no droop in his bending ; the man 's spirit is erect . He is poor . He lives on polenta and black bread and onions . He is fifty . There is no vista or vision in his life . He is a realist by temper and does n't befool himself with dreams . His wife , a gaunt , fiery-eyed slattern , stands in the background . The man 's fate is fixed . Very well . Let a poet look in at that window and grasp imaginatively the cobbler 's past and present outlook . The poet knows that , given such a life for himself , he would rebel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wailing of his immedicable disappointment at mortality . And that wail would nowadays  --  when the ' maker ' is a ' maker ' of imaginative narrative  --  go through several editions and the poet would be dining comfortably at the Brevoort and shuddering at the supreme misery of the common lot of man . " The stern fact remains that the cobbler is not a poet . I do n't say that he 's happy . I do say that he practices a dignified and even a cheerful acceptance of the common lot . There is no use in denying it or sophisticating it . For did he and his kind not do so the world would be in flames within the hour . He has , he must have , sources of content and human dignity to draw on that the poet lacks . In those sources lies the explanation of the meaning of life at its broadest . And those sources are hidden from poet , critic , philosopher , from all the tribe whose nerves are stung by the necessity of change even if it be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eternity . " The doubt comes often and persists . I look out of the windows of a train and see ineffably mean towns scattered along miry roads . The shapeless houses are painted , as though by a cruel ironist , in comfortless browns and poisonous yellows . The shabby men and aproned women are not singing with joy . But they are not dispirited , nor hopeless , nor anything that the poet would be were he to share their fate . Something sustains them . It is not , in our sense , beauty or adventure ; it is not ease ; it is certainly not hope . Their fate , like the cobbler 's , is fixed . What is it ? What is it ? There is the secret of life . " Very well . I ca n't , in those hours of doubt , help pursuing such reflections . I see the ' happy well-fed drummers . ' You remember Whitman 's phrase . He must have had an inkling of the great secret . I see the rosy , stout business men with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I wonder whether doubt and the sense of insufficiency did ever strike upon George F. Babbitt , or if Sinclair Lewis did not , with infinite restraint of manner and documentation of fact , merely infuse into Babbitt the minimum of yearning and awakening that he , put in Babbitt 's place , can conceive himself to have felt . And I ca n't help wondering whether Lee Randon is n't merely Joseph Hergesheimer disporting his pangs under the guise of the Philadelphia manufacturer , and whether Claude Wheeler , had he not died in France , would not now be a gentle but quite convinced member of the American Legion . " You say it 's absurd . I hope so . What gives me pause is the patience of men . Through all ages they have been patient , from our point of view . They are not , like poets , an irritable race . That is why they really dislike the poets and often enough crucify these troublesome fellows who will not let well enough alone and succeed occasionally in setting fire to the minds of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best if you can get nothing in exchange for it but disquiet . The poet does not know the secret by which common men live . He had better leave them alone . " Am I blaspheming all I am and stand for ? " The critic smiled ruefully . " It does n't matter . It is always healthy , if only as an exercise , to tell all sides of the truth that are revealed to you . I shall go ahead upon my appointed errands and do my appointed work . But the voice of that doubt will be heard again . It is only a still , small voice . It can not quite be silenced . " James Ramsay MacDonald O N November 15 a private British citizen , on November 23 leader of his Britannic Majesty 's Opposition in the House of Commons ; beginning his new leadership with a speech which , the dispatches record , showed him to have " lost nothing of his skill as a Parliamentary dialectician " and presaged an extremely vigorous and able opposition for Bonar Law  --  this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James Ramsay MacDonald . The whirligig of time does bring its revenges to men who stand fast to their principles and are true to their beliefs ! We do not forget Campbell-Bannerman 's opposition to the Boer War , and his triumphant appearance in the House as Prime Minister in 1905 , we do not forget the despised and hunted David Lloyd George , fleeing in a policeman 's uniform from an anti-war meeting , and his subsequent rise to highest honors , when we say that there has been no more dramatic change of fortune in modern English political history than Ramsay MacDonald 's sudden restoration to political power and influence . For Mr. MacDonald was fairly driven out of public life because he would not stand with his country in the war against Germany . A pacifist on principle , he declined to say : " My country right or wrong . " That the devil then took him upon a high hill and gave him a vision of the political kingdoms of the earth is well known . Had he , with his native ability , his skill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presence , but " gone along " there is no doubt that he and not Arthur Henderson would have been the Labor member of the inner steering ring of the Cabinet which guided the destiny of England during the war . But he chose the lonely furrow ; he preferred the abuse and threats of press and public , the reviling of the mob , the sneers and taunts of erstwhile associates , and was quite content to await his vindication . It has come in not much more than eight years . Beaten in 1918 and 1920 , he now triumphs by 3,000 votes . Havelock Wilson , the governmentalized Labor leader whose Seaman 's Union would not transport MacDonald to Finland a few years back , went down to defeat , while MacDonald triumphed . A sworn opponent of imperialism now leads the Opposition ; a man who knows the diplomatic game by which the war was put over on Europe and understands full well the intrigue by which behind the arras the strings of the diplomatic puppets are pulled , territories carved up , and the fates of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and most right-minded of men stands where he can expose sham , hypocrisy , intrigue , and deceit . Best of all , he will fight not only for the plain people of England but for the plain people of all the world . To its valued friend and contributor , whose last article appeared in its issue of October 18 , The Nation sends its earnest greetings , its heartiest congratulations . It has no question that Ramsay MacDonald will live up to his glorious opportunities just as he bore with unsurpassed fortitude the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune , as his shining character foiled the low and dirty intrigues by which , during the war , his Government sought to embroil him by means of agents provocateurs . The Nation hopes that the day is not far distant when it will hail him as Prime Minister . It knows today that in Ramsay MacDonald on the Opposition bench the peace of Europe has its staunchest champion , the cause of humanity an unsurpassed defender . 