@@487246

T HE Bulletin of the Executive Committee of the Communist International , published at Petrograd , printed in its issue of September 20 the " theses " of the committee on the subject of the Armaments Conference at Washington . I. THE WASHINGTON CONFERENCE The Washington Conference , called by the Government of the United States for the regulation of Eastern Asiatic problems and the limitation of armaments , is the latest of a series of futile attempts of capitalistic society in its search for a way out of the tangle of contradictions which the World War had so vividly revealed but was unable to solve . As the idea of " Mitteleuropa , " so also the idea of a league of nations has suffered bankruptcy . Both German and English capital proved its inability so to organize the capitalist world as to preserve the exploitation of one nation by another while doing away with armaments and the perpetual danger of war . At present , three years after the end of the war and two years after the conclusion of peace , Europe presents the appearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gnawed bone while their tamers look on , sometimes throwing them another bone and sometimes chastizing them with a whip . After victorious capitalism had so splendidly displayed how fit it was for the . role of organizer of the world , the United States of America , which had already participated in the Versailles attempt to establish a league of nations and then hesitated to join this league , its own creation , is again taking the initiative by calling a conference to regulate the problems of the Pacific , most important for the United States and for the settlement of the differences in Eastern Europe . With an eye on the Pacific shores the United States wishes to introduce the question of disarmament as a world question . And this is to be achieved at the Washington Conference . This attempt will fail just as all previous attempts have failed . At best it may end with a new combination of forces and a new complication of the existing contraventions . This is to be inferred from the definition of the motive powers in the United States , England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . II . THE RETURN OF THE UNITED STATES TO EUROPE The United States withdrew from the League of Nations in the first place because England , with her six votes , put her seal upon the League ; secondly , because the American capitalists did not want to assume any responsibility for the territorial boundaries of the world that had been patched up at Versailles ; and , last , because the Republican machine wanted to use the fact that the petit-bourgeois masses had tired of Europe to push the Democratic machine away from the government trough . However , the United States could not withdraw from world politics . The capitalists of Europe and the Allies owe it $20,000,000,000 . The outcome of the European conflicts would determine not only whether the debtors would be able to pay their debts , but also whether - the United States would be in a position to maintain the industries which had developed during the war . In 1919 there was a faction of American capital which supposed that its prosperity did not depend on the economic development of Europe . But during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that America can not export its products to Europe as long as the economic life of Europe goes on disintegrating . That was the reason that prompted the United States to take part in settling the question of German reparations . It acts with the . council of the Allies in settling the questions of Upper Silesia , it assumes a definite attitude toward the problem of the Russian famine . In short , the United States reentered the council of the Allies , this actual embodiment of victorious world capitalism , which reduced the Council of the League of Nations to the role of a mere puppet . The United States is now anxious to gain control over the council of the Allies and to attain this , it is taking advantage of the present difficult position of its English rival . III . THE POSITION OF ENGLAND British imperialism in order to win the war had to call in the colonies . In 1917 it gave them a voice in shaping the foreign policy of Great Britain . At present it is obliged to reaffirm this right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to raise the expenses for the naval armaments which it considers necessary to keep pace with the United States as well as with its allies , Japan and France , whom it must count as factors of power . Great Britain is replaced by a federation of Great Britain with the self-governing capitalist British colonies whose interests are not the same as those of the mother country . England wants to maintain its alliance with Japan in order to have an . ally in the contingency of a conflict with the United States , to stir up American-Japanese differences , and then to serve as mediator between American and Japanese imperialism ; but the young Canadian capitalism , which , owing to its geographical position , is constantly becoming more dependent upon the United States , can not afford any straining of its relations with its powerful neighbor . At the conference of the premiers Canada declared its opposition to a renewal of the alliance with Japan and declined to consider itself in any way bound by this alliance . For Australia , Japan is the only possible adversary , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan . The farmers of South Africa do not want to have anything to do with conflicts in world politics . Owing to this attitude of its most important colonies English imperialism has no longer a free hand in its policy toward the United States of America . In consequence of the growing economic competition between Great Britain and the United States both of them are confronted by the question whether this competition , in an atmosphere of unsolved difficulties in world politics , would not lead toward increased armaments , which might eventually result in a new world war . In such a war the position of Great Britain would be far more endangered than it was in the World War of 1914-1918 , because , while being unable to rely completely upon its colonies , it would probably have for an enemy France , whose attempts to control all of continental Europe by a system of vassal states , such as Poland , Czecho-Slovakia , and Rumania , as well as its policy in the East tend to widen the antagonism between itself and Great Britain . British imperialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land power of German capital . The disarmament of German capitalism leaves France the most important factor on the Continent . With the development of far-shooting artillery , aircraft , and submarines this most important factor would in case of war as an ally of the United States not only maintain a complete blockade of England , but would even attempt to land forces on the British Isles . In view of this position the British Government is compelled to seek an understanding with the American Government . The object of this understanding is the creation of an Anglo-Saxon trust with its central point in America . The price of this trustification is to be paid by Japan . IV . THE ISOLATION OF JAPAN In the war Japanese imperialism enriched itself at small expense . It exported war materials for the Allies and took advantage of the fact that England was hindered by the war from providing its colonies sufficiently with industrial products . In the beginning of the war Japan diplomatically hindered China from entering the World War , and then it seized Kiaochow and the Shantung province and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stirred up internal strifes in China in order to attain the position of organizer , in fact , of ruler of this great country which is slowly emerging from feudal disintegration toward national unity under the leadership of the bourgeois South . The results of the World War are endangering the fruits of Japan 's victory . With the defeat of , Germany and the collapse of imperialist Russia which could be made a partner in predatory expeditions , Japan can look only to England for assistance against the United States . V. THE PLANS OF THE UNITED STATES IN EASTERN ASIA The United States has a tremendous need of economic expansion and it looks upon China and Russia ( especially Siberia ) as the great markets which it is necessary first to invade . In view of the exclusive position which America holds as creditor of the world , in view of the great power of competition which American capital possesses not only as compared with Japanese but also with English industry , the United States is naturally opposed to all special privileges which the other imperialist states , England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and which they now may achieve in Siberia . In order to eliminate Japan the United States has introduced the slogan of the " open door " in China , which was first proclaimed by the American Secretary of State John Hay in 1900 . The attitude of the United States toward the question of the Chinese wireless station on the island of Yap shows that it is determined to take up the fight along the whole front . This policy of the United States endangers the interests of England , but not as much as those of Japan . Not only because England is more fit to withstand the competition of the United States but also because the questions of the Pacific , which for Japan are questions of life itself , present for England only one of its important world problems . Thus Japan may count upon the assistance of England only to a certain extent . When confronted with the alternative of choosing between Japan and the United States , England will decide in favor of the United States . For this reason the Washington Conference signifies the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan the spoils of victory . VI . THE PROSPECTS OF THE WASHINGTON CONFERENCE The first condition for any limitation of armaments on the Pacific or for the division of maritime privileges between the several Powers is dependent upon the diplomatic negotiations over the disputed questions of the Pacific . England will be the partner of Japan and will endeavor to bring about a compromise between the United States and Japan , which would allow it to maintain the alliance with Japan by formally drawing America into this alliance . The military value of the alliance with Japan for the eventuality of a war with the United States is very great , and the diplomatic advantages of this alliance in case of conflicts with the United States can not be underestimated . In order to attain an Anglo-American-Japanese alliance Japan would get compensations in Siberia and America would be given concessions in China or admitted to the exploitation of the oil wells in Mesopotamia , etc . If the United States is successful it may try to create close relationships with Japan within the Anglo-Japanese-American alliance . Then the three Powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree naval armaments could be mutually tolerated without creating an endangering competition . If they do not succeed in arriving at any settlement of the disputed questions , then the economic struggle as well as armament struggle will continue unabated . Thus we have in the first instance the trustification of the United States with England and the diminishing of Japan 's war booty in favor of America at the expense of China and , eventually , of Soviet Russia . Then this pact , as was once the Peace of Shimonoseki , by which Russia , Germany , and France sought to snatch from Japan the fruits of her victory over China in 1894 , will be the starting-point of new diplomatic groupings and new political complications . In the second instance the process of accentuating the differences will be accelerated . But in no instance will the differences disappear altogether , because there always remains the dominating world problem of the economic contraposition of England and America . There is still the Anglo-French disagreement , and besides the differences by which the capitalist victors are divided among themselves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as Germany , to the colonial countries , and , finally , to Soviet Russia , which presents a breach in the capitalist state system . VII . THE WASHINGTON CONFERENCE AND SOVIET RUSSIA The attempt to include the question of limitation of armaments on the European Continent is doomed to failure . In view of the complete disarmament of Germany , France 's safety is not endangered . Still it will not cease its policy of military preparedness , it will not abandon its position as the first military Power on the Continent , as the whole policy of French imperialism is directed toward attaining French hegemony over the European Continent . And besides France there exist her vassal states , which by the Peace Treaty of Versailles and the treaties following it have been granted territories inhabited by foreign and hostile populations . Poland has territory inhabited by great masses of Ukrainians , White Russians , and Germans . Czecho-Slovakia presents the picture of old Austria-Hungary . Besides the Czecho-Slovakian it contains a great German , Czechist , and Hungarian population . Rumania enslaves the masses of Bessarabians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under Rumania and Jugoslavia . The whole status quo in Central , South , and East Europe is maintained by force of the bayonet . In the Near East France uses her bases in Africa and Syria to flank England in her most sensitive place  --  at the Suez Canal . France tries to shatter England 's policy of linking up India with Egypt through the creation of a great intermediary Ural state dependent upon English imperialism . In order to persuade France to abandon her military policy England would have to arrive at an agreement with France upon all world problems . How little the capitalist Powers themselves believe in the possibility of their disarmament is demonstrated by the fact that , at the moment when the English Government responded in most cordial terms to President Harding 's invitation to the Conference on Disarmament , ? 30,000,000 were appropriated for new battleships . As reason for this appropriation the fact was pointed out that Japan is already building eight new dreadnoughts which will be completed by 1925 and has appropriated means for the construction of eight more , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Washington Conference will not accomplish any disarmament nor will it bring any relief for the masses of the people . On the contrary , it represents an attempt to settle the interests of the greater Anglo-Saxon imperialist robbers at the expense of the smaller Japanese robber , of China , and of Soviet Russia . This character of the Washington Conference is emphasized by the fact that Soviet Russia was not invited to participate in it lest she reveal the disgraceful game to be played in Washington with the fate of nations ! . . .                     