@@486396

DEAR MR . YOUNG : YOU have achieved by your own ability a very important , almost a commanding position in the field of electrical engineering and manufacturing . Your valuable public services have confirmed the high opinion held of you by public and press  --  the latter attributes to you the chief credit for the creation and adoption of the Dawes Plan which has done so much to restore and to sanitate Europe . You have repeatedly shown independence of action in the political world , as when you heartily approved of Governor Smith 's water-power policy in the State of New York . On more than one occasion you have shown your understanding of public rights in the field of electrical power enterprises in sharp contrast with the point of view of many others affiliated with what has come to be known as the super-power trust . You are , therefore , deservedly ranked as an unusually liberal and public-spirited head of a great corporation . It is precisely because you have this reputation and standing that we address ourselves to you in this public manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We refer especially to the revelations as to the underhanded attempt to make and control public opinion in this country in favor of private ownership and operation of public utilities which are dependent upon electrical power . The public has learned  --  not from any muck-raking press campaign , but as a result of the official inquiry conducted by the Federal Trade Commission  --  of far-reaching efforts to influence the press , the pulpit , the school , and the university . It has already been shown that the power lobby was prepared to spend more than $400,000 during the last session of Congress . The National Electric Light Association alone spent more than $250,000 for propaganda ; thirteen geographical divisions disbursed $237,300 ; not less than $700,000 was disbursed by twenty-two State and regional bureaus created by utility corporations , operating hand in glove with the National Electric Light Association , the American Gas Association , and the lobby in Washington . In addition millions have been disbursed for advertising in the newspapers , much of which has plainly been inserted for the purpose of controlling editorial opinions . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be found in a letter written by J. B. Sheridan , manager of the Missouri Committee on Public Utility Information , to C. H. Galloway of the Continental Gas and Electric Company of Omaha , Nebraska : I am much interested in the very handsome little ad. which the Maryville Electric and Power Company is running in the Missouri newspapers . When all is said and done it is the advertising that counts . The fact that Carl Thompson head of the Public Ownership League of Chicago has received practically no notice in the Missouri newspapers is , I believe , due to the fact that the Electric Light and Power Company are good customers of the newspapers . It is not easy for anybody to bite the hand of a good customer . So shameful has been the subservience of the press to this insidious form of bribery that this same J. B. Sheridan wrote a letter to an editorial friend thanking God thatthere was one man who would not yield himself . It is significant , too , that this same Mr. Sheridan received a letter from John W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which the latter said : The thing about the utility industry that disgusts me is lying , thieving , faking , and downright evasion of trust or violation of trust that marks the progress toward enormous wealth of the so-called big men in the industry . When I see some of those fellows waving the flag , I am filled with not only disgust but rage , for they are anything but patriots . You will not have forgotten , Mr. Young , that interests closely connected with you stood behind E. Hofer and Sons of Salem , Oregon , to the extent of $80,000 a year for sending out matter to the press opposing government and municipal ownership , attacking labor unions , and criticizing " radical programs " for the relief of the farmer . Mr. Hofer testified before the Federal Trade Commission that he had succeeded in getting 3,000,000 column-inches into the papers to which he sent this matter during 1927 ? more than 20,000 newspaper pages . Now , as Senator Norris has pointed out , public-utility concerns have the right to state their case in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and above-board way . If , however , they hire Governors of States to sign articles favoring them and their policies , the public has a right to know why the Governors signed and who wrote the articles . Again , Senator Norris is on indisputably sound ground when he points out that the millions that have gone into this propaganda come in the last analysis from the consumers themselves , and are one element in the failure of the electric companies to reduce the rates . You will certainly not deny that the subsidizing of school officials and college professors , and the editing or suppression of textbooks , is entirely contrary to the public welfare ; that if it should be undertaken by other industries it would poison the whole atmosphere surrounding public questions . You will recall , without our reminding you , the fearful scandals of a similar nature connected with the insurance business which were exposed by Charles E. Hughes , with the result that there was prompt government interference with this private business and the establishment of public control of insurance companies . It will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not result in the creation of a federal commission to control public utilities and at least to insure the publication of their expense accounts . It is because you must be aware of these things , and because you in your person have seemed to stand for a different policy and attitude toward the public , that we are appealing to you to come out against this whole procedure . With other men in the industry who are like-minded , you could well join in a public statement which would reassure the public to some extent and would put you on record as being opposed to the corruption that has been revealed , and as being more than ready to clean house from top to bottom . In the earnest hope that you will take the leadership in this matter we are , Yours very truly , THE EDITORS OF The Nation Boston Protects Itself HE producers of " Gods of the Lightning , " after a short run in New York City , decided to take this " Sacco-Vanzetti play , " as it has been called , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the authority not only to stop a play which offends the law but to close for a period of time the theater in which it is produced . It is customary , therefore , for theater-owners to insert in their contracts a clause by which the producer undertakes to indemnify the owner in case his theater is closed . Hence , Hamilton MacFadden , before taking " Gods of the Lightning " to Boston , submitted the manuscript to John M. Casey , Chief of the Licensing Division , to learn what the official attitude would be . The latter passed the play along to the Corporation Counsel , Frank S. Deland , for an opinion . And this is what he got : In compliance with your request this department has carefully examined the manuscript of the play " The Gods of the Lightening " we preserve the spelling used in the city of learning with a view to advising you as to the course to be pursued by you . Unless changes are made in the various passages of the manuscript wherein the name of the Lord is used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one , whether he be believer or otherwise , and which in many instances borders on the blasphemous , you would in duty be bound to recommend to the statutory board or officials who pass upon the suspension of theater licenses that the license of any theater which allows this performance to be shown in this city be revoked if such passages were allowed to remain after a first performance in this city . There are also many passages in this manuscript that are so condemnatory of our government , its form , its practices , and its officials , both national and State , that it would require but a little stretch of the imagination to term them anarchistic and treasonable . The whole play , it seems to me , is an attempt , while depicting the recent trial of Sacco and Vanzetti in Massachusetts , to bring into disrepute our judicial system and our judicial officers , especially those officials who participated in the Sacco-Vanzetti trial . It is unfair to them and only tends to hold them up  --  o ridicule and to unfairness . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judicial system . I do not believe it is worthy of a place on any American stage , more especially a Boston stage . In my opinion the producers should be notified that their play does not meet with your favor and probably will not meet with the favor of the statutory board on licenses in this city . Mr. Casey forwarded a copy of this letter to Mr. MacFadden with a brief note saying that the Corporation Counsel 's " opinion in no manner differs from the conclusion I had arrived at . " This is as one might expect . The Sacco-Vanzetti tragedy is not dead , as the State of Massachusetts hoped it would be long before now . Indeed it is a more living issue today than a year ago , and the action of the Boston officials is the natural response of frightened , crawling little bureaucrats in the circumstances . The Nation discussed " Gods of the Lightning " in its issue of November 14 ( page 528 ) , and in our opinion the charge of blasphemy is in no way warranted and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the other hand , the complaint that the play ridicules the courts is amply justified . So is the ridicule . Nothing needs to be more ribaldly pooh-poohed , more mercilessly held up to the scorn of decent citizens , than so-called American justice  --  a stupid , archaic , doddering hocus-pocus of pious humbug and downright corruption which in one part of the country tortured for seven years and then murdered two friendless , moneyless aliens and in another has failed to convict of crime a single principal in the stinking oil frauds of the Harding Administration . But even if the ridicule of " Gods of the Lightning " were unjustified , the authors of the play , Maxwell Anderson and Harold Hickerson , are entitled to express their opinions in Boston or anywhere else in the United States without interference from mob-fawning political job-holders . We hope a way may be found to put on " Gods of the Lightning " in Boston . The city officials will probably stop it , and if the courts uphold the action , the public will have new and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justified . Hermann Sudermann H ERMANN SUDERMANN , the internationally known novelist and playwright , died in Berlin on November 21 at the age of seventy-one years . A few hours later his publishers announced that the most famous of his novels , " Frau Sorge , " had sold some three hundred thousand copies ( an almost unprecedented number for Germany ) . Yet in spite of the fact that he was also author of one of the most successful plays of the nineteenth century , he died a much embittered man who had seen the critical acclaim with which he had formerly been greeted gradually replaced by persistent disparagement . Sudermann , born of humble parents and deprived of the advantages of formal education , passed , like Ibsen , from a chemist 's shop to journalism , but there was something fateful in the fact that his first and triumphantly successful play , " Honor , " appeared in 1889 , which was also the year of Gerhart Hauptrnann 's first drama , " Before Sunrise . " At the time the two men could hardly have guessed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rose to very nearly its highest point while that of Hauptmann remained relatively slight . But over a period of ten years the positions were gradually reversed . Though he continued to write plays ( there are a score in all ) , some of which achieved great popularity , critics fell into the habit of contrasting Sudermann 's theatrical adroitness with what appeared to be the greater sincerity of the rising star . Superficially the two men belonged to the same school . Both dealt with the social problems of their time and both appeared as champions of liberal ideas , but Sudermann was accused of sacrificing truth in the interest of striking theatrical effect , and he came more and more to be used as a foil in celebrations of his rival 's greatness . He found in his financial rewards no compensation for this loss of critical esteem , a bitterness against Hauptmann sprang up , and when the latter became a member of the newly formed German Literary Academy Sudermann refused to join it . One of his hitherto untranslated novels , " The Mad Professor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but his plays disappeared some years ago from the New York stage , where one in particular ( " Heimat , " translated as " Magda " ) had been played by both Modjeska and Mrs. Fiske . A little later the novel called " The Song of Songs " achieved considerable popularity in America , and a dramatization was played by Irene Fenwick , but Sudermann 's reputation here has followed the same course as in Germany . Commonly regarded as a significant figure in contemporary German literature , he is nevertheless treated less and less seriously and , in all probability , less and less read , in spite of the fact that " Heimat " has been widely used as a textbook in modern-language classes . Doubtless Sudermann has been to some degree unjustly treated and the victim of the persistent comparison with Hauptmann . It became fashionable to depreciate him , and there was little possibility of his being able to recapture the reputation which he had lost . Yet the artistic defects of his work are not only real but of a sort which inevitably become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less and less sufficient to distract the attention from them . When " Honor " and " Magda " were first performed his criticism of the military code in the one and his defense of the free life of an opera singer against the oppositon of her family in the other was sensational and socially important . Today , when his paradoxes are no longer paradoxical , one is much more likely to perceive the mechanical and rather over-simplified character of his dramatic construction . Even Hauptmann has already begun to pay the penalty almost inevitably exacted of the writer who founds a hope for permanent fame upon work which depends for a considerable part of its interest upon the treatment of current themes , and Hauptmann is a solider writer than the author of " Heimat . " Sudermann 's place in history is secure , but probably it is so in history alone . He will be remembered as one of those who helped revitalize the stage by bringing it into contact with the life of his time long after he has ceased to be acted or read . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lowell throws little additional light upon Harvard University 's decision to accept an anonymous gift of $3,000,000 to institute a " house " or " hall , " after the manner of the separate colleges at Oxford and Cambridge . Hence it is plain that Mr. Lowell himself has no clear-cut ideas as to just what form this extraordinarily interesting experiment will take . That is wise . We fancy that those teachers at Harvard who know Cambridge and Oxford best will be among the first to advise caution in adapting the English college-plan to Harvard conditions . The difficulties are obvious . Harvard is not Oxford and , though it is shortly to celebrate its three-hundredth birthday , has not behind it the same body of tradition as the oldest English universities . Nor is it prepared to substitute for its present teaching system the English one in which almost the whole burden is laid upon the tutors . The tutorial developments at Harvard point in that direction , and so does the recent setting aside of a reading period for upper classmen in the academic year during which lectures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can only come through experimentation . That , we are sure , is President Lowell 's idea . Several years ago an extraordinarily able undergraduate council reported upon the necessity of some such device to overcome the lack of social solidarity among three thousand undergraduates drawn from many countries and all sections of the United States , representing very different individualtraining and backgrounds . The class system long ago broke down at Harvard because of numbers , and with the disappearance of the old commons in Memorial Hall there was no. even that much of a common meeting ground . The freshman dormitories were then instituted in order to shuffle the freshmen , so that they would not segregate according to their preparatory schools or previous habitats and might have the opportunity to meet more of their classmates . But this left unsolved the problem of the other three years . Only a relatively few of the upper classmen took their meals together . One member of the faculty , therefore , writes us that " if the new plan accomplishes nothing more than to restore the habit of dining ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' it will have something in its favor . " So will it considerably justify itself if it can restore some of the old contacts between teachers and students , now so much decreased even when the professors have every desire to meet their students outside of the classrooms . Finally , we would point out again that from the days of President Eliot and the late Frank Bolles , so long connected with the administration of the college , the desire has been there to try the experiment of subdivision . When it comes to the dangers of the experiment , they are obvious . Harvard suffers enough in all conscience because of its reputation for snobbishness and a hard-and-fast division of the sheep from the goats , the sheep being those whose parents are well endowed with worldly goods . If the idea should go forth that Harvard is now engaged in segregating its students so that the poor among them , the Jews , the Negroes , and odd persons generally , can be segregated or eliminated , still further mischief will be done . What is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first house or hall ? Plainly it ought to be restricted to honor students . If later there could be developed a wholesome rivalry between halls in intellectual pursuits , so much the better . But the experiment will surely fail if the student body within the halls is not chosen on a purely democratic basis . If it is to be merely social segregation of like-minded youths it will work injury and be an extremely bad example to the rest of the university world . There is far too much of that now in some of our colleges . The sole common denominator ought to be the intellectual tastes and achievements of the undergraduates , tutors , masters , and , perhaps , research fellows who will probably be in residence . If it succeeds well there will be an increase in the intellectual life of Harvard greatly needed to offset the materialism of its Business School . Anything that will lead Harvard back to pure scholarship , which will bring about stimulating intellectual companionship among students and between them and their teachers , is altogether in order . Here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remind us that beautiful quadrangles and ivy-covered halls do not make a university and that Harvard would do well to put the money not into new buildings , but into larger salaries for teachers so that greater minds and characters may be drawn to Cambridge and be freed from that desperate struggle to live which is touched upon by a college professor in an article elsewhere in this issue . Finally , it must not be overlooked that this revolution in Harvard University has been brought about by a single gift from an unknown donor and that the college is committed to it without its being thought worth while to consult in advance the students or the alumni as to whether they desire the change .                     