@@486394

This is the second of three articles by Mr. Millard on China and Japan . The last , Japan Fights for Manchuria , will appear shortly . Shanghai , October 1 I T is a relevant fact that for several years before his death Chang Tso-lin 's relations with Japan were strained . The dictator gradually had become less disposed to accept advice from the Japanese on political and military matters . He was restive under their tutelage and more than once disregarded their wishes in important affairs . He did that when he established himself at Peking , where he was much less under Japan 's influence than at Mukden . It was well known to Chang 's intimates that his chief reason for wanting to hold Peking was to avoid getting back where the Japanese could put pressure on him . Chang felt , and often so expressed himself to his intimates , that Japan would like to get rid of him . The Tokyo Government , through the Japanese legation at Peking , advised Chang not to risk a battle with the National armies inside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him that if his army was defeated the Japanese would not permit it to retreat into Manchuria . That is why 25,000 Japanese troops were sent there and more ? were mobilized ready to go . Chang did not want to give Peking up without a fight , but his troops were disaffected , some of his principal generals were pro-Nationalist , and in the end he decided to withdraw . Chang Tso-lin left Peking early the morning of June 3 . A steel coach painted conspicuously was provided for him and his intimate entourage . That he felt himself in danger is shown by precautions that were taken . At points during the journey the position of Chang 's coach in the train was changed . At times he would leave that coach and sit for a while in another one . The train approached Mukden very early the morning of June 4 . At a station some miles from the city a number of important officials met the train to welcome the dictator and continued on it . Among those officials was General Wu Chung-chen , Chang 's most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the explosion that wrecked the train and killed Chang Tso-lin happened Chang and General Wu were in a wooden coach next to the steel coach where Chang was supposed to stay ' . The explosion occurred at about half past six o'clock . It was terrific and startled the city . Many people hastened to the scene , but in a short while Japanese railway guards ( soldiers ) formed a cordon and kept people away . Among the foreign employees at the arsenals are a number of experts on explosives and some of them were quickly at the scene and made such examinations as they could . Both Japanese and Chinese commissions of inquiry were appointed and they conducted investigations . Every consulateand nearly every foreigner at Mukden tried to learn what they could . I arrived at Mukden three weeks after the explosion . By then what could be found out , and probably all that ever will be found out , had been assorted and digested . The material and pertinent facts that are known follow . The explosion occurred at a point where the Chinese Peking-Mukden line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are concrete blockhouses guarding the bridge by which the South Manchuria line crosses over the Peking-Mukden line and Japanese soldiers always are there . As that point is within the South Manchuria Railway 's zone , which had priority over the , right of way of the Peking-Mukden line , Chinese police are not allowed there . On that occasion the Chinese had requested to be allowed to send some soldiers to watch the Peking-Mukden tracks at , the time Chang Tso-lin 's train would pass . That request was granted , but the Chinese soldiers were not permitted to approach the place until shortly before the train was due . An expert examination of what evidence was discovered in the wreckage and an expert analysis of that evidence seemed to prove that the explosive was attached to the granite retaining wall supporting the southern end of the bridge , adjacent to the track on which the Peking-Mukden train would pass . It would require six to eight hours to drill the holes , to put the explosive into position , and to make whatever connections were used to discharge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near by noticed on the evening of June 3 some Japanese working at the bridge with wires and other appliances . When out riding early on June 4 , about 5 a. m. , he again noticed the Japanese workmen and the wires . That made no particular impression on that observer at the time . He remembered it later , however . He noticed also that on that morning more than the customary number of Japanese railway guards were about . Item . Two Chinese who approached the place early that morning were challenged by Japanese guards and when they stopped they were bayoneted and died immediately . Another Chinese who witnessed . this assault ran away and although he was fired on at once he escaped . The Japanese say that those Chinese were " acting suspiciously " and they did not stop promptly when challenged . The Japanese tell a story about some small bombs having been found on those Chinese . The Chinese version is that those men were ordinary Chinese workmen who lived in a suburb west of the South Manchuria Railway 's tracks and who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to their work . On that morning they might have seen something which they could have told about afterward . Item . People living near the bridge noticed during that night that men were working there and using strong lights to see what they were doing . Sounds of drilling were heard . Those who saw and heard it thought at the time that some ordinary repairs were being made . The matter sifts down to this . It required eight to ten hours to instal the explosive that wrecked the train . During all that time the scene was exclusively under the authority and the policing of the Japanese . The Chinese guards did not come on the scene until shortly before the train arrived there and then they were told to stay some distance from the bridge . By then the bomb was in place and everything was set . Only experts could have installed the explosives . The job was expertly planned and scientifically executed . Just how the bomb was set off is not known positively . One might theorize endlessly regarding motive for the crime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why would they choose the exact place that would put them under suspicion ? Chinese say that if the deed was done by Nationalist or Communist or anti-Chang Chinese plotters they would surely have chosen another place than the one spot on the whole Peking-Mukden line where Japanese are on guard night and day and where such operations could not fail to be observed by them . The Sino-Japanese " joint investigation " resulted in disagreement in some particulars . The Japanese members wanted to make it appear that Chinese guards were at the scene from daylight , about 4 a , m. , onward . The Chinese members say the Chinese guards were not on the scene until about 6 o'clock . It is a material point on which all the neutral evidence supports the Chinese contention . Three months have passed since the crime and no one has-been arrested or charged with having done it . Among neutral foreigners at Mukden the opinion is almost unanimous that Japanese prepared and set off the explosion that ended Chang Tso-lin 's life . Chinese believe that too . However that may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promotion of Japan 's policy vis-a-vis China and Manchuria which Tokyo 's previous moves had foreshadowed . Chang Tso-lin died a few hours after the explosion that wrecked the train at Mukden , but his death was not officially announced until nearly three weeks later . From June 4 , when the explosion occurred , until June 21 , when the foreign consuls were notified that Chang was dead , his death was denied and extraordinary measures were taken to keep it secret . If the Japanese planned to seize the opportunity and take control they were nonplussed by the calm and inoffensive attitude of the Chinese . ( The Japanese consul general , Mr. Hayashi , expressed in a conversation with me great admiration of the Chinese handling of the affair . ) It is said that Chang 's eldest son made a secret trip to Mukden to kneel at his father 's bier and then returned to Shanhaikwan . Apparently he did not think it was safe to remain in Mukden then . A week later he returned there and stayed , but Yang Yu-ting , Fengtien 's ablest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inside the Great Wall with the four best divisions of Fengtien troops . Those Manchuria troops are still inside the Wall , obviously because of Japan 's moves at Mukden . In those circumstances , if there was any disposition of some men in Manchuria to grasp power , that was sup-pressed because of fear of what the Japanese would do . It was thought better to give the chief office to Chang Tso-lin 's eldest son , the young general , for the time . That was done with approval of the principal Chinese leaders . The National Government made pacific overtures to Mukden and sent a deputation there which was well received . At about the same time persons presumed to represent the deposed emperor , Henry Pu , who lives in the Japanese concession at Tientsin , arrived at Mukden and began an intrigue to restore the Kingdom of Manchuria with the former emperor on the throne . This scheme has become familiar by its frequent discussions in Japan 's propaganda organs , the idea being to restore the ancient Manchu kingdom under Japan 's protection , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ princess , repeating the story of Korea . The plot to restore the monarchy made no headway with the Chinese in Manchuria . They understand what that means . It was evident that the eastern provinces were confronted by the alternatives of either remaining a part of China , which means accepting the National Government , or of taking a fictitious attitude of independence , , which means coming definitely and perhaps forever under the tutelage of Japan . On that point there is hardly any difference of opinion among Chinese in Manchuria , who are strongly , now almost bitterly , anti-Japanese . An agreement was reached whereby Manchuria would recognize Nanking 's authority under certain conditions and would raise the National flag in the eastern provinces . That ' agreement was to be promulgated July 21 . Information of it leaked out and of course reached Tokyo . General Chang Hsueh-liang and a deputation were to visit Nanking to signify the rapprochement . On July 20 the Japanese consul at Mukden , Mr. Hayashi , requested an interview with Chang Hsueh-liang , which took place early the following day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaching an agreement to affiliate with the National Government were true and learned that they were . He then said , in effect , that the Japanese Government could not fail to be gravely disturbed by such action and strongly advised the Mukden Government not to proceed with that agreement . Mr. Hayashi stated that , in the event Japan 's views were disregarded , the Japanese Government would take steps to preserve the status quo . Mr. Hayashi 's declaration was followed at once by dispositions of Japanese troops at Mukden , who took positions outside the railway zone and the Japanese town in proximity to the aviation field and the arsenal . The Mukden Government proved unexpectedly stubborn . It replied politely to Mr. Hayashi but intimated that it would proceed with its purpose to recognize the National Government of China . However , in view of the situation and the Japanese military dispositions , promulgation of the agreement was postponed and the National Government was informed of the reasons . Soon afterward the Japanese Government sent Baron Gunsuke Hayashi , Japan 's senior diplomat , to Mukden . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represent Japan at the funeral of Chang , Tso-lin , an ironical touch that was not lost with Orientals . The real reason of the visit was to repeat in a more forcible and impressive way the previous admonition given by Consul Hayashi . Indeed , Baron Hayashi went further . He insisted that the Mukden Government should make an agreement confirming and extending Japan 's special position and rights in Manchuria that would be tantamount to establishing Japan 's suzerainty there . Again the Mukden Government showed unexpected firmness . It refused to make a new agreement and it would not promise to remain independent of Nationalist China . Baron Hayashi did extract a promise that Mukden would wait three months before taking further action in the matter .                     