@@219942

A week ago Attorney General Daugherty , in a curtain speech , said that Mr. Harding would appear in the great political production of 1924 . Shortly afterwards Senator James E. Watson of Indiana allowed himself to be heard hammering down the planks which the Presidential feet will tread during the coming drama . In comparative isolation aboard the Pioneer , Mr. Harding was apparently keeping his own counsel and making his own plans . It is understood , however , that in a nation-wide tour next summer the President will make 20 speeches-in which case he will have to have something to talk about . Inasmuch as the President seems by all odds the man most likely to head his party 's ticket in 1924 , Republican leaders are naturally interested . The subjects of the President 's remarks will doubtless define in a general way the issues of the 1924 election . At St. Augustine the day before Mr. Harding 's arrival , Senator Watson announced the tentative plans for the President 's speeches , as ar- rived at by " discussion with his advisors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed issues which the President will take to the people is the question of lower railroad rates . This program will probably include unification of the Railroad Labor Board and the Interstate Commerce Commission , and the merging of roads into sectional systems . The President 's second issue will be opposition to the direct primary . He is understood to favor , if not a return to the convention system of nominating candidates , at least no extension of the system to presidential elections . The third proposal on the President 's tentative program is a discussion of the shipping problem-the matter on which he met defeat in the last Congress . A fourth possibility is the World Court . This point , Senator Watson admitted , Mr. Harding had not discussed with his advisors . It is evident that Republican leaders are at best lukewarm in seconding the suggestion for a World Court . They are evidently very dubious of the advisability of such a move . It yet remains to be seen whether the President will override their hesitancy and take the lead on his own initiative . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestic prosperity will be the determining factor in the 1924 campaign . With this in mind , the railroad problem should be the most important issue , the question of tariff and taxes would be best left untouched and the World Court would be a very dangerous issue to meddle with . Upon this the " best minds " of the Republican Party seem agreed .                     