@@493415

Shall We Keep the Childen Out of School ? WE ARE told that these United States now expend on schools and colleges more money than does all the rest of the world . There is a far larger proportion of our youth and adults constantly attending schools in this country than in any other country in the world . On the other hand , many critics , and frequently very competent ones , express grave disappointment with the results of our elaborate and varied systems of school education . But our enthusiasts for volume of education are not dismayed . " The cure for the ills of our schools is more schools ? schools for the very young and schools for the full-grown , " they say , in effect . In a variety of ways large proportions of Americans have always been excessively in a hurry . Often we have become so enamored of means that we have cherished them as ends . Are we tending now to exhibit these failings in connection with certain kinds of education ? The present writer believes that such is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still inceptive , types of schools for young children . These are his major contentions : Only small proportions of children from four to six years of age are so circumstanced that educational agencies supplemental to their homes are really needed for them . Schools or other similar agencies should be provided for children from two to four years of age only when these are being reared under very exceptional or abnormal family conditions . And wherever household surroundings are fairly wholesome and normal it will prove of very great advantage to children of superior intellectual heredity to withhold them almost altogether from school attendance until nine or even ten years of age . To the foregoing hypotheses should be added these others : Even the most progressive kindergartens are in their effects over-stimulating agencies for children from suburban and village environments . Nursery schools , even when conducted in accordance with the best educational ideals now available , provide excessively mechanical and regimented surroundings for the wholesome growth of infants . The tax imposed upon the nervous organization of a bright , sensitive girl of eight or nine years of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the highly routine procedures of even an excellent primary school constitutes a needlessly harmful preparation for physical and other strains , later to be encountered in our speeded-up civilization . Between the educational philosophy implicit in the positions suggested above , and that of the thousands of men and women who are now enthusiastically promoting kindergartens , nursery schools and " child-centered " primary schools everywhere in the United States and in some foreign lands , there may seem to be a kind of psychological chasm . But the writer doubts if such is the case . He thinks that the two philosophies of education have much the same-ends in view . But in his estimation the one tends so greatly to overvalue purposive enrichments and stimulations of various forms of child growth as constantly to run the risk of surrounding the very plastic child with the equivalents of green-house conditions . The other attaches much importance to the gradual growth and ripening of childish powers , and especially those of social , intellectual , and emotional kinds . The educational theories of large proportions of the " progressive " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers of prevailing types of homes , and they seem suspicious of the capacities of children to achieve hundreds of kinds of physical , moral , or even " creative " growths through their parentally supervised and very unforced interactions with their extra-school material and human environments . But the writer contends that though the numerous and varied growths and learnings achieved by children from one to ten years of age in a fairly normal home environment are far from spectacular , nevertheless they usually are , with some exceptions , of the wholesome kinds , and especially of the moderate intensities which make for soundest manhood and womanhood , in the long run . It is no biological accident that among all animal species " the prolongation of infancy " has evolved most in our own . In a sociological sense it is no accident that , whereas greedy or stupid or vain parents tend often to hasten the maturing of their children by putting them early at wage-earning work , or expecting them to assume responsibilities beyond their years , or hurrying their promotions through school and into college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from school , between the ages of six and nine , and even for further intervals during later years . It is frequently alleged , of course , that kindergarten and nursery schools are not schools at all , in the old sense . In fact , their chief functions are to provide for just the normal varied growth conditions above suggested , it will be said . We know , indeed , " that Frocbel 's original idea was to train mothers to teach their children in the home rather than to organize schools and systems of teaching outside the home . " The first kindergartens in America " were often located in the worst slums of our cities , and were conducted ( philanthropically ) by the finest type of America 's young women " ? as are not a few of the **25;188;TOOLONG nursery schools of our cities today . But what is pioneering and experimental today tends to become institutional tomorrow ? if it appeals strongly to tender sentiment and is forwarded by vigorous , well meant propaganda . What educational values are to be expected from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily can in an emotionally responsive democracy ) parts of necessarily regimented and civil-serviced school systems ? What wide-spread , even if subtle , injuries to armies of tender children may not result from such mechanizations of the conditions of early emotional , social , and intellectual growth ? It is disturbing and difficult to criticize the aspirations of the fine men and women now so enthusiastically engaged in promoting schools for young children , because in certain respects these aspirations are legitimate and constructive ? at least they seemso as long as they are stated only in general terms and do not reach the stage of concrete programs . It is , of course , true that the chief , if not nearly the only , business in life of little children is to grow . It is true that the wholesome growths of children are of hundreds of essential kinds ? growths of bodily organs , of muscular coordinations , of moral sentiments , of intellectual experience , and of social cooperations . As means to these numerous forms of growth , small children need proper foods , adequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need safe roaming spaces and implements and stories and pets . And they need , no less , imitable examples and controls of speech and games , of hygienic routines and personal arts , and of childish explorations and inventions . Having analyzed qualitatively the hundreds of kinds of growths and means thereto essential to , or optimum for , wholesome childhood , whether at age one or five or nine , it becomes fairly easy for the experienced observer to detect insufficiency or excess along some lines . Many of us think we now possess standards whereby to judge whether little Johnny is undernourished or his sister Mary over-clothed . We feel ourselves on much less certain ground when asked to decide whether three-year-old Lucy has too few playthings or five-year-old Henry too many companions of nearly his own age . With how much less confidence , then , must the cautious student approach the problems of what constitutes optimum amounts of esthetic stimulation or social regimentation or constructive handwork for two year olds or four year olds ? In other words , though sympathetic students of normalcy in childhood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of valuable lines of growth , some of which can profitably be controlled as " educations , " they can offer but few suggestions yet in answer to the question " how much is enough ? " Now , it is the conviction of the writer , as suggested above , that in a great variety of respects enthusiasts for kindergarten and nursery schools tend to over-estimate or wrongly to estimate the needs of children from fairly normal homes for the particular kinds of growth and means of growth which school-like agencies can most conveniently supply . It is his conviction that , for children from moderately good village or suburban homes , the usual run of " child-centered schools " provides an excess of stories , of music , of toys , of manipulative arts and of companionship . In spite , often , of good intentions to the contrary , daily programs are too severely regimented , activities too much directed , emergencies too soon anticipated , cooperations too much enforced . In the light of any real knowledge we possess today , can anyone seriously contend that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children do not provide in nearly adequate degree , not only the means of nurture , sleep , security and shelter , but also the essential conditions and means for physical play , for companionship of elders , for cooperations with coevals , for intellectual growth and for stimulation of esthetic sensibilities ? Of course , there are some households in which children get insufficient or seriously wrong food . There are homes which offer no sunshine , and others with only the most meager of play spaces . Some babies have only harsh and forbidding adult companionship , whilst others from four to nine years old have no playfellows of their own age . Perhaps some rural , as well as some urban , children of tender years are intellectually , emotionally and esthetically starved , though our present knowledge of what constitutes optimum quantities of stimulation In these fields between one and two years , or four and five , or eight and nine , is at least as meager as was that of eighteenth-century physicians as to what constituted suitable foods for the sick . Any society generously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to search out these unfortunately environed and still very plastic children and somehow provide for their needs ? food , if they are hungry , companions , If they are lonely , play places for the shut-ins , and stories for the intellectually undernourished . Perhaps the many-storied apartment homes of our large cities should regularly be supplemented by growth-promoting agencies designed to compensate for the more pronounced deficiencies of such excessively artificialized environments ? though the present writer believes that agencies designed for such a primary purpose would partake far more of the character of outdoor playgrounds than of the indoor kindergartens now integrated into our vast urban school buildings . In fact , when seeking to emphasize this aspect of the growth promotion of small children for his students of education , the writer is wont to recommend the enactment of a law prohibiting the holding of kindergartens indoors at all ! We do not have flower gardens indoors , do we ? except the hot-house kind ? Why , any more , if we desire to avoid greenhouse growths for our children , should we have " child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be contended that these children need many other fosterings than those induced by clean and safe play places . But do they ? All , or some only ? And what particular kinds of growths ? Further development of analytical inquiries like the foregoing will readily convince an unsentimental investigator how deficient in reasonable standards of " how much is enough " are the present kindergarten and nursery school movements ? that is , of course , where they are being carried beyond the experimental stages . Too much praise can not be given , it should be said in passing , to the child welfare centers , the child guidance clinics , and the experimental schools , if such they should be called , which are assembling facilities and personnel for the study of abnormal home situations , pathological growth conditions , or other injury-producing factors in child life .                     