@@486493

B EHIND Egypt lies the Sudan , and Africa ; and beyond Egypt is the Suez Canal , the gateway to Asia . The violence of the British action in Egypt is more than an imperial demonstration ; it is the rattling of the sword of the West in the face of the restless East . It marks another chapter in the history of white hegemony over the yellow and dusky-skinned peoples of the ancient continents where our civilization was born . To understand the significance of this conflict one must link with it a dozen other recent events : the success of the Moors in driving the Spanish to the coast in the Moroccan Riff ; the rumblings of revolt in French Tunisia and unrest in French Syria ; Italy 's battles in Tripolitania ; Persia 's reported readiness to sponsor Egypt 's case before the League ( England probably can dissuade her ) ; Turkey 's success in defying the West ; the capture of the Moslem holy places by the desert Wahabis , driving into exile the puppet prince whom the British had supported ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British gentlemen who " represented " India at the Geneva opium conferences and there opposed the American effort , which Japan , China , Persia , and Turkey seconded , to stop the lucrative traffic in drugs ; the duel in China between Soviet Russia and the West , with Japan intently watching ; England 's uneasiness over the Robinson- " Mr. A " trial which threatened to end hopes of a pro-British succession in the Kashmir border provinces of India . The East is in a process of rebirth ; a new self-consciousness threatens Western dominance . In war time the Allied watchwords ? " self-determination , " " democracy , " " rights of weak peoples " ? leaked through to ears for which they were not intended , and ever since the ferment has been at work . No one can foresee the outcome ; but worried colonial officials recall that European control of Asia is hardly more than a century old , and that Europe , exhausted by her own wars , is little disposed to spend her resources in holding far countries in check . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will have to answer . Do we intend to imperial power over Asia and Africa This policy of renewed suppression is due to the false belief that Great Britain has the moral right to occupy Egypt , although she has pledged on more than fifty separate occasions to terminate the occupation , and formally recognized her independent sovereignty in 1922 . The occupation of Egypt was originally due to strategic and financial reasons . It has no greater moral sanction than the German occupation of Belgium for strategic military purposes . The Egyptian people have as much right to govern themselves as any other nation . The occupation of Egypt by an alien power is the basic fact in the present situation which no subsequent reason of strategy or financial interest should obscure . The Independent Labor Party , therefore , while unreservedly condemning the method of the recent political assassination , deplores the fact that the British Government should have made this crime the occasion for asserting new imperialistic claims which may virtually amount to the annexation of the Sudan and the appropriation of the water supplies from the Nile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British cotton companies . .. . Undoubtedly for the present England can have her way . She has the power , and the conscience of the world has not recovered from its overdose of rhetorical idealism in the days when statesmen fought the war with speeches . But do the Churchills and the Birkenheads never look ahead ? They can hardly believe that little Britain , with her forty millions , can forever rule hundreds of millions of aliens thousands of miles across the sea . She has retained the devotion of the Australians , Canadians , and South Africans , but she no longer rules them , and could not if she would . Sir Auckland Geddes said the other day that England was grateful to America for teaching her a lesson in colonial administration ; but she seems not to have learned it . As surely as revolt sundered the feeble American colonies from the mother country  --  even more surely , indeed  --  the dark peoples of the earth will some day throw off the Western yoke . It may last decades ; it can not last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or suddenly and in a bitter orgy of hate and bloodshed . Britain today is bringing closer the latter consummation . The East will not forget ; it scores another large black mark against the West . British liberals are demanding that England submit her case to the League . Some timidly suggest that she ask the League to grant her a mandate for the Sudan . That would , after what has passed , merely mean that the League lent England its moral cloak . The Independent Labor Party goes further ; it urges that the issue of control of the Sudan should be submitted to the League of Nations with the view of developing that country as a self-governing nation at the earliest possible moment . It calls for an immediate Anglo-Egyptian conference to complete the evacuation of Egypt and to arrange for the submission of the question of the Suez Canal to the League , not as an issue in respect to which the British claim legal or moral authority , but as a problem concerned with one of the international waterways of the world . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office , did not mount to that spirit . But until Western governments achieve such a vision they will keep their peoples on the edge of an abyss . Politics and Fundamentals C ONGRESS has opened for a session of small things . Inhibited by the reigning interpretation of the election as a mandate to do as little as possible , it will doubtless confine itself to appropriation bills and plans for further reduction of taxation and for relief to the farmers . The measure of the temper of the victors lies in their apparent readiness to take orders from the newest Senator , Butler of Massachusetts , who is to snap the Presidential whip as occasion demands , just as he was the party spokesman in the campaign . The old and experienced Senators are to smile and take orders from the party boss in a senatorial chair alongside them . But even clearer evidence of the soreness and the pettiness of those now directing the Republican Party 's fortunes lies in their ousting of Senators Brookhart , Ladd , Frazier , and La Follette from the party caucus these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and also the blundering of those who control not only their party but the destinies of the country . If further proof were needed of the lack of vision it is to be found in a recent editorial by George Harvey in the Washington Post . Since Colonel Harvey has been announced as the voice of the White House in the press even Samuel Gompers found it necessary to reply to this editorial at the convention of the American Federation of Labor . What is Colonel Harvey 's thesis ? It is this : In order that " we may continue with conservative government for as many years as we did after the Civil War " the farmer and the other rebels who voted for La Follette must be brought back into the Republican fold  --  the " fold of conservatism . " " This , " he declares , " must be done while the Labor Party is still young and the Liberal and Radical parties are dividing the opposition vote . " And the means ? Simple enough . " The immediate problem is to expand the tariff system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ products . " Then , later on , railway rates must be revised and money must be made stable , and then the millennium will be at hand and the Republican Party will govern uninterruptedly for twenty-four years as it did from 1861 to 1885 ? thus abolishing the two-party system and installing the one-party plan in its place . It was not against the political and economic absurdity of this plan that Mr. Gompers protested but at the incidental suggestion that wages might be reduced , and at the Harvey proposal that labor and the farmer should be divorced . Cynically frank , as usual , Colonel Harvey avows that his is purely a compromise plan ? Unity Through Compromise is the title of his editorial . He would buy the farmers ' interest by any sop ; even though he was last winter of the opinion that the McNary-Haugen bill was all wrong , he is willing now to do violence to his feelings in order that business may rule us undisturbed . All of which shows once more that it is politics we are facing again , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may seem superficially . The reason is that there is no search after fundamental issues , no determination to go into economic factors from the standpoint of principle , and no desire whatever to remove at the root grievances which , Colonel Harvey admits , will persist even though prosperity returns for a time to the embattled farmers . His dreams of a Republican heaven as secure as that of the angels , unmenaced by Democrats or Laborites , is as unthinkable as it is undesirable . There can be no periodof complete public acquiescence , because the fight as to who shall control this government , the people or the privileged interests , will continue no matter how many the defeats . Here is a fundamental which will arise again and again to challenge the politics of sordid materialism that seeks to steal away men 's rights and then to drug or frighten or cheat the robbed into acquiescence . That 's the trouble with fundamentals in this age-long battle with politics . They will rise up and hit back when you least expect it . As long as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own or intrenched yourself behind them they refuse to let you reign in peace . The royal house of Coolidge and Butler will no more reign unmolested than did the Kaiser . For one thing , rulers of this type are stupid  --  the punishment of the insurgents proves that . A Progressive Party with half the brains of the British Labor Party could , as the boys say , run circles around them in the legislative arena . For another thing , anybody may bid economic change stop , but it stops for no one . Already the Coolidge regime declares privately that the tariff must be revised again because of altered conditions abroad . And that tariff , we venture to predict , will continue to be in need of tinkering until it is altogether abolished , with all its crookedness , corruption , and privilege . For here is another fundamental , free trade , which can no more be definitely downed than any other attribute of freedom . It will continue to raise its head however crushed to earth . And that is only one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington . They can not control these any more than they can tell where next there will be some convulsion of the earth to set all their plans agley . Unity by temporary compromise is a will-o ' - the- wisp ; unity by sound fundamental reform is the only worth-while aim . The Mystery of Poe M R. GEORGE MOORE is the latest of a whole line of foreign critics who have annoyed Americans by their persistent determination to regard Edgar Allan Poe as the one and only poet  --  perhaps the only artistic genius  --  which this country has produced . In his recently published " Conversations in Ebury Street , " where Mr. Moore laid the plans for his " Anthology of Pure Poetry , " no other American poet is so much as tentatively considered , but the author of Ulalume and The Haunted Palace is passed for admission into the select company which neither Longfellow nor Whitman nor Frost nor Robinson will be permitted to enter . Moreover , to make the matter worse , Walter de la Mare enthusiastically supports this choice and fears only that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many times in the past American critics have protested against the tendency here exhibited . Emerson , as everybody knows , called Poe " the jingle man " ; Henry James said that a liking for his verse was a sure sign of immature taste ; and A. C. Brownell wrote a whole essay to prove that his entire work consisted of nothing except labored and obvious artifice . Foreign critics , however , have persisted in exalting the work of this man of whom many sophisticated Americans are inclined to be a little ashamed , connecting him only with elocutionary renderings of . . . the bells , bells , bells , bells , Bells , bells , bells . . . . the jingling and the tinkling of the bells . Sober critics like Edmund Gosse and Andrew Lang insist that he is " the greatest poet , perhaps the greatest literary genius of his country , " and that " he must be ranked with the greatest poets , " while enthusiasts like Baudelaire and Mallarme exceed all bounds , the former solemnly praying to him as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most truly sublime the world has ever known . " Evidently we are faced here with something more than an ordinary difference in literary taste . Below the surface of the shallow jingle which competent American judges dismiss with contempt certain men catch an undercurrent of meaning not perceptible to those who have no temperamental sympathy with Poe , and we are in the presence of a mystery which will never be fully solved until his personality is more carefully studied by someone capable of understanding the malady of the soul from which he suffered . Even in America Poe has not failed of partisans but they have almost always been the wrong ones . Sentimental Virginians and facile admirers of the shallow trickeries of his verse have claimed him for their own while those who have caught some hint of his deeper and darker meaning have turned aside in distaste . Professor Woodberry , his keenest biographer , confessed to a friend that after finishing his book he was compelled to take a trip to Italy to get the taste of Poe out of his mouth . He thus proved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject , but proved also that he was not the one to sympathize with the quality which makes Poe the first of the great neurotics of literature and the real inventor of the frisson nouveau attributed to Baudelaire  --  of that shiver whose source is not in melodrama but in a definite sickness of the soul . Unlike Baudelaire , Poe never clearly articulated the cry uttered by his nerves ; he hinted here and there among the artificial fripperies of his work at the things which haunted him . When both the admirers and the condemners of his jingles are pushed aside there will be time to analyze and evaluate that peculiar flavor which left in Woodberry 's mouth so unpleasant a taste and awoke the unbounded admiration of Baudelaire and Mallarm ? . Indubitably all three caught the same flavor . Yale Wins Again G EORGE P. BAKER , for thirty-six years a teacher at Harvard , creator of the famous English 47 Workshop , has resigned to accept the directorship of a new department of dramatic arts at Yale . To the outsider , perhaps , the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that the million-dollar gift just made by Edward S. Harkness to Yale for the founding of such a department will assure Professor Baker all the equipment necessary to carry on his work , but the incident has another aspect . The Nation must express its sympathy with the Harvard Crimson , which has risen in editorial wrath against the Harvard authorities , whose persistent refusal to cooperate with this extraordinarily gifted man has forced him to go elsewhere . Mr. Baker 's resignation was naturally the occasion for an exchange of amenities between him and President Lowell , but these amenities can not wipe out the fact that Harvard has persistently slighted a faithful and distinguished servant . Mr. Baker denies the report that there has been friction between him and his university , and President Lowell writes polite regrets in the course of which he says , among other things , " We owe you a large debt of gratitude for all you have done for the university during a long service . " That is true , and it is also true that no effort has been made to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it possible for him to do his best work . As the Crimson says : " For three decades he has fought for decent quarters and equipment for his work and not once has his cry been heeded by the authorities . It is at the feet of the latter Harvard should lay the blame for his loss . " These undergraduate editors see more clearly than the men who plan their education . The 47 Workshop , in which plays were written and produced by students , was Mr. Baker 's own creation . He realized the necessity of studying dramatic technique in connection with the practical problems of production , and his method has been brilliantly justified by the fact that he has sent forth a score of students  --  including Edward Sheldon and Eugene O'Neill  --  to make living contributions to the theater . The fame of his class spread until it was the most celebrated academic course in America , yet when his bare quarters in Massachusetts Hall were burned Harvard failed even to assume proper custody of his papers and properties . Poverty has , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like the regret , is empty since Harvard has had no difficulty in raising funds for things it really wanted . While starving the Workshop it raised more than $30,000,000 , including its recent ten-million-dollar drive , from which six millions were pledged to the business school but not a cent to the drama . This drive blocked the effort which Mr. Baker 's friends wished to make to raise money for a college theater workshop , and thus he was given as plainly as possible to understand that though the Harvard officials were anxious to teach advertising and accounting they took no serious interest in the development of creative literature . We do not doubt that the leaders in commerce need training , but business , so powerful and so rich , can look after its own , and the first duty of a university is surely its duty to the things of the spirit . If the colleges , theoretically devoted to the cultivation of those things which the busy world is likely not to find time for , relegate them to a bad second place , where shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than it needs for the real work of a university it might perhaps conduct a school of business ( though we are of those who believe such a school out of place at Harvard ) ; if it is determined to put the requirements of such a school first it is betraying its trust and its tradition . The incident has , in addition , its moral side . If Harvard wants to make itself " practical " in conformity with the spirit of a practical age , it may have the right to do so . But has it the right virtually to cast off a man who for thirty-six years has served it faithfully ? It has decided too late that it has no need of Mr. Baker . His aims and aspirations have been long known ; the university has accepted his labor and expressed its gratitude , but if it intended to do no more it should have made that fact clear to him long ago . To Harvard he gave the best efforts of his best years and Harvard , having accepted them , starved him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers of business ethics have to say about such a procedure ? Meanwhile , Yale gains what Harvard has lost . Thereby it wins a vaster prestige than all the athletic victories it ever won in its bowl or Harvard 's stadium .                     