@@487294

0 F course no such person as " the farmer " ever lived on land or sea . Every human personality differs from every other . Factory workers , living in standardized tenements , pouring in a black stream through the gates in the morning , do present a mass effect where the use of averages , however inaccurate , is not altogether ludicrous . But there is no such thing as the American farmer . There are about six million individuals sprawled across the country , with their families comprising nearly thirty million persons . They range from the happy , shiftless Negro tenant hoeing an acre of poor corn field in Mississippi to Mr. Campbell with his 80,000-acre , 100 per cent mechanized wheat farm in Montana . Both are Mr. American Farmer , but the mind balks at treating them as a unit . The World War encouraged huge exports of American foodstuffs . We fed millions of European peasants who had left their fields for the trenches . Prices went up , acreage increased , the tractor became popular , efficiency was widely introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an exceedingly prosperous condition , relatively speaking . Prices had been pegged , land values were soaring , credit was readily obtainable . The whole economic structure of agriculture had been given a glorious kick upstairs . Exports held up well in 1919 and fairly well in 1920 . In 1921 Europe suddenly stopped buying . Farm products shipped abroad tumbled $1,300,000,000 . Wholesale prices collapsed . Land values exploded like pricked balloons . Unnumbered farmers who had been thinking of Florida , California , and a new sedan found their thoughts centered on mortgage interest . The following figures from " Recent Economic Changes " tell the sad story more effectively than any purple prose . Index Numbers three columns . The prices which farmers paid for their clothing , hardware , and other supplies had also doubled by 1920 , and also tobogganed in 1921 . But instead of going down to 116 , they went only to 156 ? where they have more or less remained . American agriculture has thus been caught in the famous " scissors " which the Russians talk about . It must pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what it sells . In 1927 the jaws were twenty-three painful points apart . In the last two years they have narrowed a little , but they are still wide enough to make the pain sufficiently intense . The same thing happened in respect to the wages paid to farm labor , except that the scissors are even wider  --  twentynine points in 1927 , and still widening . This has helped hired men a little but not the farmers who hire them . In taxes the situation is even more deplorable . Instead of dropping in 1921 , taxes continued to climb . By 1927 they were no less than 127 points ahead of farm-product prices ! Again the motor car makes its bow on the prosperity stage , but this time upside down . The chief reason for higher farm taxes lies in highway construction in rural areas . Figures for several counties in Michigan show that in the past seven years taxes have absorbed 90 per cent of the net return to farm owners . Other studies indicate that an absorption of one-third to two-thirds the net return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values . For the past century the value of such lands has been marching steadily upward . Farmers came to believe that a mounting curve was as dependable as a mounting thermometer in spring . But ac : cording to Dr. Edwin G. Nourse in " Recent Economic Changes " the end has come . Index Number of Farm Land Values deleted table To pay each farmer an average of $540 for his year 's work , and 472 per cent interest on the equity in his farm , would have taken 1,717 millions more than farmers actually received . Regarding all American agriculture as one business corporation , it was , despite a shockingly low allowance for labor , nearly two billions in the red at a time when American prosperity was the favorite topic at innumerable banquets . Dr. Mitchell believes that the best single index of the lowly position of agriculture is in the ratio of farm per capita income , to the per capita income of the total population . In 1919 the average farm dweller was receiving 57 per cent as much income as the average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent . Now it has climbed to about 40 per cent  --  still far short of 1919 . In the face of this depressing testimony it is pertinent to inquire how farmers continue to exist at all . As a matter of fact , many of them have ceased to exist  --  as farmers . Nearly a million ( net ) left their farms foi the city between 1920 and 1927 . Six million remain . In the first place , despite all my precautions , we have been talking mainly about the non-existent average farmer . Hundreds of thousands of individual farmers , the country over , have made ends meet , and thousands have prospered . Soil , crop demand , export opportunities , mechanization , local conditions , individual abilities differ widely . Here and there agriculture pays well . Second and more important , for agriculture to show a profit and loss account in red figures may be sad , but it is not evidence of extermination . Farming is not yet a business . A corporation consistently in the red closes its doors and goes into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the money-and-credit system , and the penalty of breaking the rules of that system is death . But the farmer ( and here at last I can be general ) is carrying on a job far older than the money-and-credit system . He is handicapped seriously by its rules , but no death penalty hangs over him . If his books do not balance , he can throw them out the window and go and pick a mess of peas or milk the cow . He has a roof over his head , food in his fields , fuel in the wood lot . The banker holding his mortgage may evict him and a few of his neighbors , but he can not evict a whole country side . If times are generally bad , the banker may whistle for his money  --  and in the end go bankrupt himself . Farming is a career , not a business . In the face of plowed earth , flowing stream , hillside , meadow , orchard , woodland , all the figures I have spread upon the records suddenly grow dim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the farmer to the pecuniary system . He is more of a business man than he used to be , however . I spoke earlier of the variations in farm prosperity . Dr. Wolman finds two great classes of American agriculturists : the forty-two in every one hundred living on farms valued at less than $4,000 , and the fifty-eight living on farms valued above that figure . The former live generally on poor land , the latter on good land . The poor-land group have not improved their standard of living at all since 1919 . The group living on good land have probably improved their living standards a little , but they have done so by piling up debts . Variations in prosperity by crops are also significant . The machine is profoundly disturbing wheat farming . Two men with a combine and other machines , plus a little seasonal help , can bring down the cost of production twenty cents a bushel . As a result the big wheat farms in the Great Plains region are doing fairly well , while the smaller farms , particularly in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holds in corn and in most other crops . Why are the farmers worse off than in 1920 , while the rest of us , financially at least , are better off ? For one thing , our higher standards have tended to depress the farmers . The nation is eating lighter foods , wearing lighter clothing . Fruit and vegetable farmers have benefited somewhat ( although the new demand has been frequently over-estimated ) but cotton , grain , sheep , and cattle raisers have suffered . Clothing demand has shifted to silk and rayon . Nor is much in the way of agricultural produce to be found in automobiles , gasoline , radios , sporting goods , moving pictures , travel , and tabloids  --  all great items in the new standard of living . Higher wages in industry have forced farmers to compete with the factory for labor . As we have seen , the taxes inspired by the motor car have been a terrific burden . The collapse of the European market in 1921 ? which has never really come back  --  was the inciting cause of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Australasia have been competing heavily . Finally , and perhaps most important from any long-range view , the machine has distressed most farmers . It has made a few rich but thrown agriculture as a whole completely out of step ; and disrupted its time-honored rhythms . Tractors have driven six million horses and mules from farms in the past thirteen years . Some eighteen million acres of hay and grain are no longer needed , while the old crop rotation of corn one year , oats the next , meadow-land the third , has gone into the discard . While a million farms were being abandoned , the " mass " of crop production , taken as 100 in 1919 , grew to 106 in 1927 . Workers are fewer , farms are larger . The large output has kept prices down . This brings us head on into the whole question of agriculture and large-scale production . Mr. Ford with a wave of the hand would banish its tribulations by putting it on a quantity production basis . He would plow , cultivate , harvest , grade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few skilled mechanics . We may , of course , come to this ; but today we have six million farmers on our hands . The practical problem is how to deal with them  --  not only industrially , but psychologically . Most of them have adopted the cultivation of the land as a way of life . They are interested less in industrial efficiency than in living . Farmers are less mobile than industrial workers ; they do not respond readily to shifts in demand , or to technical improvements . The installation of a new machine requires ( Continued on page 750 ) first the approval or vote of the individual farmer , and second the individual financing thereof . How far would the machine age have progressed if factory workers had voted on each new loom or lathe , and then bought it on their own credit ? Technological progress over the whole field of agriculture must be not only a slow process , but at some points  --  such as maximum efficient acreage per machine  --  an impossible one . Only a brand-new , centralized , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The business farmer , with large acreage and complete mechanization , brings down costs and makes a fair return on his investment . Good . Then what happens ? The little farmers , hearing of the profits , sow their fields with the same crop . Squatters take up land and sow the same crop . Prices drop . Both big and little men are in the red , but the big man is likely to suffer more in the end . He has fixed charges to meet on a large , depreciating investment . Under individual ownership and operation , crop surpluses have been and always will be unpredictable . This would be a risky situation for a centrally planned production ; it is too risky for large blocks of capital to flirt with indefinitely . A report of the United States Chamber of Commerce made in the summer of 1929 finds that a group of seventy-four large farms , averaging 12,000 acres , in twenty-eight States , are neither more nor less successful than small family farms . It concludes that a revolutionary change in agriculture in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submit that it never can be fulfilled . The farmer is not a business man . There is one available compromise which may or may not eventuate successfully . It is about the only bright spot in the whole agricultural situation . By means of strong cooperative societies , with adequate supplies of credit at their command , farmers may conceivably regulate production by agreeing to a predetermined acreage , and so keep prices at a fair figure . It is conceivable that they may even purchase and use machinery cooperatively by treating their own and their neighbors ' acres as one unit . Russian farmers are doing precisely this . It means the end of traditional individualism , but not necessarily the end of the farmer . The culture will be profoundly modified by cooperation , but not stamped out . Mr. Ford 's scheme would stamp it out . In the Driftway T HE bad-roads movement which the Drifter has inaugurated is meeting with nation-wide acclaim . That is to say , two readers have written that they are in favor of it , and any press agent who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is n't worthy of his hire . The Drifter 's multitudinous correspondence comes from as far away as California , whence a writer who signs herself " fervently and forever for bad roads " tells of acquiring a house in an unspoiled fishing village on the coast . At first the house was adequately protected against invasion by a breastwork of " divinely bad " roads , but real-estate promoters have arrived , a concrete highway is under construction  --  and the house is for sale . Another warm supporter of the bad-roads movement arises in  --  of all places ! ? Chicago . The Drifter had supposed that good roads were essential around the Midwest metropolis in order that residents might conveniently carry about with them the machine-guns necessary for the local pastime of shooting up one 's neighbors . But the Drifter 's Chicago correspondent writes : Your low whisper for converts to join a bad-roads movement will be heard even in the wilderness of more and more cars and still more miles of concrete , and you 're bound to start something . As one who has had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and eight cars in my time , and traveled in twenty-six States ? I have been without a car for three years now and find my greatest pleasure on unused roads ( though there are few of them left in this country ) . The point is that since good roads and motor cars go hand in hand , you will have to make flank attacks on both . To argue bad roads alone would n't convince many . We 've got to stop making and selling so many cars , and if we can get in here , we know that bad roads will naturally follow because there wo n't be any gas tax or State license money with which to build roads . Economists and industrialists can be as horrified as they want to , and point out that our prosperity ( ? ) is built on the foundation of good roads and motor cars . I , for one , am going out to convert people to bad roads and no motor cars . T HE Drifter is not so ambitious as that  --  or quite so unpractical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the automobile . But he also knows that the time to attack the automobile was a quarter of a century ago when it had not yet been woven into our living habits and before it had arrived in the business world as an enormous vested interest . The Drifter surmises that if the automobile had come as a poor man 's convenience instead of a rich man 's toy its history would have been different . It is one of the splendid ironies of life in New York City that the New York Central freight trains which crawl through Eleventh Avenue are required to send a man on horseback ahead of the locomotive ; and lumbering steam rollers which smooth out newly laid pavement at about four miles an hour must be preceded by a man with a red flag , but motor cars are permitted to dash along Broadway at thirty or forty miles an hour without the benefit even of a cowcatcher to toss the pedestrian out of the way . N O , the Drifter does not envisage the suppression  --  or even adequate regulation  --  of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that car drivers are themselves going to demand , and obtain , relief from the existing congestion of the roads . In the meantime taxicabs will tend to displace private cars in our large cities , while motor buses may work a similar change in the country . The general manager of the New York Automobile Club has just issued a suggestion that private cars should not be used for Christmas shopping . And as the Drifter wrote the other day , motoring as a sport is giving way to flying . The village of Radburn has already been laid out in New Jersey by the City Housing Corporation with separate , non-intersecting routes for motor cars and walkers . The Drifter 's bad-roads movement is intended to make certain that along with motor highways there be also plentiful by-ways for pedestrians , horseback riders , and bicycles . The latter means of travel might then achieve a merited rejuvenation . THE DRIFTER                     