@@486170

F AILURE of the Lampert House committee and the Morrow aircraft board to consider malversation and charges of the existence ' of an aircraft monopoly leaves the findings of the Thomas Senate committee , filed August 22 , 1918,1 as the last and only expression of an official investigation that has undertaken to hear testimony in support of charges of the existence of an air trust . Neither the Lampert committee nor the Morrow board considered available evidence which in a measure would have accounted for the difference between what was legitimately spent and the results accomplished , and their reports very closely concur in recommendations favorable to a perpetuation of an aircraft monopoly and further enormous expenditures before the demoralizing conditions depicted in bath reports are cleaned up . The findings of these committees , published almost simultaneously , raise controversial issues of minor importance that are apt to distract attention from the fundamental questions emphasized in these articles : 1 . Who got the money ? 2 . What has been done with those who got the money ? 3 . What is going to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morrow board filed its report on December 2 , the report of the Lampert committee being made on December 14 , nineteen months after that committee had been directed by the House of Representative &; to conduct an investigation which should have answered these questions , instead of going far afield into phases of the aircraft subject which were not within the scope of the contemplated inquiry . The indifference of the Lampert committee to the serious business it had in hand is shown by the fact that it did not begin its formal hearings until nine months after it had been appointed . The record shows that visits of the committee to air-service plants were postponed last summer , " because of intensely hot weather " and that It was deemed impractical to bring the committee together during the recess because of the exigencies of the fall campaign , as the members were so busy with matters of immediate importance to them . The findings of the Lampert committee report that the total expenditures for the Army and Navy Air Services for the five years , 1920 to 1924 inclusive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use of airplanes designed and built in the year 1918 and earlier constitutes a very large proportion of the machines used in the army and navy " ; and the committee concurs in the findings of the Lassiter board , made in 1923 , as " a fair basis for the present study of our administrative methods " and that " its findings as to the conditions of our air service are substantially true today . " ' ? The report of the Lassiter board , as quoted by the Lampert committee , states : Congressionat Record , Aug. 22 , 1918 , p. 9333 ; The Nation , Dec. 9 , 1925 , D. 644. 2 The Nation , Dec. 16 , 1925 , p. 698 . ? Lampert hearings , p. 92 . Ibid ? Lampert report , p. 3. -0 Ibid. , pp. 4-5 . After an exhaustive study of the situation the committee reports that an alarming condition in the Air Service exists , due to shortage of flying personnel and equipment , which , if allowed to continue , will very . soon cause this important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be negligible as being any national defense . Without accounting for the disappearance of such enormous amounts of money without tangible results , the Lampert report recommends , in addition to the usual appropriations , the expenditure of not less . than $100,000,000 in a five-year program for " the procurement of new flying equipment , constructed by the civilian industry . ' " The committee reports that it has found no corruption , that an aircraft conspiracy does not exist , that the legality of the Manufacturers ' Aircraft Association and the cross-license agreement should now be accepted as " conclusive , " and that the " save-harmless " clause in all air contracts is basically sound. ? The committee recommends that " the Federal Government cease competing with the civilian aircraft industry in the construction of aircraft , engines , and accessories " ; and that " the industry be assisted in the procurement of non-commercial supplies , either through the Government as debits on procurement contracts or the grouping of purchases within the industry . " ' Members of the Manufacturers ' Aircraft Association who are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ synonymous with the " industry . " Concerning the alleged impoverished conditions of the " industry " the Lampert committee quotes ex-Secretary of War , Mr. Weeks , as saying the contractors are " hanging on by their eyelids . " " The Lampert committee reports : 1 ' In fact , there is general agreement from all of the witnesses , whether from the Government , the industry , or outside , that the aircraft industry , instead of fattening on government contracts , is being steadily starved to death . Stated briefly , the Lampert committee recommends all the things that are necessary to continue placing aircraft contracts in the hands ' of men who wrecked the Government 's aviation program during the war and have repeated the offense since the war ; and the committee has failed to force an accounting . Two of the most obnoxious features of aircraft contracts to independent manufacturers and inventors are the cross-license agreement and the " save-harmless " clause , around which the Manufacturers ' Aircraft Association , organized on July 17 , 1917 , has been able to make effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cross-license agreement a form of license was adopted for those desiring or compelled to be associated with it , the scheme resulting in a surrender of patents to the association on terms prescribed . by that association . The " save-harmless " clause inserted in these government contracts protects the members of the Manufacturers ' AirIbid. , p. 9 . ? Lampert report , p. 2 . ? Ibid , pp. 8-9. lbzd . D. 10. u Ibid. craft Association in the use of patents of those who refuse to accept the conditions of participation in contracts prescribed by the alleged monopoly . By this clause the Government agrees that in case the contractor infringes patents that do not belong to the contractor , the United States will hold the contractor harmless , with the result that the only recourse of the unfortunate inventor , deprived of remedy by injunction , is in the tedious and expensive process of establishing his rights in the Court of Claims , where he finds to oppose him the legal machinery of the Government , backed by the resources of the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance as to how the " save-harmless " clause is used as a club over the inventor , even if in despair he offers to give his patent rights to the Government , is shown in the official records . ' As long as their products can be sold and patents can be infringed with impunity , where is the financial need of the air trust to encourage invention ? It will thus be seen why the Thomas Senate committee predicted seven years ago that the cross-license agreement would lead to the discouragement of invention and the inevitable control of the aircraft industry by the Manufacturers ' Aircraft Association or by some other interest through its agency . There has been no change in the operation of the cross-license agreement since it was condemned by the Thomas Senate committee , except that the Thomas Senate committee was informed that it was no longer used , when in fact it has never been abrogated and occurs in aircraft contracts today . " The story of how the cross-license agreement originated , the names of those responsible , and the alleged deception through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stress of war , countenancing the Manufacturers ' Association and the cross-license agreement , was exposed on the floor of the House of Representatives on February 23 , 1924 . " As to the opinion of former Attorney General Gregory , which the Lampert committee cites in justification of the Manufacturers ' Aircraft Association and the cross-license agreement , the chairman of the Thomas Senate committee declared on the floor of the United States Senate seven years ago : ' . . . I am satisfied in my own mind , at least , that but for the emergency , but for the necessity of airplanes , and airplanes as soon as possible , this contract never would have passed the approving scrutiny of the Department of Justice . In an exhaustive analysis " Senator Thomas declared that this opinion of the Attorney General " seems to damn this contract with very faint praise indeed " and , in the closing of his remarks , the chairman of the Senate committee declared : ' It looks like profiteering without any limitation , and I fear that much of the difficulties and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out its aircraft program is due to-the fact that all these conditions bestride the industry like a colossus . Audits of aircraft contracts showing enormous overpayments to contractors and the failure of the Department of Justice to institute civil and criminal action were exposed " Congresszonal Record , Jan. 29 , 1924 , p. 1631 . ? ' Ibid. , p. 1630 . " Pp. 3022-3028. 15 Congressional Record , Feb. 23 , 1924 , p. 3027 ; ibid. , May 9 , 1918 , p 6237 . " Ibid .. Feb. 23. 1924. pp. 3024-3028 ; ibid. , May 9 , 1918 , pp. 6235-6245. 17 Ibid. , Feb. 23 , 1924 , p. 3028 : ibid , May 9 , 1918 , p. 6238. on the floors of Congress in 1922 , " resulting with other disclosures in the establishment of the War Transactions Section in the Department of Justice , for which Congress has made appropriations totaling $2,700,000 . " If the findings of the Lampert committee are correct in the clean bill of health they gave to our aircraft contractors , then why have the members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and criminal prosecution of these war-fraud cases ? Among the specific charges for investigation placed in the record of the House of Representatives when the Lampert committee was appointed was a chain of documentary evidence offered to show how the prosecution of the case of the Wright Martin Aircraft Corporation was blocked after full hearings in the War Department covering a period of two years and after the case had been placed in the hands of the Department of Justice on October 26 , 1921 , with the request that litigation be instituted to protect the interests of the United States and that " only a court which possessed full powers to render a final decision and enforce it can satisfactorily cope with such a situation . " ' The official records ' show that on June 16 , 1921 , Charles Hayden , an official of the Wright Martin Aircraft Corporation , wrote a letter to the then Secretary of War , Mr. Weeks , containing the following reference to this case : Ordinarily I would hate to bring these matters to your personal attention , but the way the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it seems to me that everything that can be done by cooperation between bankers and the Government to inspire confidence in a legitimate way should be done , and that is why I feel a perfectly clear conscience in giving you this little additional bother . On June 22 , 1921 , Hon. John W. Weeks , then Secretary of War , replied to this letter of Charles Hayden and among other things stated : Whatever decision may be reached by the Air Service section , you should understand , is not conclusive . Not only is the approval of a higher officer required , and even if that approval is obtained , there is a further appeal to myself .. . Again , on November 23 , 1921 , two days after Secretary Weeks had been informed by a memorandum from the Assistant Secretary of War " that " in view of this state of affairs the case has passed beyond the control and jurisdiction of the War Department , /28 Secretary Weeks among other things wrote to Charles Hayden as follows : " I have not thought of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you last June , assuming that it was proceeding satisfactorily . I will see Mr. Hoyt ' - ' some day next week if he will call my secretary and make an appointment . In the meantime I have requested that no further immediate action be taken by the Department of Justice until I have had a talk with Mr. Hoyt . On January 21 , 1922 , Guy D. Goff , then assistant to the Attorney General , wrote the following to the attorneys of the Wright Martin Aircraft Corporation : " After thorough consideration I have to inform you that in the opinion of the Attorney General the case is one in " Ibid , April 11 , 1922 , pp. 5290-6294. 10 Annual Report of the Attorney General ( 1925 ) , p. 96. zo Congressional Record , June 29 , 1924 , p. 1629. n Ibid. 2 . Ibid. ; for text of memorandum in full , see Congressional Record , April 11 , 1922 , pp. 5290-5291 , 5292 . " Ibid. 14 Record , Jan 29 , 1924 , p. 1629. 25 Mr. Hoyt was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Record , Jan. 29 , 1924 , p. 1629. which it is necessary to institute litigation to protect the interest of the Government . The case was withdrawn from the hands of the United States attorney who had been instructed to proceed more than four years ago " and , notwithstanding the appropriations made by Congress for the prosecution of such cases , the ' case of the Wright Martin Aircraft Corporation and many others in which malversation was charged were not investigated by the Lampert committee or the Morrow board . In the face of such records which had been briefed and made available to these investigating committees before they began their work , " Congress and the public must now consider with serious concern how the Lampert committee , without an investigation in the premises , could even ignorantly reports ' that The most searching investigation on the part of the committee discloses not the slightest ground for the charge that the Air Service procedure is corrupt . In the unanimous report of the Morrow board , each of the nine members has placed himself on record as having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lampert committee and of having the opportunity of examining the testimony taken in the various other hearings before congressional committees . The Morrow committee was , thus , aware ' that there were fifty-three witnesses " uncalled whose names had been furnished as having information in regard to the alleged air trust . In placing the war-time production at more than 16,000 airplanes , the Morrow board has failed to realize that such statistics include penguins that could not fly and production that went to the junk pile . Similarly misleading information given to the public was among the grounds urged by Charles E. Hughes in recommending that E. A. Deeds be called to answer before a court martial . " The testimony of General Pershing and others long ago established the fact that at the time of the armistice not a single American-made fighting plane had reached France and that only 196 De Haviland 4-s , which could not be used in pursuit , were at the battle-front . " In the praise by the Morrow board of the " flaming coffins , " produced during the war and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : While the charge has been made in the public press that fliers have been compelled to fly in unsafe machines , no evidence of any such case has been submitted to us . If aircraft depreciates as fast as is claimed when new appropriations are being sought from Congress , such of these De Haviland machines as are still in use are less safe now than they were six years ago when Eddie Rickenbacker , America 's leading ace , declared : " From every side Fokkers were piquing upon the clumsy Liberty machines , which , with their criminally constructed fuel tanks , offered so easy a target to the incendiary bullets of the enemy that their unfortunate pilots called this boasted achievement of our Aviation Department their " flaming coffins . " During that one brief flight over Grande Pr ? I saw three of these crude machines go down in flames , an American pilot and an American gunner in each " flam- " ; Hearings Judiciary Committee purs . H. Res. 425 , 6th Congress , 3rd and 4th sessions , pp. 425 , 426 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Res. 157 , 68th Congress , 1st session , pp. 881-891. se Record , Jan. 29 , 1924 , p. 1629 . " Lampert report , p. 10 . " Lampert hearings , p. 63 51 Ibid. , Dec. 30 , 1918 , pp 902 , 914 . ... Mid , May 12 , 1921 , p. 1353. u Congressional Record , May 12. 1921 , p. 1354. ing coffin , " dying this frightful and needless death . . . . .. . Many a gallant life was lost to Americin aviation during those early months of 1918 , the responsibility for which must lie heavily upon some guilty conscience . Of the seven recommendations of the Morrow board to regulate the aircraft industry , which might be worthy of consideration if government contracts were freed of monopolistic tendencies , five under present conditions carry on their face the sign of the dollar ; they look to a recognition of the aircraft monopoly to the exclusion of independent manufacturers and inventors . In these recommendations , it must be considered that under present conditions the Manufacturers ' Aircraft Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular attention needs to be paid to the words that are here italicized : 1 . The adoption of a , policy of continuity in orders .. . 2 . Production orders be given only to companies which maintain design staffs of reasonable size and keep them active . . . . 4 . Government competition with the civil industry in production activity to be eliminated except in those projects impracticable of realization by the civil industry . 5 . During a period of production of a type accepted as a standard there be placed a succession of small orders for experimental designs to be given limited service tests , the best of these designs produced during a two or three year period being adopted as the next standard . Such orders , distributed among firms having design and production staffs of proved competence , should be awarded at a liberal price , high enough to cover all of the overhead expense involved in the upkeep of the design and experimental departments . 6 . Existing statutes covering the procurement of supplies and requiring competitive bidding be modified where necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the alleged air trust have built up their plants and organizations through the aid of government finance to the exclusion of the pioneer manufacturers . These recommendations of the Morrow board will tend to make it impossible for an independent manufacturer to qualify for government work , a condition which already exists and which the Morrow report seeks to have legalized . The constructive recommendations in the reports of the Lampert committee and the Morrow board need not be considered ' until the wreckage is swept away and a firm foundation is presented on which to build . The old propaganda to forget the past has been effective , but there is no line of demarkation between the past and the present , or where the debacle started and where it will end . The suppression of truth in a government inquiry , an obstruction of justice , or a failure to perform a public duty by any official or employee on the pay roll of the United States comes under the general conspiracy- statute " if two or more persons enter into an agreement that would defraud the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1910 the Supreme Court of the United States made the following statement in its opinion in confirming an indictment charging a conspiracy to give to the public an incorrect official report : " As the Government evidently intended to supply the to Criminal Code of the United States , Sec. 37 . " Haas vs . Henkel ( 1910 ) , 216 U. S. 462. public with correct information , its whole purpose would not only be prevented but actually reversed if the department issued incorrect reports . A conspiracy to cause incorrect monthly reports to be published would defraud the United States , because it would change its department from an agency to enlighten the public into an agency to mislead it . It would be as if wreckers , in combination with persons connected with the location of channel buoys or with lighthouses , were to combine to move the buoys or extinguish the lights . America and Mosul By LOUIS FISCHER On December 15 the Council of the League of Nations decided by unanimous vote to give Mosul to Iraq , which is under mandate to Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the following article . London , December 1 T HE United States is not a member of the League of Nations , nor does the State Department want Mosul as a colony , nor should America be interested in advancing the territorial claims either of Kemal Pasha or King George . Nevertheless it may develop that the voice of Washington and New York , the still small voice whispered behind the scenes , will be decisive in the determination of the Mosul boundary dispute which , not so long ago , almost involved the two contending parties in a war  --  and may yet . Observers received the first hint of the diplomatic storm that was brewing from an innocent little announcement made on November 10 at the annual meeting of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company , by Sir Charles Greenway , its president . Sir Charles , in replying to a question , declared that the stocks of the Turkish Petroleum Company , which has a concession from the Bagdad cabinet for the exploitation of all the oil resources of Iraq ( including Mosul if the British case should triumph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Anglo-Persian Company , as to 221/2 per cent by the Royal Dutch Company , as to 25 per cent by the French group , and as to 5 per cent by Mr. Gulbenkian . " That was all . To the uninitiated this means nothing . But it was interesting to watch the London papers . For a day or two they were either napping or ignorant of the significance of Sir Charles 's word . Then the awakening . The importance of Greenway 's statement was the deduction it permitted that the Standard Oil was no longer a participant in the Turkish Petroleum Company . Yet for almost three years the entire world had been under the impression that it owned about 25 per cent of the , shares . The Anglo-Persian president had , apparently , simply read the House of Rockefeller out of this international company which held a lease to invaluable petroleum fields . This situation became even more mystifying when the cables brought a denial from Walter C. Teagle , chairman of the board of directors of the Standard Oil Company . Mr. Teagle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holding in the Turkish Petroleum . Yet Greenway had said that the Standard Oil was not in it , and never had been for that matter . What was the meaning of all this ? Mosul oil has been the object of diplomatic and private capitalistic controversy for almost a quarter of a century . In 1888 the Germans , through the Deutsche Bank , received a concession to build the first section ofthe Bagdad railway . In 1903 the Porte granted permission to extend the line to Basra , thus imperiling Britain 's hold on the Persian Gulf and the Anglo-Persian 's oil-fields in south Persia , and threatening to bring Germany dangerously near to India . The next year the concession was made to include all the oil resources which might be discovered on either side of the line . England objected strenuously , and soon brought her friends , France and Russia , to her aid . This entente effectively barred the way to the execution of the German project . Years of diplomatic squabbling and business dickering followed . In the end , in March , 1914 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was concerned , by the organization of the Turkish Petroleum , 50 per cent of the shares of which were to be held by the Anglo-Persian , 25 per cent by the Royal Dutch Shell , and 25 per cent by the Germans . The San Remo oil agreement of April , 1920 , gave the German share to a consortium of sixty-seven French companies . The moment the San Remo pact became public the Standard Oil rose up in arms . Had not the United States contributed to the successful issue of the world conflict ? Were not its nationals therefore entitled to a part of the spoils ? What right had France and England to divide the petroleum ' of Iraq , a country conquered by force during the period of hostilities ? Washington insisted on the " open door " for American oil trusts . For eighteen months , from the middle of 1920 to the end of 1921 , the battle of notes raged . The United States refused to give its approval to the Mesopotamia and Palestinian mandates which the League of Nations was intending to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was accepted by the mandatory Power , and although America was no member of the League it goes without saying that that body as well as England feared to defy the State Department . The mandates remained unratified . The situation in the Near East grew chaotic ; the Arabs were restive , and the Zionists chagrined , while actually war clouds gathered over the Anglo-American horizon . Serious journals fretted over the possibilities of a break . Yet neither Colby nor his successor Hughes on the one hand , nor Lord Curzon of Kedleston on the other , were willing to yield . The correspondence was long and vitriolic . Curzon did not fail to point out the irregularities of American imperialism in Haiti and Costa Rica , nor did Hughes shrink from accusing the late noble lord and his government of unfair discrimination . Toward the end of 1920 Sir John Cadman , an official of the Anglo-Persian , and war-time Allied petroleum director , was sent across the Atlantic to patch up a peace . But Mr. Teagle rebuffed him at the annual meeting of the American Petroleum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    