@@493464

Can the British Government Scrap the Protocol ? ACCORDING to the cables from London the British government has held up the process of international negotiation which the Assembly of the League of Nations at its September meeting started for the benefit of general pacification and ' disarmament . The next step was to have been the summoning of a conference on disarmament to as ? semble in Geneva in June , and the ratification of the Protocol was to be dependent on the success of this congress . But the British government is opposed to a disarmament conference at the present time , and apparently it is doubtful about some aspects of the Protocol which it seems disinclined to accept without reservations . It is fully aware , however , that the proposed disarmament conference and the Protocol are parts of a plan of European pacifica ? tion which it can not abandon or indefinitely delay without providing a substitute . ' What action it will take to keep the work of pacification on the march without falling back eventually upon an acceptanct with or without modifications of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans should take some trouble to - under stand the nature of the plan which the League now promoting for the organization of peace and the future security of a comparatively disarmed so ' ciety of nations . It differs radically from the Cove ' nant in that it begins by declaring aggressive wal to be an international crime which every signatory of the Protocol is pledged to abandon . It expresso for the first time in the form of an international verdict the moral abhorrence of war which the 0.1 periences of the last decade have precipitated in tlici spirits of all understanding men and women . But does more than that . It proposes an elaborate plat ' for giving legal and political effect to the outlawry of aggressive war . It defines the aggressor as nation which refuses to submit a dispute or an all leged grievance to arbitration , and it tries to prol vide in that case for the effective co-operative con ' demnation of the aggressor by the whole civilized world . The question of the penalties which the out law would incur is not and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provisions for tilt enforcement are the most doubtful and ambiguotn in the new document . Misgivings about them havt no doubt determined the action of the British goy ernment in delaying its consideration . But whethef they stand or fall , some such sanctions seem neceg sary to the peace of mind of many nations on they continent of Europe who have most to fear from possible aggressive war and who have been rnost reluctant in the past to trust their security to any " thing but adequate military preparations for de ' ' fense . The scruples of the British government clearly arise from its indisposition to pledge itself to en force penalties for aggressive war against a non ' European friendly nation such as the agains State ' There is , of course , small chance that the United States will for many ? years ratify the Protocol . i1 in the meantime they engage in a dispute with government which had pledged itself to give up any arbitrated war and to treat it as a crime and if the ) refused to recognize the definition of aggressive war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan might demand the condemnation of the United States as an outlaw and the enforcement of appro ' priate penalties . The task of enforcing such penal ' ties would under the circumstances fall to the share of Great Britain as the chief European naval poll ' er , and British statesmen are naturally reluctant 61 assume any obligation which would bind their goo ' ernment in such circumstances to execute a judgment of the League against their English speaking bred ! ' ren . They will in all probability never ratify the Protocol unless their own liabilities under it as naval power are carefully limited and clearly de ? fined . This is a counsel of prudence on their part which they are fully entitled to respect ; and in so far as they do release themselves from any such obligation they will weaken the force of one of the most dangerous arguments which is used by the opponents of the Protocol in this country ? the argument , viz. , that the Protocol places the United States in the position of being obliged either to recognize the authority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible contingencies of being punished as a criminal outlaw by Europe , the British Empire and Japan . But while British statesmen are justified in seek ? ing to limit the liability of their government for the execution of penalties against a non-European ag ? gressor under the Protocol , it is very much to be hoped that they will not reject its salutary underly ? ing idea ? the idea of explicitly and effectively con ? demning aggressive war as an international crime . Manifestly there can be no assurance of peace in Europe unless the nations continue their efforts to provide through improved international organiza ? tion for greater security than they now enjoy or think they enjoy by virtue of the Covenant of the League . In spite of the Covenant the European Powers with the exception of Germany are as thor ? oughly armed as they were before the war and act and talk as if they felt as insecure . The French in Particular , in spite of their present military su ? premacy , have for many years insisted upon their need of special guarantees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implied the grant to France of a privileged posi ? tion . But last September in Geneva , under the leadership of M. Herriot , a French government consented for the first time to supplement the Cove ? nant , not by a defensive alliance with its former Allies , but by an international repudiation of war Which , in so far as it worked , would bring the same security to all nations that it brought to France . This willingness in France to associate her own se ? curity with the security of others is the most encour ? aging development in the direction of organized Peace which has occurred since the signing of the Armistice ; and if the present British government fails to understand its importance and neglects to , encourage the French to continue their well-doing , the one possible alternative will be a revival and an ' elaboration of the old system of ostensibly protec ? tive but really aggressive military alliances . British statesmen recognize on the part of their people an obligationcontribute to French security . They ga ton to emit ' u @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only by one of two meth ods . They must either invoke some general ma ? chinery for international security such as that pro ? vided by the Protocol or they will have to organize a military bloc , which will provide security for none but victors in the war , and which will make this Partial security dependent upon the continuation of an overwhelming military and naval preponderance . We shall not believe , until we are forced to ' do so , that the British government will refuse to take advantage of the willingness Of the existing French government to share the security which France in ? sists upon as her own right with the other European peoples . If the Baldwin cabinet should finally re ? fuse to proceed along the lines proposed at Geneva in September , it would , we believe , commit at the beginning of its career the kind of mistake which would result in the loss of the confidence of the British people . The longing for some organization of peace which will diminish and perhaps do away with the intolerable anxieties and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scope and intensity of a great popular agitation . ' For the first time the effort to organize peace has plucked up courage to attack the roots of militarism and to treat the nation which goes to war without submit ? ting its grievance to independent adjudication as a criminal . It is only by radicalism of this kind that the civilized peoples can get rid of the insecurity , the fears , the fanaticism and the barbarism which are inseparable from war . Those governments which attempt to block the great reformation will be pushed aside . Yet we can not blame the present British govern ? ment for hesitating . The Protocol goes far beyond the Covenant in seeking to substitute law for war in the arbitrament of international disputes , but for that very reason the nations which agree to the Protocol and propose to put it into practice have implicitly assumed a much graver responsibility for managing that the new international tribunals shall dispenSe justice as well as law than did the nations which signed the Covenant . The only law which these tribunals will at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in existing precedents and treaties ; and it is notorious that those treaties are in part the result of wars , whose participants considered it perfectly justifiable to apply'one rule to the victor and another to the vanquished . This practice has had the paradoxical result of building into the very structure of European international order strains which are bound gradually to wreck it . The treaties which brought the Great War to an end are crowded with provisions which themselves have no sanction but that of superior force ; and if the new international tribunals are obliged to sus ? tain these proofs of the necessary unrighteousness of vanquished as the final verdicts of organiZed in ? ternational justice , the effort to substitute law for war will suffer in the end from an egregious and ignoble failure . There is one obvious and adequate test of whether the governments which favor the Protocol are seeking to substitute law for war or are merely trying to consolidate their legal title to the fruits of victory . It hangs upon their willing ? ness to make those concessions which are necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporters of the proposed organization of peace . The new , society and law of nations would be a sham from the start unless Russia , Hungary and Germany are . admitted under conditions which afford to Russians , Hungarians and Germans the same interest in keeping it alive and in contributing to its development as have the Czechs , Frenchmen or Englishmen . Whose Prosperity ? sIXTEEN million people voted for prosperity , and now they have it . Sixteen million crosses under the eagle instead of the star or the bell , and the wealth of the nation is increased within a month by some billions of dollars . At least , so they say who look with awe on the soaring values of the stock exchange . It is a simple faith , comforting many ; why should scoffers disturb it ? This way of getting rich is so much quicker than growing crops , building houses , seeing that children get enough milk . If stock prices only go high enough , we are promised that all the rest will follow . It is not gracious to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a gift horse in the mouth . But impish curiosity . does prompt a few irrepressible questions . Just who are getting rich ? How long are they likely to remain so ? What will be the effect of their affluence upon others ? If a man buys a share of stock at 75 and sells it at 100 he apparently makes s25 . That is , he now has $100 in place of the $75 with which he started . But having it , what is he going to do with it ? He may buy more shares . This way of getting rich is satisfactory so long as the market rises , but the moment stock prices fall below the level at which he began operations , his gain is cancelled . We therefore face as the first possibility that the-market will go down again and that the only real gainers will be those who know . when to sell as well as when to buy . Such gains are made at the expense of others and the nation is not one cent richer for them . Suppose , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sell puts his money in relatively stable securities or in the bank , and uses the proceeds from time to time for larger current purchases . Here another danger threatens him . The prices of arti ? cles as well as of shares may rise in response to the access of purchasing power . In that case there may come a time when his $100 will buy no more than his $75 bought before . Wage-earners and others of fixed incomes will be even worse - off then he . When an upward race of prices occurs , the gains go only to those who are in such a fortunate position that the prices of what they sell rise faster than the prices of what they buy . Experience has shown that these usually are manufacturers and employers . Their gains in such a case are made at the expense of others , and they comprise but a small part of the population . Their gains disappear if prices fall again , and the increment to the nation is nil . There remains the possibility that stock prices will in the long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That possibility can be fulfilled only if profits and dividends rise permanently above the level which determined the former value of the shares . Such a result could follow from one or both of two developments : Either the owners of industry might take a larger part of the national income than before , or the production of the nation per capita of the population might increase enough to yield the larger profits . If the owners take a larger part though there is no increase in produc ? tivity , their gains will be at the expense of the ma ? jority , and the nation as a whole will be no better off . We therefore come to the proposition that pros ? perity can be real and permanent only if the physical productivity of the nation increases . Mere growth in the money value of capital , mere rising prices , though they may benefit favored individuals for a time , do not benefit the whole population unless they are accompanied by a general increase in real wealth ? a production of correspondingly larger amounts of goods- and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price inflation : are sure to be temporary and injurious . To guess whether the majority of the sixteen mil ? lion are going to be cheated of their prosperity it is therefore necessary to look at the physical measures of production and trade . What kind of situation : did we have before the boom ? Almost every industry was producing at considerably less than its : capacity . The stocks of commodities on hand and waiting for sale were larger than a year ago . Ac ' ' ' cording to most informed estimates , there was not enough purchasing power among the general popu'i lation to keep the factories which we have steadily . busy . On this account persons with access to sur ? plus funds , who might have devoted them to new : capital investments , were not very active in building factories and starting new enterprises . Their fail ; ure to do so was not traceable to any lack of surplus available for the purpose , since profits were large , : , capital could be borrowed at lower rates than for many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banks made possible low rates for short-time " loans . Industry languished rather because there ' , was insufficient demand for consumable products oil the part of the general public , and insufficient de ' mand for plants and machinery on the part of the enterprisers . Those who have studied the curve of consumers demand know that it fluctuates by a narrow Margie and slowly . TO increase it materially in a short time would require marked- prosperity on the farms , increases ncreases in employment and wages in the fac , ' tories . The farmers in some regions have this year : , an enlarged purchasing power , though the improve : Ment has been much exaggerated . That part which , : finds its way into retail markets is restricted by the necessity of paying old debts . The wage-earnet                     