@@486151

W E gladly print the following extracts from Fridtjof Nansen 's speech at Christiania accepting the Nobel Peace Prize : Surely we have received proof as never before that war secures no good ends even for the side that wins War is and will ever be negative , destructive ; it can never bring aught but evil in its train . And yet , in spite of everything , you have blind , misguided people going about today and talking of " the next war , " the next great trial of strength , though they must know it will mean the end , the final destruction , the inevitable doom of Europe We are on the road back to barbarism . Anyone who has traveled throughout Thrace and seen the whole population out on the roads with their property must inevitably feel himself back again in the days of the great migrations . . . What humanity needs now is self-sacrificing active altruism which is able not only to give , but also to give up . . . . And when I look around me for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I see no hope of saving the situation anywhere except in the League of Nations It alone gives us reason to hope . Should it fail in its great task , then I should feel that the last hope was extinguished indeed . But I do not believe it will fail . I believe that it can be reinforced by the united strength of all , that we can more and more strengthen the real spirit of international solidarity in it , that we can make it more and more what it is intended to be : the parliament and organ of the united states of humanity . M OST unusual , indeed , is the insertion in the Navy Appropriation Bill of a paragraph requiring President Harding to enter into negotiations with Great Britain , France , Italy , and Japan for the purpose of the further limitation of naval armaments and particularly of submarines , and the House showed common sense in approving it by 251 votes to 9 . This is a step in the right direction for , as the House Committee points out , there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ craft of all kinds which would offset the financial saving due to the limitation of battleships and undo most of the good which the Washington Conference will have accomplished when the treaties growing out of it are ratified . Perhaps the committee has been rereading Lloyd George 's sentiment : " Disarmament is the only road to safety for the human race . " But the committee falls into the error , which seems inevitable to the official mind , of saying that if the President can not bring about another conference for the limitation of this kind of craft we shall have to go on outstripping the others , world without end . Of course if we were a truly Christian nation we would set the example by ceasing to build , just as we would have joined England and banned all submarines at the Washington Conference . Again , we would commend to the members of the committee the action of Arthur Henderson , the Labor member of Lloyd George 's War Cabinet , who declared at Amsterdam that the Trade Union International was prepared to carry out a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with armaments and consent to any war . W HENEVER a regime totters its archives are opened , and we learn more of other regimes . The chaos in Athens is leading to a recriminatory series of revelations about Mr. Lloyd George 's part in Greece 's troubles . As early as May , 1920 , we find Mr. Lloyd George ( the same Lloyd George who complained so bitterly when the French acted independently in Turkey ) telling Venizelos that he could no longer reckon on French and Italian support , and that even the British Minister of Foreign Affairs and military authorities were unfortunately Turcophile ; nevertheless Mr. Lloyd George personally made " favorable arrangements . " After the London Conference in February , 1921 , when the Allies agreed to modify the Treaty of Sevres , Mr. Lloyd George asked the Constantinist officials if they could smash the Kemalists , and upon receiving theii optimistic reply , he is reported to have intimated that they need not take the proposals of the London Conference too seriously . The Greeks received the impression that Lloyd George did not want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in June . When the Greek offensive was going well , his secretaries telephoned the Greek legation twice daily for news , and the Prime Minister was jubilant . But when the Greek armies began to fail he lost interest , informed Gounaris that the return of Constantine had made Allied support impossible , and refused even to grant an interview . Such is the devious and hypocritical record of the man who called upon the world to battle with him for " freedom " and " rights " and " Christianity " in the Straits  --  the Straits that lead to the oil of Baku  --  and who swore that he , too , only fought at Armageddon to make the woild safe for democracy . ( A IL ? that is the modern fuel of diplomacy . Nor need we Americans feel too superior to the oily diplomacy of the British . More than twenty years ago Rear Admiral Chester , U.S.N. , in the course of an expedition to seek redress for damage done to American missionary schools during the Armenian massacres of 1896 , obtained from Sultan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lands of Armenia and Mesopotamia . The importance of oil was then not yet generally recognized , and the concessions were not developed . Abdul Hamid was forced out , the validity of the Chester concessions was questioned , and in due time a friendly group of German and British capitalists , with the aid of their foreign offices , reached an amicable agreement to divide the oil of Mosul between themselves . But during the war Britain had other friends . One of the secret treaties inadvertently assigned Mosul to the French . A later one , however , turned it over to the British . After the war the French protested , and finally obtained at San Remo a " right " to a quarter of the oil . Half was left to the Anglo-Persian Oil Company ( which paid 20 per cent on its shares in 1921 ) and the Burmah Oil Company ( which paid 30 per cent ) , and a quarter to the Royal Dutch Shell ( which paid 27 per cent ) . Then our own American Standard Oil woke up , and very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in Turkey began to fall upon the British Government . And now , following 1171 /1,1 /N1.1 Tff , 01.1 ; 1.1 'm vv , ev .. n1 T 11- ; . nounced that the British quite agree , and would be glad to offer the Standard a 20 per cent share  --  the Anglo-Persian group to give up 10 per cent , and the French and the Royal Dutch Shell 5 each . Apparently the Shell is reluctant to give up anything , and the Standard wants more ; meanwhile Mr. Samuel Untermyer and others have dug up a rival set of claims  --  all of which provides ample material for the lofty moral phrases usual in diplomacy . T HE assassination of the new Polish President brings to a climax a most unhappy situation . Poland itself has made steady strides upward ; that her economic condition has gradually improved is evidenced by the rate of exchange which has been practically stable for a year . But the curse of politics and of conflicting nationalities rests so strongly upon the land as to arouse constantly the fear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way off . There were recently no less than nineteen parties in Parliament , and there are still four Polish parties in the Senate , in addition to a scattered group of national minorities . The defeat of the Nationalists in the recent elections poured oil upon the flames of racial hatred as did the election of President Narutowicz , who was actually the first president of the republic , General Pilsudski and his predecessors having had the title of Chief of State . The fact that M. Narutowicz was until quite recently a Swiss citizen , that he had not gone through the trials of the war in Poland , and that he was elected by Jewish and non-Polish votes aroused the Nationalists to a frenzy of opposition which culminated in fatal rioting on the streets of Warsaw and the President 's assassination by a deranged person . It now remains to be seen if this shocking crime will bring the country to its senses . It is not only that there is still so much to be doneto reconstruct the devastated areas and raise the general level of prosperity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led to live together in harmony and goodwill if Poland is to survive . There is nowhere in the world a more difficult political problem nor one that will mean more to struggling humanity if it is rightly solved , for all over Europe there is the same juxtaposition of clashing elements within national boundaries . D AUGHERTY sinks lower and lower . He has paroled Fred W. Ossenberg , a Republican politician from Evansville , Indiana , who was sentenced by a Federal court to serve a year and a day in jail for violation of the liquor laws , but he still refuses to release the political prisoners who have passed five consecutive Christmases in prison for no other crime than expressing their opinion that the World War was a capitalistic war . And while Mr. Daugherty is paroling bootleggers Mr. Andrew J. Volstead , who is rumored to have some connection with the liquor laws , sits as chairman of an investigating committee which is quite plainly bent upon whitewashing the Attorney General and discrediting his accuser , Representative Keller . If half of Keller 's charges against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denial  --  he is quite right to refuse further participation in its work . The one charge upon which the testimony is already adequate regards Mr. Daugherty 's knowledge of William J. Burns 's record as a " jury-rigger " before he appointed him to lead the Federal spy service . The committee , however , need not bother to dig into Mr. Burns 's remote past . Let them simply read 1/1 .. T  - -  7 4.1. - Wall Street explosion . Linde has just been excluded from the country as " likely to become a public charge . " No one now pretends that he knew anything about the explosion . Yet when he was arrested Burns said " There is no question that we have got the proper solution of the Wall Street bomb plot . We knew it all along , " and prattled of $30,000 paid to Linde for the crime , and of prominent radicals implicated . The plain truth is that Burns , like " Windy " Linde , is a braggadocio without respect for the truth , that he also deserves to be known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has become a joke . G ENERAL PERSHING is in danger of wearing out the fine opinion the bulk of our people have had of him because of his modesty , his refusal to yield to the blandishments of politicians , and his abstention from the usual militaristic talk characteristic of commanding generals . Now , he has taken to the stump at the instigation of the American Defense Society to demand a larger army and more officers and to do the usual inveighing against " pacifists , radicals , disciples of the Soviet Government , Ku Kluxers , and advocates of the internationalism " whose pernicious theories may " choke to death our sacred heritage of patriotism and freedom " ? if we do not have 13,000 officers instead of 12,000 and 150,000 men instead of 115,000 . But General Pershing , sad to relate , made a grave error in denouncing " those cranks who are always tampering with our Constitution . " " Let the Constitution alone and live up to it , " he shouted . Somebody should have tipped him off that President Harding was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution by amending it as to child-labor and tax-exempt securities , for now the General is in the very dangerous military position of having criticized his Commander-in-Chief . Altogether we much prefer the attitude of the best of our citizen soldiers , Major Gen-eral John F. O'Ryan , who so admirably commanded the 27th Division in France . Speaking in Washington to a great gathering of Chautauqua lecturers he called for a " peace survey corporation to work out a peace program which would be acceptable alike to America and the rest of the world " and added significantly that " the last war has proved that preparation for war has not prevented war , nor would limitation of armaments prevent it . " T HE successful fight against the new Illinois constitu- tion seems to have centered largely on the issue of home rule ; but other issues more vital to every individual citizen undoubtedly helped swell the 750,000 majority which overwhelmed the measure . The new constitution would have imposed an income tax to which all wages above $10 a week would have been subject , the highest rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , policemen , and firemen would have lost their old-age pen-sions . Persons jailed on suspicion of a crime could not have been released on bond previous to their trial . As William Hard said , " the law itself would behave exactly like a mob " ? punishing without trial . This provision is particularly startling in the home of the Cook County jail which has just been revealed , after an inquiry of many months , as one of the vilest places of confinement in the United States . The new provisions would have given the State Supreme Court even greater powers than it has , among them the power to appoint judges . In some ways , no doubt , efficiency and clarity in government would have been advanced through the new constitution . But to this end human rights would have been scandalously sacrificed . The people of Illinois guessed as much , for the proposed constitution is dead and the light of liberty still flickers . J OHN WANAMAKER shone as a great merchant because he was one of the most skilful advertisers the country has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argumentum ad hominem and in the be- ginning were the largest put forth by any department store merchant in the country . This fact gave him great power over the press , which he did not fail to use . Beyond doubt he contributed much to the development of the modern department store , whose rise used to terrify people into the belief that these mammoth undertakings meant the extinction of all retail shops . Time has proved nothing of the sort . The big store with its all-embracing divisions constitutes a great public convenience and frequently re-sults in marked economies . But the small store holds its own . Curiously enough , when Mr. Wanamaker became Postmaster-General he did not bring about the transforma-tion of that department which his long business experience and brilliant executive ability led people to expect . This was naturally due not to any failure of Mr. Wanamaker 's personal powers , but rather illustrated how a keen and successful business man may find his hands tied when he tries to reform a government bureau . Politics , red tape , tradition , and the inertia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Wanamaker was a pillar of the old Republican order , as in the church , to which he was piously devoted , he was the favorite theme of many a pulpit orator as the most conspicuous type of the " Christian mer-chant . " N OW is the time for all good New York men , women , and children and true to rally to the support of their city . In the past we have allowed in the columns of The Nation certain jibes at our home town ; we have even called it names . Those days are past . In the hour of its shame we renounce our frivolous criticisms ; we get behind it ; we boost it , ? we do everything we can to restore New York to its proud position at the head of every list . No one yet has denied , we hope , that New York is the largest city in the country , or the richest , or the wickedest . From time to time , however , persons have tried to prove that our own Tammany Hall is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and now comes a statement , borne out by figures and dates , showing that New York is only twenty-fourth among the large cities of the country in numbers of murders committed in 1921 . Such a statement shocks us profoundly . Where is the local pride of New York 's citizens ? What are their taxi drivers doing with their spare time ? Are its justly famed gunmen and thugs growing indolent and replete ? It is hard to excuse such a state of affairs . We can only console ourselves with the fact that our murder rate increased slightly over 1920 , and with the reflection that our best murderers have doubtless been busy serving the public in the various strike areas of the country during the past year or two .                     