@@493282

A Reactionary for the Supreme Bench THE appointment of Mr. Pierce Butler , St. Paul corporation lawyer , as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Justice Day , has created a storm of protest from progressive elements in the Northwest , where Mr. Butler 's record , views and temperament are generally well known . No doubt it is typical of Mr. Harding 's other appointments for the Court . But coming on the heels of a most vigorous protest by the people against the reactionary policies of the . present ad-Ministration , it is almost astonishing ? particularly since the appointee is from a state which registered the outstanding . progressive victory of the United election by electing Henrik Shipstead to the Cited States Senate , running on the Farmer- Labor ticket in opposition to Senator Frank B. 4. ellogg , personal friend of the President and one who urged the appointment of Mr. Butler . Who is Pierce Butler and why was he appointed ? Mr. Butler , for twenty-five years , has been a corporation lawyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profession as the foremost railroad attorney not only in the Northwest but in the country . No one disputes his ability as an attorney . He gained his national reputation as a railroad lawyer by his handling of the famous Minnesota railroad rate cases in 1907 , when he appeared as chief counsel for Northwestern railroads to combat the Minnesota rates . The case attracted nationwide attention , this being the first real test of the question of whether a state has the right to regulate intrastate rates . The case was won in the lower courts by the railroads , but the United States Supreme Court reversed the decision . Prior to that time Mr. Butler 's reputation as a corporation lawyer of ability was more than local . One of his first clients ? which he has represented ever since ? was the St. Paul Gas Light Company , a subsidiary of one of the large light and power trusts of the country . From 1899 to 1905 he was trial lawyer for the Chicago , St. Paul , Minneapolis and Omaha Railroad , and represented the Hill roads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all their important litigation for many years . During the valuation hearings before the Interstate Commerce Commission in the proceedings which resulted in fixing the valuation of the roads at about $19,000,000,000 , Mr. Butler represented practically all the western roads , and was one of the leading attorneys before the commission . It was this valuation , regarded by many experts as billions of dollars greater than the actual value of the roads , which formed the basis for fix ? ing railroad rates by the Interstate Commerce Commission under the Esch-Cummins law . Mr. Butler appeared in court on numerous occasions as counsel for corporations in litigation where the interests of the corporations were opposed to those of the people . He was attorney for the Minneapolis Gas Light Company in receivership proceedings in federal court when the receivership was used to get the ease into federal court as a step for increased rates , which were obtained . He represented the St. Paul Gas Light Company also in a successful fight for increased rates . When the Minneapolis Steel and Machinery Company , a notorious labor-baiting corporation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War Labor Board , Pierce Butler appeared as attorney to wage the fight against the workers . He conducted a similar fight for the gas companies of Minneapolis and St. Paul . Nash Brothers Produce Company , the largest produce concern in the Northwest , was represented by Mr. Butler to combat charges against the firm in North Dakota alleging violation of the anti-trust laws . One of the most dubious cases in which Mr. Butler appeared as counsel for the defence was a suit brought by John Meintz , a farmer of Luverne , Minnesota , against thirty business men of that city growing out of a tar and feathering . Meintz , who was threatened because he helped finance a local Nonpartisan League newspaper , was taken from his home by the defendants , who then delivered him over to another group of men who did the dirty work . Mr. Butler presented a defence that the defendants in reality were friends of Meintz , and kidnapped him to prevent his fall ? ing into the hands of a group bent on bodily harm , a highly dubious defence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , found for the defendants . The case was appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals , and the verdict in the lower court was set aside and a new trial ordered . The defendants since have settled for $8,000 . Mr. Butler frequently represented the Minneapolis Street Railway Company and the St. Paul Street Railway Company . At present lie is representing the Minneapolis company in an action brought by the city of Minneapolis to compel exposure of the expenditure of a slush fund alleged to have been used to obtain passage by the state legislature of the notorious Brooks-Coleman law which was sponsored by the street car company . At rare intervals , Mr. Butler appeared apparently in opposition to corporations . He was special counsel engaged by the government in the famous but unsuccessful prosecution in 1910 of the Chicago meat packers . He represented the Canadian government in the valuation proceedings of the Grand Trunk Railroad . He is now engaged by the city of Toronto , Canada , in a dispute involving the valuation of street car properties which the city is about to purchase . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stock of the Twin City Rapid Transit Company , the parent company of the Minneapolis and St. Paul Street Railway Companies , is largely owned by Toronto capital . A former associate of Butler 's defends him thus : " Butler is a man of great ability . The railroads and corporations recognized his ability and naturally engaged him . His talents were for sale to the highest bidder , and the highest bidder always got them . It was purely a business matter , Of course , Butler has no patience with the radicals who are trying to change the laws and you ca n't blame him . " Mr. Butler is a comparatively young man , being fifty-six years old , and of vigorous health . Physically he is very powerful . In court he is a veritable bully , aggressive to the point of being insulting , unscrupulous , although he is not a lobbyist of the Daugherty type , and he handles witnesses with a ruthlessness seldom seen in court . Nominally , he is a Democrat , but that kind of Democrat who is agreeable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reactionary of the most pronounced type , but the type , of reactionary who fights his battles in the open and makes no bones about it . During the war he was a professional flag waver and ready , figuratively , to shoot the radicals at sunrise without a trial . He was a member of the group of the Minnesota State Bar Association generally given credit for being instrumental in obtaining passage of the vicious and infamous anti-sedition laws ? f the state , laws which were condemned by the New York State Bar Association , and which resulted the imprisonment of Townley , Gilbert and other Nonpartisan League leaders . The best insight into the real character an views of Pierce Butler , however , is afforded by his actions as a member of the Board of Regents of the University of Minnesota , which position he held for eighteen years . The policy of the board , It is generally admitted , reflected the policy of Mr. Butler , its outstanding and domineering character . As a member of the Board he was dominating be ? cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he is a man of strong hatreds , bigoted , a heresy hunter , intolerant and violently impatient with all forms of progressive thought . His policy was responsible during the war for the discharge on fictitious and absurd charges of several of the liberal professors of the university . The discharge of William A. Schaper , classed as one of the ten leading authorities in the country on Political science , after serving the university faithfully for more than fifteen years , without even the opportunity of a hearing , on a plainly trumped up charge of pro-Germanism , was typical of the Butler Policy adopted by the board during the war . Professor Schaper was a strong advocate of municipal ownership , and framed a liberal franchise clause in a proposed home rule charter for Minneapolis which drew the fire of the corporations . The Labor Conciliation Board investigated the charges against Professor Schaper and recommended to the Board of Regents that they reconsider the matter . But Mr. Butler had acted , and when once he acts there is no turning back . He is a man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the man appointed by the President as Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court . Stanley Rypins , professor of English literature ; John Gray , professor of economics , who was engaged by the Interstate Commerce Commission as a valuation expert , and Gerhard Dietrichson , professor of chemistry , now connected with the University of Illinois , were among the victims of the Butler policy . Professor Rypins incurred the enmity of Mr. Butler by his connection with the Committee of 48 , and Mr. Butler personally wrote the letter resulting in his resignation . Professor Gray was too liberal to suit the Butler taste , and Professor Dietrichson was of an altogether too independent mind . In a sense , Mr. Butler personifies the great American sophistry ? the land of equal opportunities where the child of the humble and poor may rise to become President , or to some other exalted position . He was born in a log cabin near Northfield , Minnesota , of pioneering Irish parents , and he knows what it is to work . The masses , however , can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a millionaire , or nearly so , and has the point of view of the man of great wealth and the belief in the right to rule that goes with wealth .                     