@@163970

Arnold Daly , actor , died last week in Manhattan . His life was brilliant and formless , his death terrible , grotesque and blurred . He began as an office boy for Charles Frohman . He became dresser for John Drew . Leaving Mr. Drew , he said that he would become an actor-not only an actor , a better actor than John Drew . He appeared with Fanny Rice in The Jolly Squire in 1892 ; three years later his own name was in headlines across the faade of the old Herald Square Theatre . He was playing in Mark Twain 's Pudd'nhead Wilson . He had intelligence , sensitiveness and a rare , nervous charm . He duplicated his success in London . He supported Mme. Simone in The Return From Jerusalem . At 28 he turned manager and introduced the plays of George Bernard Shaw to the U. S. He acted in Candida , Arms and the Man , The Man of Destiny . His work was not great art . It was very interesting . Playwright Shaw seemed then an outrageous iconoclast , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When Mr. Shaw became a vogue , Arnold Daly lost some of his importance , as the introducer on the speaker 's platform is obliterated by the lecturer who gets up to speak . He had some failures . He needed money ( he had always spent copiously what he earned ) and tried to get it in vaudeville , in the cinema . When he acted in George M. Cohan 's The Tavern in 1920 people remembered what a good actor he could be . Last autumn he appeared in the Theatre Guild 's production , Juarez and Maximilian . The week before he died he was headlined in a one-act play , Kidnapped , at the Flatbush Theatre , Brooklyn . <P> He had been trying all day to arrange a tour for this play with some booking agent . The two young women who went out with him the last evening said that they did not think he had had luck because he seemed depressed . All three came home early from a party to the place in which they had their respective apartments , one of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor , a dressmaking place on the second . The two girls lived across the hall from Actor Daly . Smoke woke them up in the night . The stairs were on fire . <P> They rushed to the window in their nightgowns , screaming . The street was full of people . In a minute the Fire Chief 's car came round the corner . The driver ran upstairs in the next building and climbed across a ledge to their window . When the ladders came he handed one girl to a fireman and carried the other down himself . The crowd cheered . Now the girls remembered the actor . A fireman went back for him . He found him sitting in his pajamas in a chair by the window . He was dead . His body was burned but recognizable . There was no indication in his attitude of any struggle , or in his face of any suffering .                     