@@487260

N EWS from Germany is a hodge-podge of political , economic , and human distress . Where the Germans appear to see hope  --  in the prospect of an Anglo-American loan  --  there is no real hope . How could sane financiers lend money to a country in such utter chaos , with a relentless enemy in possession of its richest territory ? The Rhineland and the Ruhr are still in process of dropping away from the Reich . The process is twofold , the French soldiers and the selfish German industrialists joining to effect the same end . It is the correspondent of the London Times who writes of the Rhineland : The country is at the mercy of a set of crooks , cranks , and jailbirds who exploit it for their own profit in the name of an independent Rhineland . . . . They have issued reams of paper money without any backing so that the financial chaos is far worse than it has ever been in unoccupied Germany . They rob and requisition with impunity ; they terrorize all persons of any position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintain a pretense of neutrality but actually give the Separatists a free hand to commit any violation or illegality they like . They make it quite clear to loyal Germans that they can escape at any time from their present plight by throwing over the Reich ! What wonder , under the circumstances , if the weary Germans have failed to pitch the Separatists into the Rhine ? Is it not rather a wonder that they have not yielded to the temptations which the French so sedulously spread before them ? When men have been out of work for weeks and months , and their wives and children face them day after day with pinched , hungry faces they are likely to chase any passing rainbow . In the Ruhr , where a few individuals control the great industries , the surrender to France has been made . Whether it can be fulfilled remains to be seen , but Stinnes and Thyssen , Wolff and Voegler and Krupp have signed agreements promising to do for France what they refused to do for their own Government . Their treaty with the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an alien enemy . Eighteen per cent of all the coal and coke they produce they promise to the French ; and in addition an export tax on coal and $15,000,000 for arrears in taxation . If these men , instead of opposing every step toward the " policy of fulfilment " of treaty obligations , had only cooperated with their own Government there might be less misery in Germany today . Implicitly the agreement recognizes the legality of the occupation , although the French agree to submit their claim for payment of the costs of the occupation to the Reparation Commission , Sir John Bradbury , the- British member of the Reparation Commission , says that the agreement would secure a minimum for France and nothing for any one else . When it comes before the Reparation Commission there may be more fireworks . Meanwhile in Berlin Dr. Stresemann has fallen from office almost unnoticed . He never really ruled . The industrialists forced him to announce the abandonment of passive resistance when he found that he could no longer pay them the wages for their men , and they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as sovereign independent nations , without so much as a " by your leave " to the political government of their country . The world-wide trend of economic forces to overshadow the old forms of political government was never more marked . Nor did Stresemann govern even in unoccupied Germany . He didnot dare give orders to Bavaria ; when he did they were neglected . During his regime Bavaria fell away as a constitutional part of the Reich and ceased to obey its edicts . It was not Stresemann who overthrew the Socialist-Communist coalition governments in Saxony and Thuringia , but the Reichswehr , whose leaders acted , like the Ruhr industrialists , without awaiting his approbation . Again the constitutional basis of the republic was ignored , and if the Reichswehr does not represent industrial monopolists directly it is none the less a class organ of the reactionary land-owning and manufacturing classes . Meager dispatches report that General von Seeckt , commander of the Reichswehr , has ordered the dissolution of the Communist Party , of the " ultra-reactionary Nationalist Party , " and of the Hitler " National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old absorption in political events , have cabled whole columns about the political crisis but have failed to cast light on this really significant proceeding . What Nationalist groups did von Seeckt order dissolved ? They do not tell us . Certainly not the Nationalist Party , monarchist though it is , for a day later Ebert is reported conferring with a leader of that party about the formation of a new Cabinet . The order to dissolve Hitler 's forces is obviously a farce , for von Seeckt does not control the Reichswehr in Bavaria , where Hitler 's forces rally . Von Seeckt , acting as dictator , has acted against the Communist Party . Its headquarters , and the office of its Berlin daily newspaper , the Rote Fahne , have been , the correspondents tell us , " literally cleaned out . " Its funds have been confiscated , and its meetings and papers prohibited . We do not doubt it ; the Communist Party , weak as has been its leadership , has become , while the Socialists were debating and disagreeing , the effective organ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the necessary preliminary to a dictatorship of the Right is its suppression . Today the German working class , is politically and economically impotent . Unemployment has broken its economic strength , and its leaders ' have shown extraordinary political ineptitude , even apart from the fact that for them to share in the Government today might mean the final act in the separation of Bavaria . Ebert , the saddler-president , is reported to have offered the premiership to Dr. Hergt , the Nationalist leader . Hergt refused ; and Dr. Albert , a politically colorless man , is to take his place . What can Dr. Albert do ? It is reported that he will carry on a policy of conciliation with Bavaria , will attempt to negotiate with the Allies without recognizing the legality of the Ruhr occupation , and will look for loans from abroad . But he can not conciliate Bavaria without alienating still further the German working class ; he can not retain any real hold on the Ruhr while , the German industrialists are yielding to the French ; and it is impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present plight . Decisive help can come only from without ; and with England in the throes of an election and the United States still splendidly isolated it is difficult to see whence it may come . For the time being the French can continue the dismemberment of Germany ; and if the result be a violent Nationalist movement that will sweep Germany and lead to armed resistance who but France will bear the blame ? ? Factories of Public Opinion OW far modern newspapers can go in distorting facts and manufacturing public opinion is pictured in a recently published booklet on " labor terrorism " in Chicago in 1922 . The average newspaper reader probably remembers a succession of dispatches from Chicago a year ago last spring in which it was revealed that " a reign of terror " had been inaugurated by the unions in the building trades because of dissatisfaction with the Landis wage award . The city had been experiencing a series of crimes of violence , but they had regularly been attributed to " bandits , " " gunmen , " and other newspaper heroes until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Then suddenly the character of ' Chicago 's crime changed . The public was informed that the policemen had been killed by " labor terrorists , " and presto , bandits and gunmen disappeared ! Thereafter all crime was attributed to union vengeance and sabotage . The police raided the headquarters of the Building Trades Council and arrested everybody there . Some 200 persons were indicted , and the labor leaders , Shea , Murphy , and Mader , were promptly brought to trial , the chief of police declaring that he had a " wagon-load " of evidence against them . Later , thinking this scant , he increased it to " three truck loads . " At about that point the memory of the average newspaper reader begins to falter . He does n't remember who was convicted or how many . Somehow the great sensation disappeared from the first pages , to be superseded by newer events . The one thing which sticks in the average newspaper reader 's mind is that there was a reign of " labor terrorism " in Chicago in 1922 ; of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to play up the reign of " labor terrorism , " George W. Whitehead , an Illinois journalist , believing the whole scare to be fictitious , decided to keep tab on their articles . In a booklet entitled " A Newspaper Frameup " he now shows , on the basis of what the newspapers themselves printed , how misleading and mendacious their publicity was . A week after the murder of the two policemen a fine apartment house , not yet completed , was burned . The newspapers announced under scare heads that the building had been in course of construction " under the Landis award , " and that the fire was spite work by the dissatisfied unionists who had refused to accept that arrangement . The Chicago Tribune even quoted a resident in a neighboring building as having heard somebody announce that there would be an explosion in a minute and then shout : " To hell with the Landis award ! " Later on this newspaper printed inconspicuously on an inside page a statement by the police  --  which few readers noted  --  that all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ? fire had been set by boys . In ways like this the idea of " labor terrorism " was worked up and all Chicago was made to believe it , fearing and hating unionism accordingly . And then what happened ? What became of the 200 indictments ? Not a handful of them even came to trial . The chief of police 's " three truck loads " of evidence disappeared . Not only were Shea , Murphy , and Mader acquitted , but a notorious thug without any connection with unionism , so far as the facts have been made public , was convicted of the murder of the two policemen . But of all this the public , especially outside of Chicago , heard little or nothing . Out-of-towneditions of the Tribune did not even record the conviction . A newspaper frameup ? We do not altogether agree with Mr. Whitehead in this estimate . A good many well-informed persons believe that there was some violence , due to the building trades unions , in the wake of the Landis award . Anything else would have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not normal . Shea , Murphy , and Mader were unsavory characters , and some intelligent Chicagoans think it possible that the man finally convicted was the victim of a conspiracy . But the course of the Chicago newspapers is not bettered by these circumstances . Quite the contrary . There was , and is , a great story the facts of which they have never printed . If there was " labor terrorism " they failed to prove it , playing instead to the gallery of popular prejudice and hysteria without evidence . There was no conspiracy among Chicago newspapers to inaugurate a reign of " labor terrorism . " The trouble is that the news service of the average American daily is not directed toward ascertaining facts or recording modern history . Its two great aims are to play up current sensations and to support the editorial policy of its owners . The idea of " labor terrorism " was beautifully in line with both of these purposes . It supplied a novel angle for the reporting of crime , and it hinged with the editorial policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor terrorism " in connection with the murder of the two policemen . But a mere suggestion was sufficient for every newspaper in Chicago to pounce upon the idea . The newspapers played it up to the police and the police played it back to the papers . Public hysteria was stimulated ; editions were sold . The facts were left for historians to mull over after they no longer mattered . What Is the Press ? N OT long ago there was held in London an Imperial Press Conference which attracted a large number of representatives of the newspapers of the overseas Dominions . After they had been hospitably entertained for some days at a succession of luncheons and dinners , at which the chief speakers were various prosperous publishers  --  mostly peers , baronets , and such like  --  one of the visitors inquired when they were likely to have a chance of meeting a few working journalists . The question was significant of a radical change that has affected more than the British press in recent years . Half a century ago the most prominent personalities at such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ written a big check with the certainty of having it honored but whose pens were day by day wielding no less influence than the voices of the most eminent parliamentary leaders . Today not brains or character but money and the flair for making it are the chief assets of those who count in the British newspaper world . Lord Rothermere , Lord Beaverbrook , Sir Edward Hulton , Sir William Berry  --  what conspicuous national services have these men rendered to justify their being regarded as worthy guides of public opinion ? It would he absurd to mention them in the same breath with , say , J. A. Spender , or-H . W. Massing-ham , or A. G. Gardiner , three journalists of international reputation , each of whom , through the vicissitudes of the newspaper market , has recently lost his editorial chair . Those who were most antagonistic to the public policies of Lord Northcliffe had to recognize that he possessed at any rate the qualification of being a master of his own profession . He had worked his way up from the lowest rung of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any of his offices that he was not competent to discharge . But your Beaverbrook or Rothermere would fall down on the most elementary assignment given to a cub reporter . His power is simply the power of the purse , coupled with the same knack in financial deals as that which makes fortunes on Wall Street . He speculates in newspapers as a climber of different tastes speculates in oil or copper . The one gleam of hope in the present situation is the doubt  --  humiliating though it must be to any journalist to have to express it  --  whether the influence of the daily press is not generally overestimated . There are multitudes of readers to whom the morning or evening paper is scarcely more than a rival to the movie as a means of relieving everyday existence of its dulness and monotony . They buy it not to learn the latest developments in national or international affairs , still less to reflect upon such editorial comment as may be offered upon them , but rather to be thrilled by ' some sensation of the underworld or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ downs they are unable to watch in person . In England as in America the evening papers in particular are catering more and more to the appetite for sport . Lord Haldane , in a recent lecture , related that one Saturday , after a long , tiring day and a tiring journey , he had wanted to see the news . He asked a newsboy for a paper . " Football or otherwise ? " asked the boy . " Otherwise , " replied Lord Haldane . " And so , " he added , " I got the day 's racing news . " The electoral history of Great Britain , like that of the United States , affords ample evidence that a huge circulation by no means implies a corresponding influence in molding public opinion , and that successful political propaganda is not dependent upon support in the daily press . Who could have forecasted the Labor gains at the last election on the basis of the comparative sales of the prosperous Daily Mail and the struggling Daily Herald ? La Follette swept Wisconsin , as Reed carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press . There is good reason , indeed , for believing that a politician who wishes to influence the electorate through the press will find it more remunerative to cultivate the weekly than the daily field . Many people who are accustomed to cast aside the daily after a skimming of the headlines on their way to or from the office or the store give the weekly the benefit of what in comparison is a detailed and careful reading at home . La Follette 's Weekly is a tremendous power in Wisconsin and , to take a totally different type of man and journal , Horatio Bottomley long exercised through John Bull a domination  --  there is no other word for it  --  over the minds of hundreds of thousands of British readers such as could not be claimed by the proprietors or editors of even the most widely circulated dailies . At the zenith of his power he could send a nominee of his own at a by-election down to a constituency with which neither he nor his candidate had any personal connection , and could get him returned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grows slowly and costs dearly ; in the weeklies lies almost the only hope of a counterbalance to the kind of mercenary speculation which reached its culmination in the recent **29;1569;TOOLONG deal and brought the British press more than ever under the control of a small group of self-seeking reactionaries . Barnum and Cook R. COOK has been sentenced to serve twenty years in prison for his share is a particularly flagrant Texas oil swindle , and a great many persons are indulging in lofty moralization . Now it seems to us that a great injustice is being done the doctor . After all , Dr. Cook is perhaps this century 's greatest faker , and in a country which worships at the shrine of advertising and accepts any oil speculator who succeeds he ought to receive some recognition . If Barnum is a national hero , why not ' Frederick A. Cook ? Dr. Cook might appropriately be made the hero of a great national saga . He too was a poor boy who advertised his way to fame . He began selling fruit in Fulton Market ; he peddled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decorated by the King of Denmark , given an honorary degree by the ancient University of Copenhagen , granted the freedom of the City of New York , and entertained at a monster dinner at which Admiral Schley presided and many men now living who would prefer to remain nameless joined to do him honor . He made a small fortune in advertising an ascent of Mt . McKinley and a trip to the North Pole , neither of which he had ever taken , and after he had been thoroughly exposed , he returned to fame as author of a series of articles explaining that he was not really sure whether he ever did get to the Pole or not . Place any man he wrote in the conditions which surrounded me , the love of life which only the proximity of death can work coloring his mind and causing him to reach a state of mental unsoundness , and he will believe with the fervor of a great unreasoning faith the pleasantest thing in his mind , the thing that will give him hope . It does not take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Dr. Cook . It is the great American state of mind . We believe what we find it pleasantest to believe . Mr. Bryan denies evolution because he thinks it would be unpleasant to believe his ancestors kin to the ape . We make a religion of hope . The people who buy the sunshiny magazines that deny the realities of the world should not find it in their hearts to abuse Dr. Cook for persuading himself to believe the pleasantest thing in his mind . Phineas T. Barnum won fame by exhibiting Joice Heth , " a Negress 161 years old , who formerly belonged to the father of George Washington , " a " preserved Fiji Mermaid , " and the famous woolly horse ( " He is extremely complex  --  made up of the elephant , deer , horse , buffalo , camel , and sheep , .. . the full size of a horse , has the haunches of a deer , the tail of the elephant , a fine curled wool of camel 's hair color , and easily bounds twelve or fifteen feet high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ richest specimen received from California " ) . Tastes change . Joice Heth and the Fiji mermaid might have failed to draw crowds in 1909 ; Dr. Cook 's bogus explorations did not fail . But exposure meant nothing to Barnum , and much to Dr. Cook . Barnum prided himself on his reputation as master-deceiver of the public ; his phrase " One born every minute " became a national slogan . Dr. Cook , instead of laughing at the world , tried to make more money out of whimpering . There may be more joy in heaven over one penitent sinner , but this earth hates the breed . Dr. Cook might be forgiven ' his oil swindle  --  lesser men than he have " got by " ; he can never be forgiven his apologies for fooling us.                     