@@486296

0N December 17 , 1903 , on a lonely sand dune along the coast of North Carolina an odd-looking contrivance bearing a man rose from the earth , soared through the air for some seconds , and then came safely to the ground again . After aspiring toward the feat from the infancy of the race man had at last learned to fly . Strange to say , the accomplishment of this dream was heralded with no burst of publicity . Wilbur and Orville Wright . had purposely chosen one of the loneliest and most isolated spots in the country for their experiments , and newspaper correspondents were rigidly excluded from this first flying-field in America during the years when the Wright brothers were carrying on their momentous experiments . Only a few stray newspaper paragraphs , based on rumor , recorded the successful culmination of the long effort to fly in a heavier-than-air machine , nor was much heard of subsequent experiments for about five years . The American public remained incredulous and almost indifferent toward the achievement until the Wright brothers went to Paris and unimpeachable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had attained . Looking back over the phenomenal progress since the flight at Kitty Hawk , North Carolina , it seems incredible that only twenty-five years have intervened . In that brief time , and mostly in fact during the decade since the end of the World War , airplanes have crossed the Atlantic Ocean in both directions , circled over the North Pole , and spied out all the most remote spots of the globe . There is a crisscross of mail and passenger lines in all directions ; United States air-mail pilots flew 5,585,224 miles in the last fiscal year . The National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics has just reported an increase last year by 100 per cent in the number of airplanes produced for private ownership and operation . It would take a bold imagination , as we pause to celebrate the silver anniversary of the beginning of successful flight , to measure the progress that we may hope for in another quarter of a century . The United States , which has lagged behind Europe in the establishment of passenger air lines , is undoubtedly at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also a great spread in the private use of airplanes for sport or utility . With this development will come an even greater need for regulation and control than in the case of the automobile , and it is to be hoped that a firm grip of the problem will not be postponed as long as in the case of the motor car . One cloud in the sky of the silver anniversary of the airplane is the unhappy controversy between Wilbur Wright and the Smithsonian Institution over the legitimate place in flying history of Samuel Pierpont Langley . With their usual devotion to success American newspapers have been disposed to side strongly with Wilbur Wright , who undoubtedly was justified in resenting the original course of the Smithsonian Institution in its effort to exalt the reputation of its one-time chief . But under its present secretary , Charles G. Abbot , the Smithsonian Institution seems to have made an honest attempt to rectify past errors , and it is to be hoped that Wilbur Wright will eventually see his way to depositing in the National Museum at Washington the original @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exhibition purposes to the South Kensington Museum in London . Langley was the pioneer American in the field of heavier-than-air flying , beginning his experiments as far back as 1887 and persisting in them until his death . All this in spite of public ridicule , which previous to twenty-five years ago was directed upon any one who essayed to fly in the same way that it is now turned upon the man who sets out to achieve perpetual motion . Langley actually flew model airplanes in 1896 and , having obtained a government appropriation of $50,000 , undertook the construction of what he called an aerodrome . This was a kind of tandem airplane carrying one man , and two attempts to fly it were made in 1903 , shortly before the Kitty Hawk flight of the Wright brothers . Both attempts failed because of faulty launchings , and the aerodrome fell into the Potomac River . Whether the machine would have flown if properly launched will never be known . In 1914 it was sent to the workshops of Glenn H. Curtiss at Hammondsport , New York , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successfully flown , first with the original engine and later with an improved motor . Certain changes in the aerodrome were necessary because of a different method of launching . How material those changes were must , of course , remain a disputed question , but Joseph S. Ames , professor of physics at Johns Hopkins University , and Rear Admiral D. W. Taylor  --  whom the Smithsonian Institution asked to investigate the subject  --  stated it as their belief that the Langley machine " was capable of sustained flight had it been successfully launched . " The Smithsonian Institution has recently issued a small pamphlet on the Wright controversy in which it is set forth that too much has been claimed for Langley in various ways in the past and that it was unfortunate that the restoration of his machine was intrusted to Curtiss with whom the Wright interests were in litigation at the time in regard to patents . It is specifically admitted that the label originally placed beside the Langley machine in the National Museum at Washington was a mistake . This label read : " The first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sustained free flight . Invented , built , and tested over the Potomac River by Samuel Pierpont Langley in 1903 . Successfully flown at Hammondsport , N. Y. , June 2 , 1914 . " In order to take the exhibit out of the range of controversy this label has new been changed to read simply : LANGLEY AERODROME THE ORIGINAL SAMUEL PIERPONT LANGLEY FLYING MACHINE OP 1903 , RESTORED Deposited by The Smithsonian Institution Certainly the American public has no wish to belittle in the slightest degree the high and legitimate fame of the Wright brothers . On the other hand , it should protect the memory of Langley , who came close to his goal but failed to enter the Promised Land . It is desirable that the original Kitty Hawk airplane come back some day to the country where it first spread its wings , but it is more important still that history be recorded fairly . Undemocratic Democracy I T is good news which comes from Washington that a determined fight will be made this winter for a reapportionment of members of Congress . Of the many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Congress and the obsolete Electoral College , the most notorious and inexcusable is the failure to reapportion the membership of Congress and of the Electoral College according to the census of 1920 . Critics and fair-minded Congressmen have fought for eight years to force our Representatives to carry out the clear mandate of the Constitution that Congress should be reapportioned after each census . But what is the Constitution among Congressmen ? The log-rolling , reactionary traders from the stagnant States have boasted that the reapportionment bill can pass only over their dead bodies . Accordingly we are still conducting Congressional and Presidential elections according to the census of 1910 . Many Americans who read of the apportionment scandal are inclined to yawn and ask : " What of it ? What is one moron more or less in a Congress so stupid and corrupt that it can not even revise its own system of seating legally ? " This contempt of Congress created by its failure to reconstruct its own representation has at last got under the skins of a considerable number of Congressional leaders who are determined to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They are supporting the Fenn bill which would reapportion Congress according to the census of 1930 , taking effect in 1933 , and automatically providing for reapportionment after every future decennial census . The Fenn bill wisely leaves the membership of the House at its present figure of 435 ? any larger number would make the already unwieldy body more cumbersome and incompetent . Ideally we ought to give representation to the various States according to the number of voters rather than the number of persons who inhabit the State . This would give encouragement to voting and , incidentally , would punish the Southern States for their disfranchisement of the Negro . Kansas cast about six times as many votes in the election of 1924 as Mississippi , but these States have the same number of electoral votes and the same number of Congressmen . A South Carolina white man has seventeen times the voting power of a California white man , if we use the Presidential vote of 1924 as a measuring-rod . ( South Carolina , which cast 50,751 votes , has nine men in Congress and nine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has thirteen men in Congress and thirteen electoral votes . ) Some of these grotesqueries are due to the disfranchisement of Southern Negroes under a system which allows them to be counted as constituents , but very serious injustices can also be discovered in the distribution of voting power among white voters . Since the census of 1910 great shifts have taken place in our population which are not accounted for under the present distribution of voting power . Millions who have moved from the country to the city have been virtually disfranchised because the increase in population of many metropolitan areas has not been taken into account . Detroit , forexample , is still treated as a small city and so is Los Angeles . If the Fenn bill is passed , Michigan will get four more Congressmen and California six . Missouri will lose three , and Indiana , Iowa , Kentucky , and Mississippi two each . Ohio will gain three , and Texas and New Jersey two . William Starr Myers of Princeton , writing in the North American Review before election , pointed out that our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Presidency a candidate who had been a loser in the popular vote . This result , of course , would be possible under our electoral-college system even without any maladjustment in apportionment . A candidate who carried New York by 1,000 votes could afford to lose half a dozen minor States by a margin of many millions and still emerge as the winner in the Electoral College . What most citizens do not appreciate is the extent of the injustice under ' the present system of apportionment . Twenty-three men are sitting in Congress who have no moral right to be there , and twenty-three men who ought to be there are denied the right to represent constituencies . Stated in mathematical terms nearly 5,000,000 people have their votes underweighted in Congressional and Presidential elections . Some Congressmen in this session have questioned the legality of a Congress which failed to carry out the specific command in the Constitution to reapportion after each census . Apparently there is little weight in this point because there is no power great enough to compel our lawmakers to obey the Constitution if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public opinion is becoming great enough to embarrass even the hard-boiled provincials who have held up reapportionment bills for many years . The Fenn bill has a chance of success . With it , we hope , will be coupled the Norris Constitutional amendment to abolish the lame-duck session of Congress and a provision for the direct election of Presidents . The Post-Dispatch 0 the St. Louis Post-Dispatch go our warmest congratulations upon the fiftieth anniversary of its birth , an occasion deserving of notice by all interested in journalism , for the Post-Dispatch stands second to no other newspaper in this country as a liberal news-daily , free and unfettered , able to say what it thinks without fear or favor . That the New York Times prints a greater volume of news is true ; in nearly every other respect it is inferior , especially in its editorial page . The Sun and the Evening Sun of Baltimore rank next to the Post-Dispatch in fearlessness , cleanliness , intelligent news-gathering , tolerance , liberalism , and keen editorial comment . All three are at the forefront of the all-too-short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In commemoration of this event the Post-Dispatch has issued a remarkable anniversary number of more than 200 pages , with dozens of valuable contributions from leaders in the fields of public opinion , science , literature , international relations , etc . From the pen of Charles G. Ross , one of its able Washington correspondents , comes a history of the newspaper and its achievements . Well does he set forth that record with pride . The Post-Dispatch has repeatedly lived up to the highest duty that rests upon the pressthat of exposing rascality in public office . For St. Louis it has done that repeatedly . It was one of the earliest dailies to support Senator La Follette in his first unveiling of the oil scandals . During the war hysteria it kept its head  --  or more nearly so than the rest of the press  --  and it was quick to demand the release of the war prisoners . To it go men and women who are waging the new-old fight for liberty in the United States with complete certainty that they Will be received with sympathy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intrenched in principle . It realizes also that there is no better way to uphold and demonstrate a principle than by taking up cases of individual justice or individual injustice . It has rendered no greater service than in driving from the federal bench Judge George W. English , who so thoroughly abused his powers that rather than face trial he resigned . The entire case against him was worked up by some brilliant members of its staff and printed with characteristic fearlessness . Three men are responsible for the fine record of the Post-Dispatch. : Joseph Pulitzer , the founder ; Joseph Pulitzer , the son ; and the present managing editor , Oliver K. Bo-yard . Mr. Pulitzer 's great service to journalism , at first apparently a great menace because of his sensationalism and yellowness , we have often dwelt upon . His son has shown extrawdinary wisdom in his own attitude toward the paper and especially in the freedom given to its editors . He has kept it true to his father 's finest traditions . As for Mr. Bovard , he is not only a born @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader of his fellow-workers , but also a thoroughgoing old-fashioned American liberal . We place him first in the list of newspaper executives in this country . The paper continues under his guidance to print admirably revealing correspondence from Washington . He keeps its news columns as full as they are clean . Best of all he is as ready to espouse an unpopular cause as a popular one . Altogether the Post-Dispatch proves that there is still opportunity in this country for a newspaper which refuses to stoop to the gutter , which puts its faith in the selling power of honest news and of a brave and fearless editorial page , declining to become merely the profitable servant of great capital . We wish that it were possible to speak with similar enthusiasm and hopefulness of the other Pulitzer daily , the New York World . It is the only liberal newspaper , save the New York Telegram , left in the metropolis . It still champions liberal causes ; it still sympathizes with the underdog ; and it continues to have the only distinguished editorial page in Manhattan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is so far inferior to the Post-Dispatch and its chief rivals as a gatherer of news as to cause great alarm to its friends . Its circulation stands still , or recedes ; it had on October 1 , last , 14,000 readers fewer than on October 1 , 1923 , while the evening edition lost 22,099 readers in twelve months . During 1927 the morning World lost 2,209,955 agate lines of advertising as contrasted with 1926 , and it has lost advertising in 1928 . These are symptoms to cause profound anxiety to its supporters and admirers , and to give concern to those in charge of the policy of making the World what is called a " selective newspaper . " The more recent successes of journalism have been built on the principle of printing as much news as could be crowded in . The World by no means prints all the news . We set down these facts , reluctantly , only because any mishap to the World would be a grave blow to American liberalism . The Lesson of the Vestris History holds no incidents , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stupidity of this exhibition , and disagreeable as it is for me to hold this up to public view , I feel that my duty would not be complete if I were to attempt in any way to gloss over or in any other wayminimize such incompetence at sea . T HUS Captain E. P. Jessop , nautical expert for the United States Government , in his report on the sinking of the Vestris . This is not the opinion of a tyro , or of a publicity seeker . It is the considered conclusion of an experienced seafaring man . Beginning with an improperly closed hatch , Captain Jessop calmly and quietly reports the steps that completed the tragedy of the Vestris . The seas that poured into the ship all day Sunday and caused her first to list alarmingly came through that hatch ; later on when she was listing badly , other leaks occurred . The S 0 S should have been sent out not later than 4 a. m . Monday . ( Captain Carey sent it at 9:58 ) Calls for ships to stand by should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ship leaking badly , only one pump was manned to expel the water . No attempt was made to cover coaling hatches on the upper deck until 3 p. m . Sunday , and then covering of canvas only was used . No general order was given to don life preservers . No boat drill had been held . No lifelines were run across the deck . No order was maintained in taking to the boats , and apparently the Captain stood by unprotesting while the women and children were loaded into the port boats on the high side of the ship , where they hung until the vessel foundered . Before a record like this Captain Jessop , and with him every follower of the sea and even every layman who possesses the ability to read and understand the English language , must throw up his hands in despair . Captain Jessop 's associate , Captain Henry McConkey , the British nautical expert , was more cautious in his findings . He preferred to suspend judgment on Captain Carey and his officers and to consider the cause of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right . For what happens to men when they lose command of themselves in an emergency is indeed a mystery . One can only hope that out of this mysterious calamity will come something to prevent similar disasters . Captain Jessop recommends a more rigorous inspection of lifeboats , compulsory wireless for all ships , more careful examination and training for ship 's officers , and , among other things , that owners be held responsible for competence of officers and crews . This brings us to Representative La Guardia , who would have the American shipping act of 1851 amended so that owners could be held fully accountable for lives or property lost on a sinking ship . The present act provides that owners are liable only to the extent of the value of the vessel saved . The Vestris was a total loss . Objections have been raised that suits for damages might totally bankrupt the ship-owners , particularly small shipping companies . Compulsory insurance for passengers has been suggested ; certainly provisions should be made for the dependents of seamen , who are not at present protected under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Safety of Life at Sea , to be held in London next spring , such problems must be faced .                     