@@493236

Russian Impressions IV . The Communist Party THE Russian Communists have been compared to Plato 's guardians , to the French Jacobins and to the British bureaucracy in India . No analogy can give the faintest conception of the wildness and improbability of this adventure , by which a small minority , mainly composed of manual workers , has brought a vast empire under an absolute dictatorship , and based its rule so securely , that every recent visitor to Russia , however hostile , has confessed that no conceivable alternative exists . The world has known aristocracies of race , of wealth , of birth , of talent . Any one of the rival parties in Russia could show a superiority over the Communists , in all these particular &; But the Communists surpass their rivals in two respects , firstly , in discipline and secondly in their miraculous courage , their heroic rashness , their fanatical , unwavering faith , which seems alternately stupid and sublime . THE CONSPIRATORS OF YESTERDAY The history of this party under Tsardom goes far to explain its present mentality . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned secrecy , suspicion and discipline as the first conditions of success , nay of survival , in its perpetual struggle with the police . It had to meet espionage with counter-espionage . It acquired the habit of unquestioning obedience to orders , because the safety and even the lives of all the comrades might depend on the punctuality and precision of each No one questioned or criticized before acting , for prudence required that only the chiefs should know the plan itself , or the reasons for its adoption . Again and again , in close contact with the men who are running the bureaucratic machine of Russia today , I was puzzled by some trait of character , until I recollected that those who are rulers today , were hunted conspirators yesterday . It is this severe training , which taught them to despise pleasure , to dread drink , to keep a secret , to obey orders , and to live with every sense and thought alert , which gives them their incontestable superiority over the idle , pleasure loving , undisciplined upper class , which forms the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contains only about 600,000 men and women . Few realize however , that it is , now more than ever , more careful t ? keep itself select than to increase its numbers . It is in this respect more like a religious order than any political pal which we know in the west . You may enter it only if several members guarantee your reliability , from intimate personal knowledge . Even then you are received not as a member , but only as a " candidate . " The novice must submit to regular courses of instruction in the doctrines of the party . He is not received until he passes an examination , in the creed . I heard of a recent case in which eight out of twelve candidates were flunked , for lack of this theoretic knowledge , and sent back to take their schooling over again . Far more severe is the scrutiny of a candidate ? s conduct . Does he absent himself from party-meetings , is he negligent in his public work , is he slow to obey orders ? He will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admission . Any slackness , any want of zeal , any indiscipline , any conduct inconsistent with socialist ethics will entail his expulsion . To drink or play cards would be fatal ; even dancing is frowned upon , and there is a tendency to check smoking . The unpardonable sin is any pursuit of gain . At intervals a regular purge , known as ? revision , " is carried out in the party , and unworthy members are expelled . It is on record that the doors of the party were once thrown wide open for a week . It was in the black autumn of 1919 , when Yudenich had all but taken Petrograd , when Denikin had advanced to Orel striking distance of Moscow , and Poles and Finns might at any moment set on . Any one who joined in that dark hour , must , it was thought , be sincere . Entry , it must be added , is always easier for manual workers than for intellectuals , " and these latter form an infinitesimal fraction of the party , though most of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for keeping the party select are as potent as they ever were . The Revolution is still fighting for its life . When an army wavers , Communist volunteer battalions are thrown into the breach . When a regiment lacks steadiness , a percentage of Communists is introduced into its ranks . When a factory works ill , a ' few Communist workmen are introduced into its staff . When a village is disaffected , one or two Communists are sent to live in it . They are the active , nervous , conscious element in the sluggish Russian body . They are the elite of the Revolution and every man and woman among them is expected to have will and magnetism enough to infuse some of his zeal into others . If the party were to deteriorate , if it became less zealous , less , self-sacrificing , less audacious , the revolution itself would collapse . Another reason is no less compelling . It is obvious that a party which monopolizes power , must attract those whose sole object is to make a career . That element the older @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persecution , are sternly resolved to exclude . How far do they succeed ? I put this question to many people , both adherents and opponents of the party . The usual Communist answer ran somewhat thus : " We Communists have duties , but no privileges . We are expected at a moment 's notice to obey the commands of the party , and to leave our homes for whatever work is assigned to us , be it organization , administration , fighting or agitation . We are all so overworked , that we look on a mobilization order to join the army , as the beginning of a holiday . And yet if it is to the army we are sent , we must face dangers which others escape . The Communist corps are what Germans call ' shock troops ' and Russians ' Battalions of Death . ' There is no quarter for them in the civil war , and even the Poles shoot every Communist prisoner. * The Commissioners in the army are always shot , if captured , and sometimes tortured first . The " White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they could identify among the civilian population when they took a town . If the Revolution should be overthrown , most of us will be massacred . We submit voluntarily to a higher Standard of conduct than is imposed upon others . If a Communist officer drinks , if a Communist official steals or takes bribes , he is relentlessly shot , whereas a non-Communist is only imprisoned . Nothing less than strong conviction would induce a man to join our party . " OPPORTUNITIES OF POWER AND COMMAND This answer is true so far as it goes . On the other hand , it is obvious that nine Communists in ten enjoy opportunities of power and command which would never come to them under any other regime . That is true of all the workmen and of the Jews at least among the intellectuals . It is always hard to distinguish where ambition begins and a pure zeal for service ends . Most of these men have broken out of cramped lives which would have brought little or no opportunity , and now enjoy the widest scope . To some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they have suddenly attained ' : to others is it undoubtedly the joy in a creative work . Any Revolution in Russia which upset the old Tsarist bureaucracy would have brought a new class to power . The " Cadets " ( Liberals ) are mainly capitalists , shopkeepers , and professional men . The- " Mensheviks " and the " Social Revolutionaries " are largely intellectuals , who have a following , in the former case of artisans , and in the latter , of farmers and wealthy peasants . The Communists differ from the other socialist parties in having a much smaller general staff of intellectuals , and a much bigger mass of industrial workers . PURITANISM The harsher critics of the Communists usually accuse them of abusing their power to make themselves materially comfortable . The charge of luxury is grossly false . Wherever I had a chance of observing them at close quarters ( as for example at Minsk during the Peace Conference ) the most responsible Bolshevik officials lived in exactly the same way as their typists and clerks . They dress with the utmost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the People 's Commissioners ( Cabinet ) are merely the chambers of former officers of the guard . The only ele ? ments of partial truth in this accusation are , I think , ( ) that everyone , whether Communist or non-Communist , who travels on official business , can do so more comfort ? ably than the general public , and ( 2 ) that all who do important work , including the army , the teaching pro ? fession and the munition workers , whether they are Com ? munists or not , are rationed on the highest scale . That is essential for efficient administration . One hears much of favoritism in the distribution of clothes and food . One such case on a big scale in the provinces ( at Podolsk ) , was recently exposed by the Soviet inspectors , which means that the party as a whole regarded it as reprehensible . Scandals of this type are not uncommon , and probably there is more corruption and more favoritism than is ever exposed . ' Both were always habitual in Russia . If an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both in honesty and efficiency would be immense . One must , however , say for the Communists , that they punish detected offenders with terrible severity . Indeed , - they probably err here by excess , for if a man 's colleagues know that by exposing him , they will cause him to be shot , they may spare him , as they would not , if the penalty were milder . At present the Com ? munists are certainly not mainly or even largely a party of arrivistes , and their stern discipline may save them from this blight for some time to come . The severe test will arrive , if ever they enjoy ease , prosperity and peace . At present their tendency is rather to a puritanical fanaticism . THE RUTHLESS- HUMANITARIANS With these virile qualities , one must add that the Com ? munist party disdains the mercies and the graces of life . Its journalistic and controversial style is rough and crude . Its intellectual basis is curiously dogmatic , and even Lenin is apt to settle the largest theoretic questions by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the authority of Marx or Engels . The general level of ability , in the party did not strike me as unusually high , and a gap seemed to separate the bigger men , Lenin , Trotsky , ( to my thinking by far the more brilliant intelligence of these two , though not the stronger will Tchicherin , Krassin and Radek , from their immediate lieutenants . Perhaps the oddest trait in the psychology of the party is its combination of ruth ? lessness with humanitarianism . It has no scruple about sacri ? ficing life . I have heard the leaders talk of the masses of the Red Army as the abundant raw material of victory , very much as Tsarist statesmen used to talk . Few of them feel any compunction for the unnecessary sufferings of the dispossessed , and their ruthlessness towards workmen who strike or neglect their duty is even more remarkable . All this is combined with a humane work for children , for mothers and the sick which puts richer communities to shame . Fanaticism is not the whole explanation . The trait @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russians only by repeating daily to oneself the simple historical fact that they escaped the Renaissance , the Reformation and the French " Enlightenment " ? all the movements which made our western tradition of individualism . With us these movements percolated downwards through church , chapel and the platform even to the uneducated . In Russia they touched only the intellectuals and that only in the last century . For good and for evil , Russians count in millions and not in units . Their attitude towards the value or rights of the individual can never be that of the west . A PARTY OF YOUTH The composition of this audacious party interested me greatly , and I found some illuminating statistics . It is the party of youth . Here , for example , is a classification of the Communist party of Samara town in July 1919 , according to age . The men numbered 1,912 , and the women only 247 . Their occupations were as follows : ? Manual workers , 1,293 . Clerks and official employees , 489 . Peasants , 156 . Doctors , teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party in this case consists of male manual workers between twenty and thirty years of age . The proportion of " intellectuals " among the members was , I think , unusually high in Samara , and the proportion of women rather low . Very few peasants actually join the party . Thus in the province of Ryazan ( central Russia ) in November 1919 , there were in the towns 3,369 members , but in the country only 938 , which meant rather less than one in two hundred of the rural population . Another test is furnished by the statistics of the Sverdloff University at Moscow , the college in which the new ruling class is training its civil service . Here about a thousand young men and women , drawn from the working class , receive a rapid course of instruction in political science from the Communist standpoint . They study for six months , taking courses in political economy , the history of civilization , Russian history , statistics , and the history and doctrines of Marxist socialism . Thereafter , they specialize in some one department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , etc. ) , and the lectures are followed by practical work in the ministry which specially interests them . One can not make experts in six months , and a two years ' course will be started this winter . The students seemed alert and full of mental life , and even the shorter course gives them an in ? tellectual stimulus , and an invaluable introduction to home reading and private study . This college is only one of the innumerable schools and courses which train young men and women for every imaginable phase of public and social work . The students who are to form the civil service of the new Russia are nominated by the local soviets , the trade unions , the local Communist organizations , or the army . They represented no less than twenty-five nationalities , eluding even the half-civilized Asiatic races , but Great Russians predominated with 75 per cent , and Jews come next , though they had only 7.5 per cent . The women were less than one in five of the total number , and tW0 thirds of the students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audacity of proletarian rule was revealed in the educational statistics . Seven per cent had had no schooling at all , and were described as self-taught , while 75 per cent had had an elementary education only . Exactly half the students had been industrial workers , the intellectual proletariat ( clerks , teachers , etc. ) came next with 31 per cent , while peasants accounted only for 15 percent. * Over nine-tenths of the students were Communists in one degree or another of initiation , while 91 were classed as " non-party , " a word which doubtless covers some timid Mensheviks . BOY AND GIRL COMMUNISTS The Communist party now recruits itself largely from the youths . They are also active in promoting sports and gymnastics , and I saw later a very good display . I asked them how far they were reaching the children parents hostile to Socialism . They answered that in several ' cases they had enlisted the children of priests and of " gu : aks " ( the word means " fists , " and is a nickname for ? tie close-fisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they mentioned lads by name whose fathers had tried in vain to thrash the Communism out of them . With the children of " rich but not intelligent " families ( as they quaintly put it ) they usually failed . They left their weekly newspaper with me , and in it I found these typical reports of the activities of the " Communist Youth " elsewhere Russia : In a certain village , the " Communist Youth " has opened a factory for soap , and is distributing it free , with appeals for cleanliness . In another village , a boot repairing workshop has been opened , to repair free of charge the boots of the families of absent soldiers . Another : the group has organized itself to fight epidemics . Another : the group has registered all illiterates from 16 to 50 years of age , and opened a class for them with 150 pupils . Kazan : 35 libraries opened ; 1,500 Moslem members enrolled , including 250 girls . * The actual numbers of the chief trade groups were : metal-workers 124 ; carpenters 47 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 92 ; peasants 15o ; clerks 21 , teachers 57 ; postal workers 31 ; miners 23 ; fifishermen2 electricians 20 . Another : collected old iron and made ploughs for the peasants . Suzdal ( near Vladimir ) : the Secretary was censured for wasting his time at evening dances . Turkestan : organized a collection for the starving chil ? dren of Petrograd and Moscow . These youths were very dogmatic and very sure of themselves , but they will make good citizens , who will help to organize Russia out of the sloth and passivity of centuries . A MILLION AND A HALF DICTATORS Even when one reckons their candidates , " sympathisers , " and Youthful converts , the Russian Communists can hardly Mbar 1,500,000 persons . It seems a slender basis for a dictatorship over 120 millions , of whom about 8o millions are enfranchised adults . The fact of the dictatorship is boldly avowed . Thus Zinovieff , the head of the Petrograd administration , writes in the explanatory report presented to the recent Congress of the Third International : Every conscious proletarian in Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the . Soviet government would not have retained power for three weeks , let alone for three years . .. . The dictatorship of the working class can not be realized other wise than by means of the dictatorship of its advance guard ? the Communist party . The survival of the dictatorship is a much more remark- told fact than its creation . Indeed , one of the ablest leaders told me that in 1917 they hardly hoped to maintain themselves for two months . Their opponents , were more inert that more inept than they had realized . There is no doubt that in central Russia the majority of the population welcomed the Revolution . I was amazed to discover from a study of the statistics of the elections for the Constituent assembly , taken on an orthodox democratic basis , that the Bolsheviks had polled a clear fifty-five per cent of all the votes cast in northern and central Russia , including Moscow , Petrograd , and the north western and west-central armies . They were outvoted in the richer outlying parts of Russia , the Ukraine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Social Revolutionaries predominated . These regions they have slowly conquered , thanks mainly to the folly and brutality of the " White " generals . If one asks how the dictatorship has been maintained , the answer is partly by unremitting propaganda , partly by terror , but chiefly by the adroit seizure of the decisive tactical " positions ? ? the Soviets , the trade unions , and the army . HOW THE OPPOSITION IS REPRESSED The Communists contrive to keep an overwhelming majority in the Soviets mainly by repressing the propaganda of their opponents . The worst detail of the Soviet system , as it exists in Russia , is that all voting is open , and usually by a show of hands , so that every opponent becomes a marked man . For the inequality which favors industrial constituencies as against the backward rural areas , some defence may be made . The franchise is now almost universal , for the employing class which was originally excluded is now in the main absorbed among the salaried workers , save in the richer agricultural districts , where wealthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now no opposition press in Russia , though the Left Social-Revolutionaries have a monthly organ , and the Jewish parties , not yet wholly absorbed , have several weekly papers . The Menshevik leaders told me of their difficulties . They can get no paper , which is a government monopoly , for pamphlets or leaflets at election time . They can rarely hire a hall for public meetings , though they can and do speak at the meetings called by the various bodies of electors ( e. g . Soviet employees ) . They succeed as a rule only in factories where propaganda can be done by word of mouth . Even so , on one pretext or another , their candidates are sometimes disqualified , and their elected members are occasionally expelled ( e. g. in one case for refusing to join in the election of Lenin and Trotsky as honorary presidents of the Soviet ) . They are none the less a tolerated and legal opposition . Other parties , notably the Right Social Revolutionaries and the " Cadets " ( Liberals ) which openly support the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , not tolerated at all as open organizations . THE CAPTURE OF THE UNIONS AND THE ARMY The governing bodies of the trade unions have been gradually captured by the Communists , in most cases by peaceful means . The facts seem to be that many of the workmen who formerly belonged to the Mensheviks or Social Revolutionaries , have gone over to the Communists . Two unions , which had special economic reasons for discontent , the printers and the chemical workers , were drastically dealt with this year , and their mainly " Menshevik " executives dissolved . The cooperative organization has been taken in hand by similar methods , and its central governing organization is now dominated by Communists . Both are now , in effect , official organizations , which represent the whole body of citizens , as producers and as consumers . Finally , the army will , sooner or later , be officered solely by Communists . The professional officers of the old regime , on whom at first Trotsky had to rely for the creation of the Red Army , have grown with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ranks and trained in the red cadet battalions . Entry into the military schools , as Trotsky announced in a recent speech , is now confined exclusively to Communists . That means that so long as the men obey their officers , the army will be a trustworthy tool of the party . It also means , that though the army may be used for aggressive revolutionary designs upon neighboring states , it could not conceivably be induced to support a military dictatorship . For all these young proletarian officers party discipline means more than military discipline . Such democracy as there is in Russia exists within the Communist party , and not outside it . It is a grave mistake to suppose that Lenin rules it as an autocrat . Every new departure in Russian policy , whether internal or external , is debated at the elected Congresses of the party , and its elected executive is the real controlling power , whose sanction is required even for rapid decisions . The inevitable divisions of opinion are often sharply marked in the party and among its leaders . Tchicherin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Bucharin lead the Left . Lenin balances , and holds the party together . The official press is by no means tame , and writers of the Left often supply the lack of an opposition . Controversies between leading Communists in the press are not infrequent . The vote of the Party Congress , however , closes all debate , and the minority submits absolutely . Meetings of the party are always held before the sittings of the national and provincial soviets , and all important decisions are taken in advance , with the result that the party appears in public as a solid block , voting as one man . With the Soviets , the trade unions , the cooperatives and the army under its control , the Communist party commands the whole organized life in Russia . Behind these open organs of the dictatorship there works the formidable apparatus of the Terror , managed by the Extraordinary Commission . In its early days the dictatorship was mild . It is true that leading opponents were placed under preventive arrest , but apart from some murders , there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrested were several of the generals who have since led the " White " armies . They were released and repaid this clemency ill . The main business of the Extraordinary Commission was at first to cope with the anarchy and insecurity which had been inherited from the Kerensky regime . It rounded up robbers and brigands , and shot them ruthlessly . The real political " Terror " began only in the moment of panic which followed the attempt to assassinate Lenin in the autumn of 1918 . Some of the more sophisticated Left Wing Communists consciously wished to repeat the excesses of 1793 , and the conditions of the time , ? the hostile coalition of foreign Powers , the alliance between the native opposition and the external foe , the Use of money by the enemy Powers to foment internal conspiracy and discontent , ? all reproduced the atmosphere of the French Terror . 8,500 EXECUTED BY THE EXTRAORDINARY COMMISSION One must concede that an efficient political police was necessary to cope with the plots which are inevitable in any Civil War . An insecure government , moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penalty , for the simple reason that imprisonment does not deter , when the opposition believes that a counter-revolution , which will release all prisoners , is imminent . The Extraordinary Commission , which , of course , examines its prisoners , but allows no regular , open trial , admits to shooting 8,500 persons up to May of this year . Without an accurate classification , it is hard to form a judgment on these figures . Most of those executed were taken at the front . Some were military deserters ; others were marauders and bandits ; some were guilty of peculation and corruption , a terrible crime in a hunger-stricken land ; others were spies and active conspirative agents of the foreign and domestic enemy in a bitter civil war . It is impossible to guess how many , under the vaguer charges of " Speculation " or " Counterrevolution , " were really the victims of class hatred and partisan intolerance , but the number , whatever it is , is too high . I doubt , however , whether many have suffered merely for hostile political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that only eleven of their active members had been executed since the beginning of the Revolution . The " Terror " should have ended last February , when the Extraordinary Commission was deprived of its power to pass death sentences , but with the Polish offensive , executions began again , and averaged this summer ( I quote high Communist authority ) three hundred a month . Almost worse than the bloodshed , is the demoralization caused by this irresponsible tyranny . Its directors have developed the casuistry of all fanatics . All means for them are good which seem to their narrow minds to serve the end , and humanity and truth are consciously disregarded , if the cause of Communism may thereby , on a short view , be served . Communists have a trick of laughing at " bourgeois morality , " and though it may be plausibly argued , that our current ethics have been formed to suit the capitalist system , this argument in the mouths of half-educated men becomes a pretext for disregarding all morality . The Extraordinary Commission , though comparatively mild in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and corporate life by its over-developed system of espionage . Nor does it scruple to employ the agent provocateur . By its ugly example , it is turning to meanness and ruthlessness multitudes of young men whose natural temper is open and . generous . Unless its activities are speedily ended , it will go far to blight the humanitarian side of Russian Communism . It is crushing civic courage , and demoralizing alike those who use it , and those who submit to it . PERSUASION THE FIRST RESORT , RIFLES THE LAST I should give a false impression of Communist tactics , if I allowed the reader to suppose that the party relies solely on force . It never scruples to use it . It takes the shortest road to its end . One trifling illustration shod its method . Long before the first Revolution the Academy of Sciences recommended a new orthography . Tsardom did nothing : Then Kerensky came in , and " imposed " the new spelling by a decree . Nothing happened and no one obeyed . The Bolsheviks succeeded them , and at once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sending Red Guards round to all the printing offices to remove the type of the superfluous letters abolished by the Academy . With Kerensky and his school the word was the beginning- ? and the end . The Bolsheviks are men of action . Yet no government in the civilized world makes an adroiter use than they , of the methods of ' persuasion , propaganda is education . Rifles are ready in the last resort , but placards are lavishly used to economize powder and shot . The walls of every town are covered with the kind of colored cartoons , humorous drawings , and whimsical rhymes which in England one sees only during elections . Every crisis every difficulty is used to read the plain man a lesson in economics and geography . He may go short of sugar or cotton or oil , but at least the Soviet government takes ore to explain to him exactly why he goes short . A picture map of Russia shows him precisely how the Civil War cuts him off from these things . Even the peasants , who formerly had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state , or as an economic whole , are beginning to grasp its unity . Other posters deal with the transport crisis , and the man . in the street learns to watch the successes of the railway repairing shops , much as he follows the march of the Red Armies . ADROIT PROPAGANDA The result is that the workmen in these shops feel that the eyes of a nation are upon them . Placards illustrate pictorially all the various means of social service which happen at the moment to be ' most required , from nursing wounded soldiers to clearing the snow from railway tracks ? a simple lesson in civic morals , by pictures which even the illiterate could understand . One placard that I saw , appealed for the more equal treatment of women , and quoted some unpleasant Russian proverbs shameful symptoms of the brutality of the past . Others are in a gayer vein , and pour satire , often rough but usually amusing , on the three enemies of the Revolution ? capitalist , the aristocratic soldier and the priest . Every railway station and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a public reading room , hung with these cartoons , in which leaflets are distributed and speeches made . I saw these places packed . There are travelling libraries which perambulate all the railways , distributing pamphlets , leaflets and books . There are also the famous propaganda trains , six in number , equipped with every device of publicity ? a theatre , a cinematograph , a band , a printing press , and lecturers who can discourse in all the languages of Russia ? II every topic of the day , from the crimes of Wrangel and Millerand down to the best way of destroying lice . These methods are making life infinitely more interesting than it was . Capitalist society makes the mind of the people by its unorganized quasi-monopoly of the printing press . The Communists by their organized monopoly are steadily and rapidly making the mind of this receptive Russian nation . One example will show the curious combination of per ? suasion and force . There is an armed gendarmerie whose business it is to collect the requisitioned grain from the peasants . Tolstoi has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old days . The Communist gendarmes start work by holding a meeting at which expert " agitators " ( this word is freely used ) play on the feelings of the peasants , and paint the dire need of the towns and the army . Then the gendarmes take off their coats , borrow scythes and help to gather the harvest . Only if they have entirely failed , by eloquence and good offices , to win the peasants , is force used to take the grain . I spent a morning at Vladimir in talking to Communist agitators " ( the most interesting and attractive of them were women ) , whose business it is to work among the peasants . It is hard work to induce the mothers in the villages to trust their children to the new schools . No force is used . Instead , excursions of mothers are organized to see the kindergartens in the towns , and presently appeals come pouring in for the creation of similar institutions in the villages . The " agitators " are never satisfied until they have set the younger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social service , and they are slowly coming forward now to take training courses as nursing sisters or kindergarten teachers . I saw one of the latter courses at Vladimir , and heard the young women , all peasants or factory workers , discussing child psychology with real interest and intelligence . THE DECAY OF SUPERSTITION The chief difficulty in the villages is the religious question . There is full religious toleration in Russia , but the Communist party is fiercely anti-clerical , and conducts an unremitting controversy with the Orthodox Church ,  - -  certainly the most reactionary and the most grossly superstitious form of belief that survives in the civilized world . The women and the older peasants begin by regarding the Communists as " Anti-Christs , " but discussion often wins the young people . It is probably crude and unenlightened to begin with , but wherever lecturers can be found , the Communists are trying to give the masses some notions of popular science . The failure of the priests to get rain by prayer shook the faith of some villages during this year 's drought . Even more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holy shrines the Church rashly submitted . It had taught that the bodies of canonized saints remain uncorrupted in their graves until the Resurrection . When the shrines were opened , the saint , of course , turned out to be mortal dust . The village priests have a bad name for their grasping and acquisitive habits , and they are rarely loved . They are , indeed , little more than custom officers on the frontiers of the next world , who take toll from anxious travellers . On that evil reputation the Communists play , and combat landlord , " Kulak " and priest , as the united exploiters of the peasant . FINISHING THE WORK OF PETER THE GREAT " Every village , " said one of these women agitators , " has its own character . A backward village elects old stagers to the Soviet . A progressive village elects youngsters , thinking they are now the rulers . In my village , " she went on , " the priest worked hard to carry his own list . The younger people came forward against him with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man , who used to take your last crust ? ' He was utterly defeated . Even his sons have come over , and are organizing village plays , ' working for the anathema ' as their father says . " This anti-clerical struggle has its ugly side . It was not pretty to see the young laughing at the old , as they crossed themselves before a shrine in the main street of Vladimir . Yet any advance in Russia can be purchased only by a sharp breach with the mediaeval past . I got a glimpse in these villages of a cleavage so primitive , that we of the west can barely with an effort understand it . The Communists are struggling to cross the gulf between the twelfth century and the twentieth . They stand for rationalism , for an intelligent system of cultivation , for education , and for an active ideal of cooperation and social service , against superstition , waste , illiteracy , and passive obedience . This elementary struggle matters , it seems to me , infinitely more in Russia than the controversial issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Youth is ranged against age in the villages , and the battle is really one between an Oriental conservatism and a modern and western view of life . Lenin continues the unfinished work of Peter the Great . H. N. BRAILSFORD . The Things That Grow It was nothing but a little neglected garden , Laurel-screened , and hushed in a hot stillness ; An old pear-tree and flowers mingled with weeds , Yet as I came to it all unawares , it seemed Charged with mystery ; and I stopped , intruding Fearful of hurting that so absorbed stillness , For I was tingling with the wind 's salty splendor And still my senses moved with the keel 's buoyance Out on the water , where strong light was shivered Into a dazzling dance as of drops of flame . The rocking radiance and the winged sail 's lifting And the noise of the rushing of the water left behind Sing to my body of movement , victory , joy But here the light was asleep , and green , green In a veined Ieaf it glowed among the shadows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flowers Luminously clustered in the unmoving air ; Marigolds burned intensely amid the grass The ripening pears hung each with a rounded shadow ; All beyond was drowned in an indolent blueness , And at my feet , like a word of an unknown tongue , Was the midnight-dark bloom of the delicate pansy . Suddenly these things awed my heart , as if here In perishing blossom and springing shoot were a power Greater than ship-wrecking winds and all wild waters . 