@@486271

0 N Tuesday , October 10 , a treaty between Great Britain and Irak was signed at Bagdad by Sir Percy Cox , High Commissioner and Consul General of Great Britain , at Irak , and by his Highness Sir Saiyid Abd-ur-Rahman , G. B. E. , Prime Minister of the Irak Government , and Naqib-al-Ashraf , Bagdad , who had been appointed as plenipotentiaries . On the occasion of the signature of the treaty Sir Percy Cox made the following announcement which , with the text of the treaty below , is taken from the Manchester Guardian for October 12 , which , in commenting on the agreement , states that " in the Government 's view the treaty affords a complete reply to the criticisms that Britain is exploiting Irak for the sake of its oil resources . " I have been authorized by his Britannic Majesty 's Government to make the following announcement on the occasion of the signature of the treaty , of which the text is published today . His Britannic Majesty 's Government , conscious of the deep obligations into which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be completely fulfilled by means of the treaty of alliance which has been signed on behalf of his Britannic Majesty and of his Majesty the King of Irak . They will do everything in their power to secure the speedy delimitation of the frontiers of Irak in order that Irak may be in a position , when the treaty and the subsidiary agreements therein provided for have been duly ratified and the organic law has been brought into effect , to apply for admission to membership of the League of Nations . They confidently look forward to this application being made as soon as the frontiers are settled and a stable government set up in accordance with the organic law . Then they will use their good offices , provided that effect is being given to the provisions of the treaty , to secure the admission of Irak to membership of the League as provided for in Article 6 thereof , which affords , in their opinion , the sole means by which the mandatory relation can legally be terminated THE TREATY The treaty , which is between his Britannic Majesty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irak , on the other , sets forth that , whereas his Britannic Majesty has recognized Feisul Ibn Hussein as constitutional King of Irak , and whereas his Majesty the King of Irak considers that it is to the interests of Irak and will conduce to its rapid advancement that he should conclude a treaty with his Britannic Majesty on the basis of alliance , the plenipotentiaries have agreed as follows : ARTICLE 1 At the request of his Majesty the King of Irak , his Britannic Majesty undertakes , subject to the provisions of this treaty , to provide the state of Irak with such advice and assistance as may be required during the period of the present treaty without prejudice to her national sovereignty . His Britannic Majesty shall be represented in Irak by a High Commissioner and Consul General , assisted by the necessary staff . ART . 2 His Majesty the King of Irak undertakes that for the period of the present treaty no gazetted official of other than Irak nationality shall be appointed in Irak without the concurrence of his Britannic Majesty . A separate agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials so appointed in the Irak Government . ART . 3 His Majesty the King of Irak agrees to frame an organic law for presentation to the Constituent Assembly of Irak and to give effect to the said law , which shall contain nothing contrary to the provisions of the present treaty , and shall take account of the rights , wishes , and interests of all populations inhabiting Irak This organic law shall insure to all complete freedom of conscience and the free exercise of all forms of worship , subject only to the maintenance of public order and morals . It shall provide that no discrimination of any kind shall be made between the inhabitants of Irak on the ground of race , religion , or language and shall secure that the right of each community to maintain its own schools for the education of its own members in its own language , while conforming to such educational requirements of a general nature as the Government of Irak may impose , shall not be denied or impaired . It shall prescribe the constitutional procedure , whether legislative or executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of importance , including those involving questions of fiscal , financial , and military policy ART . 4 Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 17 and 18 of this treaty , his Majesty the King of Irak agrees to be guided by the advice of his Britannic Majesty , tendered through the High Commissioner , on all important matters affecting the international and financial obligations and interests of his Britannic Majesty for the whole period of this treaty His Majesty the King of Irak will fully consult the High Commissioner on what is conducive to a sound financial and fiscal policy , and will insure the stability and good organization of the finances of the Irak Government so long as that Government is under financial obligations to the Government of his Britannic Majesty . ART . 5 His Majesty the King of Irak shall have the right of representation in London and in such other capitals and places as may be agreed upon by the High Contracting Parties Where his Majesty the King of Irak is not represented he agrees to intrust the protection of Irak nationals to his Britannic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue exequaturs to representatives of foreign Powers in Irak after his Britannic Majesty has agreed to their appointment . ART . 6 . His Britannic Majesty undertakes to use his good offices to secure the admission of Irak to membership of the League of Nations as soon as possible . ART . 7 . His Britannic Majesty undertakes to provide such support and assistance to the armed forces of his Majesty the King of Irak as may from time to time be agreed by the High Contracting Parties A separate agreement regulating the extent and conditions of such support and assistance shall be concluded between the High Contracting Parties and communicated to the Council of the League of Nations ART . 8 No territory in Irak shall be ceded or leased or in any way placed under the control of any foreign Power This shall not prevent his Majesty the King of Irak from making such arrangements as may be necessary for the accommodation of foreign representatives and for the fulfilment of the provisions of the preceding article . ART . 9 . His Majesty the King of Irak undertakes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as his Britannic Majesty may consider necessary in judicial matters , and safeguard the interests of foreigners in consequence of the non-application of the immunities and privileges enjoyed by them under capitulation or usage . These provisions shall be embodied in a separate agreement which shall be communicated to the Council of the League of Nations . ART . 10 . The High Contracting Parties agree to conclude separate agreements to secure the execution of any treaties , agreements , or undertakings which his Britannic Majesty is under obligation to see carried out in respect of Irak . His Majesty the King of Irak undertakes to bring in any legislation necessary to insure the execution of these agreements Such agreements shall be communicated to the Council of the League of Nations . ART . 11 . There shall be no discrimination in Irak against the nationals of any state member of the League of Nations , or of any state to which his Britannic Majesty has agreed by treaty that the same rights should be insured as it would enjoy if it were a member of the said League ( including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as compared with British nationals or those of any foreign state in matters concerning taxation , commerce , or navigation , the exercise of industries or professions , or in the treatment of merchant vessels or civil aircraft Nor shall there be any discrimination in Irak against goods originating in or destined for any of the said states . There shall be freedom of transit under equitable conditions across Irak territory . ART 12 . No measure shall be taken in Irak to obstruct or interfere with missionary enterprise or to discriminate against any missionary on the ground of his religious belief or nationality , provided that such an enterprise is not prej udicial to public order and good government . ART . 13 . His Majesty the King of Irak undertakes to cooperate in so far as social , religious , and other conditions may permit , in the execution of any common policy adopted by the League of Nations for preventing and combating disease , including diseases of plants and animals . ART 14 His Majesty the King of Irak undertokes to secure the enactment within twelve months of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insure the execution of a law of antiquities based on the rules annexed to Article 421 of the treaty of peace signed at Sevres on August 10 , 1920 . This law shall replace the former Ottoman law of antiquities , and shall insure equality of treatment in the matter of archaeological research to the nationals of all states members of the League of Nations , and of any state to which his Britannic Majesty has agreed by treaty that the same rights should be insured as it would enjoy if it were a member of the said League ART 15 . A separate agreement shall regulate the financial relations between the High Contracting Parties . It shall provide , on the one hand , for the transfer by his Britannic Majesty 's Government to the Government of Irak of such works of public utility as may be agreed upon , and for the rendering by his Britannic Majesty 's Government of such financial assistance as may from time to time be considered necessary for Irak , and , on the other hand , for the progressive liquidation by the Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall be communicated to the Council of the League of Nations . ART . 16 So far as is consistent with his international obligations his Britannic Majesty undertakes to place no obstacle in the way of the association of the state of Irak for customs or other purposes with such neighboring Arab states as may desire it . ART 17 Any difference that may arise between the High Contracting Parties as to the interpretation of the provisions of this treaty shall be referred to the Permanent Court of International Justice provided for by Article 14 of the Covenant of the League of Nations . In such case , should there be any disor Jehovah is the God Americanism the Religion RELIGION ? not what it has been , nor what it might have been  --  what it should be it is not . With the exception of soul-saving and conscience-cleansing , religion will be whatever else one may expect it to be , only when mankind will continually be enlightened as to the truths of the Ten Commandments and the principles of Americanism . JEHOVAH Why Jehovah ? Because Jehovah is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need believe There is not a word in the Commandments where Jehovah asked men to believe in Him Not to believe means freedom of thought For w hen one believes in someone , or something , one 's mind , or intellect , is in bondage Not to believe is the only guide against idolatry Our so-called free thinkers are neither free nor thinkers instead of believing in the Bible and heavenly idols , they beheie in other theories and earthly idols In a word , Jehovah marks the culmination of civilization Belief in and worship of divine or human idols marks the destruction of ci ? There is nothing in Judaism , no matter how strongly it may appeal to me , that I would ask others to accept , except the Jew 's conception of Jehovah , namely , " HE HATH NEITHER BODILY FORM NOR SUBSTANCE , WE CAN COMPARE NOUGHT UNTO HIM IN HIS HOLINESS . " AMERICANISM The fact that Americanism is losing its significance and its original meaning is due mostly to religion For , while Americanism stands for freedom of body and mind , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early childhood , keeps the mind of the people in bondage How can a people claim to be free , when its mind is enslaved and is given to idol worship ? The only way , then , to preserve both Americanism and religion , is to combine the principles of the Commandments and of Americanism and make Americanism the Religion of Mankind This can be brought to a realization when , for instance , ' Mind your ow n business " will be applied to the first Commandment , meaning that one is Just as free not to believe in God , as another is to believe , with the understanding that to disbelieve is one thing and to deny is quite another To apply " Equal rights to all , special privileges to none " to the eighth Commandment , in that one who stole one million dollars should not be favored any more than the one who stole one dollar , etc , etc , etc Only such a religion ii will turn morons into a thinking people Only such a religion and conception of God , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind . Only such a religion will prove , that although each one minding one 's own business , yet intellectually united for the common decencies as prescribed in the Commandments and liberties as prescribed in the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States Only such a religion will prove to be the solution of every problem , from disarmament to the length of the lady 's dress MOSES STEINBERG BALTIMORE MD. 7713% West Saratoga Street . crepancy between the English and Arabic texts of this treaty , the English shall be taken as the authoritative version . ART . 18 . This treaty shall come into force as soon as it has been ratified by the High Contracting Parties after its acceptance by the Constituent Assembly , and shall remain in force for twenty years , at the end of which period the situation shall be examined , and if the High Contracting Parties are of opinion that the treaty is no longer required it shall be terminated . Termination shall be subject to confirmation by the League of Nations , unless before that date Article 6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case notice of termination shall be communicated to the Council of the League of Nations . Nothing shall prevent the High Contracting Parties from reviewing from time to time the provisions of this treaty and those of the separate agreements arising out of Articles 7 , 10 , and 15 , with a view to any revision which may seem desirable in the circumstances then existing , and any modification which may be agreed upon by the High Contracting Parties shall be communicated to the Council of the League of Nations . The ratifications shall be exchanged at Bagdad . It may be added that the treaty is regarded in official quarters as the first important step for securing ultimate complete self-government for Irak . Article 6 is of particular importance in that his Britannic Majesty undertakes to use his good offices to secure the admission of Irak to the League of Nations , and when that is accomplished the British mandate for Irak will automatically come to an end . In the Government 's view the treaty affords a complete reply to the criticisms that Britain is exploiting Irak for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  