@@487261

when he enunciated the policy of the " Philippines are for the Filipinos " and stood against the exploitation of the people . He did not , however , entirely please the people , for he was against early independence . His successors followed in his footsteps  --  the policy of developing the natural resources , the building of schools and roads , and the enforcement of sanitary measures . The Filipinization of the civil service and the expediting of independence , were not given emphasis , so that when Harrison came he found a people strongly agitating for independence , for greater autonomy , for more Filipinos in the service . Relations between Americans and Filipinos were very much strained . He delivered a famous address on the Luneta in which he announced a new era . He said that henceforward the Filipinos would control not only the lower house but also the upper house ; that there would be Filipinization in the service ; and that every step would be taken with a view to hastening independence . He made good his word . He asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their stead . He gave the Filipinos in the Government greater control of their affairs . He asked Washington that the Philippines be given participation in the European War so that the question of independence might be brought up at the peace conference . He recommended in his reports to both President and Congress the granting of independence on the basis that there was a stable government in the Philippines . Such was the state of affairs when Wood came . With the triumph of the Republicans , the Filipinos were afraid lest the autonomy granted them under the Harrison regime be withdrawn or greatly reduced . But they believed that Wood would be the best possible man if a Republican had to be sent . He was already in the Philippines at the time as member of the Wood-Forbes mission to investigate conditions in the islands . Wood 's inaugural address was , from the Filipino standpoint , a good deal better than the Wood-Forbes report . He spoke of a government through the representatives of the people in the legislature . The first months of Wood , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different concept of the Governor Generalship from that of Francis Burton Harrison . Harrison reigned , but did not govern . He tried to follow the preamble of the Jones law which would give all the powers of government to the people except those which might impair American sovereignty . He left every domestic affair in the hands of the people or their representatives , and took active leadership only in matters which pertained to external affairs . Wood seemed to have a different concept of his duties . He would reign and also govern . He considered his position primarily as a great administrative office , directly controlling every town of the Philippines . He would not admit that the cabinet was in any way responsible to the legislature , but only to himself . He would have direct supervision over all offices in the executive departments . Find- , ing that Harrison had given much discretionary power to executive heads  --  all Filipinos with one exception  --  he surrounded himself with a number of what are called extralegal experts , mostly army officers . Naturally , this attitude was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ During the first year of Wood 's reign , the Nacionalista Party , which had hitherto controlled 90 per cent of the votes and the seats in the legislature , was threatened with a split . The two leaders , Manuel Quezon and Sergio Osmeiia , got into a heated controversy on party leadership , the result of which was that Quezon separated from the Nacionalista Party and formed what he called the **25;1600;TOOLONG Party . Wood found this opportunity to exercise many of the prerogatives of a supreme administrator . There was , naturally , disorganization among the Filipino element in the Government , which favored Wood 's contention . Many laws were passed which had not been studied carefully . Wood then made a tremendous use of the veto power by vetoing sixteen bills . Francis Burton Harrison seldom if ever vetoed bills , on the ground that the legislature representing the people should exercise practically all domestic powers and should be allowed to pass the bills it wanted . The elections of 1922 came . Three parties went in , and they , came out with almost equal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lower house , which was made up as follows : **26;1627;TOOLONG ( Quezon 's party ) , 32 ; Democratas ( opposition ) , 26 ; Nacionalistas ( under Sergio Osmefia ) , 21 . The **26;1655;TOOLONG and Nacionalistas formed a coalition . The former ( Nacionalistas who had seceded under the leadership of Manuel Quezon , president of the Senate ) had a bare majority in the Senate , so with the **25;1683;TOOLONG coalition in the House , the members of the former Nacionalista Party were in power . One of the reasons why the leaders agreed upon a coalition was that they feared the inroads of Wood upon Filipino autonomy . The first bone of contention between Wood and the coalition leaders was the selection of his cabinet . He insisted on naming his cabinet as he pleased . He announced that he would have a cabinet in which all parties would be represented . He would thus eliminate party responsibility in the Government . The coalition leaders were naturally opposed . They insisted ' that party responsibility must be assured and hence the cabinet must be chosen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislature . After some months of discussion Wood yielded to the leaders . He eliminated the Democrata Party from participation in the cabinet . He appointed three **26;1710;TOOLONG and retained two old Nacionalista members . Another policy Wood had to tackle was the economic one . The previous regime had embarked on an ambitious economic scheme . It was predicated upon the proposition that there was not enough private capital in the islands , and to avoid too much domination by foreign corporations the Government should engage in enterprises which private capital could not or would not carry on . Development companies were established like the National Coal Company and the National Cement Company for the purpose of exploiting the natural resources of the country . A National Development Company was created , intended to be the mother company of every other development company and authorized to engage in business and agricultural enterprises which private individuals were yet unable to tackle . The Manila Railroad Company was bought from the English . A Philippine National Bank was established , controlled by the Government . From the beginning Wood , as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government 's business activities . They wanted the Government to withdraw from business enterprise . One of the first proposals of Wood was to lease the Manila Railroad Company to a New York corporation . There were vigorous protests from all parts of the islands . The administration of the railroad was not a failure . On the contrary , it was a business success . In the last five years of private ownership , from 1912 to 1916 , inclusive , the loss from operation was 769,657.74 pesos ( a peso is half a dollar ) . From 1917 to 1921 , inclusive , the first five years of government ownership and management , the profits of the road were 1,121,608.56 pesos . In 1922 , from January to October , inclusive , the profits from operations were 2,090,606.53 pesos . Fortunately by law the Governor General could not sign the lease alone . The consent of the two presiding officers of the legislature was required . In obedience to popular demand , these two refused to sign the lease , and Wood  --  although he had all the papers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Recently , he wanted to close the National Bank , which had financed most of the sugar mills of Negros , spending a great deal of its capital in their establishment and upkeep . Governor Wood was encouraged by the fact that the National Bank had been badly managed . He also wanted to sell the sugar mills to foreign investors . Again the people cried out . They do not want foreign capital to control their economic life . They do not want the National Bank closed . They do not want the sugar mills sold to foreign investors . The fact that Wood had yielded several times to the leaders did not mean thAt he had changed his ideas as to how he would govern . He yielded only when the law did not clearly permit him to act alone . He still maintained the idea that he was the supreme administrator ; he still claimed that his cabinet members were simply his agents . He would not agree that the cabinet should follow the policies of the legislature or its leaders . The broad discretion given by Harrison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , of the council of state and the Filipino members of the cabinet did not come as a surprise to those who knew the situation . In fact , much against their wishes the leaders tolerated Wood for more than a year simply because they thought that they could win him in favor of independence . It seemed that he had led them to believe that he was in favor of independence and that all he wanted was to establish " an efficient government " ; once that was accomplished , he would be willing to testify to the American people that Philippine independence was the next thing in order . This must have been the reason why he was able to rule for more than a year and half with a stern hand . But the leaders became skeptical as to his promises . They feared that his confidential promises for independence had for their main object to take back more and more power already granted by the previous Administration to the Filipino people , or their representatives . The leaders , therefore , awaited an opportunity for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conley of the Manila city police appeared to be such an opportunity . By the administrative code , a patrolman could be dismissed by the mayor with the approval of the secretary of the interior , both Filipinos . The two latter charged Conley with bribery . They failed +to establish their case in court , but the judge said that Conley 's conduct was not becoming a public officer and had justly created public distrust . Administratively , that would have been sufficient ground for discharge . But Wood stepped in and pronounced himself a defender of Conley . He had been suspended pending the trial , and Wood determined to reinstate him as against the desires of the mayor and the secretary of the interior . The secretary of the interior agreed to reinstate Conley under protest , but upon his reinstatement resigned . The mayor did not agree to reinstatement , and also resigned . The members of the cabinet and the council of state thought that it was time to show their objection to such interferences by the governor ; hence their resignations . That is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Will it blow over and leave Wood unscathed ? Time  --  and Washington  --  will tell . III . RUBBER The third great aspect of the Philippine situation is Rubber  --  elusive and elastic rubber . Yes , rubber , and back of it are great manufacturing establishments in the United States . Their attitude is that of most American business men interested in the islands . American manufacturers are eagerly hunting for rubber . So far England has monopolized its production , and is willing to squeeze the last farthing from them . Congress has appropriated half a million dollars for the investigation of places where rub- , ber can be grown and produced under American auspices , free from English control . Rubber is no longer an experiment in the Philippines , for in the island of Basilan there is a big plantation under American management which is producing the same quality that is produced in English colonies . But American capitalists fear independence . Secretary of War Weeks himself , according to a United Press dispatch , was reported as saying that American capitalists would be willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be delayed for some reasonable time ! American papers in the Philippines even reproach the Filipinos for their apparent indifference or opposition to the investment of American capital in rubber plantations . They want the Philippines to cooperate with the United States . But by cooperation they probably mean exploitation for the benefit of the United States , to the detriment of independence . The Filipinos also want cooperation , but not exploitation . They do not want to cultivate rubber at the expense of independence . After the protestations of disinterestedness from responsible Americans , it would seem awkward at this time , when the Filipinos have taken the word of America at face value , for any of them even to suggest the possibility of holding the Philippines a , minute longer for the benefit of any class of Americans . Have they forgotten the vaunted promises of the late President McKinley that the Philippines were " ours not to exploit , but to develop , to civilize , to educate , to train in the science of self-government " ; or the famous phrase of William H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " Philippines are for the Filipinos " ; or the expression of President Wilson that " America is not the owner of the Philippines , but simply a trustee " ; or the pledge of Congress itself when it passed the preamble of the Jones law declaring that it was " never the intention of the people of the United States , in the incipiency of the war with Spain , to make it a war of conquest or for territorial aggrandizement " ? And now , will independence bedelayed just because the rubber interests want to develop plantations in the Philippines ? At this time when the United States champions the cause of mutual understanding among peoples , of common councils , of round-table conferences to discuss and decide frankly and openly their mutual problems and differences , ' it does seem strange that she can not pursue and act upon those very same principles in the Philippines . The Philippine Government sends missions to the United States , representing the people , with full powers and authorized by law to discuss all matters touching independence and the relationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even a frank conference , a round-table discussion , but evasive answers . The late President Harding told them he did not know when independence might come  --  how soon or how far distant . The Filipino people , through their legislature , insist that the condition required by Congress as a prerequisite to the granting of independence , to wit , the establishment of a stable government , has already been fulfilled by the people . This is not denied , and yet no step is taken toward the settlement of this problem , when every possible consideration  --  social , political , and economic  --  demands the earliest possible solution . What is needed is not investigating committees to go to the Philippines . The Republican regime sent the Wood-Forbes mission . It returned facts suited to the ideas of Wood and Forbes . Should a Democratic Administration send a mission , it would find facts suited to democratic ideas . The vicious circle can continue forever . At this stage of Philippine development , investigating committees do more harm than good . What is wanted is an actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action can be statesmanly or can hope for a happy solution which ignores the fact that the Filipinos are already an organized people with a government representing them . They must , therefore , be dealt with through their organized Government . America herself has established that Government , representing and speaking for the whole people . A commission on independence has been created by the legislature with powers to discuss the problem with the United States . If that is not sufficient , the Filipinos have proposed , with the consent of the Atherican Congress , to call a constitutional convention to discuss their future relations with America and to draft the constitution of the future Philippine republic . Why should the American Government ignore these facts and insist on finding what Philippine Richard Roe and John Doe want by sending special missions to the islands ? By what principle of government is it decreed that one or two men  --  no matter how God-gifted they may be  --  can better know the needs and represent the desires of eleven million people than the very officials whom the people themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and orderly elections. ? Why can not the American Government appoint its own commission , composed of representative men from Congress and the executive departments , to meet with a similar representative commission of Filipinos and discuss the independence problem ? If America is frank enough to say that she needs some products of the Philippines , that she would like to retain some harbors or naval stations , that she wants rubber plantations , I am sure that the Filipino- people will not deny her any reasonable request short of the non-fulfilment of her pledge to them .                     