@@468585

MY CLINICAL experience satisfies me , " wrote Sir William Hunter , the distinguished pathologist and physician of Charing Cross Hospital , London , " that if oral sepsis ( mouth infection ) . . . could be excluded , the other channels by which medical sepsis gains entrance into the body might almost be ignored . " In the very nature of the case , the starting point of the infective process can not always be recognized ; but that the chief entry is by way of the mouth and the nearby passages is to-day the opinion of the best medical authority . The great Sir William Osler , long an internationally recognized figure in medical education , was much impressed with the original and painstaking work of Hunter and concurred in the opinion that the hygiene of the mouth and the preservation of the teeth were mailers of fundamental health significance . Yet , in spite of their great importance , both have been woefully neglected by the medical profession and by the general public . Fortunately , this attitude is changing and , in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapidly rising to the position and dignity of a medical science co-ordinate with other specialties . This new development is one of the most promising phases of the public health movement in the United States . The mouth is an ideal breeding place fur bacteria and , because of its warmth and moisture , fosters rapid growth much in the same manner as an incubator does . Moreover , it constantly harbors bacteria , some of which are disease-producing . These germs may cause a general poisoning of the system or be transmitted to distant parts of the body , where they may produce definite lesions or injuries . Undoubtedly , some types of heart disease , kidney disease , disorders of the gall-bladder , appendicitis , pernicious anaemia , rheumatism , neuritis , diseases of the eye and ear , certain forms of headache , and various disturbances of the nervous system , sometimes considered functional in origin , may be initiated by unhealthy mouth conditions . In short , there are few tissues of the human body in which bacteria from a dental focus may not locate . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ locomotor and digestive systems ; those of the nervous system are fairly common . In recent years there has been much discussion of the part dental infection plays in the causation of mental disease ; but the best opinion to-day holds that the favorable results which have followed corrective dentistry in a few cases have been much overemphasized , and that present knowledge does not warrant the assumption that a causal relationship exists between focal infection and neurotic or psychotic conditions . II An abundance of evidence demonstrates that many of the claims made by the dentists are not exaggerated and that often diseases of obscure origin arc cured as if by magic of ter the source of infection in the mouth , usually at the roots of one or more teeth , is removed . The histories of individual cases in which amazing improvement in general health has resulted from treating and curing the mouth conditions that had caused a general poisoning of the entire system are most instructive . Cases like the following are creating discussion and wonder in medical circles : For example , P. G. had had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , had been running a temperature several degrees above normal , although the cause of the fever could not be determined . He suffered from cough , loss of weight , and general weakness . Tuberculosis was suspected ; but no test showed any signs of chest , heart , or kidney complication . It was clear that some source of infection must exist , even though it could not be detected . His doctors reported , " We are of the opinion that he has a chronic appendix which may or may not he the focus producing pathology . " And four months later they decided that " the focus of infection is most probably his gall-bladder , with appendiceal inflammation as a secondary or contributory cause . " Consequently the patient had his appendix removed and underwent a gall-bladder operation . A few months later he was somewhat better , but after another month or two had a relapse . Then for the first time his mouth was thoroughly examined and infected teeth were discovered . After the offending teeth were extracted and the pus , which had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his temperature went down to normal , and his condition gradually though steadily improved . Six months afterwards the patient himself reported that never in his life had he felt better and was certainly fit for work . The doctors on the case comment that " all P. G. 's sickness has had for its beginning the pathology around his teeth . " Another patient was called into special army service some years ago and stationed in Mexico , where the food apparently injured his stomach and affected his general health . He became very anaemic and , after several months ofineffectual medical treatment , his condition grew so serious that he had to be sent to a sanatorium . There was no evidence of tuberculosis . He did , however , suffer from mitral insufficiency ( a valvular heart disease . ) Pernicious anaemia was suspected , as well as gastric ulcers . For several months he was kept in bed and then improved decidedly , until after nearly a year 's treatment lie returned to work , although it was feared that if the ease was really pernicious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that time he had the necessary dental work done , one tooth was extracted and several root canals were filled . Thereafter his health improved so rapidly that several months later he was called into military service and passed all the required physical examinations successfully . He saw almost two years of the hardest kind of service during the War and , though gassed twice , came through all these ordeals in good health and with the greatest distinction . Doctor Head in his Modern Dentistry cites some interesting cases , the most spectacular among them being one where spinal irritation was apparently connected with mouth infection . An automobile accident had resulted in an injury to the base of the patient 's spine so severe that for five years she had been unable to sit up for more than half an hour at a stretch . During this time several teeth showed irritation at the root tips characteristic of spinal irritation . But so acute was her condition that any attempt to fill the nerve canals was accompanied by such pain and signs of suppuration that no progress could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed down a root canal and plunged into the sensitive area at the root tip ; a material was obtained that yielded only a single type of streptococcus . From this an autogenous vaccine was made , and the patient treated with it . After the fourth treatment it was possible to fill the canals of all teeth where the nerves had been removed . After the eighth treatment she was able to sit up . and since that time has had no further trouble with her spine . Evidently the infection of the teeth and the infection of the spine came from the same germ , and the autogennus vaccine that was used cured the mouth condition and at the same time cured the infection which had affected her spine . And finally , Doctor Hunter describes two extremely interesting cases . The first was that of a man admitted into a surgical ward of the hospital because of severe gastric symptoms which suggested cancer . On examination , no findings of a surgical nature to justify an operation were found , and it was decided to transfer the patient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his temperature above normal . When Doctor Hunter examined his mouth he found that the gums and teeth appeared good with the exception of one upper bicuspid , which contained a considerable amount of pus , and that the antrum above it showed infection . The necrosed root was extracted , the antrum opened up , and found full of pus . The patient had undoubtedly been swallowing and absorbing this pus daily for months , and even possibly for years , with the disastrous results described . In this case , acute gastritis and severe anaemia caused by medical sepsis brought about an emergency condition which apparently called for surgical intervention . The second case was one in which a surgeon had called him to see a woman in a state of profound septic poisoning , who had been running for several days a temperature of more than one hundred and five degrees . Shc had had a tooth removed , but the roots still remained , and pus had accumulated around the gums . As a result of local dental treatment , despite the woman 's desperate condition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time treatment was given she was almost moribund with septic pneumonia . She eventually recovered ; but Doctor Hunter comments that it took several physicians , a surgeon , and a dentist " to rescue that patient from an illness which could , with certainty , have been avoided , if in the first instance , after the extraction of her tooth , her mouth had been washed daily with an antiseptic lotion . From these records , which could be multiplied indefinitely , it is clear that the connection between mouth infection and health conditions is real and serious . Even more grave is the part which focal infection plays as a cause of mortality . A few years ago a study was made by the writers , with the co-operation of the New York State Dental Society , to determine , if possible , the degree to which certain organic diseases could be traced to original foci of infection in the mouth . Letters of inquiry were sent to a large number of physicians who had signed the certificate of death upon which insurance was paid whenever it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been due to systemic infection . Each of these doctors was asked whether in his opinion the original cause of the fatal illness could be attributed to dental infection . The results of the questionnaire were extremely suggestive . Out of the 774 replies which were received , 167 , or 22 per cent of the cases , stated that infection of the buccal ( or mouth ) cavity was evident , and in 61 cases it was considered a distinctly causative factor . A substantial number of fatal cases of articular rheumatism , myocarditis , initial regurgitation , anemia , ulcer of the stomach , and infectious endocarditis gave buccal infection as a contributing cause of death . In addition , the replies indicated that mouth infection frequently caused fatal arthritis deformans , septicemia , chronic gastritis , and meningitis . Undoubtedly the score against mouth infection as a cause of death would be still more unfavorable could all the morbid processes resulting therefrom be detected . We know that often physicians make no record of the original infection when signing death certificates . There is , therefore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of obscure origin should rightly be attributed to mouth infection . These facts assume great significance because all available studies showing the results of dental examinations given to large groups of individuals disclose a shocking number of defects and abnormalities of all kinds . Mouth infection is probably the commonest of all human diseases ; practically all adults , and a majority of the children , suffer from greater or less dental infection . More than ten million children in the United . States have seriously defective teeth , according to one estimate . Another authority states that between 75 and 95 per cent of all children have one or more defective teeth . Ninety-eight out of every 100 first-grade children examined recently in New York City had cavities in their first permanent molars , so that between the ages of five and eight these children 's permanent teeth were already impaired . Another New York investigation in a group of nearly 1,400 children showed that 96.5 per cent had defective teeth and that these children averaged nearly seven cavities each . The largest number of cavities were found among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An examination of 6,768 first- and second-grade children in Bridgeport , Connecticut , showed an average of seven cavities per child . Ten per cent of these children had open sores on their gums which were the outlet of root abscesses . In Milwaukee , out of 26,700 , more than 23,000 had defective teeth ; in Chicago , examination of 33,381 public school children showed more than 30,000 with carious teeth . Examination of high-school children showed that more than 13 per cent of the first molars were missing . Another estimate made upon very good authority is that 18 to e2 per cent of the first permanent molars arc lost by the timestudents reach high school , and that 48 per cent of the people between 30 and 40 years of age have lost permanent molars . As the first permanent molars are the most important teeth , serving both as a keystone to the dental arch and as the most efficient grinders of food , their loss brings about serious damage to the rest of the teeth , to the soft tissues of the mouth , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of more than one hundred million are manufactured in this country each year , to replace teeth many of which with proper care and attention would not have been lost . IV Let us now examine some of the opinions and facts regarding the cause or origin of tooth decay , before we attempt to review the modern program of preventive dental hygiene . Dental decay , or " caries , " is essentially a process of decalcification and disintegration . It is a disease in which the enamel and dentine of the teeth are first affected ; later the tissues of the pulp and gurus may be attacked . Although much has been written on the subject , probably less is really known about its causation than about other medical conditions equally important and widespread . Undoubtedly many factors play a part in causing this disease , the main ones being bacterial and dietary , although anatomical structure , the activity of the glands of internal secretion , and the composition of the saliva must also be considered . All authorities agree that the unclean mouth is always a source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that bacteria exist in all cases of caries . Some of these bacteria are harmless ; others are disease-bearing and may cause infection if the general resistance of the body becomes lowered , or if the care of the mouth is too long neglected . The theory first set forth by Dr. Willoughby D. Miller about forty years ago is still the accepted point of view of the dental profession , namely that the microorganisms in the mouth , working especially on sugars and starches , produce lactic acid , which acts as a solvent and etches the enamel of the teeth . Such deterioration can be prevented only by rigid cleanliness . At the same time , it must be admitted that by no means all persons with unclean mouths suffer from dental decay or general ill health . The bacteriological condition of the mouth is not , however , the only factor involved in dental caries . Defects in the structure of the teeth , their position and relation to one another are also important . Crowding and overlapping favor the collection of food particles and make mouth cleanliness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is often a serious item . The poor dental appliances sometimes used may be worse than useless and , in fact , may even cause the loss of hitherto sound teeth . The incorrect position of a filling or a poorly-fitting crown may hasten the process of disintegration , since teeth in a faulty position are more likely to be attacked by the process of decay than are teeth in proper alignment . Pockets of infection between the teeth may even owe their origin to the projecting edges of fillings and ill-fitting crowns . Moreover , poor dental work may cover over , with its neat superficial appearance , undetected sources of infection ; and infection may follow from uncleanable bridges being inserted over gums already infected . Plates made primarily to aid mastication may hasten the destruction of the very teeth they were designed to supplement . Other facts in the causation of dental decay require much more research before we can arrive at a clear conception of their method of operation . Many students are much interested in trying to determine how far faulty functioning of the glands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to caries . There are likewise in process many experiments which seek to throw light upon the composition of the saliva , its amount , and the influence these two factors exert upon the formation of dental decay and their relationship to the whole disease problem . These are all fruitful fields of study from which much valuable information is expected in the near future . But undoubtedly the most important single factor determining the structure of the teeth and their susceptibility to disease is the influence of diet . Both the physical and chemical properties of food have a direct effect upon dental hygiene . Teeth need the exercise which is supplied by the right kind of food ; a diet of soft pulpy food weakens them and invites trouble . The teeth and their supporting structures need exercise if under-development of the jaws and a subsequent crowding is to be prevented . On the other hand , a fibrous diet , in addition to its stimulating effect upon the process of mastication , serves also in a measure as a cleaning agent . The surfaces of the teeth are polished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason why the teeth of peasants and primitive people are better than those of modern city dwellers , since their customary diets of hard , coarse foodstuffs , vegetables , and fruit tend to keep teeth in good condition . Another difference between the dietary habits of European peasants and Americans which bears upon the health of the teeth is the amount of sugar consumed ; and as we have already pointed out , sugar is a predisposing agent of injurious bacterial action . During the War our draft examinations disclosed that Italians had remarkably good teeth . These Italian recruits stated that they did not care for sweetened foods . This is a consistent dietary idiosyncrasy ; for the sugar consumption in Italy is notoriously low , averaging ( according to one authority ) but thirteen pounds per capita per year ? or less than a teaspoonful per day . Compare this with an annual per capita sugar consumption of well over one-hundred pounds in the United States . Other factors are necessary to explain the obvious racial differences in the soundness of teeth . Bone calcification upon which sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diet of certain vitamins . One investigator ( Doctor Mellanby of England ) claims that vitamin D is especially important . The effect of most foods upon the teeth , according to her researches , is due to their vitamin D , their salt , or their cereal content . The last-named constituent is probably very important , since recent experiments indicate that inordinate cereal consumption hinders the calcifying process . Ultra-violet radiation , such as is given by sunlight or the mercury vapor lamp , on the other hand , acts as a stimulant and has the same influence on calcification as would the ingestion of additional quantities of vitamin D. If this is so , deficient diet together with the lack of ultra-violet radiation would explain the relatively bad teeth of the English , whose land is more or less sunless and whose diet contains large amounts of cereals and sweets and small amounts of the products containing vitamin D , such as milk , butter , cheese , and eggs . The good teeth of the natives of tropical lands and of Eskimos may be explained in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are exposed to strong sunlight which counterbalances the faults of their diet ; Eskimos , whose native diet is composed largely of fish , blubber , and meat and contains little or no cereal , have food adequate to produce sound teeth even though they lack sunlight . Again , scientists have observed that the teeth of paleolithic men were apparently very good but degenerated as civilization advanced . Perhaps this was because , instead of the animal products , which primitive man ate in such large quantities when his luck was good , cereals were introduced into the diet and were consumed in ever-increasing amounts . Another extremely interesting series of studies has been made by Professor McCollum and his co-workers at Johns Hopkins who concluded that " it is not possible at this time to name any one definite diet which specifically causes dental or oral disease ; it would appear that any slight variation in the American diet , which always so dangerously approaches the level of dietary deficiency , might become active at any period of lowered resistance or of physical or nervous stress . " Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which produced the greatest percentage of dental abnormalities was one deficient in " protein , calcium , and fat soluble A. " But when all is said and done , much uncertainty still exists regarding the effect of the chemical composition of food upon mouth hygiene . Researches now in progress dealing with vitamins and other factors should soon give us more definite knowledge and enable us to formulate a sound nutrition program . At the present time all that we can state with any degree of definiteness is that diet is tremendously important ? in fact , probably the most important single factor in determining the structure of teeth and their health . It is also clear that the two periods in which nutrition most strongly influences dental hygiene are the time of gestation , when the diet of the mother determines , to a large extent , the tooth structure of the coming child , and the first two years of life , when the diet of the infant undoubtedly affects the healthy formation of the teeth . Experts have called attention to the fact that the artificial feeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decay . In fact , one authority goes so far as to conclude that the predisposition to dental caries increases in the same ratio as bottle feeding . The importance of adequate nutrition during the prenatal period and early babyhood , at all events , can not be over-stressed . Adequate diet and oral cleanliness are , perhaps , the two points which all investigators regard as essential . The emphasis in dentistry to-day is , therefore , along the lines of prevention . Health workers look forward to the time when curative and repair work will be reduced to a minimum and when few mechanical devices and artificial teeth will be required . Such a program demands that the mother eat the proper food during pregnancy and during the nursing period , that the infant be adequately nourished , and that the preschool and school child be given the necessary dental attention . Even the very young child should be taken to the dentist regularly ; the age of two is not too soon for him to pay his first visit . Thereafter , according to the best prevailing opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Equally important is teaching the child to take proper care of his mouth at home . When these two procedures are followed there will still remain a small amount of curative work . When defective teeth are found , whether in the temporary or in the later permanent set , they must be filled , treated , or extracted . Fortunately many people are beginning to understand that taking care of the teeth from the very beginning will not only help to avert pain at some future date , but also will definitely promote the general health . Dental prophylaxis among children is highly beneficial , and can be done at a reasonable cost . If teeth are kept in good condition until the age of twenty-five , habits of dental hygiene will be firmly established , and little serious trouble is to be anticipated in adult life . The problem of dental work among adults is different from that among children . As we have seen , work for children is largely preventive ; that for adults is mainly remedial and includes the repair or replacement of diseased teeth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infection . But the amount of this kind of dental care is tremendous in volume , especially when teeth have been neglected in youth . V Turning now to the practical consideration of a constructive program , twoproblems face us at the outset . First , the number of dentists at the present time is too small to provide the curative and preventive service which the country needs ; and second , the cost of dental service is too high to be within the means of the great majority of families with small incomes . In consequence , much necessary dental work is neglected . It is estimated that only about twenty per cent of the population visit the dentist at regular intervals ; the remainder go only when they have a toothache . In fact , if this last group , instead of waiting for an emergency , demanded anything like the dental service they actually need , the number of dentists would be quite unable to handle the situation . For there are now only about 68,000 dentists in the United States , or roughly one to every 1,760 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is estimated that one dentist can care for only 1,000 patients a year ; and under present conditions he can not treat effectively anything like that number . In short , even though it is true that all dentists are not busy during the entire day because work is unevenly distributed , nevertheless several times the existing number of dentists could be occupied profitably in taking care of the needs ( not the present demands ) of the American people . Nor is the outlook for the future much better . Only about 3,000 graduates are coming from the dental schools each year . On this basis , it would take a long time for the number of dentists to catch up with the requirements of the people , A hopeful development is the growing recognition of the valuable services which dental hygienists can render . These young women who assist the dentist are trained to do prophylactic work , such as cleansing teeth , and to aid in furthering an educational program . From the time the first class of hygienists was graduated in 1914 , progressive dentists have added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also giving an excellent account of themselves                     