@@486207

J UST as was the case two years ago it was an election by disgust . Once more the electorate turned the rascals out , but never before in our political history has there been so startling and so wide-spread a reversal of an overwhelming verdict rendered only two years before . No one would have ventured to suggest then that within twenty-four months New Hampshire , Oregon , Washington , and Kansas would be carried by the Democrats , and a Democratic Governor elected in New York by a plurality of more than 400,000 . The pendulum has swung back almost as far as it could have . The question remains , however , what has really been accomplished , and whether we have done anything else than repel Tweedledum and embrace Tweedledee . Well , if we should simply restrict ourselves to the evidences of Democratic success in the East we should be unmoved by the spectacle of a return from the frying pan to the fire . But , as we stated last week , there is something extremely encouraging in the fact that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It looked as if the Republican Party could put over this latest bit of indefensible tariff-grabbing and get off unscathed . The most experienced political correspondents , like Mark Sullivan and David Lawrence , failed to prepare us for the event . In Indiana Senator Beveridge was aware that there was much public unrest , yet he was confident of his election . Mr. Sullivan , after his trip through the West , was certain that the situation had greatly improved for the Republicans and that they would hold a majority of about forty seats ; it was generally agreed that after the ending of the strikes the Republican prospects had brightened . Instead of which we see a vote which has stunned Washington , and gives no ground for the assumption that anything done by the Harding Administration has met with the approval of the electorate . We can not imagine that the party will be so foolish as to renominate Mr. Harding after this or that he would be willing to accept a second candidacy and risk political extinction such as came to Mr. Taft under similar conditions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearten liberals everywhere . The ship subsidy bill has probably been killed by this vote , and so has all possibility of further plundering of the Treasury on a great scale while Mr. Harding is in the White House . If they read the lesson of the ballots aright , Mr. Harding and Mr. Hughes will find no approval whatever of their foreign policies . Their indefensible attitude toward Mexico and Haiti , their stupidity , in dealing with Russia , their failure to take the lead in bringing the nations together for the economic restoration of Europe , are without the shadow of an indorsement . They will , of course , attribute the defeat to various causes , and it is undeniable that it represents the sum total of a long list of dissatisfactions , but at least they can not deceive themselves with the assumption that they have popular approval for any one of their policies . Nothing was less effective in the campaign than Mr. Hughes 's cold-blooded , " hard-boiled " , eleventh-hour defense of the conduct of our foreign affairs . Even more important than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be controlled by what the newspapers in their misuse of language call " the radical group . " The liberal bloc , for which The Nation has been calling for two years past , is here and it is in the saddle . Mr. Harding and his Administration will henceforth have to make terms with Borah , LaFollette , Ladd , Norris , and Johnson , with whom will now stand Frazier of North Dakota , Howell of Nebraska , Shipstead of Minnesota , Brook-hart of Iowa , and probably on many occasions Reed of Missouri , who , read out of his party convention two years ago by Woodrow Wilson , returns to the Senate perhaps the freest man in it , so far as any party or group allegiance is concerned . The opportunities which rise before this group are almost overwhelming . They can make over the policies of the Republican Party , they can revive all the Progressive enthusiasm of 1912 , they can block further blunders by the Harding Administration , they can dictate the next Republican Presidential candidate , or they can discard that party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they represent the popular desire . For , wherever the progressive or farmer-labor movement appeared in strength , there it was victorious . Oklahoma , Minnesota , North Dakota , Iowa , Nebraska , Colorado , Montana  --  from all these States comes good news . In every one of them the dominating machine was soundly thrashed , or a blow struck , as in Montana and Colorado , against the big-business domination of those States . No one can study the returns from this section , and not feel profoundly heartened and cheered . An election which puts William E. Sweet into the governorship of Colorado , George W. P. Hunt into that of Arizona , and John J. Blaine back into that of Wisconsin is in itself no mean election . Never in any such contest was there a greater or more intelligent splitting of tickets , or greater evidence of thought on the part of the voters . In Ohio , for instance , the absurd Presidential boom of the dull and belligerent Senator Pomerene was ended by the election of Congressman Fess , Republican . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Nebraska they chose Mr. Bryan 's brother , a Democrat , as Governor , and turned out Senator Hitchcock , giving a thoroughly deserved punishment to one who , for party reasons , so completely misrepresented his constituency and abandoned American idealism during the war . In New York City 205,808 votes were cast for Charles P. Steinmetz , the Socialist candidate for State Engineer , although he made no personal campaign and no other Socialist candidate received more than 92,000 votes . But when all is said and done the fact remains that the voters revived a party which ought to be amalgamated with the Republicans , for there is now no shadow of difference between them save in the degree of tariff robbery we should groan under . Like the man who accepted two dollars from the Democrats and five dollars from the Republicans , and then voted for the Democrats because they were the less corrupting , the voters have again chosen the lesser evil , have again voted to punish . None the less the ferment which the election clearly reveals is a most hopeful augury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again be for constructive policies instead of merely against officials or party . A surprising number of free , able , and forward-looking men will control Congress and rule in some of the State capitals . Great economic forces are in play . The deeps are breaking up . What true democrat can feel else than fresh inspiration to the tasks before us ? The Third Party Is Born T HE impossible has happened . The farmers and labor have got together , and a new party has been born . It does not matter that LaFollette , Brookhart , and Howell , in Wisconsin , Iowa , and Nebraska , keep the name " Republican " , that Governor-elect Sweet of Colorado and Governor-elect Hunt of Arizona , like Dill and Wheeler , the new Senators from Washington and Montana , call themselves " Democrats . " These men stand for the same things and they know it ; the same forces elected them regardless of the label ; they will work together against the things for which both old party machines stand , and whether or not the forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " as did the forces which elected that stalwart six-foot-two son of the Vikings , Henrik Shipstead , Senator from Minnesota , they are a farmer-labor party . The fusion has been effected , and henceforth the farmer-labor alliance of the producing forces of the country in the Middle West is a political fact . This we owe largely to the Nonpartisan League . The Nonpartisan League has been buried in the metropolitan newspapers a dozen times ; it has lost control of the State machinery in its own home , North Dakota ; but its soul goes marching on . The Dakota farmers broke away from the old fiction that the interests of labor and the farmers were necessarily opposed , and allied themselves with townsmen who suffered from exploitation by middlemen just as they did . That alliance , still so remote in Eastern States , has spread westward into Montana and Washington , southward into Nebraska , Colorado , and Oklahoma , eastward into Minnesota , Iowa , and Wisconsin . The Harding Administration 's devotion to tariff and ship subsidy has helped cement the bonds . Farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Esch-Cummins Act and its constant partisanship for the railroads . The same powers were arrayed against the Dakota program of State grain elevators and State rural credits as were stoutly fighting union labor . But liberals owe the Nonpartisan League thanks for even more than this . It discovered the effective method of creating a third party . In these modern days the cost of establishing the machinery of a third party is almost prohibitive , and the inertia of masses of voters who stand by hereditary party preferences without regard to present-day issues is almost too great to be overcome . The Nonpartisan League realized the fatuity of party labels . " ' Republican Party ' means nothing today , " they said ; " why not capture that Party 's machinery , and use that label in our campaign ? " They did . In other States they aimed at the Democratic machinery . Sometimes they succeeded ; sometimes they failed . In no State but North Dakota did they actually capture a party and win an election But the farmer-labor alliance which they had founded , sweeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party primaries with perfect indifference to party names , and this election has showed that Western voters understand and approve . The new party is the Democratic Party in Washington , Montana , Colorado , Oklahoma , and Arizona ; it is the Republican Party in Wisconsin , Iowa , and Nebraska . It is a power in the Republican Party in North and South Dakota and in the Democratic Party in Kansas . It has arrived . And it arrives borne by a great underground swell . It is an authentic movement of the masses . It is not the productof any one , or two , or three , powerful personalities . It rejoices in Senator Borah 's growing national leadership , but it is still a little skeptical of his economic thinking . It is proud of LaFollette , but it does not tie its fortunes to his personal career . It knows that it is fortunate in having no Roosevelt , in being a movement growing from the bottom up . The West is the nursery of new parties . There the Republican Party was born . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There the Progressive Party reached its apogee . This new party has deeper roots . It has picked up much of Progressivism , but we think it has a more fundamental understanding of economic issues . It is frankly tied primarily to the cause of the dirt farmer and of the man who works with his hands . If it breaks away from those moorings it will run the danger of capture by pleasantly sympathetic politicians who will be only too ready to ruin it by joining . Many of the politicians of the Farm Bloc and leaders of the Farm Bureau Federation are of that shallow type . The appeal of Colonel Robert H. Montgomery for an alliance of the manufacturers and the farmers , with Bernard M. Baruch as leader , would if heeded be the ruin of the new western movement . Mr. Baruch disavows the appeal , but there will be other such attempts to divert the farmer from emphasis upon membership in the producing class to emphasis upon property-owning , but there are probably too many tenant farmers and mortgaged farms to make such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demagogy , wasting itself in oratorical denunciations of Wall Street instead of attacking the power of absentee finance where it is most vulnerable . But these are the dangers of any political movement . They may be overcome but they will always be present . This farmer-labor alliance , with its name a witness of its economic basis , is , we believe , the most hopeful political movement since the birth of the Republican Party in anti-slavery days . With it older groups of protesters , if they are realistic , will ally themselves . It is far and away the best thing that has happened to America since the war welded upon us the political and economic despotism from which , as this election shows , we are emerging . The Oath of the Fascisti By the blood of our two thousand martyrs whom we invoke as witnesses and judges of our actions we , the black-shirts of Piacenza Province , swear that for one year , First , we will not wear on our persons or keep in our houses anything made of gold , silver , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ourselves the privilege of working ardently without pay for the good of our country ; Third , we renounce all worldly amusements which are not expressions of civic joy for our nation 's progress ; Fourth , we will give all superfluous ornaments to a fund for supporting enterprises having goodness , civilization , beauty , and improvement as their object . S OMETHING of old Rome speaks in this oath of the Fascists , and something of Moscow . Were these black-shirts of Anglo-Saxon tradition we should say that something of Oliver Cromwell was in their breasts . Since they are Italians , we may call it Savonarola 's Florence , the spirit behind the religious carnival of 1496 , when it is recorded that " the citizens gave their costliest possessions in alms to the poor , and tonsured monks , crowned in flowers , sang lauds and performed wild dances for the glory of God , " or the Burning of the Vanities in the following year . Garibaldi 's Red-shirts , d'Annunzio 's madness at Fiume , and his otherworldly constitution of the Republic of Quarnaro , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Elysian Fields and dream of the days when he , Stoic-educated , stalked the streets of Rome with a volunteer bodyguard of 3,000 citizens at his heels , denouncing the luxuries of his class and preaching division of land and free grain for the poor  --  two thousand and fifty years ago . Human nature and Italian nature have not changed . These Fascist startle our Western world , but they are no strange phenomenon . We Americans have them in a cruder and less devoted form in the Legion and the Klan . Moscow has the same spirit in the Communist Party . They are devoted men with an ideal , which they are ready and determined to force upon their countrymen . The nature of the ideal to such men is often less important than the devotion and the violence . The ordered processes of law are too slow for them . Italy 's Fascisti refused to await an election , because they feared to lose it under Italy 's eminently fair system of proportional representation . They were an organized mob which dared to seize power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the good sense to give way to it , and because previous months of bloodshed had routed their only effective opponents , the Communists . But the test comes in making an ideal real . What do these Fascisti mean by " goodness , civilization , beauty , and improvement " ? They probably have no idea . It is a fair gesture to give up all your goods ; but more than that , more even than St. Paul 's charity , is needed ; the gesture of giving without the wisdom to select the aim is wasted . Puritanism , self-sacrifice , devotion , renunciation ? all these are not enough . History pays scant attention to these virtues ; it immorally lauds revolutionaries who win the victory and damns those who fail . It may accept the Bolsheviki , who have retained so much of the cruel and intolerant tradition of their country , because they not only have a beautiful goal , but also seem to be moving toward it . History will judge them , as it does the French revolutionaries , by their final achievement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their ideal , do not seem yet to have defined that ideal . Unless Mussolini speedily develops something more than vague nationalism and hard work as a program he will fade as completely as Kerenski , and be replaced by some group with more defined aims , whether reactionary or bolshevistic , who will themselves fade in time , as time withers all well-defined dreams . Fearless and utterly disinterested faith in ideals sweeps into this workaday world with such a blast of sound and such a splash of color that we are prone to welcome it at any cost . There is nothing more dangerous . The selflessness of wartime was an emotional indulgence for which we have been paying in a latter-day apathy . The sudden realizations of Soviet Hungary , so easy , so purely emotional , so little the product of hard thinking , served as excuse for and made possible the White Terror that followed them . Without the enthusiastic seizure of the factories in Italy Fascism would never have had its chance . The excesses of generations of Romanovs lie behind the needless cruelties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the violent intolerance of the Fascisti , unless it speedily crystallizes into something more than Puritan romanticism , will merely have sapped the energies of Italy , and will , like the careers of the Gracchi and of Savonarola , only add to history 's archives of pretty stories . The Deflation of Pie S OMEHO W we can not rejoice as much as we should like to over the dispatch from Albany , New York , saying that the one-armed-chair restaurants of that city , hearing that the war is over , have gone back to five cents as the price of a slice of pie . It is not the inconvenience and expense of going to Albany that moistens our enthusiasm , but the conviction that the announcement is a hoax . We do not mean that the price is a hoax ; we mean the much sadder and more poignant fact that the pie itself is a hoax . For of all the devastation of the war the most devastating was sustained by that great American institution , pie . Let us get it straight : Pie is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great American institution . This country was founded by men who had pie for breakfast , pie for dinner , pie for supper ; in addition they usually had a slice or so before going to bed at night . The only time they did not eat pie was when they were asleep , at work , or in church . But war played the very Old Nick with pie . Not only did the one-armed restaurants , where editors and other members of the proletariat are obliged to eat , raise the price from five to ten cents a slice ; they began a more insidious and dangerous attack from inside . Resorting to the policy of " boring from within , " they began to sabotage the contents of America 's greatest culinary triumph . Slices of peach pie  --  once a dish for which men would gladly die  --  began to consist of one half of a hard , canned peach surrounded by a few shreds of tasteless dried peach , the whole embalmed in a soggy , insipid , indigestible paste of flour and gelatine , supplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  once entitled to a place as the Eighth Wonder of the World  --  was brought forth in pale , sickly slabs wrought from a combination of pine sawdust and synthetic sweet , extracted from a can . Worst of all was what happened to blueberry pie . No language has ever been invented , no words discovered , adequate to describe good blueberry pie . The proof of such pastry is the juice . A fork is a wholly impotent weapon with which to attack good blueberry pie . One requires a spoon , or a straw . Think , then , of the havoc the war wrought by making possible blueberry pie that could be  --  and was  --  cut into slices as solid as Carrara marble ! In most industry deflation came after , not during , the war . Not so in the supreme and surpassing industry of pie-making . There adulteration , deterioration , and deflation came in the heat of the conflict and have continued ever since . It is idle to say that good pie can still be obtained in our best homes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our office boys , messengers , apprentices , and army of young clerks  --  the golden youth of America that ought to be growing up on a strong , sturdy diet of pie  --  must eat much , if not mostly , in the humbler caravansaries of only one arm . Gradually our youth is being corrupted  --  is being driven to a regimen of marshmallow nut sundae or banana split . No wonder the old Americanism is in a bad way . We put it to you plainly : Could the Emancipation Proclamation have been written by a man who had just risen from a dish of marshmallow nut sundae or banana split ? Hence we can not rejoice as much as we should like to over the news from Albany . What advantage is a reduction in price if the article in question is worthless ? What use to tantalize an undernourished public by saying , Pie , pie , when there is no pie ?                     