@@486190

M R. ROBBINS writes to explain the labor movement to the farmer . Senator Capper writes to explain the farmer 's discontent and the rise of a farmer group in Congress to the rest of the country . There is good reason for both books , and both fill their purpose fairly well . The leaders of farm thought and the more thoughtful farmers need better to understand the desires and ideals back of the labor organizations and to have a broader , truer idea of where the labor movement comes from and where it is going . It is doubtful if the farmers of the country , as a class , were ever less in sympathy with organized labor as a body , ever more inclined to doubt the immediate purposes and to question the essential sanity of the men who have been directing the policies of organized labor . For much of this attitude toward them the labor unions have themselves to blame . Much of it is due directly to the poor pay the farmers have been receiving for their own labor the last few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is due to the muddled thinking of the whole country which has confused every movement of a radical , or even a progressive , nature with the extremest ideas of the few real promoters of violence and disorder . The farmer is naturally a conservative ; it is only when things are going decidedly wrong that he becomes a radical , and even then he is likely to be distrustful of the radicalism of other people . Engaged in a business in which he must stick to his job or go under he is not likely to be patient of strikes , and when those strikes directly injure him he is likely to become excessively impatient with all strikers . Rightly or wrongly the mass of farmers blame union labor for many of their own present troubles . The great majority of farmers have scant knowledge of the long struggle of the industrial workers for fair living conditions and are not in position , because of this lack of knowledge , to judge fairly the labor struggles of the present . Mr. Robbins has done his work well . That he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the book , but he impresses one as a fair pleader and as one who believes in his case . Farmers and laborers in industry have interests in common and interests in direct opposition , but each side will do well to keep in mind that , as Mr. Robbins says , the great fight of both is a fight for essentially the same thing , a higher standard of life , and that a misunderstanding of each other 's aims may result in futile and costly effort to prevent what is both desirable and inevitable . If the farmer needs better to understand what laboring men are trying to get and what they have to contend against , the country at large needs the same better understanding of the farmers ' aims and their causes of complaint . Senator Capper is the farmers ' attorney , and he presents his case clearly , temperately , and on the whole justly . His book is essentially timely  --  it deals with conditions which may be entirely changed in two or three years , and may be altogether out of date by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel and why they feel so just at the present time . It is fair , I think , to say that almost every measure advocated  --  a high protective tariff alone excepted  --  will help the farmers of the country in some measure to strengthen their position economically and to make their work yield them a more satisfactory living . That the Senator could look to a protective tariff as one of the means of agricultural reconstruction , however , shows how superficial his study of the whole question has been . The things he advocates are the things the farmer sentiment of the country has demanded . Valuable as his work for the freedom of cooperative marketing has been , he seems to have only a faint idea of the deeper meaning of the development of cooperative business methods and the ideals of cooperation . One is perhaps a bit surprised when he goes so far as to say that it is a fallacy to suppose that increasing land prices are a benefit to farmers in general , but that they are an indication of a drift toward tenant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production which the consumer must pay . It is doubtful if there is another expression in the book with which the majority of farmers would not agree . That one is an exceedingly hopeful sign . It may mean that some day this very capable Senator will really get down to a study of the basic problems of agriculture and really lead the farmers in a definite movement toward a real economic freedom . The book , none the less , is a good book for the man off the farm to read , for it is a mirror of the typical farmer 's mind . E. E. MILLER An Italian Idealist The Reform of Education . By Giovanni Gentile . Translated by Dino Bigongiari . Harcourt , Brace . $2 . THE human heart has always hoped , however much the human mind may have doubted , that ideality lies somehow at the heart of things . The whole history of philosophical idealism may be largely interpreted as an attempt to substantiate the truth of this congenial dream , an attempt made more and more difficult in the last century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The blind cruelty of nature and the pitiless operation of natural selection have made it almost impossible to maintain a naive faith in or a dialectical proof of the essential goodness of things . Yet in the face of wave after wave of positivism , materialism , and pragmatism , there has grown up in Italy in the last three decades a vivid and energetic young idealism . Its central doctrine is the ancient insistence that the essence of reality is spiritual and that the life of each man is a pulse in that universal spirit whose activity is the life of all things . The leaders of the movement have been Croce and Gentile , whose most common quality is their eloquence and ardor . The metaphysical apparatus is German ; more specifically it is the technique of Hegel . But the passion and the accent are Italian and Catholic , and much that in its Protestant and German setting is dead and forbidding , becomes in its ultramontane dress persuasive and alive . The volume of Gentile under review is ostensibly a book of somewhat chauvinistic addresses to teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps less important as an essay in education than as a concrete introduction to the idealistic position which lies behind it . Assuming the difficult ( and dubious ) dialectics by which they are arrived at , Gentile 's conclusions may be summarized as follows : The essence of reality is thought , by the activity of which all thinkable things have their being . Thought is not conceived as a lifeless and static structure , nor the universe , as in Hegel , as a kind of cosmic syllogism . Gentile 's Thought may be said to be the Absolute of the Hegelians made vital and dynamic , or Bergson 's " ? lan vital " spiritualized and logicized . Thought is the activity of the Spirit , and the activity of the Spirit is free . The universe is an " Odyssey of the Spirit , " in which the Spirit creates its own world as it goes and as it grows . Reality is Spirit , Spirit is Creation , Creation is Becoming , and Becoming is Free . It would take too much space  --  and too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ display the logical preliminaries to this metaphysical peroration . In translation the demonstration is very difficult to follow , though one suspects that the difficulties are logical rather than verbal and would be equally baffling in the original . But the logic , which is far from water-tight , is in any case less interesting than the moral intensities and ardors which he behind it . Gentile 's work is avowedly part of the propaganda which he and Croce have been waging for twenty years , as Croce says in the Introduction , " to shake Italy out of the doze of naturalism and positivism back to idealistic philosophy . " It is the heroic attempt to maintain in the face of all the contrarious evidence of contemporary science that things are not the external dead mechanisms they seem , but the production of a universal creative spirit . However dubious may be the basis of the contention  --  and some shabby old dialectical juggling is resorted to in the demonstration  --  the moral consequences are clear . Since only the Spirit is real , and since each of us , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universal Spirit , what is true of reality entire is true of each of us . Not simply the universe is creative and free , but so are we . Not simply is the future of the cosmos a career of untold possibility , but so is the career of each of us . It is at this point that the educational consequences of the doctrine break upon us . The aim of education is the liberation and enhancement of the living spirit that each of us most truly is . It is not the acquisition of dead external facts , or the mastering of dead and separate routines . Education is education of the spirit or it is nothing . And education of the spirit means , in Gentile 's own words , " the extolment of the pupil 's own personality , the helping him to create his own world . " " We want mathematics , " he writes , " but we want it in the man . And the same for economics , religion , poetry , and all the rest . Otherwise we suffocate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is no life . And things oppress and kill us . Let us , therefore , spiritualize things by reviving the spirit . Let us release it so that it may freely move in the organic unity of nature . Let us train it so that its strength , agility , and balance and all-round development may be able to control all its dependent functions , which can be successfully carried on only on condition that they agree and collaborate toward common life . " One does not have to accept Gentile 's metaphysics or to follow his dialectic , to find something stirring and important in his invective against education that is mere scrappy acquisition of information and mere deadening routine . One can find an almost identical polemic in a " dozing naturalism " as far removed from that of Gentile as is the philosophy of John Dewey . One does not have to accept Gentile 's doctrine of the Universal Creative Spirit to see that he means by the human spirit human personality , and to agree with him that education should foster and not kill it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , seems to be a reaction against the modern mechanization and " robotization " of life , rather than a mere philosophical answer to the doctrines of mechanism . It is essentially a reassertion on a cosmic scale of the primacy of personality , in a world which has been deadened by the weight of things . So deeply is Signore Gentile concerned for the fostering and enrichment of a creative personality that he is not willing to stop until he has pictured the whole universe itself as just such a personality  --  of which the individual is a single instance and a single throb . One can not but be sympathetic with the beautiful intention , whatever one thinks of the method . It is a little late in the day to dismiss the whole structure of experimental knowledge with a dialectical wave of the hand . Nor will the chastened contemporary mind prefer eloquence to inquiry . It is healthy nevertheless to move for a little while in a realm of discourse whose cadences are so different from those heard among the devotees of test tubes and reaction times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so much the mechanization of life that he tries to prove that mechanism itself is an illusion . Like most philosophical idealisms , Gentile 's , though it can not be taken literally , may well be taken seriously . The universe may not be in its essence an adventure of creative freedom . But to say that it is , eternalizes in cosmic symbols a moving human ideal . Not even the most intransigent positivist will quarrel with Signore Gentile when he insists that the aim of education is to promote this ideal , to contribute to the growth of personality , to provoke creation , and to promote freedom . Nor will anybody of whatever philosophical faith fail to applaud the wise specific things he has to say about the content and the method of the educational process . Here 's hoping that as the new Fascist Minister of Education , he will translate into effective practice the enthusiasm of his closing vision : " Every education is good provided it is education , philosophical , human , mind-stirring education , provided it does not bring atrophy to any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit under the weight either of things or of the divinity , nor excessively exalt it in the consciousness of its own personal power ; provided it neither hurls it into the free abstract world of dreams , nor fetters it in the iron chains of an inhuman reality , and provided it does not shatter it nor scatter its fragments , by the multiple investigation of things innumerable , the knowledge of which can never bring satisfaction . " IRWIN ERMAN                     