@@467376

I REMEMBER a talk in Dublin with an Irish writer whose English prose has adorned our period . It was 1918 , and the eve of forced conscription , and his indignation with English policy was intense . " I will give up their language , " he said , " all except Shakespeare . I will write only Gaelic . " Unfortunately , be could read Gaelic much better than he could write it . In his heart , indeed , he knew how mad he would have been to give up the only literary tradition which , thanks to language , could he his own ; and in a calmer mood since he has enr ; ched that tradition with admirable translations from the Irish . He was suffering from a mild case of Anglomania . Who is the real Anglomaniac in America ? Not the now sufficiently discredited individual with a monocle and a pseudo-Oxford accent , who tries to be more English than the English . Not the more subtly dangerous American who refers his tastes , his enthusiasms , his culture , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he dare assert them . The real Anglomaniac is the American who tries to be less English than his own American tradition . He is the man who is obsessed with the fear of " Anglo-Saxon domination . " How many Anglomaniacs by this definition are at large in America each reader may judge for himself . Personally , I find them extraordinarily from the mere borrower of opinions to numerous , and of so many varieties , the deeply convinced zealot , that it seems wiser to analyze Anglomania possess it . And in this analysis let us than to discuss the various types that exclude from the beginning such very real , but temporary , grievances against the English as spring from Irish oppressions , trade rivalries , or the provocations which always arise between allies in war . All such causes of anti-English and anti- " Anglo-Saxon " sentiment belong in a different category from the underlying motives which I propose to discuss . These Anglomaniacs , with their talk of Anglo-Saxon domination , can not mean English domination . That would be absurd , although even absurdities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least one Irishman of my acquaintance knows that King George cabled Wilson to bring America into the war , and that until that cable came Wilson dared not act . I can conceive of an English influence upon literature that is worth attacking , and also worth defending . I can conceive of a far less important English influence upon our social customs . Rut in neither case , domination . That England dominates our finance , our industry , our polities , is just now , especially , the suspicion of a paranoiac , or the idea of an ignoramus . " Anglo-Saxon domination , " even in an anti-British meeting , can not and does not mean English domination ; it can mean only control of America by the so-called Anglo-Saxon element in our population . The quarrel is local , not international . The " Anglo-Saxon " three thousand miles away who can not hit back is a scapegoat , a whipping boy for the so-called " Anglo-Saxon " American at home . What is an " Anglo-Saxon " American ? Presumably he is the person familiar in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boarders for the summer . References exchanged . " But this does not help us much . He is certainly not English . Nothing is better established than the admixture of bloods since the earliest days of our nationality . That myself , for example , have ancestral portions of French , German , Welsh , and Scotch , as well as English blood in my veins , makes me , by any historical test , characteristically more rather than less American . Race , indeed , within very broad limits , is utterly different from nationality , and it is usually many , many centuries before the two become even approximately identical . The culture I have inherited , the political ideals I live by , the literature which is my own , most of all the language that I speak , are far more important than the ultimate race or races I stem from , obviously more important , since in thousands of good Americans it is impossible to determine what races have gone to their making . There is no such thing as an Anglo-Saxon American ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An American with a strong national individuality there certainly is , and it is true that his traditions , irrespective of the race of his forbears , are mainly English ; from England he drew his political and social habits , his moral ideas , his literature , and his language . This does not make him a " slave to England , " as our most recent propagandists would have it ; it does not put him in England 's debt . We owe no debt to England . Great Britain , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , and ourselves are deeply in debt to our intellectual , our spiritual , our esthetic ancestors who were the molders of English history and English thought , the interpreters of English emotion , the masters of the developing English mores that became our mores , and have since continued evolution with a difference . Chaucer , Shakespeare , Spenser , and Milton , Wycliffe , Bunyan , Fox , and Wesley , Elizabeth , Cromwell , and the great Whigs , these made the only tradition that can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tradition , as we assuredly have , here are its roots . This is our " Anglo-Saxon domination . " But if the roots of this tradition are English , its trunk is thoroughly American , seasoned and developed through two centuries of specifically American history . As we know it to-day it is no longer " Anglo-Saxon , " it is as American as our cities , our soil , our accent upon English . If we are going to discuss " domination " let us be accurate and speak of the domination of American tradition . It is against the American tradition that the new Anglomaniac actually protests . Dominating this American tradition is , dominating , almost tyrannical , for one reason only , but that a strong one , a fact not a convention , a factor , not a mere influence ? dominating because of the English language . lin our century language has become once again as powerful as in the Roman Empire ? and its effects , thanks to printing and easy transportation , are far more quickly attained . Hordes from all over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have come to a. country where the new language was indispensable . They have learned it , or their children have learned it . English has become their means of communication with their neighbors , with business , with the state . Sooner or later even the news of Europe has come to them through English , and sometimes unwillingly , but more often unconsciously , they have come under the American , the real " Anglo-Saxon " domination . For a language , of course , is more than words . It is a body of literature , it is a method of thinking , it is a definition of emotions , it is the exponent and the symbol of a civilization . You can not adopt English without adapting yourself in some measure to the English , or the Anglo-American tradition . You can not adopt English political words , English literary words , English religious words , the terms of sport or ethics , without in some measure remaking your mind on a new model . If you fail or refuse , your child will not . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and chiefly by language . I submit that it is impossible for an alien thoroughly to absorb and understand Lincoln 's Gettysburg Speech or Hawthorne 's Scarlet Letter without working a slight but perceptible transformation in the brain , without making himself an heir of a measure of English tradition . And the impact of English as a spoken tongue , and the influence of its literature as the only read literature , are great beyond ordinary conception . Communities where a foreign language is read or spoken only delay the process , they can not stop it . The foreigner , it is true , has modified the English language precisely as he has modified the American tradition . Continental Europe is audible in the American tongue , as it is evident in the American mind ; but it is like the English or the Spanish touch upon the Gothic style in architecture ? there is modification , but not fundamental change . Many a foreign-born American has been restless under this domination . The letters and memoirs of the French immigrants from revolutionary France express discomfort freely . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a high civilization , have often confessed an unwilling assimilation . The Germans of earlier migrations herded apart like the later Scandinavians , in part to avoid the tyranny of tongue . Imagine a German coming here in early manhood . His tradition is not English ; be owes nothing to a contemporary England that he but dimly knows . Speaking English , perhaps only English , he grows impatient with a tongue every concept of which has an English coloring . The dominance of the language , and especially of its literature , irks him . He no longer wants to think as a German ; he wants to think as an American ; but the mediumof his thought must be English . His anger often enough goes out against English history , English literature . He is easily irritated by England . But it is the American past that binds and is converting him . Such consciousness of the power of environment is perhaps rare , but the fact is common . In our few centuries of history millions have been broken into English , with all that implies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tradition which makes alien their fatherlands , and strangers of their children . This is an " Anglo-Saxon " domination But it is useless to struggle against it . There is a similar discomfort among certain American authors , especially just now , when , for the first time since the Civil War and the materialism that succeeded it , we are finding our national self once again in literature . Mr. Mencken and Mr. Dreiser have vigorously expressed this annoyance with American tradition . They wish to break with it ? at least Mr. Dreiser does ? break with it morally , spiritually , esthetically . Let the dotards , he says , bury their dead . Mr. Mencken wishes to drive us out of Colonialism . He says that Longfellow has had his day , and that it is time to stop imitating Addison , time to be ashamed of aping Stevenson , Kipling , or John Masefield . He is right . But when it comes to disowning English literature and the past of American literature ( as many a writer directly or by implication would have us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let us first take breath long enough to reflect that , first , such a madcap career is eminently undesirable , and , second , utterly impossible . It is a literature which by general admission is now the richest and most liberal in the world of living speech . English is a tongue less sonorous than Italian , less fine than French , less homely than German , but more expressive , more flexible , than these and all others . Its syntax imposes no burdens , its traditions are weighty only upon the vulgar and the bizarre . Without its literary history , American literature in general , and usually in particular , is not to he understood . That we have sprung from a Puritanical loin , and been nourished in the past from the breast of Victorianism , is obvious . In this we have been not too much , but too narrowly , English . We have read Tennyson when it might have been better to have read Shakespeare or Chaucer . But to wish to break with English literature in order to become altogether American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clothes . I shall not give up trousers because my fourth great-grandfather , who was a Yorkshireman , wore them , and his pattern no longer fits my different contour . I shall make me a pair better suiting my own shanks ? yet they shall still be trousers . Rut in any case , language binds us . Indeed , in this welter of newcomers here in America , whose children learn , read , write only English , the tradition of Anglo-American literature is all that holds us by a thread above chaos . If we could all be made to speak German , or Italian , or Spanish , there would be cause , but no excuse , for an attempted revolution . But English is dominant here and will remain so . Could we hope to make an American literary language without dependence on English literature , a protective tariff on home-made writing , or an embargo against books more than a year old , or imported from across the Atlantic , would be worth trying ; but the attempts so far are not encouraging . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original literatures have been made . They have sucked nourishment where it could best be found , and grown great from the strength that good food gave them . One can sympathize with the desire to nationalize our literature at all costs ; and can understand lashings out at the tyranny of literature prestige which England still exercises . But the real question is : shall the English of Americans be good English or bad English ; shall a good tradition stiffen change and experiment , or shall we have chaotic vulgarity like the Low Latin of the late Roman Empire ? The truth is that our language is tradition , for it holds tradition in solution like iron in wine . And here lie the secret and the power of American , " Anglo-Saxon " domination . What is to be done about it ? Shall anything be done about it ? The Anglomaniac is helpless before the fact of language . The most he can do is to attack , and uproot if he can , the American tradition . There is nothing sacrosanct in this American tradition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if we allow it , the future in the dead hand of precedent . It can be used by the designing to block progress . But as traditions go it is not conservative . Radicalism , indeed , is its child . Political and religious radicalism brought the Pilgrims to New England , the Quakers to Pennsylvania ; political and economic radicalism made the Revolution against the will of American conservatives ; political and social radicalism made the Civil War inevitable and gave it moral earnestness . Radicalism , whether you like it or not , is much more American than what some people mean by " Americanism " to-day . And its bitterest opponents in our times would quite certainly have become Nova Scotian exiles if they had been alive and likeminded in 1783 . Nor is this American tradition impeccable in the political ideas , the literary ideals , the social customs it has given us . We must admit . a rampant individualism in our political practices which is in the very best Anglo-American tradition , and yet by no means favorable to co-operative government . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art can well digest ; and more sentiment than is good for us ; nor is it probable that the traditions and the conventions which govern American family life are superior to their European equivalents , We should welcome ( I do not say that we do ) liberalizing , broadening , enriching influences from other traditions . And whether we have welcomed them or not , they have come , and to our great benefit . But to graft upon the plant is different from trying to pull up the roots . We want better arguments than the fear of Anglo-Saxon domination before the root pulling begins . We wish to know what is to be planted . We desire to he convinced that the virtue has gone out of the old stock . We want examples of civilized nations that have profited by borrowing traditions wholesale , or by inventing them . We wish to know if a cultural , a literary sans-cullotisra is possible , except with chaos as a goal . Most of all , we expect to fight for and to hold our Anglo-American heritage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English tradition has expressed itself by a kind of Freudian transformation in anti-English sentiment . Every vigorous nation strains and struggles with its tradition , like a growing boy with his clothes , and this is particularly true of new nations with old traditions behind them . Our pains are growing pains ? a malady we have suffered from since the early eighteenth century at the latest . Tradition , our own tradition , pinches us ; but you can not punch tradition for pinching you , or call it names to its face , especially if it proves to be your father 's tradition , or your next-door neighbor 's . Therefore , since that now dim day when the Colonies acquired a self-consciousness of their own , many good Americans have chosen England and the English to symbolize whatever irked them in their own tradition . It is from England and the English that we have felt ourselves growing away , from which we had to grow away in order to be ourselves and not a shadow ? imitators , second-bests , Colonials . England and the English have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been greatest . And when V. CXLIII. ? No. 855. - 90an English government like Palmerston 's , or Salisbury 's , or Lloyd George 's , offends some group or race among us , a lurking need to assert our individuality , or prove that we are not Colonials , leads thousands more to join in giving the lion 's tail an extra twist . This may he unfortunate , but it argues curiously enough respect and affection rather than the reverse , and it is very human . It is a fact , like growing , and is likely to continue until we are fully grown . It will reassert itself vehemently until upon our English tradition we shall have built an American civilization as definitely crystallized , a literature as rich and self-sufficing , as that of France and England to-day . Threequarters of our national genius went into the creating of our political system . Three-quarters of our national genius since has gone into the erecting of our economic system . Here we are independent and thick skinned . But a national civilization and a national literature take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a little tail-twisting after the great war , even though they could not foresee the unfortunate Irish situation in which a British government seemed determined to make itself as un-English as possible . If there had not been the patriotic urge to assert our essential Americanism more strongly than ever , there still would have been a reaction against all the pledging and the handshaking , the pother about blood and water , the purple patches in every newspaper asserting Anglo-Saxonism against the world . I remember my own nervousness when , in 1918 , after the best part of a year in England , in England 's darkest days , I came back full of admiration for the pluck of all England and the enlightenment of her best minds in the great struggle , to hear men who knew little of England orating of enduring friendship , and to read writers who had merely read of England , descanting of her virtues . I felt , and many felt , that excess of ignorant laudation which spells certain reaction into ignorant dispraise . No wonder that Americans whose parents happened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grew weary of hearing of the essential virtues of the AngloSaxon race . There never was such a race . It was not even English blood , but English institutions that created America ; but Liberty Loan orators had no time to make fine distinctions of that kind , They talked , and even while the cheers were ringing and the money rolled in dissent raised its tiny head . Dissent was to be expected ; antagonism against a tradition made by English minds and perpetuated in English was natural after a war in which not merely nationalism , but also every racial instinct , has been quickened and made sensitive . But tout comprendre , c'esl tout pardonner , is only partly true in this instance . We should understand , and be tolerant with , the strainings against tradition of folk to whom it is still partly alien ; we should diagnose our own growing pains and not take them too seriously . Nevertheless , the better more violent movements of race and national prejudice are understood , the less readily can they be pardoned , if by pardon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we shall have to face squarely a split between those who prefer the American tradition and those who do not , although where the cleavage line would rim , whether between races or classes , is past guessing . There are among us apparently men and women who would risk wars , external or internal , in order to hasten the discordant day ; although just what they expect as a result , whether an Irish-German state organized by German efficiency and officered by graduates of Tammany Hall , or a pseudoRussian communism , is not yet clear . In any case , the time is near when whoever mils himself American will have to take his stand and do more thinking , perhaps , than was necessary in 1917 . He needs to know what tradition is , what his own consists of , and what he would do without it . He needs especially to rid himself of such simple and fallacious ideas as that what was good enough for his grandfather is good enough for him ; or that , as some of our more reputable newspapers profess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held by the Bible , and contains the whole duty of man and all that is necessary for his welfare . He needs to think less of 100 per cent Americanism , which , as it is commonly used , means not to think at all , and more of how he himself is molding American tradition for the generation that is to follow . If he is not to be a pawn merely in the struggle for American unity , he must think more clearly and deeply than has been his habit in the past . But whatever happens in America ( and after the sad experiences of prophets in the period of war and reconstruction , who would prophesy ) , let us cease abusing England whenever we have indigestion in our own body politic . It is seemingly inevitable that the writers of vindictive editorials should know little more of England as she is to-day than of Russia or the Chinese Republic ; inevitable , apparently , that for them the Trish policy of the Tory group in Parliament , Indian unrest , and Lloyd George , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal experiments in industrial democracy since the war , and whose courage in reconstruction , may well make us hesitate in dispraise . But it is not inevitable that Americans who are neither headline and editorial writers , nor impassioned orators , regardless of facts , should continue to damn the English because their ancestors and ours founded America .                     