@@493182

CORRESPONDENCE In Justice to the Indians SIR : When legislation affecting the Pueblo Indians of New Mexico has been introduced in Congress by a Senator from that state , with the alleged support of the Indians and apparent approval of the Indian Office ; when it has been briefly questioned by Senator Borah and then accepted by the Senate unanimously , the American public might suppose the legislation known as the Bursum Indian bill to be an act dealing justly with the Indians and bringing credit to the state and the nation responsibly concerned . As it happens , the American public would be deceived . The bill , which has passed a misinformed Senate and is now before the House , is grossly unjust to the Indians , violates every official , protestation that the government is their protector , and is , moreover , in such imminence of becoming law that only that vaguely accessible power , the public , can prevent a great wrong The Indians , helpless politically , have issued , with one voice from all the pueblos , a dignified but moving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theirs in this emergency , we , the undersigned , who have had an opportunity to study conditions among the villages and to understand the faithless provisions of the projected law , and who intend doing our best to expose the facts , call upon the American people to protest immediately against the impending Bursum Indian bill , whether in its prep ent form or with disingenuous amendments . We ask this for the sake of the Pueblos who , though probably the most indus* trious and deserving of all our Indian wards , are now threatened with the loss of their lands and of their community existence . We ask if even more for the sake of Americans themselves , as a test of national honor . Conrad Aiken 's Review S IR : Perhaps some of your readers , after reading the scolding review by Conrad Aiken of Robert Graves 's little book , 011 English Poetry , might care to hear another and different opinion ' If so , I offer mine . December 13 , 1922 THE NEW A Nietzsche Gesellschaft S IR : Possibly a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so little is the real Nietzsche known in our country ? will be interested to hear that a Nietzsche-Gesellschaft has recently been formed in Germany , with headquarters in Munich ( Schackstrasse , 4-4 ) and having among its Vorstand Thomas Mann and Hugo von Hofmannsthal . Of interest to liberals is the emphasis Put ( in a circular that has just reached me ) on Nietzsche 's " good-European , " standpoint ? his independence of the ordinarily polit e. nationalistic , not to say imperialistic , movements of the day . What alone interested him , so far as politics was concerned , he once said , was a " united Europe , " even speaking formally of " the United States of Europe . " To him the current nationalistic patriotism was a " nevrose nationale " ? the greatest enemy of culture , in the higher sense , that exists . He was as critical of the new German nationalism ( after 1870 ) as of any other . It is plain that a Nietzsche-Geselischaft , if animated with a spirit like this , must work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and in Europe generally , so far as its influence extends ? and it distinctly expects an international membership , including even America . - WILLIAM M. SALTER . Washington , D. C. On a Certain Condescension in Americans S IR : It was but yesterday that I came upon a group of Americans , from the States , standing in front of the shop Window of a Sicilian bookseller , and wondering ' what extraordinary circumstances could have brought there Paul Shorey 's Assault on Humanism and Conrad Aiken 's poems . It is rather the way of our American visitors , bless them , to believe that Prim old Europe does not appreciate fully their interesting literature . This makes them turn a condescending eye on their poor friends in Italy . Poor , there is no way of denying the fact , but not wanting knowledge or taste . Of our regard for American hterature bear witness the essays published by our leading reviews , the accurate translations of your masterpieces , and the favor which the American-Italian library , founded in Rome , is meeting with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American literature is believed to be confined to Longfellow 's Village smithy , beneath the spreading , familiar chestnut-tree , or to the shrewd activity of Nick Carter , the detective . Professor K. Mackenzie told us almost as much , last February , in one of the two lectures he delivered at the University of Palermo . Re started with the Pilgrim Fathers in his first lesson , while in the next he gave us a general account of Hawthorne 's and Poe 's Works . We all felt that the distinguished professor from the University of Illinois , whose lectures have just been issued in Italy 111 book form , supposed that we only dimly knew about Donatello and the Marble Faun , and the grim bird made famous by Edgar Poe , to say nothing of the self-exiled Puritans . I am sure filar Professor Mackenzie must have been agreeably surprised , ? 11 his official tournCe through our universities , to find that Italians do appreciate American literature , not as an occasional branch of British literature , but for its own peculiar freshness ? f vision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ours . I may be justified in affirming that no field of , nowledge plowed by the American scholar has remained un- " own to us , in spite of the difficulty of getting books at the Prevailing high rate of exchange . No name , from Emerson and his circle , down to those who today debate the Freudian Principles ? from Washington Irving to Josh Billings ? from Poe and Walt Whitman and Lanier to such moderns as Carl Sand- 6 ? no name , I say , is utterly unknown to the majority of veil-read Italians . Allow me to add that , on the golden field Of knowledge , we are entitled to stand side by side . Let me express the wish that the modern literature of Italy may beaarrie as familiar to the American people as the literature of America is dear to her Italian friends . A. BENEDETTI . The University of Palermo . . elp for a Young German Author S IR : I am just in receipt of a letter from one of the younger German authors , in which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go on living . He has been subsisting for months on a diet of bread and coffee substitute . He is at the end of his resources . " I beg you , " he writes , " help me , that.I may not perish . . . . I am at the end of my strength . " Such assistance as I am able to render is inadequate . I am sending you the ' man 's name and address , which for the sake of his dignity I beg you not to publish . Will you not forward to him the contributions swhich your readers may send ? BABETTE DEUTSCH . The New Republic will be glad to forward any sums entrusted to it for this purpose. ? THE Earroas . Yereb Remains in America S IR : The other day I received a wire from Edward J. Henning , Assistant Secretary of Labor , stating that John Yereb will be admitted to America and further investigation made concerning his citizenship . His deportation has been stayed , very likely prevented , and no one deserves more praise than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the splendid publicity which you gave through your columns must have aided in furthering the ends of justice , so that this unfortunate man and his wife and child might be reunited . More power to you . Oakland , California . ( Rabbi ) RUDOLPH COFFEE . Education in China S IR : I am wondering if you have seen the report of the Educational Commission recently returned from China ? Aside from Bertrand Russell 's article in The Dial on one aspect of one phase ( ! ) of higher education in government schools , and an over-condensed article on education in the recent China number of the Nation , little attention has been given this central Problem in China 's development ? even by John Dewey . It deserves more . The above report represents the liberal wing of Protestant Missions where modern education in China originated . It is : Christian Education in China , published by the Committee of Reference and Counsel of the Foreign Missions Conference of America , 25 Madison Avenue , New York City . Dutton has the manuscript of a separate book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , James B. Webster of Shanghai College being the author . MAURICE T. PRICE . Shanghai , China . Federal Enforcement of Prohibition S IR : I confess to vagueness as to what I think about prohibition ? though my inclination is to share Mr. Felix Frankfurter 's preference for a civilization without its flatness . I share the concern of the New Republic and Mr. Fabian Franklin at the demoralization incident to non-enforcement . But the proposal to leave local enforcement exclusively to local authorities ( in which Mr. Frankfurter in your issue of November x5th supports the New Republic ) leaves me shocked and dazed . " The historic and intrinsic allotment of authority between federal and state action , " says Mr. Frankfurter , " furnishes the basis of responsibility , for enforcement of the Eighteenth Amendment . " Is not this pure legalism ? Can anything be said in favor of this allotment of authority except that it is " historic " ? Has it not throughout our history resulted in diffused incompetence and dis-focus of responsibility ? Compare our statistics of crime and punishment with those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power is centralized . WALTER NELLES . New York City . The Christian Register and the Near East SIR : Mr. Norman Thomas gets the Register wrong when he says this paper was for rushing to war in the recent Near East excitement . What we were for was quite the opposite of war , We warned our readers of the danger of being swallowed up in a war because of the conflicting interests of the so-called Christian nations in relation to Turkey . We argued that the , crisis illustrated the need of America in the councils of the world . Because she is the oldest ; most stable government , and least involved , morally , in the Near East , she ought to do her duty and make her righteousness count . We believe America with a mandate in Armenia would have made the dreadful situation virtually impossible .                     