@@486236

MliCHELL PALMER , whose regime as Attorney . General is an unfragrant memory , has bobbed into the news again through revelations showing how support for his Presidential aspirations in 1920 was paid for in the New England States ( although for reasons best known to the canny inhabitants there was some failure to make delivery ) . With a thrift worthy of the best traditions of the region concerned , the cost came not out of Mr. Palmer 's pocket but from the Treasury of the United States . The disclosures in regard to Mr. Palmer were a by-product of the effort in Connecticut to defeat the candidacy of Thomas J. Spellacy for United States Senator , and apparently served that purpose well ; for , although a Democrat , Mr. Spellacy was found among the dead and wounded after the holocaust of November 7 . Letters and memoranda whose authenticity is not disputed show that while at the head of the United States Department of Justice Mr. Palmer used a large part of the time of Mr. Spellacy , then Assistant Attorney General , in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Democratic National Convention in San Francisco . Mr. Spellacy not only used his time  --  for which he was receiving a salary from the public  --  in traveling about promoting the ambitions of his chief , but he distributed Jobs at the disposal of the Department of Justice in return for promised or expected support . According to the Re-publican State Central Committee of Connecticut , Mr. Spellacy even charged his traveling expenses  --  not forgetting tips to Pullman porters  --  to the Government . Mr. Spellacy has declared in reply that his trips to New England were on " government business , " but he has not given details to support the claim nor has he denied the more serious revelations in regard to his activities . Mr. Spellacy entered the Department of Justice late in 1919 , and early in 1920 began to devote himself assiduously to lining up the New England States in support for the Presidential ambitions of his chief . Naturally Mr. Spellacy looked carefully after the fences in his native State . " Connecticut , " he wrote in advance of the choosing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least eight of which will be my close political and personal associates . The State may be safely counted for Mr. Palmer under any and every circumstance . " The reason for Mr. Spellacy 's assurance on this point was that he proposed to have the unit rule enforced upon the delegation , which would put it at the mercy of him and his friends . Discovering , however , that Homer S. Cummings wanted a complimentary vote from the State at the national convention , Mr. Spellacy counseled that " it would be inadvisable to oppose his wishes , especially as he is chairman of the National Committee and naturally would exert considerable influence beyond the confines of Connecticut . " In fact Mr. Spellacy was Johnny-on-the-spot and himself introduced the resolution whereby the Democratic State Central Committee instructed the delegates to the convention to support Mr. Cummings , intending to swing them for Mr. Palmer at the strategic moment . Mr. Spellacy overestimated his powers ; he failed to fasten the unit rule upon the State delegation and the highest vote he mustered for the Attorney General was ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held out for Mr. Cummings to the end , believing that he had a chance in the deadlocked convention which finally chose James M. Cox . Mr. Cummings himself was apparently of the same conviction , for after what he evidently regarded as a betrayal of his interests he shook off the dust of the State from his feet and has taken no part in politics there since . In Rhode Island Mr. Spellacy saw a chance to capitalize " bright college days , " writing to Mr. Palmer that two of the most prominent Democrats had formerly been fellow students with him and announcing his intention of visiting the State " next week . " It was in New Hampshire and Massachusetts that the Assistant Attorney General played his trump cards , however . After a trip to New Hampshire , where he visted R. C. Murchie , Democratic national committeeman , Mr. Spellacy wrote the following memorandum for the enlightenment of Attorney General Palmer : R. C. Murchie is very much interested in Fred H. Brown , who is at present the United States Attorney in New Hampshire . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mayor of Somersworth , in addition to being United States Attorney , and seems to me to be a " live-wire " Democrat . His salary as United States Attorney is $2,000 . He has turned his town and his environments from a strong Republican bedlam to an equally as strong Democratic town . Everybody I spoke to in New Hampshire appreciated the methods pursued by Brown , his work for the party , and his ability . It would be a good thing to appoint him special assistant to the Attorney General and to assign him to some work in New Hampshire . This would leave a vacancy for Mr. Murchie to recommend a successor to Mr. Brown , in addition to the two places he would have in the Bureau of Investigation . This plan seemed to flatter him very much and there is no question in my mind but what , if carried out , six of the New Hampshire delegates will be for Palmer . Then there was the Massachusetts situation . There Mr. Spellacy chummed with the Pelletier-Coakley twins , the first one of whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Massachusetts Supreme Court because of malfeasance , misfeasance , and nonfeasance in office ; in the recent election he ran again for the place , but  --  despite the Democratic landslide  --  the voters of Boston declined to return him . Of the other twin Mr. Spellacy wrote to Mr. Palmer that it is commonly reported in Massachusetts that Mr. Coakley has received tremendous fees for having cases dropped by Mr. Pelletier . " As a sop to this precious pair Mr. Spellacy recommended the appointment as United States Attorney for Massachusetts of Daniel J. Gallagher , who had been associated with Mr. Pelletier in his law office . Mr. Spellacy advised Mr. Palmer that Mr. Gallagher " bears a most excellent reputation as a lawyer . asked for the disbarment of Mr. Gallagher a number of years before because of charges by clients of misappropriation of funds , and the Superior Court , having found him guilty , had suspended him from practice for a period of from three to five years . What happened next , as the Hartford Courant tells the story , was this : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered for appointment to the office of United States Attorney , a committee representing the Bar Association of Boston , composed of Michael J. Shugrue and John Lowell , went to Washington to protest . Calling at the White House to see President Wilson , they were met by Secretary Tumulty , who told them that they could have a hearing with the President on the following Tuesday at 10 a. m . As hard as they tried , they could not obtain an appointment immediately . When they called for their appointment on Tuesday , they were told by Secretary Tumulty that the President regretted that he could do nothing toward stopping the appointment of Gallagher as United States Attorney , as he had been appointed and confirmed the previous day , Monday . No amount of arguing could get a personal interview with the President for them . In order to appoint Mr. Gallagher as United States Attorney for Massachusetts it was necessary for Thomas J. Boynton to step out of that office . As he was a friend of Mr. Spellacy this was easily accomplished , Mr. Boynton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attorney General at $1,000 a month . Mr. Boynton had formerly been chairman of the Democratic State Committee in Vermont and had many acquaintances in Maine . He accompanied Mr. Spellacy in his forays after delegates into those States , but apparently he did not understand that this was all the public service a special assistant to the Attorney General at $1,000 a month was expected to render , for a month after his appointment he wrote to Mr. Spellacy : " As I have not received any instructions as to my duties as special assistant I am writing you to ask if this is due to some oversight that should be corrected . " The Pelletier-Coakley twins made good . Both were in the Massachusetts delegation to the Democratic National Convention and voted for Mr. Palmer until his name was withdrawn . They did more . At least , according to the Boston Post , a Democratic newspaper , the Massachusetts delegates who supported Mr. Palmer " were delivered by Daniel H. Coakley to the Attorney General in return for the appointment of Daniel J. Gallagher as United States Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New England well  --  at the public 's expense  --  and apparently looked forward to a perfect harvest . So well satisfied was he , indeed , that he recommended similar cultivation of the whole United States . " If possible I believe that every State in the country should be visited by somebody , preferably somebody in Washington , " he wrote for the enlightenment of Mr. Palmer . " It has been my experience that every man I have called upon was flattered . " But the soil of New England proved rockier and more stubborn than the Assistant Attorney General had imagined and , as previously intimated , hardly justified the outlay upon it  --  although neither Mr. Spellacy nor Mr. Palmer footed the bills . The New England States had eighty-eight votes at San Francisco , and the maximum strength they developed for the Attorney General was forty-one  --  on the thirteenth ballot . For Mr. Palmer it was hardly a lucky ballot , but it was the luckiest that came his way . How did the facts about the Palmer-Spellacy vote-getting round-up finally leak out ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retained in his service a young woman who had previously been private secretary to A. Bruce Bielaski , head of the Bureau of Investigation of the Department of Justice during the war . She turned over various letters and memoranda that had passed through her hands to Mr. Bielaski , who had resigned after the armistice to go into the oil business and has been described by Mr. Spellacy as " the man who went down into Mexico a couple of months ago and got himself kidnapped . " From Mr. Bielaski the material found its way in the recent campaign to George P. McLean , who was Mr. Spellacy 's Republican  --  and victorious  --  opponent in the race for United States Senator in Connecticut . Mr. Spellacy says that the material used against him during the campaign was stolen and known to have been stolen by the persons who used it . Mr. Bielaski has replied that the documents showed illegal activities on the part of Mr. Spellacy and that it was the duty of all good citizens knowing about them to make the facts public . The ethics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant point is that the genuineness of the documents is not disputed nor has any palliative explanation of the facts which they reveal been attempted either by Mr. Spellacy or Mr. Palmer . It may be said also in behalf of Mr. Bielaski that he asserts that he had made an attempt to place the evidence before the proper government officers before he finally turned over the material for partisan political use against Mr. Spellacy . Mr. Bielaski 's account of this attempt brings Joseph P. Tumulty , private secretary to President Wilson , into the story again and throws further light on where power lay and how official business was managed during the President 's sickness in the concluding months of the Wilson Administration . Mr. Bielaski says : I considered that Spellacy was using his government position and the government payroll to further his political campaign and I took the papers to Judge Knox It would have been futile to take them to the Department of Justice . As well give them to Spellacy himself . Judge Knox sent the documents to President Wilson in December of 1920 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Mr. Tumulty . The latter did not let President Wilson into the secret but he did " tip off " Mr. Palmer in regard to the papers . Just before the Wilson Administration went out of office he asked the White House to send him the material . Shortly after March 4 , Mr. Bielaski says that the following note was sent to Mr. Palmer by John Randolph Bolling , brother-in-law of Mr. Wilson : DEAR MR . PALMER : The papers for which you ask in your letter of March 2nd were found by Mr. Wilson only today , and at his request I inclose them herewith . Yours very cordially , JOHN RANDOLPH BOLLING . Mr. Spellacy said in the course of his campaign that his letters and memoranda had been given by Mr Bielaski to Will H. Hays , then chairman of the Republican National Committee , and that Mr. Hays had put the material at the disposal of the Republican Party in Connecticut . Mr. Bielaski admits giving the documents to Mr. Hays but says that the latter did not pass them on . When in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the Democratic nominee for the Presidency Mr. Hays came to Mr. Bielaski , according to the latter 's story , and asked if he had any definite information about Mr. Palmer 's use of his government office to advance his candidacy . In response Mr. Bielaski gave Mr. Hays copies of the papers in his possession on condition that no use be made of them unless Mr. Palmer should be nominated . Mr. Hays observed the terms of the understanding ; it was Mr. Bielaski himself , according to his own statement , that put the material in the hands of the Republican Party in Connecticut . It only remains to add that the interesting bit of jobbery here chronicled took place during a period which coincides nicely with the months when Mr. Palmer , as the apostle of untainted Americanism , was doing his utmost to jail or deport communists and all others who dared to assert that the government of the United States , as developed by the two old political parties , was not all that it should be . Workers ' Education : An International Movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Waterloo in Uccle , a suburb of Brussels , Belgium , stands the three-story home of the Belgian Labor College . There the First International Conference on Workers ' Education was held on August 16 and 17 . Floating over the entrance was the red flag of socialism , a symbol to the delegates of the spirit of human brotherhood earnestly striving to make the enlightened workers of Europe forgive and forget the tragedy of 1914-1918 . By the wording of the call sent out by the Belgian Central Educational Committee , the conference was limited to those organizations which were controlled by working-class bodies . While in most of the European countries there exists a joint educational committee of trade union , Socialist , and cooperative groups , the trade-union organizations felt it imperative to send representatives . The British Trade Union Congress , the German Trade Union Federation , and the Amsterdam Trade Union International all sent delegates , and Samuel Gompers wrote a letter . Most of the thirty-six delegates , who came from eleven countries and represented twenty-three educational enterprises under working-class control , had spent four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they assembled with a passionate desire to forget those terrible years . Great interest was shown in the decision that labor colleges in different countries should exchange students and teachers , and that workers should be encouraged to visit neighboring countries and workers ' schools . Mr. Muste promised that Brookwood College would participate for the United States . From the discussion at the conference it was evident that the management of the workers ' schools differs in the various countries . In seven countries educational activities are carried on by a joint committee of trade unionists , Socialists , and cooperatives . In Australia and the United States only do the trade unions alone control . In Germany and Switzerland both the trade-union and socialist groups are active , although they work separately . In Great Britain there exists a cooperative joint committee with advisory capacity , but it does not control the activities of the constituent groups . Henry de Man reported for Belgium . Last fall the Belgian Labor College opened at Uccle . It is a resident college accommodating fifty to sixty students . There is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are no organized classes . Some two hundred libraries have been established by the Central Bureau . The latest experiment has been the establishment of schools for shop chairmen . Such schools , with a total of twenty-two classes , have been established for the miners and machinists . These schools are under the joint control of the Central Education Committee and the industry concerned .                     