@@493265

Backing Up to Europe WHAT happened behind the scenes at the re ' cent reparations conference in London is little by little becoming fairly clear . The French government indicated its readiness to cut the 111 ' demnity to say $1o,000,000,000 and to grant a moratorium to Germany for two years , but 011 in return for a very substantial quid pro quo . Germany still can not pay at the end of the rnor3 ; torium , the French government demands the right to take possession of certain productive assets , such as the forests and the mines , and to sell their Pr ? 61 ? ucts to her own best advantage . It demands a re " mission of its debt to Great Britain and , if PI sible , a remission of its debt to this country . Fula ; ly it insists on obtaining the cash which it nee 's to stabilize its : own tottering financial structure and which can only come from the proceeds of a British or American loan . The British government would like to accept the French terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If France is to pay Great Britain , she must not use what she gains from remission in order to pay the French debt to the United States . Furthermore if the British government is not to collect from France , it does not propose to pay this country . From its Point of view , the inclusion of the United States in the arrangement is essential . Before the British will agree to accept the French terms or propose any alternative plan , they insist on making a final effort to transfer some of the burden to the United States . The conference adjourned for that purpose until January znd . The British with the aid of their American bankers are now bringing pressure on the Harding administration to come to their assistance ? the same kind of pressure which they brought to bear on the United States when during the war they wanted a huge American army in France or a small one in Siberia . Civilization , Mr. Bonar Law says , is again in danger of being wrecked . This time the danger comes , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Her whole financial and economic structure is about to collapse . Instead of paying an indemnity she must have a large loan in order to purchase abroad the food which she needs to save her people from starvation . A no less serious danger to civilization looms up on the other side of the Rhine . The trench government , which does not seem to be very much concerned by the disaster which is about to overtake civilization from the collapse of Germany , proposes to accelerate its coming and increase its volume by invading Germany and seiz. ! rig the most important German industrial and mining district ? a district which performs for German industry a ' service similar to the service performed by Ohio and Pennsylvania in American industry . The British government alone can not avert this disaster . It needs help from the American government to restrain the French from preferring the collapse of civilization to the possible future welfare of Germany . What the British government wants the Amer-lean government to do is to permit or help the Placing of a $1,500,000,0oo loan in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany ; Ind part to inducing France to refrain from ruinIng Germany . But a loan of this magnitude is imPossible unless it is accompanied by a new arrange-'tent about reparations and the inter-Allied indebtedness . The future of civilization seems to the English clearly to demand a remission of the French and British debts to the United States . By a new arrangement of this kind France and Great Britain would each receive an adequate quid pro quo for its sacrifices . The American people would not get in return anything for themselves , but they ought to be accustomed to that . They are the only people in the world who are asked to act collectively from disinterested motives in order to save other peoples from the consequences of acting from interested motives and to be fairly chargeable with gross moral delinquency if they even hesitate . In this case they would have by way of compensation the satisfaction of rescuing Germany from France , just as they formerly had the satisfaction of rescuing France from Germany , of contributing to the welfare of the German people and as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to accomplish this result in 1923 it is necessary to think and to behave in a manner which a few years ago would have been called pro-German . The pressure which is being brought to bear upon the administration to intervene is prodigious , and it appeared for a while to have consented . Before January 2nd Mr. Harding , so it was said , would submit to the German and Allied governments , proposals which would offer American economic assistance to Europe in return for the promise of somewhat more civilized behavior on the part of the European nations themselves . The New Republic hopes , but does not believe , that he will submit such proposals . The time has come for him to move , and if he acts courageously he may do something to enable bankrupt Europe to climb the steep hill back to political and economic solvency . It is worth trying . The need is very great . Civilization was in danger when the American nation intervened in the war . It is even more in danger now . In so far as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American people alone are inadequate to save it , but they are elected to try and they must accept the election . While they possess no moral superiority over their European brethren , they are more fortunately situated and are better able to afford a relatively disinterested economic policy . And such a policy , if used to strengthen the recuperative forces in Europe , may help Europe to save herself . Of course it is a little exasperating when European moralists and their American copyists charge an American nation , which is only struggling to recover a more normal and constructive attitude towards its own domestic business and for that reason does not wish to devote so much of its time and energy to saving Europe , with callousness to human suffering and moral myopia . But the exasperation should not be allowed to interfere with a recognition of realities . Those who feel it should remember that under similar circumstances American moralists would assume a similar attitude . There remains the solemn fact that the European social structure is actually threatened with a disaster which , an America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignore without damage to her moral self-possession . But before embarking on another costly and probably abortive attempt to save civilization , the American nation is surely justified in remembering the outcome of its former essay and in scrutinizing with more care the proposed vehicle and route of salvation . During its former attempt the American nation , notwithstanding many brave words about doing justice to its enemy and refusing to wage war on the German people , accepted the leadership of its European associates and did generously , ardently and without reservations , all that was asked . It accepted their assertion that the way to save civilization was utterly to defeat Germany . By virtue of American assistance they did utterly defeat Germany . Yet four years after her defeat civilization is again tottering . This time , however , it seems to a disinterested American to be tottering from a different cause ; and the difference is so important and yet so generally ignored that it deserves emphatic assertion and careful examination . The existing peril to civilization is traceable to the way in which the victors exploited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about by the former American attempt to save civilization . By helping to knock Germany out we not only did not save civilization , but we assisted the enemies of Germany in Europe to imperil it If a second American intervention succeeds any better than the first , it must begin by rescuing Germany and Europe from the fruits of a victory which was accomplished at a cost of at least Szo , 000,000,000 and 50,000 American lives . The American people will not have to pay as much to get rid of the Treaty of Versailles as they did to render it possible , but unleS 's they undertake to get rid of it , there will not in a few years be much civilization left in Europe . If they can only succeed in unwriting the Treaty , they will obtain full value for the additional ten or fifteen billions that it may cost . If not today some day an American President will know enough to demand as a sine qua non of American assistance the final ending of the reign of violence which is the veritable cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe since 1914 . The deep and essential vice of the Treaty of Versailles is , not its specific violations of the terms of the Armistice , or its frequent repudiation of nationality which is supposed to be its constructive political principle . Its worst vice is its perpetuation of the appeal to force as the final arbiter of European politics . The Treaty has charged the German nation with the performance of impossible tasks , and it has imposed the penalty of ruin for failure . Germany has failed , and she is being ruined . It is still possible to save her , and to save European civilization with her , but only by emancipating her from the intolerable degradation and horror of always negotiating under the shadow of the gallows ? of being deprived of that kind of security and hope which is essential to moral self-possession and social achievement . Accordingly what we hope that President Harding will do is to offer an American loan , and all that he dares to offer by way of remission of the principal and interest of the war debts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , evacuate the Rhineland , reduce the in demnity not merely to Sio , 000,000,000 but to $10,000,000,000 less the amount which is remitted by the British and American governments from the debts owed by France to them , grant a moratorium to Germany for say five years , guarantee Germany against invasion for any future failure to pay , and restore Germany to a place in the counsels and the social economy of Europe commensurate with the number and intelligence of her inhabitants . Unless Germany obtains guarantees and alleviations of this kind , it would be financial folly to lend her the money which she needs to stabilize her currency and prevent her people from starving . In exchange she would have to put into effect those drastic internal reforms , upon the necessity of which all observers are agreed ; but in that event she would have every incentive to pull herself together and adopt the reforms . Now she has none at all . As long as the public law of Europe deprives her people of any sufficient motive for prudence , thrift , honesty and self-respect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Unless the plan of the administration to go to the assistance of Europe attaches prime importance to this con consideration , it will be ' far better for President Hard ' ing not to intervene in Europe ; and if Europe should refuse to accept assistance on the proposed terms the American government should remain detached . There is no hope for Europe until the French will admit the incompatibility between the reign of violence perpetrated by the Treaty of Versailles and the restoration of international prosperity and order .                     