@@493262

French Frenzied Finance SUDDENLY France , after closing her eyes for three years to the truth about reparations , discovered that her debtor was bankrupt . Suddenly the Quai d'Orsay gloomily expressed its conviction that Germany , who had made large restitutions and provided coal and by dint of ruinous purchases of foreign securities paid the first milliard marks after the May schedule Of payments was drawn up , and who , moreover , had managed to cover a second contribution of half a milliard in the middle of November by deliveries of goods , could not , except by a miracle , pay the instalment of half a milliard due on January 1 5th . The imminence of the crash is the dominant fact in the European situation ; but the most significant point is France 's recognition of the inevitability of the crisis . It is strange how enlightened economists can go on issuing warnings for three years ; and how politicians take no heed ; and how in the end , when it is probably too late , the politicians awaken in panic to what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France that even so March , M. Briand was clamoring for sums , and marching his men to Diisseldorf ; that M. Doumer , the French Finance Minister , who should surely understand economics , was asking for even more than M. Briand ; that M. Poincare was bewailing the modesty of his compatriots ' claims . It happened in May that the ex-President ? who apparently has never studied the problem of wealth transference ? was bewildered because Germany was not made to pay on the nail a simple matter of twelve milliards that she theoretically owed ; that the French Premier was criticized for accepting the bagatelle of one hundred and thirty-two milliards as the total of the German debt , and was bitterly blamed for not occupying the Ruhr and so keeping down the race of supermen who might too easily recover and produce milliards while France waited and watched on both banks of the Rhine . Right up to November there was a stolid belief that the special budget which France prepares every year ? in which expenditure on the ravaged north and war pensions are put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the credit side ? would really be covered by Germany . I find it hard to say what particular fact . eventually drove in upon the French consciousness the utter inability of Germany to meet her obligations . Probably it was the cumulative effect of many things . First that hard-headed business man , M. Loucheur , had thought it wise , as a matter of precaution , to conclude a separate voluntary accord with Germany which contracted out of the Treaty and the schedule of payments , and endeavored to assure France of more than her share of the common Allied credits . Probably M. Loucheur was acting with more wisdom than he knew ? making assurance doubly sure , putting ? to use a popular phrase ? a second string to France 's bow . The Allies being unable to coerce Germany , thus ran the risk of getting nothing , while France ' who has a decisive army in Europe to employ , would be bought off if she , at least , obtained something . Germany under this accord was to furnish France with material and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was discovered that Germany had had to buy with paper marks half of the first milliard abroad . It began to dawn on a few Frenchmen that paper marks could not be poured out and spent in this fashion for long . English and American economists who had hitherto been scoffed at and called unpleasant names were at the same time prophesying fiscal disaster . France began to lend an attentive and a polite ear . Then the mark collapsed . It was a crash such as had not been anticipated in France . Down came the mark to last year 's level of the Austrian krone . The descent was swift as lightning , and even an economically uneducated politician can not help realizing that the further money drops the greater grows the speed of its plunge . It was just as the Washington Conference was opening its sittings that with breathless amazement France discovered that , holding in her own hands a special budget , she was faced with an insolvent GermanY . In one week the tocsin of the whole press was set ringing . Hundreds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered anything but a fantastic argument of pessimistic pro-Get ' mans : that Germany could not export her wealth , that Germany was bankrupt , that there would be default in January not due to recalcitrancy but t ? impecuniosity . The shock was tremendous . The effect on the mentality of the French when the Reparations Commission went from Paris posthaste to Berlin to study on the spot the causes and consequences of the knack was staggering . The new glimpse of realities bewildered the French ' At last , after three years , the election cry of " Get ' many will pay , " upon which the financial policy 01 France has been built , rang hollow in French eats . December 14 , 1921 THE NEW If Germany does not pay , what of the huge French debt swollen to three hundred and twenty milliard francs ? What of the deficit in each Year 's budget ? not of a milliard or two , as one Would suppose if one merely considered the parliamentary wrangles about the ordinary twenty-five milliards budget ; but of twenty to twenty-five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , from public loans , from taxation , from bank borrowings , from emission of paper money in ? tie form or another ? if it is untrue that the ex-enemy can find the wherewithal to acquit , her obligations , if only the sabre is rattled loudly and often enough , then plainly French finance ministers have been building on shifting sands . The three years have been worse than wasted : they have been used to organize chaos . Can it really be that French politicians have believed for so long gross financial fictions ? Have they sincerely confided in Germany 's unimaginable capacity , or have they gone on preferring , during their little stay in office , deliberately to ignore uncmnfortable facts ? There is every reason to sup-Pose that they have been genuinely deceived , that war engendered a patriotic mysticism , and that they are coming only now to understand the imPossibility of obtaining indemnities on the scale and in the manner demanded . It is increasingly obvious that sooner or later there will have to be general adjustment not merely of inter-Allied financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peoples . The solidarity of the world in these days , when debts are as bad for the creditor as for the debtor , when falling exchanges mean ' ailing employment in distant lands , when there can be no evil suffered by our neighbors which will not afflict us , is manifest . France has not cared r0 , discuss cancellation of debts chiefly because the bVious corollary of America and England forgiv- Prance is that France should forgive Germany . Assuming the German debt to be good , assuming that America would not press and embarrass France in any case , France stood to lose by any is But clearly the situation s radically altered if the German debt is a bad debt , if France 's credits can not effectively be 41 ? hilized . I am bound , however , while registering this culations , and threaten , like a blind Samson , to pull down the pillars of France on her own confusion , not only aroused dismay , but aroused anger . I trust that better counsels will prevail before the fatal date of January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspapers to see that an attempt is being made to prove that if the mark has fallen it is because the Germans willed it . They do not mind committing suicide if they can only cheat France of her dues ! Some thunderous articles are being written by the most influential politicians out of office . Particularly do I note the utterances of M. Gaston Jeze , a truly liberal economist , who regretfully predicts that the French people are certain to be exasperated and will call for energetic military measures again . To what purpose ? The occupation of the Ruhr has been shown to be an unprofitable business . France would even on an immediate profit and loss basis , be throwing good money after bad . The seizure of customs , the institution of a commission of debt , will give the Allies more responsibility than relief . But logic does not accompany anger . It is my duty to declare that there are signs of a great stampede , which no French government will be able to resist . Thus an entirely new and calamitous European situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can help to prevent the catastrophe she should for her own sake spare no pains . France deserves sympathy , but while these financial promises and disappointments and obligations and inevitable bankruptcies which will breed bankruptcies , these fictitious treaties with their poisonous hatreds and deadly illusions , constitute the regime under which Europe lives or rather stifles , there can be no hope of settled peace . The Reparations Commission has power to raise the Allied liens on Germany until she recovers ? as has been done in the case of Austria ; it may postpone the date of payment ; it may permit German magnates or American and British bankers to lend money to the government on the strength of property hypothecated to the Allies ; but unanimity is needed , and the campaign now being urged calls for the refusal of the French delegates to vote for anything resembling a moratorium or a relinquishment of rights . That campaign will undoubtedly grow ? unless France perchance comes back from Washington with hands that are not empty , or at least there results from Washington a subsequent international congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are many minor proposals , such as that of Professor Charles Gide , who would have the reparations bonds handed to England and America ( who could tear them up if they pleased for shaving paper ) in payment of France 's debt , and in corresponding annulment of Germany 's debt to France . Such an unbusinesslike transaction might , of course , turn out to be a good stroke of business . But this and similar methods of meeting the terrific crisis are niggling . It is not palliatives that are needed . The problem which is raised in the most acute form in which it has yet been raised by the German collapse is broader than the German collapse , is broader than the French embarrassment . It is the problem of putting together the world 's financial and economic machinery which is not working , which is not only in disrepair , but may smash up into smithereens unless it is overhauled at once . If the January possibilities are only understood-and it is useless merely to stave off the day of reckoning for three or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its consequences may yet be a cheerful recall to the sanity of universal cooperation .                     