@@493481

The Week THE Mexican Supreme Court has handed down an important decision regarding the Petroleum law which has been the chief subject of controversy with the United States for a long time past . In a suit brought by the Mexican Petroleum Company , a subsidiary of the Standard Oil Company of Indiana , the Court held that Articles 14 and 15 of the Petroleum law arc unconstitutional in so far as they apply to this company . These articles , in effect , substituted fifty-year concessions for oil-land titles acquired before 1917 , and declared forfeited those titles as to which no application for confirmatory concessions had been made within one year after the new Petroleum legislation came into effect . The full text of the decision has not been made public , and will not for some time ; the preceding summary is based on the statement made by the Secretary of the Court to the Mexico City correspondent of the Associated Press , and may not be borne out by the document in detail . Moreover , a single decision does not suffice to overthrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fivein succession being necessary . Yet it is clear that the oil men , fighting the constitutionality of the law , have gained an important victory . The oil drilling permits of the Mexican Petroleum Company , invalidated by the Mexican government , are restored . INEVITABLY , the question has been raised whether the decision has not political motivation behind it . Courts in Latin-American countries , like those elsewhere , are not insensitive to the shifting winds of expediency . The decision comes at a moment when , because of the appointment of Mr. Dwight Morrow as American Ambassador , expectations of a solution of the difficulties between the two countries are higher than they have been in years . It comes , moreover , at a moment when Calks has crushed a formidable attempt at revolution , and is particularly well able to disregard anti-gringo feeling on the part of the populace . It comes after years of the strongest effort on the part of the United States government to force a change in Mexico 's laws to bring them into accord , not with " international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but with the American Constitution ; and at a time when the Mexican government is painfully conscious that , by putting an embargo on purchases of arms by itself , and by opening the border to revolutionists , the United States could insure the success of the next insurrection , which would doubtless be forthcoming promptly , if the word were given . How far these things influenced the justices of the Mexican Supreme Court , if at all , we do not know ; we leave it to the experts to decide , when the text has been published , whether the recent decision is good Mexican law . We do know , however , that if the action does not spring from a reasoned conviction , but is the result of political pressure , no settlement of the affairs between the two countries based upon it will , or can , result in genuine peace and friendship . THERE are at least four good reasons why the British government has decided to lay down only one new cruiser this year instead of three . The first of these is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Liberals and others in favor of moderation in ship-building ; third , the desire to overcome the bad impression which has been made at home and abroad by the result of the Geneva conference , especially in the light of Viscount Cecil 's criticism , and fourth , the desire not to offend the United States if it can possibly be avoided , in view not only of the possibility of another conference on limitation of armament in the near future , but of the conference when the naval agreements made in Washington in 1921 come to an end , in 1931 , These are all good reasons , and do the Baldwin government no discredit . They are far more plausible than the interpretation made for a Washington correspondent of the New York Herald Tribune by some unnamed " high official , " that the altered program of Great Britain is " a trap , " laid to lull Congress into a false sense of security at its coming session . There 's no pleasing the big-navy men . If Britain builds , we must build , ship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is trying to trick us , and the only safe thing is for us to build . AMONG the powerful voices in England just now against a shipyard duel with the United States is that of Lieutenant-Commander J. M. Kenworthy , whose book , " Peace or War , " a sensation in Great Britain , has just been published in America by Boni and Liveright ( New York ) . Writing in the Manchester Guardian , Commander Kenworthy a few ' days ago warned his fellow countrymen that the British sea policy in war-time is sure to cause serious trouble with the United States in any future struggle in which Great Britain participates and America is neutral . He shows from the experience of 1914- 15 that it is absolutely out of the question for Great Britain to build enough ships to control the seas , either for defensive or offensive purposes , against the menace of the submarine . The only possible way out of the dilemma , he says , is " to meet the United States half-way on the demand for freedom of the seas , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the states which are members of the League as to what shall and shall not be done in the way of exercising economic pressure at sea against a country which has been adjudged an " aggressor . " The Manchester Guardian goes even further and suggests a " Naval Locarno " among Great Britain , the United States and Japan , as well as every other power which cared to join . This agreement , presumably to be based on a recodification of the rights of neutrals at sea in war-time , would commit all the other powers to fight on behalf of any one of them whose commerce had been attacked at sea . The suggestion is , naturally , one which the United States is not likely to accept in any hurry ; yet it deserves serious consideration ; and is to be welcomed , if on no other ground , as calling public attention to the most difficult and serious question now on the horizon as between England and America . THE News Letter of the American Committee for Justice to China quotes , from the North China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the psychology of foreign residents in Shanghai , and the method by which intervention in weaker countries is brought about , that it is worth quoting : If one read Sir Austen Chamberlain 's letter and then paraphrased it from memory , one would say that the Secretary for Foreign Affairs expressed the hope that the foreigners here would create a cause ? which the British government and other governments could then support . This is worthy of Shanghai 's careful consideration and thought . .. . We are inclined to think that many of our disasters would have been avoided if the sheep-like attitude of the residents had been abandoned , if a stand had been taken and the governments informed : " We are going to fight this unreasonable imposition . You are supposed to support us and we expect you to ; but if you do not , we shall do our best on our own account . " They can not realize that a government has to have published or publishable material for a positive policy before it can shape it and appeal to its constituency for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government in such situations wants to be " embarrassed . " To put it very boldly and crudely , every government that desires to champion the cause of its nationals abroad in any issue you like , expects those nationals to take the initiative , to act as agents provocateur , and to create a situation in which the government can take a hand with the approval of the nation . UNTIL the facts are better established than by the first news reports , we have no right to judge where the immediate responsibility lies for the killing and wounding by state police of striking miners in Colorado . The Governor says the strikers were armed and the troopers fired in self-defense . Others say the strikers were not armed , except with sticks and stones . Certainly the fatalities and bullet-wounds seem to have been entirely on their side . Nothing but extreme personal danger , otherwise unavoidable , could justify the turning of rifles or machine guns on a crowd . Irrespective of the immediate responsibility , however , any bloodshed in a pitched battle between workmen and police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the nation in which it occurs , the ultimate responsibility for which those in charge of industrial policy can not dodge . If the striking miners ( led by the I. W. W. ) provoked violence , what roused them to this pitch of fury ? The most radical leaders could not thus stir satisfied workers , or workers who had other reasonably reliable ways of remedying grievances . The fact is that the coal industry , in its sad disorganization , provides a poor living indeed for the wage-earners . The fact is that in Colorado legitimate unions have been forcibly suppressed by the coal employers . The fact is that the law of the state forbids strikes , in an effort to enforce compulsory arbitration ? which has not remedied the conditions complained of . The fact is that in this strike the state has maddened the strikers by throwing their leaders and hundreds of their pickets into jail . The fact is that the jailed leaders , who counselled against violence , could not be present to control the situation . The coal industry , the Colorado @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the plot and the cues for the tragedy . IN another column we describe the conditions under which the United Mine Workers of America ? the A. F. of L. union thrown out of Colorado by violent repression in 1914 ? is fighting for its life in western Pennsylvania . The general struggle of this union extends also , under similar conditions , to Ohio and West Virginia . This American Federation of Labor union still has enough control of the situation to strive for genuine collective bargaining and to curb any tendency toward violence on the part of the workers . ' Wherever and whenever it is destroyed by the massed power of employers and the state , the only insurance of civil peace ? without permitting organization ? lies in occupation of the coal territory by armies of police or privately paid forces , and the repression of virtually all civil rights of the workers . A large part of the industry today is conducted under such conditions of armed repression . Who can tell when or where the next spontaneous revolt of the workers against this regime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will bring forth ? Under the present policy of reactionary employers in the United States , our civil peace is no more secure than would be the peace of Belgium under German occupation . The struggle of the United Mine Workers for survival is at bottom a struggle for a constitutional and civilized order in industry , without which real progress is impossible . IN making its award to the Italian author , Grazia-Deledda , the Nobel Prize commission seems to have followed a practice of which it has furnished other examples : to recognize writers of unquestioned merit but of restricted or even local reputation . Signora Deledda 's fame has not been confined to Italy . Especially her earlier works were translated into the principal European languages ; and five of her novels have appeared in America , the latest being " The Mother " ( Macmillan ) of 1924 . Yet neither in Italy nor elsewhere has she enjoyed a clamorous success ; nor from among her forty or more volumes does any one stand out as a member of the world 's immortals . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field ? the portrayal of the manners , customs , and figures of her native island , Sardinia ? and to a corresponding narrowness of the moods and sentiments she exploits . Holding aloof from the great currents of thought and feeling which have coursed through the world , or even through her own country , during her lifetime , Grazia Deledda has for the most part clung to the matter she knows and to the life she understands . Publishers have occasionally urged her into strange fields ? the psychological novel , for example , but she has always sensed the falseness of the divergent route and hurried back to her familiar ground . If it would seem surprising that better known Italian names were overlooked in this year . ' s award , it should be remembered that hardly another Italian writer has stood the test of forty years of wear as Grazia Deledda has done . There is a fine and coherent seriousness of art in all her bulky production . While other more spectacular geniuses have been now applauded and now condemned , Grazia Deledda has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in each of the many countries of the western world .                     