@@488320

But all this enthusiasm , all this spirit , all this outburst of idealist fervor was powerless to gain the day for the shipyard workers . The lockout ended after ten days , but strict military control of the shipyards made it impossible for the Kawasaki workers to put their plan of industrial democracy into operation , and nothing was left for them but either strike or utter defeat . They chose the former alternative , as did also the Mitsubishi men at the expiration , of their lockout . A few days later the foremen ( who had participated in the struggle on the side of the workers ) were by certain inducements brought over to the side of the management and succeeded in drawing a part of the workers back to the yards ( from 15 to 30 per cent ) , although the almost total absence of certain important classes of labor prevented any real resumption of work . Regular demonstrations being under the official ban , the idea was hit upon by the strikers of visiting shrines en masse , such " religious processions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 29 , the second day of these processions , the paraders upon coming near the Kawasaki Dock turned down toward the yard and attempted to force their way in . The police , after a brief attempt to push back the men , drew their swords and attacked . A few of the men had impromptu weapons such as sticks or stones , but the great mass were wholly unarmed , and when the police charge came it was less than a minute before the men took flight . A few fought with desperate courage , grasping the swords with their naked hands , but the outcome was never in doubt , and the police pursued the fleeing men , cutting them down with mad fury as they overtook them . One man was mortally wounded , forty or fifty seriously , and over a hundred received minor cuts and gashes . Practically all the seriously wounded men were stabbed through the back , and a number of them had their fingers almost cut off . The mortally wounded man had had the policeman 's sword driven clear through his back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side . On the part of the police there were no casualties worth mentioning . This affair was followed by wholesale arrests , some three hundred strike leaders being imprisoned , including the " militant pacifist " Mr. Kagawa , who had consistently counseled against violent methods . Strikers in the vicinity of the yards would be driven inside by the police , such labor meetings as ' were permitted were closely watched and many speakers stopped , and individual insults and threats were resorted to to break the spirit of the strikers , three-fourths of whom were standing solid . And while the Government appeared to be attempting to crush the strike by sheer terrorism , the companies were clearly determined to achieve this end by starvation . Distress was becoming more and more keenly felt among the strikers , and though public sympathy with the latter was rather increased than anything else , people were running short of money and could patronize the thousands of striker peddlers no longer  --  the last economic resource of the men . With all the odds against them , however , the strikers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mediation , both by the governor of the prefecture and the mayor of Kobe . TheSe offers were finally rejected by the strikers on August 8 , and immediately afterward they announced their intention of returning to work , making no terms whatever with their respective employers : Our resolution to achieve our ends is unshaken . We shall never lose sight of them . We are confident that with our ( organized ) power we shall be able to carry them out in the near future . Our movement is in accord with that ( of labor ) throughout the world , and justice is on our side . What this means the writer is not prepared to say . The strike appears to be lost , but just what tricks the shipyard workers have up their sleeves no one but themselves knows , and only the future will make it clear . But 30,000 men in Kobe have gained the vision of labor control of industry , industrial democracy . They have heard the thing explained , have come to understand its possibilities , and know exactly what to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand organized workers throughout Japan have watched the struggle with tense interest , judging the possibilities for themselves in a struggle to take into their hands the reins of power and the control of their own destinies . These organized men are a still small minority of the Japanese workers . The mass of Japanese workers as yet do not possess the social vision , the sense of responsibility , and the administrative ability successfully to assume democratic industrial control , but the leaven is working , the ranks of organized labor are steadily growing , and a new day is dawning for Japanese labor . And through it all there runs the militant minority of enlightened workers , to whom their goal is ever coming clearer and closer  --  social , political , and industrial democracy , a new economic and social order in which labor shall be free . Seventeen thousand men have made a step toward the thing itself , have attempted to establish their own democratic regime in the industries which they operate , and have found the things with which they must cope , and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In this first battle for the new ideal the workers have met defeat , but this is not a struggle which is crushed by any number of defeats of this nature , and the words of Mr. Kagawa , before going to prison , may well be quoted : The authorities . . . dispatched troops and organized a naval brigade , but if they think that by these means they can set restrictions on the awakening self-consciousness of the working classes they are greatly mistaken . . . . ? . Through our unions we are gaining the experience , and the administrative and organizing ability , which will enable us to use our newly won freedom in the best interests of ourselves and the community . We will not stop until we have achieved industrial democracy , and the new serfdom has gone the way of the old .                     