@@493318

December 17 , ' 1924 THE NEW The Coolidge Gospel of Parsimony T my opinion , " says President Coolidge in I his message to Congress , " the government can do more to remedy the economic ills of the people by a system of rigid economy in public expenditure than can be accomplished through any other action . " By " economy of public expenditure " Mr. Coolidge does not mean the systematic and intelligent attempt to secure five dollars worth in return for the expenditure of five dollars . He means the spending , if possible , of four dollars rather than five . He means , that is , parsimony . He illustrated his meaning by traveling to Chicago in an ordinary Pullman instead of a private car and sosaving the government some $1700 . He evidently estimated that the increased privacy , security and comfort which he could have obtained by the use of a special car or train was not worth $1700 to the American government . lie ought to know . But apart from this admirable demonstration of his own sincerity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Is scrupulous parsimony in public expenditure the most effective contribution which the government can make to the welfare of the American people ? Let as consider for a moment the philosophy of Mr. Coolidge 's dictum and its consequences , if carried out . His major premise apparently is that expenditure by the government is a necessary evil which conscientious officials should pare down in a spirit of sacred and sacrificial meanness . Wealth from this point of view is essentially private . It is productive chiefly when devoted to the satisfaction of individual wants or an increase of the volume of private business . In so far as the government takes it away from the business man , the property-owner or the wage-earner , it is diverting the economic resources of the country from productive to BO THE NEW unproductive or comparatively unproductive purposes ; and it is to that extent appropriating the actual or potential welfare of the whole people for the benefit of special services or groups of officials . Mr. Coolidge proposes consequently , to act as the watchdog of the Treasury . So long as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to increase public expenditure . If the American people are afflicted with any " economic ills " at present it is because the government is depriving the people of too large a share of their possessions and earnings . Mr. Coolidge 's appeal for parsimony bears all the marks of sincerity and conviction . We are accustomed to politicians who , when their party is out of office , scowl fiercely at else large appropriations of their opponents and are vociferous in their praise of frugality , but who , once they themselves are responsible for the government , are almost as economical as a king 's mistress . But Mr. Coolidge is preaching frugality to Isis own party after it has just elected him President for four years . He is a thrifty man himself who mmt dislike to surrender any part of his income in taxes to the government . In emphasizing the bad economy of public expenditure he in his own opinion is serving his huge constituency with the utmost possible efficiency . lie will act consistently on his own advice . During his term of office he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appropriations and , consequently , almost any proposal Which involves increased or better paid governmental activities . In preaching this gospel Mr. Coolidge is capitalizing for the benefit of his political prejudice against positive governmental activities the popular dislike of high taxation and the popular suspicion of else tendency of politicians to be generous with the people 's money . if he really had economy in mind and was shit and willing to supply better services by the government to the American people at a smaller cost , he would , of course , occupy an impregnable position . The weakness of government is usually not that it is overpaying its officials or asking them to perform unnecessary or undesirable services , but that so frequently it does not obtain full return for its expenditure . Mr. Coolidge , however , is not engaged primarily in obtaining for the government more service at the same price or the same service at a smaller price . in spite of some phrases in his message to the contrary , he is , so far es one can infer from his words and conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and exact consideration of their actual economy . His savings , if he makes any , will not conic from increased efficiency but from either diminished expenditures , irrespective of deserts , or diminished activities . His most impressive demonstration in favor of " economy " up to date was his refusal last spring to sign the bill which increased at a cost of about $68 , - 000,000 a year the pay of the postal employes . Yet it was clear that these hard working public offi- // dials were equitably entitled to the increase , and if he continues to prevent them from getting it , the effect of the refusal will be to give the clerks and other officials in the post offices a plausible excuse for discontent , for slack service and , if possible , for seeking employment from some more just or genet , ous paymaster . The President would , in this particular case , have been more economical if he had been less parsimonious . It would have been wise economy , if necessary , to raise by taxation the suns needed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people would have been abundantly repaid for the surrender to the government of this amount of money by the improved service they would have obtained from the most important of their public utilities . The excellence of that service depends chiefly upon the creation and maintenance of a loyal and willing esprit de corps among the postal employes . Such esprit de corps has existed and still exists in some measure , but the President did what he could to destroy it ; and unless his policy is reversed , the employes of the department will soon be thinking not of the best way to serve their employer but of the most inexpensive way for them to avoid service . The more energetic and capable men will find other employment . The less energetic and capable will hold their jobs with the intention of treating else government as shabbily as it has treated them . AIr . Coolidge 's passion for parsimony in public expenditures is born of his profound dislike of all governmental activities except those Which tend to protect or increase individual wealth . His pro . larnation that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remedy the economic ills of the American people is to pare down its own expenditures is , if true , a damning indictment of any possible legislative and administrative activity on the part of the federal government for the purpose of social improvement . It implicitly denounces any attempt by the government to remedy economic and social evils Which involves public expenditure . It is for all practical purposes an assertion that the on ! ) , way collectively to remedy economic ills which afflict or may afflict the American people is to refrain from diminishing by taxation the capital and income which fall into the hands of private American citizens . This is private capitalism run mad , which the majority of 111- . Coolidge 's own party will repudiate as soon as they understand what he is really driving at . They have always been more than willing to call on the government to accomplish those public and social purposes in which they are really interested , even though it does involve public expenditure for the purpose of remedying economic evils . The logical result of Mr. Coolidge 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of regulative and social activities which both federal and state governments are now conducting at a very heavy expense . For over December 17,1924 THE NEW a generation Congress and the state legislatures have attempted to cure economic " ills " by setting up commissions to regulate private business or by various mild and experimental attempts to serve social justice by legislation . All of this governmental activity tended to increase the expenditure of the government at the expense of business men and property owners . Mr. Coolidge does not propose to rescind this legislation , but he is setting up rules of public policy which , if they prevail , will justify him in refusing to approve any extension of such activities , and , of course , a method of social improvement which does not grow soon dies . When he declares that the best way for the government to cure economic evils is to out down its expenditures , what he really means is that the best way for the government to cure economic ills is to let them alone . By temperament , experience and philosophy he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanism of society . " This nation holds a position , " he says , " unsurpassed in all former human experience , " although at the some time he modestly disclaims the idea that during his administration " we can secure an era of perfection in human existence . " Still why should the government spend the people 's money in order to spoil the pattern of this almost perfect Commonwealth ?                     