@@493402

The Week THE Washington correspondents blow hot and cold by turns as to the Kellogg treaty 's chances . Today they tell us that it will be ratified at this session of Congress , without crippling reservations ; tomorrow we hear that it will be passed , if at all , only in the special session which Mr. Hoover is to call , and only then with drastic safeguarding clauses attached . Senator Reed intends to hamstring the treaty with a reservation to safeguard the Monroe Doctrine , despite the fact that President Coolidge and Secretary Kellogg both insist that no such reservation is needed . Senator Moses , with the irresponsibility for which he is famous , will throw his own monkey wrench into the machinery by offering a clause which says Soviet Russia has not been recognized , even though her signature appears on the same document which bears the sacred name of the United States . While it still seems likely that the treaty will go through , its success is by no means assured , and its friends will be well advised to lend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the past , the New Republic has no delusions about the strength of ? the treaty . We do recognize , however , that failure to ratify would be calamity . It would mean that America would have lost all moral influence with Europe for many years to come . It would mean that this necessary spade-work for the foundations for the temple of peace would have to be done all over at some time in the uncertain future by men in an even more discouraged frame of mind than were M. Briand and Mr. Kellogg . The influential Scripps-Howard chain of newspapers has started an energetic campaign to " get the treaty out of the Senate by Christmas . " The time-limit is perhaps too short , but the effort is wholly commendable . ANYONE who wants to know how wars start has only to read this week 's despatches from Paraguay and Bolivia . All the old familiar elements are there , quite as though we had never had a World War which cursed an entire generation of mankind , or as though it had taught us nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to read of the crowd which assembled before the Bolivian presidential palace and shouted , " We want war ! " Six thousand youths , we are told , marched through the streets to the recruiting offices to enlist . President Siles made a speech telling the Bolivians that " serenity and firmness are the attributes of great peoples ... we will be as one in the defense of our country . " It is difficult to believe that these words were spoken seriously in the year 1928 and are not a passage from some such satiric work as Mr. C. E. Montague 's great novel , " Right Off the Map . " The Pan-American Conference on Conciliation and Arbitration , which met in Washington on December 10 , found a difficult task ready to its hand . It promptly passed a resolution urging Paraguay and Bolivia to arbitrate their difference ( which has to do with disputed territory on the border and a raid by troops ) . The Conference also appointed a committee to take whatever steps are possible for an amicable settlement . Bolivia has placed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as though that body must act or suffer a serious blow to its prestige . If , in spite of all , war does result , a practical test will come of the possibility of deciding upon , and disciplining the " aggressor . " THE meeting of the League Council at Lugano has opened in an atmosphere of unrelieved gloom . Europe is sensitive to the psychic temperature , and has several reasons at present for feeling depressed . One of these is President Coolidge 's harsh and almost threatening Armistice Day speech . Another is Mussolini 's recent jingoistic declaration , quite in his worst manner , that treaties of peace mean nothing and that Italy must proceed to arm as completely as possible . Still another is the popular hostility between the French and the Italians , which flared out when a French jury gave a ridiculously light sentence to the assassin of a minor Italian official . The relations between Germany on one hand and England and France on the other are in a painful deadlock . The Allies insist that they can not evacuate the Rhineland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size , as to reparations ; and Germany , despairing of the negative results achieved in the recent past by a conciliatory attitude , is minded to take a harsher line . It is no wonder , therefore , that the diplomats who sought out Lugano 's mild air because Geneva seemed too harsh for Herr Stresemann 's impaired health , seem at a loss to know what they can do there . The present is evidently one of those moments when further progress is impossible and it is necessary to hold tight in order not to lose what has already been accomplished . SERIOUS developments have taken place during the past week in Mexico . The " Crom , " the powerful Mexican Federation of Labor , has broken with President Portes Gil , chiefly on the allegation that he had been unfriendly to its members before he assumed his present office . Former President Calles , who had begun the formation of a new political party , has abandoned this attempt and announces his retirement to private life . The " Cram " exerts a powerful influence on politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is far , however , from representing all the workers of Mexico , and it is less powerful at the moment than the army , which continues loyal to President Gil . The Mexican situation is unstable , as Carleton Beals showed in his article in the New Republic for December 5 ; but there is no reason to expect any startling upset in the immediate future . PROGRESSIVE members of the U. S. Senate are putting up a stiff fight against the confirmation of Roy 0 . West as Secretary of the Interior , and the New Republic earnestly hopes it will be a successful one . For Mr. Coolidge to have appointed West in the first place showed an extraordinary contempt for public opinion . The Secretary of the Interior is the one member of the Cabinet charged with safeguarding the country 's public resources . He sits as a member of the Federal Power Commission which decides whether water-power sites shall be leased for private exploitation , and if so , on what // terms . One would have thought that the experience with Albert B. Fall would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have leaned over backward in giving this interim appointment to someone whose fitness could not be called in question . Instead , he selected the attorney for Samuel Insull of Chicago , one of the strongest and most aggressive of the private-power magnates in the United States . West , moreover , was until his appointment a heavy owner of stock in several public-utility companies . To make him Secretary of the Interior is to set a wolf to guard the sheep . The most puzzling thing about the whole enterprise is why the President should ever have supposed that such an outrageous appointment would pass without challenge . AN incident has already occurred which shows the sort of difficulty which would constantly arise if Mr. West were to continue in office . He has already sat as a member of the Federal Power Commission to determine whether his old friends , the Instill interests , should be given Cumberland Falls , Ky . Mr. Insull would develop the Falls for power , although critics of his proposal assert that there is at present no need for any such development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sites available on the Cumberland where power can be developed without harming a natural scenic wonder . The alternative suggestion is that Cumberland Falls should be preserved as a public park . It is described by Dr. Ralph Reed , President of the Ohio Society for the Preservation of Cumberland Falls , as " the finest cataract except Nigara east of the Rockies or perhaps in the United States . " Suppose Mr. West votes for Insull and against the public park . How will he ever persuade the people of the country that he acted independently and for the best interests of the country ? How can a man of honor place himself in such an intolerable position ? WHILE the New Republic heartily sympathizes with the purpose of Senator Thomas j . Walsh to banish public-utility and other propaganda from the schools , the bill which he has introduced to effect that end is not , in our opinion , well conceived . If teachers in general wanted to accept pay from private interests for writing textbooks or giving lectures favorable to those interests , it would be extremely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . The remedy is rather to expose to public condemnation the instances in which this intellectual dishonesty has been practised , and to build up within the educational profession itself a standard of conduct which would prevent it . This is a prime example of the sort of situation in which professional ethics should function . Furthermore , much of the damage which has been done is due not to calculated cooperation of the teachers with the utilities , but to inadvertence. in recognizing and forestalling their propaganda . The educational societies have here a duty to inform their members and to forewarn them against using uncritically material which outside interests may seek to inject into the class-room . ASIDE from the presidential address to the Taylor Society by Mr. Morris L. Cooke , which we comment upon in a longer editorial , another subject of particular interest to labor was a suggestion by the Secretary of the Society , Dr. H. S. Person , to the effect that as improved technological processes continue to increase the productivity of industry , the resulting surplus be utilized not for continually shortening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building up funds for retirement pensions . His paper constituted , not a defense of the proposal , but merely a careful formulation of it , thrown out for the discussion of others . This discussion developed a pretty general consensus of opinion on certain points . One was that while engineers or employers might scientifically determine what hour schedules led to maximum production without injury to the health of the worker , they could not determine those intangible and human values involved , such as the uses of leisure and the distaste for routine or repetitive operations . Therefore the workers ' consent would have to be obtained for any such program . Another point of agreement was that the pension funds , in order to be fair and effective , ought to be administered not by individual employers , but either by labor organizations or the State or some joint agency . AS THE discussion of Dr. Person 's suggestion continued , it became clear that it had raised a whole series of profound industrial and social issues . It raised the question of why the employee 's work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he should want an indefinitely increasing amount of leisure . It raised the question of his use of that leisure , and the lack of preparation for its wise use that his working hours and the surrounding commercial civilization seemed to furnish him . It raised the question of the ultimate marketability of an ever-increasing output of mass-production processes . It raised the question of " technological unemployment , " and of the increasing tendency to lay of men who have scarcely achieved middle life , because of their lack of adaptability to new processes . The final emphasis of those who discussed these questions came to be placed on the implications of a phrase used by Dr. Person himself : " that each generation as a group should organize the distribution of the social income . " This lengthens the view of income distribution from that of a year to that of a generation , it implies that the distribution should result from group action rather than from the decision of individual employers or workers , it assumes that a wise distribution of income does not happen , but must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us is for representatives of employers , workers , technicians and the State to consider how the social income may best be administered so as to care for the interlocking interests of production , present purchasing power , leisure , unemployment hazards , retirement , and all the other eventualities of economic life throughout a generation . The mere statement of the problem indicates the broad realms into which the thought of scientific management is venturing . THE NEW REPUBLIC has repeatedly urged upon the American Legion the duty of securing the pardon of the eight men serving sentence in Walla Walla , Washington , for defending the I. W. W. hall in Centralia against unprovoked assault by the Legionnaires , who , with other good people of the town , had mutilated and lynched Wesley Everett , himself an ex-soldier . While the trial was going on , Edward Bassett , commander of the Butte Post of the Legion , declared : The fact that there were some American Legion men among the paraders who everlastingly disgraced themselves by taking part in the raid , does not affect my judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mob bent upon unlawful violence , can not expect the truly patriotic men of the American Legion to condone his act . Now Captain E. P. Coll of Hoquiam , Washington , another member of the Legion , has raised his voice in protest : The I. W. ' W. in Centralia , ' Washington , who fired upon the men that were attempting to raid the I. W. W. headquarters were fully justified in their act . . . . As a Legionnaire I wish to prevent the " Shrine of the American Legion " from becoming the shame of the American Legion , for a day of justice will dawn when the memorial statue on the pedestal in that city park of Centralia will assume the appearance of the torn , battered and mutilated ' Wesley Everest , ' and beneath that statue will be inscribed the terrible indictment ? " Mobbed and lynched for upholding his Constitutional Rights . " The statue referred to is the one to which President Harding was led by officers of the Legion and before which he deposited a wreath , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do no better service than renounce its privilege in this respect and make a national demand on Governor Hartley for the release of its victims . PROBABLY most readers of the New Republic remember the brilliant series of articles by Stuart Chase and F. J. Schlink which appeared a year ago under the title , " Consumers in Wonderland , " an expanded version of which was subsequently published in book form by the Macmillan Company , New York , as " Your Money 's Worth . " This material showed , with a wealth of concrete illustrations , what a madhouse of misinformation confronts the consumer when he buys at retail the ordinary luxuries and even necessities : of competing items selling at the same price , one may be eight or ten times as valuable as the other , or both may be useless , or if one is cheaper than the other , the more expensive may be inferior ; and so on . Largely as a result of the revelations which Messrs . Chase and Schlink first made in our columns , an organization has now come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who buys advertised goods at retail with expert and impartial information . This organization , known as The Consumers ' Club , and having headquarters at 2 West Forty-third Street , New York City , is supplying to its members on request a list of commodities which give , in the opinion of certain testing agencies and technical experts , good value at their price . In a parallel column appear commodities which are not recommended , either because they cost too much , quality considered ; or because the technical committee considers them misadvertised ; or because the manufacturer does not give good service in replacing or repairing defective goods . In addition to this , bulletins are issued from time to time on specially important topics such as , for instance , ultra-violet transmitting glasses and artificial sunlight lamps , fads of the moment with the consuming public . ' Within a short time , and with practically no publicity , the club has gained a membership of eight or nine hundred people from all over the country , and from a wide variety of occupations , ranging from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buy for her kitchen to the banker who writes in for the recommendation of an antifreeze mixture for his Rolls-Royce . This is a small beginning , but we hope the club will have a rapid growth . It gives concrete expression to one of the potentially most important economic movements of our time .                     