@@493369

CORRESPONDENCE The Aiken Lynching SIR : We are appreciative of the New Republic 's recent editorial utterances on lynching , particularly the editorial comment on the investigation of the Aiken , S. C. , lynching conducted by the New York World . There is a slight omission in your editorial which , I am sure , you will wish to correct . The World has , as you say , been carrying on a most courageous and effective campaign of publicity but not a " single-handed " campaign . For the first investigator on the scene of the Aiken lynching was Walter White , Assistant Secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , who was sent there by this Association and who gave the World the facts which brought about the sending of Mr. Garrett to South Carolina . The investigation of the Aiken lynching by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People resulting in the brilliant series of articles in the World is part of our seventeen-year campaign against this evil . The Aiken atrocity offers an excellent example of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary , National Association for the Advancement of Colored People . New York , N. Y. The Story of Philosophy Again S IR : It seems plain that the open season on Mr. Durant 's Story of Philosophy still obtains . Even your chaste interior pages continue to disparage it , presumably upon expert professional advice , although on the back cover you think better of it . ButI do not direct my fire particularly at you , but at the whole chorus of professional disapprobation which finds echoes wherever a reviewer 's column succeeds in smoking out some ofthe epistemological cenobites . It is familiar enough . It surges for every Outline that comes off the press . It is the natural resentment and bewilderment of the painstaking mechanic when some wizard comes along and breathes incalculable life into the cadaver which he has been sombrely dissecting . This time the fault is profounder , because the subject is . Those who derogate Durant 's Story of Philosophy are those who would regard philosophy as a minor technical trickery like mathematics or tatting , instead of all the intelligence and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not so recondite as one may imagine at first blush . It is only that if philosophy is an intricate and laborious little trade among other trades , it may be successfully and respectably cultivated by any dolt that cares to take the trouble ; whereas if it is imagination and poetry , faith and reality , the whole adventure of man 's heart and mind , then only geniuses can be philosophers , and there must be a woeful house-cleaning adown the buzzard roosts of Academia ! Mr. Durant may never , as a matter of fact , loom a stupendous figure through the perspective of the ages ; but he is being detracted precisely because he is nearer to philosophic bigness than are his detractors . It is natural that his identification of Philosophy with the Love of Wisdom , with sympathy and humor , causes commotion among the impoverished souls whose tenure depends on the popularity of the assumption that the true scope of Philosophy is memorizing the valid figures of the syllogism , or excogitating the categories . It is persons of the temperament of Mr. Durant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and who knows the spirit of philosophy sufficiently well to aver repeatedly that " All philosophers agree " ? that may rescue man 's only important business , the business of thought , from the universal disrepute into which it falls as the result of the quarrelsome trivialities of the little dialecticians . It is these chore-boys , each jealously engrossed in his metaphysical stint , who have contrived to see nothing but the minutia of disagreement , and these everywhere , so that the opinion reigns that philosophy is petty , and that every philosopher contradicts every other philosopher , anyhow , so they must all be wrong from alpha to omega . They do n't , and they are n't . And Durant 's ebullient pages are almost the first to divulge this holy secret ! DONALD CARY WILLIAMS . Berkeley , Calif . Christmas for Political Prisoners S IR : Will you be good enough to help us this year , as in the past , by spreading our appeal for Christmas funds ? We want this money so that once more cash gifts may be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show to them that they are not forgotten , that we esteem their courage and fortitude . At Christmas money is especially welcomed by these imprisoned ; for at that time they are given permission to buy towels , candy and other comforts ordinarily forbidden them . In past years we have been able , through the generous contributions of friends , to send $25 to each prisoner ; we are eager to do as well this year . There are fifty-two prisoners to be remembered . These include thirty-nine members of the Industrial Workers of the World ? the eight Centralia victims , three fellow-workers imprisoned in Washington state under the criminal syndicalism law ; twenty-five others serving sentence in California on syndicalism charges , which means simply that they held membership in the I. W. W. , a legal organization everywhere else ; Mooney and Billings , Sacco and Vanzetti , and others . We also must remember the children who were scalded in the raid on the San Pedro hall in 1924 ? and the families of these class war prisoners . Each contribution will be acknowledged with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 113 East Fourteenth Street , New York City . PEO MONOLDI , Secretary , New York Branch . New York , N. Y.                     